S P EC I A L­FA S T I G­H E T E R 2 017 A N N UA L R E P O R T W I T H I N T EG R AT E D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T MARKET LE ADER IN S EC U R E FAC I L I T I E S Contents 2017 Annual Report and Sustainability Report Sustainability Report Like last year’s report, financial, sustainability and corporate The Sustainability Report follows the 2016 GRI Standards: governance-related information has been integrated to Core option and has been the subject of a limited assurance provide a comprehensive description of Special­fastig­heter’s report by an external auditor. The scope of the Sustainability operations. Report is detailed in the GRI list of contents on page 52. Administration Report Sustainability Report (SR) The Administration Report can be found on this page and The Statutory Sustainability Report pursuant to the Annual pages 6–105. Accounts Act can be found on pages 8–14, 18–33 and 50–56. Values 1 Strategies SR 22 Financial statements 69 Special­fastig­heter in brief 2 Creating customer value SR 23 Consolidated financial stateCEO’s statement 4 Best at security SR 24 ments, incl. comments 70 Significant events in 2017 6 Long-term profitability SR 27 Five-year summary 77 Supplier collaboration SR 28 Consolidated notes 78 Business model SR 8 Responsibility for the environ­ Parent Company’s financial ment and climate SR 30 statements, incl. comments 95 Our strengths and assets SR 10 Proactive skills sourcing SR 32 Parent Company’s notes 99 Business SR 10 Declaration by the Board 105 Customers SR 11 Description of operations 34 Auditor’s Report 106 Properties SR 12 Our property portfolio 35 Property holdings 110 Financial position SR 13 Property management Definitions Cover inside and operations 38 Reporting calendar Cover inside Operating environment, Property development 40 Annual General Meeting Cover inside market and targets 14 Financial management 42 Addresses Cover back Market 16 Stakeholder dialogue SR 18 Responsibility and governance 44 SR = Sustainability Report Materiality analysis SR 19 Risks and risk management 45 Long-term benchmarking SR 20 Sensitivity analysis 49 GRI Sustainability Report SR 50 Assurance Report 57 Corporate Governance Report 59 While every care has been taken in the translation Board of Directors 66 of this annual report, readers are reminded that the o­ riginal annual report, signed by the Board Management 68 of D ­ irectors, is in Swedish. Best at secure facilities Special­fastig­heter owns and manages properties including correctional facilities, juvenile care homes, courts of law and police properties. These are all special operations that have strict demands, particularly in terms of security, which is why we have chosen to call the niche in which we work “secure facilities.” We are a safe, secure and proactive property owner that focuses on long-term relationships, and we define both current and future requirements in close collaboration with our customers. Our business idea Our mission Based on sustainable business practices Special­fastig­heter’s mission is to own, and long-term commercial ownership, develop and manage properties with Special­fastig­heter develops and manstrict security requirements in Sweden on ages properties in Sweden for customers commercial terms for the long term, wherwhose operations demand high security ever there is a national security interest. standards. The guiding principle of our operations is to reduce the state’s overall costs. In a competitive market, Special­fastig­heter may also own, develop and manage properties in which there are other kinds of security interests and pursue other related business. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T O U R VA LU E S 1 Committed employees and strong values A commercial approach and customer focus are the c­ ollaboration. For this reason, we have produced a Code aspects that characterise Special­fastig­heter’s corporate of Conduct to which our suppliers must adhere. It is obviculture. Our core values – security, proximity, long-term ous to us that we should always put security first and act planning and collaboration – are deeply rooted at the within the frameworks set for our targets, management company. We have a Code of Conduct that helps us in system and field of operation. Special­fastig­heter’s our daily work to conduct business in a way that reflects dedicated and skilled employees are given substantial our values. It is also important that our suppliers share personal responsibility and considerable opportunities these values, since this is a precondition for long-term for development, not least within the area of security. Security Long-term planning Proximity Collaboration Security issues are our highest We are a stable company We have a customised organisaTogether we can create priority. Our mission requires that invests in the long term tion in which we discuss plans, opportunities to ensure our great responsibility and skill. together with our customers. needs and wishes through open customers’ success. dialogue. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 2 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER I N B R I EF Special­fastig­heter in brief Special­fastig­heter owns, manages and develops properties for customers with security requirements. Our property holdings comprise floor space of around 1.1 million square metres and a market value that amounts to SEK 25 billion. In 2017, we had sales of SEK 2,028 million and a net profit of SEK 1,719 million. Our biggest customers are the Swedish Prison and Probation Service, the Swedish Police, the Swedish National Board of Institutional Care, the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration. Our customers are located across the country – from Ystad to Haparanda – as are our 140 or so employees. Our registered office is in Linköping, with the head office divided between Linköping and Stockholm. The emission intensity Total rental income The market value fell by increased increased 16.1% 5.4% 8.7% From 5.6 kg CO2 eq per sq m Atemp in 2016 From SEK 1,751 million in 2016 From SEK 22,999 million in 2016 to 4.7 kg CO2 eq per sq m Atemp in 2017. to SEK 1,846 million in 2017. to SEK 25,002 million in 2017. Kg CO2 eq per sq m Atemp SEK million SEK million 8 2,000 30,000 1,846 1,714 1,751 7 25,002 6.2 25,000 5.6 22,999 6 1,500 20,919 4.7 20,000 5 4 1,000 15,000 3 10,000 2 500 5,000 1 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 5 years in brief Earnings 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 increased Income from property management, 4.9% SEK million 1,858 1,872 1,867 1,912 2,028 Net operating income, SEK million 1,449 1,452 1,400 1,409 1,495 EBT, SEK million 1,673 1,782 1,474 2,100 2,165 From SEK 1,638 million in 2016 Net profit for the year, SEK million 1,301 1,390 1,178 1,638 1,719 to SEK 1,719 million in 2017. Return on equity, % 18.3 17.3 15.6 22.6 20.3 Adjusted return on equity, % 13.6 10.8 11.8 13.7 13.2 Yield, % 7.6 7.3 6.8 6.4 6.2 SEK million Rental income, SEK/sq m 1,574 1,600 1,618 1,644 1,700 2,000 1,719 Occupancy rate, % 98.8 98.3 98.7 98.6 99.0 1,638 Surplus ratio, % 78.0 77.6 75.0 73.7 73.7 1,500 Floor space, sq m, thousand 1,109 1,066 1,058 1,088 1,079 1,178 Investments including property acquisitions, 1,000 SEK million 497 371 419 1,288 1,398 Market value, investment properties, SEK million 19,455 20,271 20,919 22,999 25,002 500 Loan-to-value ratio, % 48.4 44.4 57.8 55.9 53.3 Equity/assets ratio, % 38.1 41.2 30.2 32.2 33.8 0 2015 2016 2017 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER I N B R I EF 3 70 No. of municipalities where 100% We are Special­f astig­heter is present, around owned by the ­Swedish state From Ystad in the south to Haparanda in the north Ongoing investment Our rating is 2.1 AA+ ­volume, SEK Stable outlook billion (Source: Standard & Poor’s) Three customer-centric business areas Our business areas – the Prison and Probation Service, Defence and Judicial System, Institutional Care and Other Special Operations – enable us to provide both efficient comprehensive solutions and valuable detailed expertise. Each business area works closely with its customers and acts in line with their own specific circumstances. Our focus is always on identifying optimal solutions together with customers for everything from the development of premises and environmental protection to security issues. Prison and Probation Service Defence and Judicial System Institutional Care and Other business area business area ­Special Operations business area Our largest business area consists of Within this business area, we mainly With several facilities around the just one customer, the Swedish Prison work with customers in the defence country, the Swedish National Board and Probation Service, which accounts and judicial system who are responsiof Institutional Care (SiS) is the largest for 41% of the company’s income. We ble for national security. Our propcustomer in this business area. Operown Sweden’s three high-security erty management is highly important ations in this area involve the care and prisons Kumla, Hall and Saltvik along for central societal functions. treatment of young people with with other well-known prisons, such as psycho­social issues and adults with Hinseberg, Tidaholm and Österåker Customers addiction problems. within this business area. The Swedish Police The Swedish Armed Forces Customers Customers The Swedish National Courts The Swedish National Board The Swedish Prison and Probation ­Administration of Institutional Care (SiS) Service The Swedish Defence Materiel The National Swedish Museums Administration (FMV) of Military History (SFHM) Major properties: The Swedish Defence Research The Swedish Civil Kumla • Hall • Saltvik • Norrtälje Agency (FOI) Contingencies Agency (MSB) • Skänninge The Swedish Enforcement Authority The National Board of Forensic The Swedish Prosecution Authority ­Medicine The Folke Bernadotte Academy Major properties The Swedish Migration Agency Kronoberg complex • Tre Vapen (FMV’s headquarters) • Swedish Major properties Armed Forces’ headquarters • FOI Sandö • Revinge • Swedish Air Force Kista Museum • Gudhem • Sundbo SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 4 C E O ’ S S TAT E M E N T Strong growth with a focus on secure facilities In 2017, Special­fastig­heter increased its investments in development projects, made strategic investments and recruited some twenty new employees, all of which has allowed us to further clarify our focus and consolidate our leading position in secure facilities. When summarising 2017, I note that it has been an intense We continued to develop our sustainable enterprise year in many areas and that we have increased our invest­business model to clarify ment volume for projects in progress to around SEK 2.1 bilhow we can create value Net profit lion. We are particularly proud of the fantastic new district for our stakeholders. Our for the year, SEK 1,719 court building in Lund that will be completed by the spring. ­customer offering must be The renovation of the Kronoberg remand centre in central clear as we operate in an Stockholm with almost 300 new cells proved to be a comopen and competitive marplex project spanning several years, but it is now fully finket. We want our customers ished and the centre was opened in January 2018. We also to choose us because we million implemented numerous security-enhancing measures at are a reliable, secure and several prisons for the Swedish Prison and Probation Sersustainable landlord. vice. During the year, we also collaborated intensely with the Swedish National Board of Institutional Care to meet Stable earnings a prerequisite for growth their increasing accommodation needs. We are pleased to The availability of resources forms the basis of our work have received the green light to create 104 new places, and growth. Earnings remained very strong in 2017, and which in turn will require more shared premises for school, our stable customer base with long leases and generally work and leisure. no vacancies ensures we continue to have strong earnings over time. Our low funding costs due to low interest rates, In late 2016, we acquired Rättscentrum in Luleå containing a high equity/assets ratio, a very good rating and a stable several new customers with whom we cultivated relationowner are strong contributing factors to this trend. Investships at the property throughout the year. We took possesments and maintenance are increasing as planned and sion of a new office property in Kista in June 2017, with FOI ensure positive growth. Our owner, the Swedish state, as the tenant. In 2018, we take possession of two properties receives half of our earnings in the form of dividends. The in Värnamo containing SiS operations and we are looking remaining earnings are invested in our growth, as the forward to welcoming the Swedish Transport Administrademand for secure facilities remains extremely strong. tion as a new customer. Our plan is to acquire the properties used for traffic management so they can focus on their Information security high on the agenda operations which are important for society. Our role will be To date, the property sector has not taken information to ensure the secure operation and management of the security issues sufficiently seriously, but the risks are properties. Overall, we reinforced Special­fastig­heter’s becoming increasingly apparent. Information security is position during the year as a leader in secure facilities. Our based on a system whereby we classify information property value increased SEK 2 billion and now amounts to depending on how confidential it is and ensure that it is SEK 25 billion, of which SEK 1,398 million pertains to acquiaccurate and traceable. The information should also be sitions and investments in our own properties. accessible – but only to those who need it. We reviewed our security protection agreements during the year and Refinement to focus on secure facilities assessed how the entire organisation is adhering to them. Our development projects and acquisitions show that Robust security protection requires expertise, interest, Special­fastig­heter has a clear focus: we are a property commitment and consistent improvement efforts. This company that is entirely focused on customers with secuissue is constantly on the agenda for both our managerity requirements. This is why we invest in development ment and our Board of Directors, as our view is that this and acquisitions within our niche and sell any properties area should absolutely be handled at management level. that are not entirely suited to our focus. We disposed of Malmö’s old central prison during the year, which can now Conscious sustainable development be converted into an attractive residential area. We also Special­fastig­heter is to be a sustainable company and an sold an old prison in Smälteryd and a decommissioned fire example to others. We are pleased that we reduced our and rescue training college in Skövde that each municipalcarbon dioxide emissions compared with the base year ity can now develop to meet other societal needs. 2012 by 47%, which means that we have already – far in advance – achieved our goal for 2030 (which was 40%). SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C E O ’ S S TAT E M E N T 5 We managed to achieve this by reducing our energy use and increasing the proportion of fossil-free energy. We are now setting considerably bolder targets – in 2018 we aim to reduce emissions by 52% and 75% by 2030, compared to the level in 2012. We issued our first green bonds in November, which were received extremely positively and were quickly oversubscribed. Our employees put in considerable efforts to bring about this bond issue and we have also improved our communication surrounding our green investments. We prepared for environmental certification in 2017, and hope to be certified in accordance with ISO 14001:2015 in spring 2018. We want to see greater diversity among our employees and thus reflect Swedish society. To increase diversity in relation to foreign backgrounds, we have focused on this area when recruiting and striven to take on more interns and workplace induction students with a foreign background. It is therefore pleasing that we succeeded in increasing this proportion to 10%, which was our target for 2017. The long-term target of achieving 15% by 2022 is something we will continue to work towards, as we consider this to be an important issue. Special­fastig­heter works with the UN’s sustainable de­velopment goals and has signed up to both the UN Global year. We recruited more service technicians and specialists Compact and the Government’s Fossil Free Sweden initiawithin projects, maintenance, electricity and fire safety. tive. We will continue to develop and improve upon our A sustainability strategist and a project group manager efforts based on these key initiatives and principles. started work in January 2018, and we plan to recruit an operational strategist. The Board also appointed our CFO Break the negative spiral Kristina Ferenius as Deputy CEO from 1 January 2018. This It is always difficult to predict social trends, but there are is a good way to reinforce the management function, and many signs that we currently have a tougher and more I welcome it. strained social climate than in the past. Dark forces have increased and we need to clearly mobilise the good forces We develop the skills of our employees on a continuous to counteract a negative spiral that could threaten our basis, as we need to guarantee the right skills both today democratic society. Our customers have the same objecand for tomorrow. I am incredibly proud of how the tive as us – a safe and secure society – and have clarified employees at Special­fastig­heter always take customer what they need to carry out their assignments moving for­service one step further and help to make consistent ward. We see a risk in terms of them failing to obtain the improvements. Together with our customers and suppliresources they need, which would reduce our ability to ers, we do everything we can to achieve our vision – to be meet customers’ expectations in terms of security, compethe most secure and attractive property company pro­ tence and support. With the right long-term conditions moting a safer, more secure society. and good forward planning, I am convinced that, together, we can turn this trend around and move toward a more A big thank you for a productive 2017 – we can now look positive future. forward to an exciting 2018. More employees and increased skills Linköping, 15 March 2018 Expanding operations with new properties and customers means we need to recruit more employees. Requirements relating to sustainability and reporting are also increasing from society and our stakeholders. To ensure we have the right skills and can honour our commitments, we chose to Åsa Hedenberg increase the number of employees and services during the CEO SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 6 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS Security and sustainability in our sights in 2017 Security has long been a focus of ours at Special­fastig­heter, but it became a major issue once again in 2017 across society as a whole. Below are some of the significant events that took place at the company during the year. Possession in Kista FOI also became our tenant in Kista in June, when we took Successful heat recycling possession of the Färöarna 6 property in Stockholm. This occurred after a subdivision process that took around a at the Kronobergsbadet year. FOI was already a customer of Special­fastig­heter in swimming pool Umeå. The building in Kista has approximately 24,700 sq m In 2017, we drove an energy-related sustainability of floor space. project at the Kronobergsbadet swimming pool, which is adjacent to the Swedish Police’s headquarters on Kungsholmen, in Stockholm. To take advanVoluntary work during tage of waste heat, the pipelines that lead hot waste ­working hours water from the showers were re-laid to pre-heat the water for the swimming pool and other parts of All employees at Special­fastig­heter had the opporthe building. This saved us around 60 MWh, which tunity in 2017 to undertake voluntary work for eight corresponds to the heating of four average-sized hours during ordinary working hours. Our employdetached houses for a year. ees took the opportunity to help others by offering swimming training for new immigrants, becoming a churchwarden and providing administrative help to ease the burden on voluntary organisations. Decision regardThese efforts – set to continue for two years – are ing Deputy CEO part of a collaboration with Volontärbyrån. Special­fastig­heter’s Board of Directors decided in September to appoint a Deputy CEO for the Malmö central prison company. The choice was Kristina to become housing Ferenius, who has worked for just over two years as Special­ When the property that once served as Malmö’s central fastig­heter’s CFO, responsible prison – also known as Kirseberg – no longer suited our cusfor financial accounting, treasury and business control. Her tomers’ operations, we sold it in the summer to the munictasks have included leading the comprehensive improveipal housing company MKB, which can now redevelop and ment initiatives by managing and following up operations, expand the property into several hundred housing units. As which has given her excellent insight into the entire commore housing is needed in Sweden, not least in the major pany. Kristina Ferenius will also continue in her role as CFO, cities, we have a very positive view of the fact the property but was given the supplementary title of Deputy CEO from can be developed into an attractive residential area. 1 January 2018. Re-inauguration of artwork at the Swedish Armed Forces’ headquarters In October, the totally renovated terrazzo mosaic artwork in the courtyard of the Kavalleristen 3 property (Armed Forces’ headquarters) was unveiled in Stockholm. The some 200-square-metre-large artwork, which was created at the end of the 1960s by Pierre Olofsson, underwent a careful renovation. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T SIGNIFICANT EVENTS 7 New leases with the Swedish National Board of Institutional Care During the autumn, the Government approved the 25-year leases for the correctional facilities of Folåsa, Hässleholm, Johannisberg and Ljungbacken, allowing us to complete the project of creating new accommodation that SiS so badly needs. The project volume is around SEK 760 million. Focus on security protection Extensive work was put into updating and developing existing and new security protection agreements during Photo: The Swedish Prison and Probation Service the year. Internal efforts were made relating to the systematic fire prevention initiative, while a targeted, special training course for our local security coordinators was New opening of Kronoberg conducted. Major focus was also placed on adapting securemand centre rity protection in connection to our acquisition of Rätts­ centrum in Luleå. The renovated Kronoberg remand centre was newly opened in December. A large number of the Swedish Prison and Probation Service’s management group was present, along with General Director Nils First green bonds Öberg who cut the symbolic ribbon. This was an We issued our first green bonds in November. The extensive project, beginning back in 2011 and combonds, which amount to SEK 500 million with a matuplicated by the fact that operations were ongoing at rity of five years and SEK 750 million of seven years the property throughout the renovation. respectively, will finance environmental projects such as the new district court building in Lund (preliminarily certified to Sweden Green Building Council certification system, Miljöbyggnad, Gold level) and energy enhancement measures. Interest was Proposed transfer of the ­ very strong and the bonds were oversubscribed. Swedish Transport ­Administration’s traffic centres In its autumn budget, the Government suggested that the Transport Administration sell a number of properties to Special­fastig­heter. This concerns its traffic centres, from which the Administration manages train traffic and motorway traffic. The Government carried out an investigation and decided that the conditions for managing buildings with special security protection requirements were best served by the properties in question being managed by Special­ fastig­heter, to subsequently be rented by the Transport Administration following redevelopment and extension. Reduction in CO2 emissions Continued investment in following conversion to biogas We have previously used natural gas for heating at two of information security our properties: the Tygelsjö correctional facility and the In early May, DNV GL carried out a periodic audit of Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency’s (SMB) facility at our information security management system (LIS), Revinge. We have been converting our use of natural gas and the results were positive. To ensure continuous to biogas since 2017 in order to phase out fossil fuels and improvements are made, we have adjusted and reduce our emissions. As the carbon dioxide equivalent adapted our operations to the proposals noted in for biogas is zero, the change has led to a reduction of connection with the audit. around 170 tonnes of carbon dioxide. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 8 BUSINESS MODEL A business model that creates sustainable value OUR STRENGTHS AND ASSETS OUR BUSINESS A SECURE AND EXTERNAL CONDITIONS SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Operating environment factors Special­fastig­ heter is a market Stakeholders’ needs and expectations leader in secure facilities. Our main strength OPERATIONS and competitive advantage is our Strategies long experience and extensive expertise in the area of security. Responsi­ Creating Proactive Best at Long-term bility for the ­customer skills STABLE CUSTOMER security profitability environment value ­sourcing RELATIONSHIPS and climate Collaboration, proximity and dialogue with our customers with i n e s s d e ve l o p m e n t security requireBu s ments are at the core of both our ongoing management, and our Leasing and long-term planning and developtransactions ment of secure facilities. We have internally governed customer-­ centric management. nt Org a ni s a a l d e ve l o p m e OUR PROPERTY PORTFOLIO VISION: – SECURE FACILITIES – the most secure and t i o n a l d e ve l o p We have a attractive property focused portfolio Property company promoting of sustainable ­management a safer, more secure and a t io n and customer­society. adapted secure operation Property ­development facilities spread over some 70 er me municipalities. We work pro­ Op nt actively to develop our property holdings in line with customers’ changing needs. STRONG FINANCIAL POSITION Our strong profit­ Ri s k ma nag e m e n t ability is based on our long leases – which provide us with INTERNAL CONDITIONS AND GOVERNANCE a stable cash flow – and the low interest rate level of recent years. Corporate governance and targets We have surplus value in our propMission Business idea Core values erties, a high equity/assets ratio, the Swedish state as our owner and a high credit rating, AA+. Read more about our strengths and assets on pages 10–13 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T BUSINESS MODEL 9 Special­fastig­heter helps create a safer Sweden by offering efficient and security-adapted properties to customers with security requirements. We hold a strong basic position that we continuously improve – always in partnership with our customers and suppliers. Using our five strategic areas, we apply a targeted approach to satisfy the expectations of our operating environment. We pursue the right direction step by step, creating value for customers, owners and other stakeholders while integrating sustainability into everything we do. VALUE-CREATING ACTIVITIES AND RESULTS IN 2017 A SECURE AND SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS OUR PROPERTY PORTFOLIO – SECURE FACILITIES • Approved periodic audit of information security, • 96 sustainable and customised secure facilities with ISO 27001 floor space totalling 1,079,064 sq m in close to 70 • Update to security protection agreements municipalities in Sweden • Risk analyses conducted of critical properties • Strengthened market position by way of property and major projects development, acquisitions and new construction • New guideline for insider and infiltration threats • Acquired secure facilities with development poten• 87.9% of leases have green appendices and of these, tial in Värnamo (possession in 2018) for SiS and a 98% have green action plans number of land areas adjacent to our properties for potential future expansion • CO2 emissions reduced by 15.6% • Disposed of properties without security require• Ongoing environmental certification efforts, ments, for example Malmö’s old central prison, the ISO 14001, with audit in January 2018 old Smälteryd prison and a training area in Skövde • Obtained preliminary SGBC Gold level certification • Property value increased to a total of SEK 25,002 (Miljöbyggnad Guld) – the highest level – for the new ­million district court building in Lund • Investment of SEK 1,398 million and maintenance of • Increased the number of employees with foreign SEK 77 million toward secure, sustainable, custombackgrounds to 10% ised property development • No cases of discrimination occurred • SEK 97 million in tenant adjustments • Contract compliance of 91% and number of • Implemented LEB property system for case ­suppliers reduced from 1,287 to 1,230 manage­ment and maintenance • Concept developed for collaborative contracts • Collaboration with customers and suppliers on new • 74% of our total purchases are covered by the products and services have resulted in further devel­conditions in our Code of Conduct opment of security products • Risk analysis conducted regarding human rights • Improved control and monitoring systems within property automation to ensure increased operaSTABLE CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS tional reliability and more efficient management • Customers consist mainly of government authorities and departments STRONG FINANCIAL POSITION • Rental income increased 5% to a total of SEK 1,846 • Stable financial position with an equity/assets ratio million of 33.8%, equity of SEK 9,066 million and loans total• Seven renegotiated leases (2017) with an ling SEK 13,781 million overall annual rental income of SEK 94.4 million. • Stable return with a net profit of SEK 1,719 million • Long leases with an average remaining and a yield of 6.2% term of 12.6 years • Retained high credit rating of AA+, confirmed by • Low vacancy rate: 1.0% Standard & Poor’s on 20 December • FOI (Swedish Defence Research Agency) is now also • Issued green bonds to a value of SEK 1,250 million our tenant in Kista, since we acquired a property there with them as the tenant • Close stakeholder dialogue with customers • Measures taken to improve the CSI result • Customer service training conducted in operations and property management Read more about targets and results on pages 20–21. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 10 OUR STRENGTHS AND ASSETS A secure and sustainable business We own, develop and manage properties in Sweden with security requirements. ­Sustainability, whether it be economic, societal or environmental, is to permeate all of our operations and we work in line with the UN’s sustainable development goals. Market leader with Proactive risk-related work strong values minimises injuries Special­fastig­heter is a market leader in secure We work proactively with risk management, includf­ acilities. Our business is based on our four core valing the areas of security, the work environment and ues: security, long-term planning, proximity and colanti-corruption. By way of extensive risk analyses in laboration. Special­fastig­heter is a signatory of the UN which we systematically identify, analyse, evaluate Global Compact and adheres to the conventions on and manage risks, we prevent and minimise injuries. which it is based. These also form the basis of our This risk management is conducted throughout Code of ­Conduct, which guides employees in their our operations, but particular focus is placed on day-to-day work. To emphasise the importance of the the greatest risks that we collate in a risk register. social transition needed to reduce emissions, we have A reporting tool helps us manage reported incidents been a member of Fossil Free Sweden since 2016. as well as identify and implement both preventive and We reported our sustainability work in accordance remedial measures. We also have a whistle-blowing with the GRI Standards: Core option for the first time system that enables people to anonymously report in 2017. irregularities or unsatisfactory circumstances. Extensive experience in the Proactive efforts throughout area of security the supply chain We create cost-efficient and sustainable supply chains by imposing requirements on our suppliers. An obligatory Code of Conduct, self-assessment forms, on-site audits and evaluations all form the basis of long-term, mutually beneficial partnerships. We measure contract compliance as it shows how effective our requirements are in terms of efficiency, security and quality when purchasing. As many employees act as purchasers, continuous training is carried out in areas such as business ethics and The aspects that make Special­fastig­heter the leadanti-corruption. ing operator in terms of secure facilities are our long experience and extensive expertise in the area of security. Our customers place strict requirements on both properties and the handling of sensitive information, and we are specialists in fulfilling these requirements. Other important success factors in our security-related work include awareness, interest and commitment among our employees. We focus on four principal security areas – personal security, operational reliability, information security and physical security – and we have defined a number of tools to optimise efforts, including everything from risk analyses and continuity planning to crisis management and incident reporting. Special­fastig­heter has ISO-certified its entire operations in terms of information security. Our work contributes to national security and ensuring a safer society. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T OUR STRENGTHS AND ASSETS 11 Stable customer relationships Special­fastig­heter’s main target group is state agencies and we possess a large ­market share within secure facilities for the Swedish National Board of Institutional Care and the Swedish Prison and Probation Service, among others. Stability in all ecoInternally governed customer-centric nomic ­conditions management Close, long-term customer Collaboration, proximity and dialogue with our customers are at the core relationships, long leases and of both our ongoing management, and our long-term property planning customers with very high credit and development. Our goal is to have internally governed operations and ratings result in a stable situation management, based on a customer and security perspective. for us irrespective of economic conditions. As both we and our Special­fastig­heter has also chosen to create its own project and developcustomers are impacted by ment unit to guarantee customers’ needs are met in relation to the proexternal developments and politduction and adaptation of the properties. Our purchasing unit ensures ical decisions, we closely monitor cost-efficiency and credibility throughout the supply chain. any event that could be significant. The customer dialogue ensures mutual awareness and understanding, which is a precondition for strong, long-term partnerships. Our focus is always on identifying optimal solutions together with customers for everything from the development of premises and environmental protection to security issues. Our customers can always feel secure with us. Strong demand and Long leases a very low vacancy rate up to 25 years Our tenants show continued strong demand for The majority of Special­fastig­heter’s leases are signed premises, which has contributed to this low vacancy with public-sector operations and have long leases rate. As of 31 December 2017, the vacancy rate was that often run for up to 25 years. The average remain1.0% (1.4) – a low figure even within the public sector ing term in our contract portfolio is 12.6 (13.2) years, properties segment. We develop our property holdwhich results in sustained long-term security for the ings in collaboration with customers and we generally company. Rental income is secured for a long period always have a customer with us in new transactions. and derives from creditworthy tenants who have non-existent credit risks. Vacancy rate Average term % Year 1.4 14.1 13.2 1.5 15 1.3 12.6 1.2 12 1.0 0.9 9 0.6 6 0.3 3 0.0 0 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 12 OUR STRENGTHS AND ASSETS Our property portfolio − secure facilities From Ystad to Haparanda Portfolio Special­fastig­heter has properties in close refinement to 70 municipalities in Sweden, in both Our movement toward focussmall towns and major cities. Many of our ing entirely on secure facilities customers and their operations fulfil vital continued with the acquisition societal functions, and are spread across of Rättscentrum in Luleå and the country, from Haparanda in the north to taking possession of an office Ystad in the south. property in Kista with FOI as The ten municipalities in the country the tenant. We also acquired in which we have the largest property secure facilities with developholdings ment potential in Värnamo Total owned No. of (possession in 2018) for SiS floor space, ­p roperties per and a number of land areas Munici­pality sq m ­municipality adjacent to our properties for Stockholm 332,651 6 Local office potential future expansion. Sundsvall Kumla 51,215 2 Empty properties that are no Södertälje 43,813 12 longer in demand were sold, Solna 34,967 1 for example Malmö central Kramfors 30,830 3 prison, the old Smälteryd Luleå 29,739 3 Local office Örebro prison in Mark municipality Gothenburg 27,680 4 and a training area in Skövde. Umeå 26,330 3 Head office Stockholm (joint) Härnösand 23,911 1 Linköping 22,985 2 Head office Linköping (joint) Local office Business areas Gothenburg Increased ■ Prison and Probation Service business area ■ Defence and Judicial System business area ­property value ■ Institutional Care and Other Special Operations business area Local office Lund Our property value at the end of 2017 amounted to SEK 25 billion, up around SEK 2 billion year-on-year. The increase in the market value of the investment properties is largely due Customised, sustainable secure facilities to investments and acquisiThe common denominator among our customers is their security requiretions, and the fact that we ments, and our role is to ensure that there are secure, adapted premises lowered our calculation that help them fulfil their societally vital assignments. For us, this is a matparameters and inflation ter of understanding and creating a close dialogue in order to jointly creassumptions in the short term. ate effective comprehensive solutions – the right property or premises for the right operations. Needs and conditions often change over time, which means we need to be proactive and receptive in order to adapt our offerMarket value, investment 25 ing in a way that enables customers to develop their operations. properties, SEK Special­fastig­heter’s properties should be sustainable throughout their life cycle. For this reason, we work to reduce energy use and CO2 emissions, pave the way for environmental certification of the buildings and proactively choose materials that have a low or negligible impact on the billion environment and health. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T OUR STRENGTHS AND ASSETS 13 Strong financial position Stable return We must manage our property holdings with a sustainable, long-term approach and with total efficiency from an ownership perspective. Our profitability target as set by the owner is an adjusted return on equity with a target of 8.0%. We exceeded our target by a wide margin, and on 31 December 2017 the result was 13.2%. Our strong return is mainly due to our long leases – which provide us with stable cash flows – and the low interest rate level of recent Secure owner years. Our growth is also enabled by the fact that Special­fastig­heter is one of 48 state-owned comhalf of our earnings are reinvested into operations. panies and is owned entirely by the Swedish state. We are administrated by the Government Offices Adjusted return on equity of Sweden, which pur% sue active corporate 13.7 We are 100% 15 13.2 governance. Having 11.8 12 a long-term, stable 9 owner in this way pro6 vides a secure future. 3 The state considers owned by the 0 the integration of Swedish state 2015 2016 2017 sustainability issues into operations to be a natural part of the company’s long-term strategy and business development. We are also expected to develop the company by taking advantage of opportunities linked to technical developments High equity/assets ratio and innovation. Our capital structure target determines how we finance our assets and is thus an important control instrument for us in terms of our level of risk. Core parts of the capital structure include equity and interest-bearing liabilities, as well as the relationship High credit rating between these two. The equity/assets ratio is the We have held a very high credit rating from Standard measure we use to manage the capital structure. & Poor’s on our long-term borrowing for a long time To achieve clarity in our benchmarking while also now, having been awarded an AA+/Stable outlook. enabling the necessary flexibility in terms of our This is thanks to our unique position as a landlord in financing, the target is expressed as a range, which is the secure facilities 25–35%. As of 31 December 2017, the equity/assets niche, our low busiWe have a rating of AA+ ratio was 33.8% . ness risk profile with a highly stable and Equity/assets ratio predictable cash flow % based on long-term 32.2 33.8 35 leases with govern30.2 30 ment authorities, as Stable outlook 25 20 well as our strong (Source: Standard & Poor's) 15 liquidity position 10 and the fact that the 5 0 Swedish state is our owner. This score was confirmed 2015 2016 2017 once again in December 2017 and shows that we are a company with a positive future outlook. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 14 O P E R AT I N G E N V I R O N M E N T, M A R K E T A N D TA R G E T S Operating environment, market and targets Demand for secure facilities is set to increase and Special­fastig­heter is well-equipped to meet the need for both new builds and renovations of older buildings. Special­fastig­ heter’s five core strategic areas have been developed based on the state’s owner­ship policy, the company’s targets and the UN’s sustainable development goals. ­Creating customer value is a key issue for us. SiS LVM home in Hessleby, Mariannelund SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T O P E R AT I N G E N V I R O N M E N T, M A R K E T A N D TA R G E T S 15 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 16 O P E R AT I N G E N V I R O N M E N T, M A R K E T A N D TA R G E T S Greater need for secure ­properties All indications point to an increase in the need for secure properties over the next few years. Many authorities and departments will need to review their requirements relating to both physical protection and information security. More resources for the police will likely lead to more arrests, a greater number of trials and, in the end, a need for more places in juvenile care homes and prisons. Security requirements in every area are on the rise in an candidates in a difficult labour market. If the Police sucuncertain world. Wider society’s awareness of the risks of ceeds in increasing its workforce, the trend of unsolved IT systems that fall into the wrong hands increased in 2017. criminal investigations and fewer convictions should also We saw how law enforcement authorities were exposed to be reversed. Pressure is also increasing on the Prison and a wider range of threats involving physical attacks against Probation Service, which has an increasing need for places police stations. Together with the terror attack in Stockat prisons. The Swedish National Board of Institutional holm in 2017, these resulted in intensified demands on Care currently needs to invest some SEK 1.5 billion in redeboth tenants and property owners to review technical and velopments and extensions of its juvenile care homes and mechanical protection, and physical barriers. addiction centres. There are no indications that this trend is likely to be The Prison and Probation Service is being reversed in the near future – rather, the trend is showing a ­modernised broader threat and a greater need for efforts on the part of Since 2013, the Prison and Probation Service has decomproperty owners to ensure a safe and secure environment missioned a number of prisons due to a surplus of spaces for tenants. This applies first and foremost to the police and new functional and work environment-related requireand judiciary, but also to authorities that handle sensitive ments that mean some older premises no longer fulfil information and societally vital operations within the areas modern requirements. The authority has developed a plan of communication, energy or other areas where attacks for modernising many more prisons and our assessment is could have serious consequences for the authorities. that this will considerably increase our project volume in the future. The Prison and Probation Service has also Increasingly stringent security requirements are also invested major amounts in security-enhancing measures exposing the security shortcomings that have built up over over the past few years. Special­fastig­heter is involved at the years, with businesses not having invested sufficiently every stage, monitoring the market and offering our serto reach an acceptable security level. This could be a case vices in competition with others. of premises that are not secured in the right way, alarm installations, property automation, windows that can Increasing focus on public sector properties ­handle damage, privacy protection, personal security The market for public sector properties remained robust and, last but not least, secure IT systems. in 2017, although the transaction volume fell slightly compared to 2016, when properties worth SEK 14.07 billion Greater needs within the judicial system changed owner. The largest transaction of the year was The Swedish Police has been undergoing a major reorganIntea’s acquisition of academic premises at Linnaeus Uniisation for some time, and has also received an increased versity, Balder’s purchase of central Hallonbergen and budget from the Government; in 2018, the budget is being Hemsö’s acquisition of the leasehold and accompanying raised by SEK 2 billion, with the target of giving the police project to build premises for Mälardalen University. a total of SEK 7.1 billion more by 2020. Another target set by the government is to recruit 10,000 new police personnel For investors, this sector is interesting with a low risk as the over the next seven years. The major challenge is to find tenants are state, municipal or county-owned. The leases Public sector properties transaction volume Transaction volume per category SEK billion % 15 14.07 Education and childcare, 45%  dapted housing (LSS (The A 11.17 12 Swedish Act concerning Support and Service for Persons with 9.15 ­C ertain Functional Impairments), 9 sheltered accommodation, care homes), 22% 6 Healthcare, 15 % Judicial system, 4% 3 O ther, 14% 0 Diagrams: CBRE 2015 2016 2017 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T O P E R AT I N G E N V I R O N M E N T, M A R K E T A N D TA R G E T S 17 Trends that affect us Increasing focus on security The security situation has deteriorated both in Sweden and globally. There is greater awareness of security issues in line with globalisation, terrorism, new technology and business models, IT scandals and increased criminality. More companies are demanding secure facilities and new security solutions, including in the area of information security. Fierce competition in the sector The market for secure facilities remains buoyant and competition is fierce for customers with long leases. Many investors are looking for investments with low levels of return, and ideally green. The state constantly reviews subsidies to authorities and customers enhance their efficiency. Sustainability aspects are often crucial in terms of the choices customers make. Technological development presents risks and ­opportunities The communication flow is accelerating and moving in new directions. Innovation and digitalisation entail major opportunities but also impact on security and can lead to shortcomings in terms of security. Technological developments could counteract the threat of climate change and contribute to a reduction in the burden on the environment by way of more efficient energy use, for example. Strict requirements for attracting skills Competition for the best talent is becoming increasingly ment, challenging work assignments, a good work-life balance fierce. The company’s brand and operations must be perand freedom with responsibility. Long-term strategic and ceived as meaningful and managed in a sustainable manner. mutually beneficial collaborations are needed in order to form Nowadays, an attractive employer must offer skills developpartnerships with the most competent suppliers. are generally long – often around ten years – and the holdeven rents to some extent. The challenge for Special­fastig­ ings deliver a secure yield even if the economy falters; heter is to continuously be one step ahead of the other something which has mainly attracted pension capital. companies in a competitive market, and we are able to do Signs began to appear during the autumn that the market this thanks to our 20 years of experience and superior for new-builds is faltering somewhat, and this will likely expertise in the field of security. lead to more players looking to public sector properties. Continued population growth in practically every area of Sustained low interest rates Sweden – the forecast is for 11 million people by 2027 – will In 2017, Sweden’s GDP increased 3.3% and the National intensify the need for schools, care facilities and other sociInstitute of Economic Research (NIER) forecasts that GDP etal functions. will increase again in 2018 by 2.9%. The expansionary budget will drive growth and employment next year, while the The largest companies involved in public sector properties upturn will be held back by the increasing lack of labour include Akademiska Hus, Castellum, Hemsö, Hemfosa and with the necessary skills. Samhällsbyggnadsbolaget (SBB). Vasce and Intea are the main companies within Special­fastig­heter’s area to create Market rates rose slightly in 2017, and the ten-year rate a niche in public sector properties with security require(Swedish bonds) was 0.78% at 29 December 2017. To stabiments. In 2016, Intea acquired the Garnisonen property in lise inflation around 2% – the Riksbank’s target – an expanLinköping with tenants such as the Swedish Police, the sionary monetary policy needs to be maintained. The National Board of Forensic Medicine and the Swedish Executive Board of the Riksbank has decided to keep the National Courts Administration. Vacse owns and manages repo rate unchanged at negative 0.50%. This rate is properties such as the police station in Flemingsberg, expected to be slowly raised for the first time in mid-2018, Attunda district court and the remand centre in Sollentuna. and according to the Riksbank’s forecast, it should reach 0.0% sometime in 2019. Every indication is that we will More players and increased competition has led to an remain in a low interest rate situation for a long time to increase in property prices, which has in turn led to yield come. For property companies, there is some uncertainty requirements being suppressed. It is also clear that more surrounding political decisions concerning the interest property companies want to participate in procurements rate deduction and “packaging” into companies when of new projects or when authorities look for new premises. selling properties. Competition for leases is putting pressure on prices, and SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 18 O P E R AT I N G E N V I R O N M E N T, M A R K E T A N D TA R G E T S Collaboration surrounding ­sustainability leads to ­commitment and results Our daily work on sustainability is based on the state’s ownership policy, the company’s strategies and the UN’s sustainable development goals. Thanks to close collaboration with our stakeholders, our operations are developed and improved from a sustainability perspective – socially, financially and environmentally. As a state-owned company, Special­fastig­heter must act in ness ethics, equal opportunities and diversity. Out of the an exemplary manner. This involves managing and develUN’s 17 sustainable development goals, we have chosen oping all areas of its operations in a sustainable manner, to focus on five in particular: Sustainable energy for all, including responsibility for, and analysis of, business Sustainable consumption and production, Fight climate opportunities and risks relating to the environment, change, Ecosystems and biodiversity and Implementation human rights, working conditions, anti-corruption, busiand global partnership. Special­fastig­heter has signed up Stakeholder dialogue In their dialogue with us, our main stakeholders have highlighted the following areas as having particular importance: • Develop and supply secure, tailored premises •S  ustained long-term profitability • Satisfied customers who are able to focus on their ­operations • Maintained high credit rating • Sustainable choice of materials that ensure a long lifespan and • Green investments and green financing non-toxic environments • Sustainability initiatives integrated into operations • In-depth collaborations surrounding procurement and ­purchasing • Robust finances for long-term collaboration and investment • Collaborations surrounding energy enhancements and renewable energy Investors Customers • Contribute to a safer society • Set exemplary sustaina­ bility standards Owner • Contribute to UN’s ­sustainable development goals • Work towards a sustainable supply chain • Live up to requirements Employees governing human rights Suppliers • Attractive employer that offers good ­working conditions • Investment in skills development in areas such as security • Meaningful work that contributes to a safer • Long-term, strategic and mutually beneficial relationships ­society and satisfied customers •S  ustainable supply chain • A n inclusive workplace characterised by • Clear requirements for procurements ­diversity and equality SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T O P E R AT I N G E N V I R O N M E N T, M A R K E T A N D TA R G E T S 19 to both the UN Global Compact and the Government’s energy efficiency enhancement, and we replaced light fitFossil Free Sweden initiative. We have been reporting in tings and sources in partnership with the Swedish Prison line with GRI guidelines for ten years now, including in line and Probation Service to reduce our energy use. with 2016 GRI Standards: Core option since 2017. Our stakeholder dialogue increasingly includes the issue Engaging stakeholder dialogue of sustainability; suppliers are interested in collaborating The dialogue with our stakeholders helps us to develop in terms of sustainability and are often positive about the and improve our operations, not least from a sustainability sustainability requirements we set. Social requirements at perspective. The stakeholders, who both influence and our construction sites have been strengthened and we are influenced by our operations, therefore have a major conducted four on-site audits during the year – two relatimpact on the sustainability areas we should focus on. Our ing to construction and two for IT and service. The invesmain stakeholders include customers, suppliers, employees, tors group considers a broad view of sustainability to be investors and our owner. Naturally, it is not always possible important for their decisions in relation to Special­fastig­ to pursue a direct dialogue with our customers’ customers, heter. We issued our first green bonds in November. Interbut our tenants make sure that they represent them and est was very strong and the bonds were oversubscribed. convey their interests during our discussions. The dialogue with our owner – the Swedish state – surroundWe pursue a regular dialogue with stakeholders as part of ing sustainability issues is integrated with other owner­ship our day-to-day operations. In addition to this, more comissues. Our owner emphasised the importance of the supprehensive, annual discussions and workshops are held ply chain and human rights during the year. We also conwith one or more selected groups. This year, we chose to ducted a specific risk analysis relating to human rights. The extensively interview a number of customers concerning risks we identified primarily relate to risks in the supply their views of sustainability. The results showed that cuschain linked to the production of the products and services tomers largely prioritise sustainability issues that affect we purchase. These include the risk of employment and them directly, such as energy use, choice of materials working conditions being breached, substandard work (based on both an environmental and health perspective) environments, discrimination and child/forced labour. We and strong finances. On the initiative of the Swedish have appointed risk owners and measures are either being Armed Forces, we held a workshop under the theme of planned or have been taken to mitigate all risks. Materiality analysis The basis of the management’s materiality analysis is We are also working systematically on a number of formed by the results from the various stakeholder other sustainability issues, even though they are not ­dialogues, operating environment assessments from reported in line with the GRI. Special­fastig­heter’s govthe construction, property and financial sectors, a CSI ernance of and work involving our sustainability efforts survey, a risk analysis concerning breaches of human are reported in detail in various chapters of the Annual rights and an organisational analysis of Special­fastig­ Report and Sustainability Report. Page 52 contains a heter. More detailed information about all our stakethorough description of how we translate our prioriholders’ expectations can be found on the previous tised sustainability areas into GRI Standards. page. Management has then prioritised the most ­sig­nificant sustainability issues based on their impact, Our prioritised sustainability areas stakeholders’ expectations and requirements, the • Security ­owner’s directive and business strategies. In total, • Customer satisfaction ten areas have been prioritised. The sustainability area ­concerning use of materials has been added, • Long-term profitability as Special­fastig­heter has a major impact in this area. • Anti-corruption ­Customer satis­faction has also been added as it is so • Emissions ­crucial to our entire operations. Skills development • Energy use has been removed as it is considered to be slightly less significant, particularly in terms of stakeholders’ • Use of materials expectations. Sustainable property management has • Work environment also been removed as we see this more as a tool for • Equal treatment managing many of our sustainability issues, and it is described as part of the management approach. • Sustainable supply chain All sustainability areas are the same as last year’s and are well integrated into the ongoing work of Special­ fastig­heter’s five strategic areas. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 20 O P E R AT I N G E N V I R O N M E N T, M A R K E T A N D TA R G E T S Long-term benchmarking Special­fastig­heter’s vision – to be the most secure and attractive property company promoting a safer, more secure society – forms the basis for our long-term benchmarking. Targeted efforts ensure we can maintain positive developments in the determined direction. Overall Special­fastig­heter’s financial targets are decided by the strategic targets Target, 2017 owner, the Swedish state, and aim to ensure efficient use of resources to help maintain the company’s strong Capital structure The capital structure target is for the 25–35% position in a competitive market. The owner and compaequity/assets ratio to be in the 25–35% ny’s management consider sustainable business to be range. a commercially strategic issue and the follow-up of our sustainability efforts is conducted through a dialogue with the owner, partially by following up on targets and partially by way of specific sustainability analyses. The overall strategic targets are resolved by the Board. Profitability The profitability target is for a net profit, 8% after including changes in value and Clear strategic areas to associated deferred tax, of 8% of average equity. Profitability is a variable target achieve established targets whose level is adjusted depending on the composition of the property portfolio. To ensure clear governance, take decisions on ­targets and activities, prioritise and monitor ­operations, we manage operations based on CSI No target set in five strategic areas: More satisfied customers via improved customer dialogue, CSI. 2017 • Creating customer value • Best at security • Long-term profitability • Responsibility for the environment and climate • Proactive skills sourcing Diversity Increase the number of employees with 10% UN sustainable foreign backgrounds. development goals Using the strategic areas outlined above as a basis, we analysed the UN sustainable development goals during the year and identified economic, social and environmental targets that the company’s operations affect Anti-corruption No and contribute to. We have chosen to place a particular Continued zero-tolerance corruption towards corruption. focus on five targets: Affordable and clean energy, Responsible consumption and production, Climate action, Life on land and Partnerships for the goals. Environment and climate Reduction of Reduce CO2 emissions by 75% between 2012 and 2030 (2012: 9 kg CO2/sq m Atemp). 35% (from 2012) SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T O P E R AT I N G E N V I R O N M E N T, M A R K E T A N D TA R G E T S 21 Result, 2017 Target, 2018 Target, 2022 Ideal position for 2022 33.8% 25–35% 25–35% ”We are a financially stable partner who continuously produces updated plans for premises’ requirements together with our customers, both now and for the future.” “We develop sustainable internal 13.2% 8% 8% and external environments and acquire, redevelop and build to the value of at least SEK 1 billion per year.” “Management is functioning so efficiently, securely and sustainably that customers can focus entirely on their core operations.” 65% 67% No target set “All leases have a green appendix (Dec 2016) and an action plan drawn up with the customer that show how we achieve our environmental ­targets.” ”Our entire organisation and work is permeated by sustainability, 10% 12% 15% with employees being engaged in everything that happens, learning from each other, developing, performing strongly and having fun at work.” No No No Target for 2030, corruption corruption corruption environment and energy In terms of the environment and Reduction of Reduction of Reduction of climate, it is important to look 47% 52% 62% beyond 2022, which (from 2012) (from 2012) (from 2012) is why we have chosen to look ahead to 2030. Read more about our target for 2030 on pages 30–31. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 22 S T R AT E G I E S Five core strategic areas Our strategic areas serve as tools in our efforts to more clearly manage, take ­decisions on targets and activities, prioritise and monitor operations. An open dialogue and strong collaboration with different stakeholders is crucial to constantly developing and improving the company in line with our operating environment. We are to provide secure, adapted premises in a commercial and cost-effective ­manner, thus contributing to our customers’ operations. Our aim is to work as closely to our customers as possible: to understand them and pursue a close dialogue and thus ultimately offer the right premises for the right operations. Creating Read more on page 23. customer value Security is one of Special­fastig­heter’s core values and security issues are always our highest priority. We aim to be the property owner best able to meet both its own and its customers’ high expectations relating to security, expertise and support in an innovative and responsible manner. Best at Read more on page 24. security Long-term profitability is a crucial aspect of fulfilling the long-term task set by our owner and of satisfying our customers’ high expectations throughout the entire lease period. We must therefore manage our property holdings sustainably and with total efficiency from an ownership perspective. Long-term Read more on page 27. profitability Our operations and properties affect the environment throughout their lifecycle, from planning and construction to management, redevelopment and demolition. We adopt a long-term approach and endeavour to be a environmentally sustainable property company in every area of our operations, thus not contributing to climate change. Responsibility for the environment Read more on page 30. and climate In order to achieve our targets, we need the right skills – something for which there is fierce competition. Proactive skills sourcing is therefore a central strategy for Special­ fastig­heter. Our commercial and organisational ability is based on strategic choices and activities. We are a geographically diverse organisation, which means we need Proactive independent and committed employees who can provide every customer with the skills service they demand. Read more on page 32. sourcing SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T S T R AT E G I E S 23 Creating customer value Everything we do takes place in close consultation with our customers. Together we create functional, cost-effective premises that meet their needs and requirements. In the end, it is a matter of being able to offer the right property or premises for the right operation. Special­fastig­heter has a clear assignment – to supply premperformance quality, volume control and clear follow-up proises in a commercial and cost-effective way to operations with cedures. Read more about these aspects on pages 38–39. security requirements. For this reason, we focus purely on our property portfolio and have created an increasingly clear Technology for better efficiency and sustainability niche for ourselves linked to our assignment. Being the leader By using proven new technology in our properties, we are able in secure facilities places stringent requirements on our propto enhance the efficiency of our deliveries to customers, follow erties, our collaboration with customers, our monitoring of the up more effectively and justify our decision-making process. operating environment and how we perform. Our experience Digitisation of our property automation processes and informaand expertise are our strengths and they have led to us tion flows improves information security while increasing searchbecoming the best at secure facilities. ability and accessibility. We continued to develop our platforms for communication and property automation during the year, Daily contact with customers with a focus on operational reliability and information security. Each business area has a responsibility for its customers, and thus in every location in which we operate. Close dialogue and We work to provide sustainable property management in strong collaboration at different levels – locally, regionally and ­collaboration with our customers. We have converted our centrally – is crucial in terms of pinpointing the most signifiuse of natural gas to biogas at several of our facilities in order cant areas and thus helps us to prioritise development work. to move away from fossil fuels and reduce our emissions. Regular, structured meetings that are followed up provide Our solar panel facility – used to power the heat pumps at valuable information for both our shortand long-term planthe property in Tygelsjö – has also become operational. ning. Our service technicians and property managers also Read more about our energy initiatives on page 30. have daily contact with ­customers. The stakeholder dialogue is also an important collaborative forum (see page 18). Regular customer s­ urveys To ensure that customers are satisfied with our premises and In order to ensure efficient planning, our work is based on our service, we conduct customer surveys that provide us with long-term management plans produced for each property. tangible proposals for improvement. Read more about our These management plans guarantee long-term maintenance, latest CSI survey on page 38. Strategies Examples of activities undertaken in 2017 Together with our customers, continuously produce updated Several investigations for the Swedish National Board of Institutional plans for premises’ requirements, both now and for the future. Care (SiS) concerning extra places for the treatment of young people and addiction. Investigative projects for the Swedish Prison and Probation Service, many of which are included in its infrastructure plan. Divestment of Malmö’s central prison to municipal company MKB in Malmö, which will convert the property into housing. Develop sustainable internal and external environments Redevelopments, extensions and new build projects for SiS at Folåsa, and acquire, redevelop and build to the value of at least Johannisberg, Ljungbacken, Ljungaskog, Björkbacken and KlarälvsSEK 1 ­billion per year. gården. Negotiation with Region Jönköping County about acquisitions of two SiS properties for the treatment of addiction in Värnamo (lease signed in 2018). Extensive redevelopment and renovation, remodelling and extension at the Hällby correctional facility. A number of land parcels adjacent to various properties were acquired to enable future expansion. Ensure delivery that is so efficient, secure and sustainable that Security-enhancing measures at nine penal institutions for the customers can focus entirely on their core operations. ­Swedish Prison and Probation Service. Renovation and redevelopment of Kronoberg remand centre in Stockholm. All leases are to have a green appendix and an action plan drawn Green appendices for 87.9% of our leases, of which 98% have joint up with the customer that contribute to the joint achievement of action plans. our environmental targets. Enhance the efficiency of our property management by f­ ollowing Digitisation of our processes and information flows to ensure digital trends and embracing new and tested t­ echnology. enhanced information security. Development of our platforms for communication and property automation, with a focus on operational reliability and information security. Attract new customers by way of active market analysis and The Swedish Transport Administration is highly likely to become a new attractive offerings. customer of ours in 2018 as we are planning to acquire eight properties with traffic centres. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 24 S T R AT E G I E S Best at security Being best at security means we want to be the property owner best able to meet both its own and its customers’ high expectations relating to security, expertise and support in an innovative and responsible manner. We have our own niche within public sector properties – secure facilities – as well as four security areas that have been our principal focus. Both our operations and those of our customers require Special­fastig­heter’s core values and security issues are us to maintain high standards of proficiency, confidentiality always our highest priority. For this reason, we established and commercial prowess. In many cases, national security the term “secure facilities”. By this, we mean properties may be involved. Our work relating to security is described that are adapted for operations that require security in clearly in our business plan and our joint business managesome form. ment system. We work closely with our customers and are highly sensitive to their needs, but we always respect their In order to accomplish our task and achieve our vision – the integrity during any collaboration. most secure and attractive property company promoting a safer, more secure society – we have mainly concentrated Our principal and our customers should feel secure with on four different areas of security, namely: personal secuus at every stage – from planning and construction to manrity; physical security; operational reliability; and informaagement and development. Security is therefore one of tion security. Focus on four security areas Personal security 1 The area of personal security comprises the safety and security of our employees, partners and customers. Our incident reporting system provides us with extensive knowledge of risks and allows us to proactively take preventive measures. Some of our employees work in environments where an increased understanding of their own behaviour can reduce their exposure to risk and lead to increased safety and security. In order to prevent, manage and deal with threats, violence and other risks in the work environment, we must adopt a shared view and have a well thought-out approach to these issues. We therefore continued to train our staff in how to handle threats and violence in the work environment throughout 2017. Operational reliability 2 Many of our properties fulfil important societal functions and therefore require a high level of operational reliability around the clock, which is why improvements are constantly being made to our property management organisation – in order to lead to greater efficiency and security. Rapid technological developments within the area of property automation demand robust operating systems, good planning and conscientious employees, which we supply through our own staff who are not only well acquainted with the properties and the technical installations, but also customers’ needs. We introduced a new management model during the year with a clearer focus on the property automation management and technical networks of the properties over their entire life cycle, with clear roles and division of responsibility. We also introduced a new structure for planning and monitoring planned maintenance in order to ensure the right maintenance is carried out at the right time and the right location. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T S T R AT E G I E S 25 Our most important tools to make us the best at security Knowledgeable, security-vetted staff ronment incidents were reported in our incident reporting system, The skills, awareness, interest and commitment of our employees equal to the 16 reported in 2016 and down from 22 the year before are all factors for success that ensure we succeed in our security that. No work-related fatalities occurred during these years. efforts. Continuous skills development in the area of security is therefore a natural part of all employees’ work. Security also forms Ethics and anti-corruption a central part of our recruitment process. We have a tried-andSpecial­fastig­heter’s work is founded on our core values. For us, tested concept using a special security assessment that covers all an upright, ethical approach to all business relationships is a given employees and reduces the risk of incorrect recruitment. – we are to be a strong, reliable, business partner. We have an internal sustainability policy and a Code of Conduct that describe Continuous risk analyses the company’s requirements regarding our employees and which By systematically identifying, evaluating and managing operaform the basis of how each of us should behave in relation to ethitional risks, we gain an understanding of how we can effectively cal matters. To ensure that information and knowledge concernkeep them under control. The most significant risks to operations ing business ethics is accessible throughout the organisation, we are followed up at least twice a year during management reviews carry out annual workshops concerning ethical matters involving and once a year by the Board. The international risk management all employees. standard ISO 31000:2009 guides our efforts in this area. Read more about our risk management on pages 45–49. Special­fastig­heter never accepts bribes or any other form of corruption, and we have had a whistle-blower system in place since Incident reporting autumn 2013 that enables people to draw attention anonymously Through continually following up on reported incidents, we create to irregularities or unsatisfactory conditions at our organisation. the right conditions for early follow-up of near-accidents, injuries Two suspected cases were reported in 2015; these were investiand circumstances that may have a negative impact on assets gated but no irregularity was able to be proven. No suspected requiring protection, such as individuals, tangible and intangible cases of bribery or corruption were reported during 2016 or 2017. resources, the environment, our credibility or our finances. Adjustments were made on an ongoing basis during the year with the aim Continuity planning of creating better conditions for us to report and manage incidents. Continuity planning is based on prioritised operations, that is, the most important core processes and support processes as deterHigh-risk conditions, near-accidents and injuries suffered by mined by company management. These are the processes that employees, consultants and contractors are reported within regismust be prioritised when returning to normal or other decided tered work environment incidents. During the year, 16 work envilevel of operation in the event of breakdowns or catastrophe. Physical security 3 Physical security is important in terms of our ability to establish a high level of security to protect both our own operations and those of our customers. Physical security mainly consists of technical and mechanical security solutions, such as physical access protection, electronic access systems, automatic fire alarm and burglar alarm installations, reinforced doors, windows, roofs and wall structures. During the year, Special­fastig­heter made internal efforts concerning systematic fire prevention, and in late February a special, targeted training course for our local security coordinators was held. We also conducted fundamental fire safety training at many of our local offices. Information security 4 Protecting both our own and our customers’ information assets is a high-priority issue for us. We must be able to trust that all information – both our own and that which we manage on behalf of our customers – is always accessible, correct, traceable and protected against unauthorised access. Our customers, we ourselves and our operating environment all undergo changes, meaning we invest a lot of time in adjusting our security protection agreements and accompanying security instructions. We must ensure our customers feel secure that we are honouring our commitments specified in these agreements. In early May, DNV GL carried out a periodic audit of our information security management system (LIS), and the results were positive. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 26 CASE Lund’s new district court will become part of the new silhouette that greets travellers on their way to and from Lund. Image: FOJAB arkitekter LUND’S NEW DISTRICT COURT How to combine security and ­aesthetics A court is an official institution that should be perceived as open and inviting, while being safe and secure. There are strict requirements attached to Special­fastig­heter’s completion of the new district court in Lund. Special­fastig­heter is building a new district court right in How do you combine security with a welcoming feel? the centre of Lund, neighbour to the city hall and central “In the case of Lund district court, we have chosen to work station, and thus in a prominent position in the city. with warm materials such as ash on the walls, a lot of light Together with the other developments and expansion of the and a reflecting pool in front of the window. On the outside city west of the railway, the building will become part of the there is a copper facade and limestone plinths – simple and new silhouette that greets travellers on their way to and sustainable natural materials that are durable, age beautifrom Lund when completed in spring 2018. fully and give the building an air of dignity and authority. In addition, what we refer to as the public areas are speWhat is the best way to tackle cially designed to take accessibility requirements into conthe seemingly contradictory sideration.” requirements of ensuring openness and access to light along Were there any special circumstances in Lund? with secrecy and external pro“The site is relatively small and tightly packed between the tection when building a secure new city hall, railway, a park and a cycle path. Thanks to facility? We put this question our positive collaboration with Lund Municipality, we were to Göran Cumlin, Projects and given permission to build a temporary road through the Göran Cumlin, Special­fastig­heter Development Director at park. The limited space has, however, placed major Special­fastig­heter. demands on our planning of material transportation and other major deliveries to the site.” What differentiates a district court from other buildings? This major construction project is a collaboration “There need to be different zones within a district court between many different stakeholders – how has building – for the public, prisoners, judges and lawyers, the it worked? staff of the district court and so forth. The building must be “We have planned and built the building in collaboration constructed in a way that ensures these different groups with NCC by way of a collaborative contract. Our collaboraonly meet in the courtroom. A district court is also filled tion with NCC, the customer (the Swedish National Courts with hidden technology. Each room is designed like a mini Administration) and the user (Lund district court) has film studio, with a lot of effort being put into getting the been excellent. I am convinced that this will be Sweden’s right lighting and acoustics. This places particular most attractive and modern district court!” demands on the design of every aspect, from walls, doors and windows to locks, alarms and lifts.” SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T S T R AT E G I E S 27 Long-term profitability Long-term profitability is a crucial aspect of fulfilling the task set by our owner and of satisfying our customers’ high expectations throughout the entire lease period. We must therefore manage our properties sustainably and with total efficiency from an ownership perspective. Focus on reducing the state’s total costs and introduce IT support in 2018 for operational manageThe owner’s intention is for us to work with our customers ment, the aim of which is to offer operations better system to minimise the state’s total costs. We can achieve this by support for planning, follow-up, analysis and reporting. providing secure, adapted premises in a commercial and cost-effective manner, thus contributing to our customers’ IT development that creates opportunities operations. We work strategically to ensure we have reliable IT support in place that is well adapted to operations and offers a high Our target equity/assets ratio determines how we finance level of availability. Efficient and secure IT is a basic condiour assets and is thus an important control instrument in tion of efficiency at our properties and gives us the opporterms of our level of risk. To achieve clarity in our benchtunity to improve and develop our operations so we can marking while also enabling the necessary flexibility in meet our customers’ needs. This issue is becoming terms of our financing, our owner’s target equity/assets increasingly important as digital developments gather ratio is expressed as a range, which is 25–35%. The result pace, and we are working proactively to identify the for 2017 was 33.8%. Another target used to ensure longopportunities digitisation presents us as a company. term profitability is adjusted return on equity of 8%. The result for 2017 was 13.2%, which shows that we are efficient A cost-effective and sustainable supply chain in terms of our business and that we have a strong and Long-term profitability cannot be achieved without an effective financial management system. efficient purchasing process. It should be characterised by professional conduct and promote a cost-effective, Improved governance and monitoring secure and sustainable supply chain. Procurements and Monitoring operations based on established targets is an agreements at Special­fastig­heter are handled centrally important way of checking whether the company is headby our purchasing unit, while call-offs are handled locally ing in the right direction to achieve long-term profitability. in the organisation for properties or projects. Together In 2016, we looked at how we can improve governance and with our suppliers, we develop requirements and drive monitoring of our operations, which led to us implementing forward energy projects concerning sustainability issues these efforts in 2017 based on the conclusions drawn and in line with our Supplier Code of Conduct. Read more on the decisions taken. To facilitate operations, we will procure the next page. Tre Vapen (Armed Forces’ headquarters), Stockholm SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 28 S T R AT E G I E S Long-term partnerships that focus on security Our suppliers must share our values Active risk management Trusting supplier partnerships are vital in terms of our abilThe number of sub-suppliers varies for different contracts ity to give our customers appealing and sustainable offerand changes over time, which also applies to the risks in ings. It is important that our suppliers share our values, and the supply chain. Annual purchasing, mainly construction is a precondition for long-term collaboration. Signing our contracts, specialist expertise and energy, amounts to SEK Code of Conduct is mandatory when new central con1–1.5 billion. We currently engage about 1,200 suppliers, tracts are entered into, in addition to general and prodmost of which are domiciled in Sweden. uct-specific requirements primarily relating to finances, the environment and security, except for contracts involving Special­fastig­heter conducts continuous risk analyses both low values and low risk. within a range of areas. A risk analysis of the supply chain was conducted in 2016, while another in 2017 focused on When suppliers sign our Code of Conduct, they accept the human rights. These analyses have identified a number of Code’s guidelines and requirements relating to working risks – particularly in the supply chain – linked to the enviconditions, human rights, the work environment, environronment, human rights, the work environment, working ment and corruption. Some 80% of suppliers under central conditions and corruption. Risks are also identified continframework agreements in 2017 signed the Code of Conuously through monitoring of the operating environment duct, meaning that 74% of our total purchases are now and monitoring linked to suppliers in the form of self-asencompassed by a thorough control and follow-up prosessments and on-site audits. The risks we have identified cess involving the Code of Conduct and self-assessments. in the supply chain are summarised in the table to the left, along with their impact. Clear roles and responsibilities lead Part of supply chain to good g ­ overnance Supply chain risks Services Contracts Products To capitalise on value in the supply chain and apply a wellplanned and structured work approach, we have a purRISK chasing organisation in place that has clearly defined roles Environment and responsibilities for working proactively together with • use of environmentally ­hazardous materials and purchasers in the organisation. The central purchasing unit chemicals is responsible for defining strategy, procurement and sign• CO2 emissions ing contracts. By categorising our purchases based on • energy use ­various market conditions, we can specify our needs and • waste requirements for products and suppliers and develop indiHuman rights vidual strategies for each contract area. Central framework • discrimination and agreements account for 95% of our total purchasing. Sup­harassment port systems for all parts of the purchasing process from • forced labour in production procurement and quotation requests to call-offs and plants invoicing ensures efficient handling as well as excellent Working conditions governance and monitoring. • unfair wages • unjust and unfavourable Requirements and checks reduce risks working conditions Special­fastig­heter has a documented process for setting • difficulty organising unions requirements, controls and monitoring our suppliers and Work environment contracts. To minimise sustainability risks, we establish • risk of falling sustainability-related requirements in our supplier agree• risk of collapse ments and Special­fastig­heter’s Code of Conduct serves as • risk of demolition contractual conditions. Supplier agreements may include • risks linked to detonation • risks linked to hazardous requirements for systematic environmental and work envi­substances ronment-related efforts, registration of materials in the • heavy lifting SundaHus database, reporting waste statistics and results • deficient work environment of safety inspections. when manufacturing building materials We conduct regular delivery assessments on call-offs from Corruption framework agreements based on the criteria of quality, • giving and receiving bribes delivery performance and communication. For major and medium-sized construction contracts and consultant Services (specialist expertise, IT, technical consultants, administrative assignments, we use an assessment template that includes ­consultants) security, organisation, sustainability, customer benefit and Contracts (construction, renovation, land management, building ­materials) information security. Products (energy, office materials, maintenance materials) Our audits are an important part of minimising sustainabilMinor impact Moderate impact Major impact ity risks and improving contracts and delivery performance. Both off-site audits of suppliers’ self-assessments SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T S T R AT E G I E S 29 and on-site audits are carried out in order to assess our Quick facts on control and monitoring supply chain against the sustainability requirements we 2015 2016 2017 place on our suppliers. Number of Code of Conduct on-site audits executed 41 41 4 The results of these audits revealed differences in levels of Percentage of new agreements awareness and systematic methods in different industries, where suppliers have accepted our Code of Conduct 2 63% 78% 80% and variations depending on the size of the supplier. We Percentage of new suppliers that have also noted that there are shortcomings in terms of carried out self-assessments2, 3 57% 78% 80% systematic efforts relating to the organisational and social 1) Number of audits solely concerning environmental standards. work environment, as well as proactive anti-discrimination 2) We report the percentage of new contracts from 2016 rather than the efforts in line with the Swedish Discrimination Act. Several ­percentage of new suppliers since it provides a more complete picture of the audited suppliers lack systems for setting requireof our auditing of the supply chain. 3) T  he percentage should be related to the fact that about 80% of suppliers ments and monitoring their own suppliers. This is an with new contracts are subject to full controls. Other agreements are of such important area for us to work on given the large amount negligible value and risk that checks are unwarranted. of significant risks lower down in the supply chain. Significant activities in 2017 We comply with our agreements • Risk analysis for human rights carried out Contract compliance is one of Special­fastig­heter’s overall ­targets and is a measure of how well our requirements • Four on-site audits carried out based on the Code of ­concerning efficiency, security and quality are reflected in Conduct our p­ urchases. It is also a matter of credibility regarding our • Launch of supplier portal for monitoring and development ­contractual suppliers. Central framework agreement Contract compliance is measured both as a percentage of the The term central agreements refers to framework agreetotal number of transactions and as a percentage of the total call-offs from central framework agreements. Measurements ments and supplier agreements in support of the organiare taken every quarter and the results are reported as an sation’s general purchasing requirements and which fully annual average. comply with our process for inspection and monitoring. Because the nature of a small number of the central frameThe target for 2017 was an annual average of at least 90%. work agreements is such that their value and risk is low, Contract compliance in 2017 was 91% calculated in trans­ they are not covered by requirements regarding our Code actions (30,000 annually) and 94% calculated by value. of Conduct and self-assessment. Locally signed one-off, low-value and low-risk agreements are not subject to the full inspection and follow-up process. Control, monitoring and development of suppliers Financial control Contract-specific Monitoring Approved and Code of Conduct requirements registered Supplier Control of comFollow-up in supplier ­development pany/ownership Self-assessments Environment, index Audits structure safety, etc. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 30 S T R AT E G I E S  esponsibility for the R ­environment and climate The property sector has a major impact on the earth’s resources in terms of energy, emissions and the consumption of materials. Our operations and properties affect the environment throughout their lifecycle, from planning and construction to management, redevelopment and demolition. We adopt a long-term approach and endeavour to be an environmentally sustainable property company in every area of our operations. UN sustainable development goals form the basis We succeeded in reducing our CO2 emissions by 15.6% in Our energy and environmental protection work is based 2017, through measures including replacing natural gas on the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals, Global Comwith biogas in the properties that use gas. When we pact, Fossil Free Sweden and national targets concerning replaced natural gas with biogas at Tygelsjö prison, our the quality of the environment. To structure our efforts and customer was also inspired to change to biogas for heating understand how we can most efficiently contribute to the the greenhouse at the property, which led to us to now different goals and initiatives, we assembled them during having an entirely CO2-neutral property. Another reason the year into a joint model. Many of the UN’s sustainable behind the reduced emissions is that Special­fastig­heter development goals have a link to our operations, but we signed agreements for green district heating at several have chosen to focus on five in particular: properties with a major district heating supplier. All elec• Affordable and clean energy tricity we purchased in 2017 was produced by wind power. • Responsible consumption and production • Climate action Numerous energy-saving measures • Life on land Energy use at our properties is one of the areas in which we • Partnerships for the goals have the greatest environmental impact. To reduce the consumption of electricity, heating and water, our employUsing these goals as a basis, we have drawn up strategic ees ensure that the technical installations are working in energy and environmental goals for both the short and the most efficient way and continuously work to optimise long term. To quality-assure our working methods, we are the operation of our technical systems. We installed solar entering the final stage of environmental certification of panels over an area of 150 square metres at the Tygelsjö our operations in line with ISO 14001:2015. property in 2017. Another successful energy-saving lighting project is Kronoberg’s garage, where we have used Reduced CO2 emissions by 15.6% in 2017 LED lighting combined with adjustments to the lights’ As a state-owned company, there is an expectation that intensity, installations of sensors and sectioned lighting. we set an example in terms of sustainability. We previously At Kronoberg swimming pool, which is connected to the set a target of reducing our CO2 emissions by 40% by 2030 Swedish Police’s Headquarters on Kungsholmen in Stockcompared with the base year 2012, but as we achieved that holm, we have been recycling the heat from heated waste target early in 2017, we have formulated a tougher target of water and allowing it to heat the water for both the pool reducing emissions by 75%. In the 2012–2017 period, we and other parts of the building for a year now. Thanks to reduced our CO2 emissions by 47%. this installation, we have been able to leverage the heat Total energy use in buildings Emission intensity kWh per sq m Atemp kg CO2 eq per sq m Atemp 250 7 6.1 5.6 201.5 204.0 199.4 6 200 4.7 5 150 4 100 3 2 50 1 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Key figures for electricity, heating and cooling during the We reduced the emission intensity of CO2 eq by reporting period are corrected for 2017’s property holdings. 16.1% year-on-year. Total energy use fell 2.3% year-on-year. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T S T R AT E G I E S 31 Target for 2030, environment and energy Affordable and • Our buildings must be certifiable in an environmental classification system. clean energy • There is to be a digital list of contents with information about the materials and substances found on the land and in the buildings for every property. • All materials and substances in our buildings and used in property management are to Responsible have a low environmental impact and be free from substances hazardous to health and consumption the environment. and production • Construction products are to consist as far as possible of recycled raw materials/materials so that waste to landfill is minimised. Climate action • Ideally, waste arising from our operations is to be reused or recycled. • Green leases must be incorporated into our existing leases to enable us to reduce our environmental impact together with our customers. Life on land • We must ensure efficient energy use by exploiting new technology and optimising existing systems in our properties. • Energy consumed is to be produced from renewable energy sources. Special­fastig­heter’s vehicle fleet is to be fossil-free. Partnerships • Biodiversity and ecological compensation (within Sweden) must be managed for the for the goals land occupied by our properties. from hot shower water that runs out into the drains. that are hazardous to health or the environment. It also Another partnership project under way in conjunction with makes it easy to retrieve information about where a matethe Swedish Prison and Probation Service is the installation rial is located in our buildings should this come into quesof charging points. The installations are already complete tion in the future. As our customers occasionally have speat the Hall property and more charging stations are being cial functional requirements, we need to deviate from the planned for a number of other facilities across the country. A and B classes in certain cases. The actual energy use in terms of electricity for properties, operations, heating, cooling and hot water amounted to Special­fastig­heter’s target is for the amount of Aand 199.4 kWh per sq m in 2017. The target for 2017 was 195.6 B-classified materials within production to amount to at kWh per sq m. The main reason this target was not least 80%. This is measured annually based on the registraachieved was our inability to implement energy-saving tions in the database. In 2017, the number of Aand B-clasmeasures to the required extent. sified materials amounted to 81.5%, meaning we achieved our target. An important success factor has been the colTravel at Special­fastig­heter laboration with our suppliers. We place demands on supWe reduced our CO2 emissions from business travel by 6% pliers during our procurement process in terms of choice during the year. This reduction was mainly based on the of materials and registration in SundaHus. Follow-ups and fact that many of our service vehicles are now run on bioaudits of the materials chosen and registered are undergas instead of diesel. Our air travel has increased, as has taken regularly. We will continue along this path in 2018 by the use of our own cars in service, which is likely due to the training our organisation and suppliers in the structure and fact that we have more projects in progress in 2017 than application of the material database, working to ensure previous years. more materials are registered as part of project and management and more proposals for new materials are subFocus on sustainable materials mitted to SundaHus for review and assessment. The construction and property sectors account for a large proportion of the public sector’s use of materials in terms Extraction of raw materials as well as the production and of both new builds and redevelopment. By actively choosuse of materials can lead to both environmental and social ing materials, Special­fastig­heter is able to reduce its negarisks during the lifecycle of the material. To manage these tive environmental impact as well as the health risks linked risks, we place systematic demands on and monitor our to certain materials. suppliers by way of our Code of Conduct – read more on page 28. We apply the precautionary principle in terms of We adopt systematic working methods when choosing use of materials and undertake systematic preventive work and using materials and we try, wherever possible, to environment efforts. In 2017, we conducted a specific risk phase out materials that could have a negative impact on analysis for direct and indirect human rights breaches health and the environment. All materials used to conwithin our operations. The analysis identified the risk of struct Special­fastig­heter’s buildings within the area of indirect breaches of human rights in the supply chain, project and development are to be documented in Sundawhere the extraction of raw materials and production of Hus’s environmental database, assessed according to their materials takes place. Special­fastig­heter’s Head of Purcriteria and should fulfil the highest classes, A or B. The chasing is responsible for managing risks in the supply database shows whether a material contains substances chain. Read more about this on pages 45–49. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 32 S T R AT E G I E S Proactive skills sourcing In order to achieve our vision and succeed in our business, we need the right skills – something for which there is often fierce competition. A vital condition of whether we succeed in retaining and attracting skills is how we manage skills development, diversity, equality and health – everything that builds our employer brand. We are a geographically diverse organisation, which means we need independent and committed employees who can provide every customer with the service they demand. This geography also places great demands on our communicative ability. The right skills for the future One prerequisite of being The right skills today may not necessarily be the right skills an attractive employer is Number of employees in the future. Customers’ requirements and wishes change ensuring our employees are with foreign 10% constantly, so it is extremely important for Special­fastig­ happy and spread a positive backgrounds heter to be a flexible organisation that is open to change. image of us. They become For this reason, we undertake proactive skills sourcing and our company ambassadors have implemented succession planning and skills inventoand can convey our good ries for different roles. reputation to potential (9% 2016) employees. We have It is extremely important to develop skills as part of our recruited several new talproperty management, but we also need specialist experents that were needed at tise in strategic areas such as security, project managethe company, for example a sustainability strategist and a ment, maintenance, fire, electricity, the environment and manager for our project group. We will also employ an energy. In 2017, all employees within property manageoperational strategist in 2018, as well as a brand engineer ment developed their skills linked to our new property sysand electrical engineer. tem and through a customer service training course. To enhance efficiency both internally and in relation to our Our sustainability efforts are key to attracting new employcustomers, we have consistently adapted our organisation ees and, as a state-owned company, we should set an where necessary. This flexibility has led to new skills example, not least in terms of societal issues. During the requirements and means leadership needs to be develyear, we have taken part in four different jobs fairs at unioped. We arrange management days to enhance our manversities and colleges as well as taken on six (four) interns. agers’ skills. The management completed a team development course and we also ran a special programme for Equal treatment is everyone’s responsibility newly recruited managers. Staff turnover fell in 2017 from Diversity and equal opportunities are central issues for us 9.3% to 5.1%, which we consider to be a positive trend. and our owner, and everyone in the company must share responsibility for them each and every day. We at Special­ Happy employees create an attractive workplace fastig­heter work proactively on these issues for all forms of Special­fastig­heter works strategically with employer skills sourcing, regardless of whether it is a permanent branding in order to become an even more attractive position or an internship with us. We have chosen to employer. By becoming better known, we increase our change the name of our efforts linked to the various forms ability to recruit employees with the right skills. We always of discrimination to “equal treatment.” use our Employer Value Proposition (EVP) as a basis, which describes our offering to new and existing employees. When recruiting, we always concentrate on making good use of the skills and experience found in every corner of society. By promoting equal treatment at the company, we Employee facts can more easily find the skills we look for as the talent pool We have 144 (131) employees distributed across six local offices (Linköping, Stockholm, Sundsvall, Örebro, Gothenis considerably broadened. In 2017, we worked together burg and Lund). Our geographical distribution is, howwith several property companies on a diversity project ever, greater than just these areas. We are present in close whereby we took on workplace induction students from to 70 municipalities as our service technicians work at our the Rinkeby school. We also took on summer interns with properties on a daily basis. a foreign background. It benefits us as a company to work proactively on these issues as it leads to greater competiThe number of female managers fell slightly during the year, amounting to 37% (38). On the Board, 45% (45) were tiveness, profitability and attractiveness. women, while in management that figure was 63% (63). The total percentage of women at the company was 29 Since 2015, we have been measuring the percentage of (30) at year end. Staff turnover amounted to 5.1% (9.3) and employees with a foreign background. At the end of the has thus fallen notably compared to previous years, which year, they were 9.9% (9.2) of staff. Employees with a foreign we consider to be a positive change in the trend. background are those born abroad or those whose parSPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T S T R AT E G I E S 33 A world of opportunities Special­fastig­heter is characterised by a commercial, forward-thinking corporate culture based on security, proximity, long-term-planning and collaboration. With a constant focus on customers’ operations and needs, we own and manage unique properties with cutting-edge security. We have a committed corporate culture that recognises both you and your potential, and our work offers variation and challenges. We value your skills and provide excellent opportunities to develop both professionally and as a person. Because we have faith in your abilities, you will work largely under your own supervision, but we also create the conditions for the team spirit prevalent among our employees and which forms an essential basis for the successful collaboration that keeps us moving forward. At Special­fastig­heter, you are part of one of Sweden’s leading property companies and you will have every opportunity to make a difference. Special­fastig­heter’s EVP ents were both born abroad. Our proactive, conscious means that we take a holistic and sustainable approach, efforts have advanced our work to promote equal opporwhich includes wellness, leadership, employee camaradetunities and the proportion of women in the company at rie and skills development. We work preventively to prothe end of the year was 29% (30). We also worked to mote good health, and sick leave at the company has increase the awareness and skills of all managers and remained low for a long time. Read more about this on employees on the issue of diversity during the year. The pages 55–56. At the start of the year, an organisational analmajority of employees and managers have participated in ysis was carried out that showed both strengths and potenthe “Växthuset” workshop to assess Special­fastig­heter tial for development. The culture within the company is still with regard to discrimination. We have conducted a salary perceived to be “social, welcoming and pleasant”, but we survey and revised our equal treatment plan. can also see challenges in relation to how we communicate within the organisation, for example. We continued to work Social commitment through voluntary work on these issues during the year. We offer our new employSocial sustainability is important in terms of our ability to ees comprehensive introductory training that includes both remain an attractive employer. All employees have had the an introduction to their own workplace but also a central opportunity to undertake eight hours of voluntary work part together with other new employees at the organisaduring working hours in 2017. Voluntary work aims to help tion. We trained employees in dealing with threats and viopeople in socially vulnerable situations by way of support lence in working life, and managers and health and safety for individuals or organisations that work within that area. officers took part in a work environment training course. We want voluntary work to foster a sense of social commitDuring the management days, we worked on sustainable ment, personal development and well-being among our leadership and employee camaraderie based on the employees, but also to emphasise our values. organisational analysis, how we manage stress and how we can work with SOC (Sense of Coherence). We also develHealth-promoting initiatives for healthy employees oped our guidelines for systematic work environment initiaWe carry out systematic initiatives relating to the work envitives and updated our company-wide checklist for work ronment that permeate our day-to-day operations. The environment inspections during the year. work environment is a significant sustainability area for us as the construction and property sector is affected from an All employees are covered by healthcare insurance, and accident and health perspective. We deem the greatest we offer a wellness contribution and discounted prices risks to be linked to our supply chain. Read more about this at various gyms. During the year, we also carried out a aspect on page 28. At the same time, a prerequisite for fulhighly valued “health bingo” competition to increase filling our task and achieving our targets is that our employemployees’ physical and social activities. ees are in good health. For us, promoting health at work SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 34 D E S C R I P T I O N O F O P E R AT I O N S Description of operations A long-term approach for a safer Sweden – this is the goal of Special­fastig­heter’s work together with our customers and suppliers. The basis of our operations is to ensure that we have the right premises for the right operations by continuously monitoring, developing and matching customer needs with our property portfolio. Every single Special­ fastig­heter customer should feel confident in our management services so that they can focus fully on their core operations. We conduct our own project and development activities to develop and customise our properties and thus ensure our access to ­specialist expertise, primarily in the field of security. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T D E S C R I P T I O N O F O P E R AT I O N S 35 The right premises for the right operations Special­fastig­heter’s customers demand security. Many customers lease properties that could be described as being of a national security interest. Continuously reviewing the portfolio and ensuring that our premises are tailored to each customer’s operations is essential for maintaining customer confidence and thus ensuring our success. Special­fastig­heter has over 20 years of experience in secure ises for the right operations.” The fact box on page 37 profacilities. We have a clear ambition of being Sweden’s leadvides examples of our modifications for customers in our ing property company in secure facilities, which is reflected property holdings over the past year. in the extensive investments and initiatives we have implemented in four different security areas (see pages 24–25). Focus on properties with security requirements For example, we are one of very few Swedish companies to The hallmarks of our property operations are high quality, be certified in the area of information security. long contract periods and creditworthy customers. Special­fastig­heter commands a strong position in the marSpecialists in customer-specific solutions ket and our aim is to further increase our property holdings Understanding and having an insight into customers’ in close collaboration with existing and new customers. operations and security needs is the key to our success. The focus of our development is to exclusively target propOur long-term customer relationships facilitate unique erties with customers who have security requirements – dialogue and collaboration. Specialist expertise and secure facilities. Special­fastig­heter has the following five extensive experience provide a solid foundation, but it is development strategies for its property portfolio: our ability to translate this know-how into tangible solu• Property upgrades – create sustainable, modern and tions specially adapted to each customer that truly makes secure buildings that provide a favourable environment a difference. Our starting point is always “the right premfor employees and for customers’ operations. • Phase-out – older, low standard buildings and buildings that are poorly suited for operations. Properties and offices nationwide Special­fastig­heter manages property holdings encom• Acquisitions with existing customers – expand our holdpassing around 100 secure facilities with a market value of ings with existing customers or with customers that have about SEK 25 billion. Our properties are located across operations with security requirements and who currently Sweden. The average remaining contract duration in the lease premises from other property owners. rental portfolio is 12.6 years (13.2). The company’s largest • Acquisitions with new customers – increase our holdings customers are the Swedish Prison and Probation Service, the Swedish Police, the Swedish National Board of Instituwith new customers who need premises with built-in tional Care, the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish security. Defence Materiel Administration. The vacancy rate was • Refinement – disposal of properties that are not in line very low at 1.0% (1.4) on 31 December 2017. with our owner assignment. SiS LVM home (for substance abusers) in Hornö, Enköping SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 36 D E S C R I P T I O N O F O P E R AT I O N S In certain cases, we may pursue the following to meet eight properties with traffic centres. The Transport Admin­customer needs and to learn more about operations with istration has made the assessment that Special­fastig­heter a slightly lower security focus: is able to run the properties more efficiently and securely in • Develop with customers – acquire properties for those terms of operation, maintenance and redevelopment. parts of customers’ operations that have lower security requirements. Disposals The old correctional facility of Malmö central prison was New investments sold during the year to Malmö’s municipal housing comModifications for customers entail complex property pany MKB, which intends to develop the property into sev­conversion and development projects in the form of new eral hundred new housing units. More housing is needed builds, extensions and redevelopments. Special­fastig­ in Sweden, and the property can now become an attracheter’s investments in projects totalled SEK 728 million tive residential area. (702) at year end. Read more about ongoing and planned investments on pages 40–41. During the year, the previous Smälteryd correctional facility in Sätila was sold to Mark Municipality. Work to build a new district court for the Swedish National Courts Administration in central Lund progressed during As the operations – a fire and rescue training college – at the year, and the building is estimated to be completed in our property just outside Skövde were closed down and mid-2018. there was no need for any other security operations, we sold the property to S ­ kövde Municipality. Special­fastig­heter and the Swedish National Board of The municipality can Institutional Care (SiS) signed new 25-year leases during now develop the pro­p­erty the year for the correctional facilities of Folåsa, Hässlefor other purposes. Market value, holm, Johannisberg and Ljungbacken to create new investment properties 25 accommodation. This entails a project volume of around Market value of SEK SEK 760 million. ­properties The market value of Acquisitions Special­fastig­heter’s investSpecial­fastig­heter actively monitors the market and evalument properties has increased significantly in billion ates relevant acquisition opportunities to meet higher demand for properties that meet security requirements. recent years and amounted We have purchased a number of land parcels adjacent to to SEK 25,002 million our properties for potential future expansion. We also nego(22,999) at year end. The estimated values were detertiated with Region Jönköping County during the year to mined by means of an internal valuation based on actual acquire two properties in Värnamo, with leases being signed lease income and operating expenses data. Information for occupation beginning in 2018. These properties include concerning cost of capital, required yield and current marbuildings at which SiS runs addiction treatment centres. ket rents is cross-checked with external appraisers. The ­un­­realised changes in value recognised for the period In 2017, occupancy began in the Färöarna 6 property in amounted to SEK 832 million (865). To assure the quality Kista that we acquired in 2016. of the internal evaluation, it was cross-checked against an external evaluation of 48 (49) objects, equivalent to 87% Proposal for the Swedish Transport Administration (82) of the total value at 31 December 2017. The difference to sell its traffic centres to Special­fastig­heter between the external and internal evaluations amounts to The Swedish Transport Administration is likely to become a less than 3% (3). Special­fastig­heter applies a value below new customer of ours in 2018 as we are planning to acquire that obtained from the external valuations. Investments Market value of investment Total including property acquisitions properties by business area rental income SEK million SEK million SEK per sq m 1,500 15,000 2,000 1,398 1,846 Institutionsvård och övriga specialverksamheter 1,288 1,714 1,751 1,200 12,000 Försvar och rättsväsende 1,500 Kriminalvård 900 9,000 1,000 600 6,000 419 500 300 3,000 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Prison and Probation Service Defence and Judicial System National Board of Institutional Care and other special operations SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T D E S C R I P T I O N O F O P E R AT I O N S 37 Renovation and redevelopment of Kronoberg remand centre in Stockholm, including improved cells and exercise yards and modernised security systems, completed in 2017. Examples of projects in 2017 Property and customer Project/Customer modifications District Court in Lund Construction of new district court in central Lund, expected to be complete in spring 2018. Kronoberg remand centre Renovation and redevelopment of Kronoberg remand centre in Stockholm, in Stockholm including improved cells and exercise yards and modernised security systems, ­completed in 2017. Nine penal institutions for the Swedish Security-enhancing measures completed in 2017. Prison and Probation Service The Swedish Prison and Redevelopment of main kitchen at Kristianstad prison, completed 2017. RedevelopProbation ­Service ment and renovation, remodelling and extension of building no. 7 at Hällby prison, completed 2017. Redevelopment and renovation, remodelling and extension of building no. 9 at Hällby prison, expected completion mid-2018. Redevelopment of Kalmar prison, completed 2017. New bridge between Hinseberg and Frövi, completed 2017. SiS juvenile care home and substance In 2017, the Government permitted SiS to sign leases for the juvenile care homes of abuse treatment facilities Johannisberg and Folåsa (residential sections), Ljungbacken (residential sections, sport, school) and Hässleholm (residential sections, school, sport, administrative premises, kitchen). Construction started at Folåsa and Ljungbacken in 2017, while the other two began in early 2018. During the year, we completed projects at the juvenile care homes of Eknäs (redevelopment of administrative premises, car park and carport), Ljungaskog phase 1 (residential sections, sports facilities and kitchen), Stigby (loading bay and car park) and a car park and carport at Sundbo and Lövsta. We began new building at the Gudhem LVM home in 2017 (residential sections, admin, store rooms) and the Fagared juvenile care home (minor extension of premises for “private care”). SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 38 D E S C R I P T I O N O F O P E R AT I O N S Secure and sustainable property management All of our customers share a need for security, and our aim is to help them focus on their core business. Our customers feel safe and secure in their operations because of the management services we provide using our own personnel, our focus on a high level of operational reliability and our efficient technical solutions. Flexible to change Improved dialogue with customers The changeable nature of customers’ operations imposes The daily dialogue linked to our ongoing management promajor demands on our flexibility and receptiveness. One vides valuable planning information. Many of our customers, example of this is that we need to alter our maintenance activisuch as the Swedish Prison and Probation Service, and the ties according to when tenants can grant us access to various Swedish National Board of Institutional Care conduct operaareas. Sustained high utilisation rates in Swedish correctional tions at a large number of locations across ­Sweden. As a facilities, including those run by the Swedish National Board of result, dialogues and collaboration take place at various levels Institutional Care, meant that we were unable to carry out in order to encompass the entire operations. Local tenant maintenance involving the closure of accommodation to any meetings as well as regional and central meetings at which the great extent. overall development of the organisations are discussed are examples of important dialogues. Own operational personnel in all locations We adopt a customer and security perspective and aim to use The customer survey carried out during the winter of our own personnel in our management services as far as pos2016/2017 showed that the CSI had fallen from 70 (at the latest sible. In addition to specialist know-how in the field of security, survey in 2013) to 65. Analysis of the responses indicates that it Special­fastig­heter’s service technicians and managers must is primarily the dialogue surrounding service and maintealso have a high level of technical expertise to efficiently mannance as well as feedback on implemented measures that the age complex and highly digitised properties. Our operational customers feel could be improved. We therefore impleemployees also represent Special­fastig­heter’s daily contact mented a customer service training course during the year with customers. We trained all managers during the year to that focused on dialogue for all property management further enhance expertise in customer-specific areas, primaremployees. We also had joint management conferences with ily customer service and electrical safety. both the Prison and Probation Service, and the Swedish National Board of Institutional Care in order to improve planOur geographical range is a challenge to management serning of future maintenance. vices, as is the small-scale of many of our properties. Skills sourcing is extremely important for maintaining a high-level of Long-term planning service close to properties in all locations. Read more about We prepare annual management plans for each property, Special­fastig­heter’s work on skills sourcing on pages 32–33. based on our contact and partnerships with each customer, to ensure efficient and long-term property management. The Maintenance expenses Operating expenses Media costs SEK per sq m SEK per sq m SEK per sq m 145 300 350 150 265 266 Fastighetsdrift, kr/kvm 132 Vatten 288 300 123 250 300 271 120 El, värme och vatten, kr/kvm Värme 207 250 200 El 200 90 150 150 60 100 100 30 50 50 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Electricity, heating and water Electricity Property operations Heating Water SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T D E S C R I P T I O N O F O P E R AT I O N S 39 plans highlight what is required for us to deliver in line with our Energy use has a significant impact on both operating commitments. Each part of the plan has a long-term strategy, expenses and the environment. Our service technicians and targets and an action plan. The plans are followed up and property management engineers analyse operation optimisarevised during the year to adjust the planning to current custion and the various energy investments in consultation with tomer needs. During the year, we also performed risk analyses each property manager. Energy enhancements and monitorand prepared action plans at property level for the majority of ing the types of energy are a priority area in which Special­ our properties. Our work relating to the action plans will confastig­heter works internally and alongside its customers. tinue in 2018. During the year, the gas installations at our properties in Tygelsjö and Revinge were converted to biogas and we have High operational reliability around the clock shifted to green district heating at the correctional facilities of Many of our properties fulfil important public functions. High Fosie and Kumla. We also installed solar panels at Tygelsjö. operational reliability, in many cases around the clock, is a preCarbon dioxide emissions fell 15.6% year-on-year. Read more condition for customers’ operations to run safely and securely. on page 30. It is essential to have robust operating systems, excellent planning and meticulous employees with in-depth underWork on the green action plans continued in 2017. 98% of the standing of customers’ needs, their properties and their techleases with green appendices now have an action plan that we nical equipment. The geographic range of the properties produced together with customers locally. This action plan entails requirements for continuously developing technologispecifies how we are to work together to reduce the burden cal aids, management systems and governance and surveilon the environment and is a permanent agenda item of local lance systems. Digitisation means that efficiency can be tenant meetings. A follow-up and update of the action plan is enhanced but is an area in which the risk of hacking must carried out at least once a year. always be taken into consideration. Information security is one of Special­fastig­heter’s prioritised security areas (read more on Operating and maintenance expenses pages 24–25). Most operating expenses comprise electricity, heating and water. This means that working together with our customers to New and more efficient property systems enhance efficiency and optimise operations is a key element We worked intensively during the year on the continued impleof retaining a low cost base. Our maintenance expenses differ mentation of our new property system that was procured to from many other property companies in that they often ensure efficient and secure support for planning, implementinclude internal maintenance and other security-enhancing ing and monitoring operations. This system includes new supmeasures. Operating expenses for 2017 amounted to SEK 300 port for media monitoring, case management and scheduled per square metre (271) and maintenance expenses to SEK 266 maintenance. The final modules – maintenance planning and per square metre (265). This increase in operating expenses is case management – became operational in May. Following mainly due to compensation linked to a redevelopment projthis, focus has been placed on producing the new mainteect at Krono­berg and an unbudgeted ground rent at our new nance plans for the coming two years. property in Kista. Sustainable property management Radon assessment c­ onducted Sustainable property management covers a wide variety of Our entire property holdings have now been assessed. aspects, from energy and materials use to handling hazardous We have taken remedial action wherever we have found elesubstances and biodiversity. Properties affect the environvated values, and follow-up measurements continued during ment throughout their life cycle. Special­fastig­heter uses the 2017. All remedial action is expected to be completed no later SundaHus environmental database to check and monitor that than 2018. the materials and substances used in property management are as favourable as possible from a health and environmental perspective. Read more on page 31. Electricity consumption Heating consumption Water consumption kWh per sq m Atemp kWh per sq m Atemp L per sq m Atemp 120 120 700 96.3 97.6 94.6 561.7 585.4 100 100 600 91.4 92.3 91.1 553.2 500 80 80 400 60 60 300 40 40 200 20 20 100 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Electricity use in our properties declined Heating consumption in our properties fell Water consumption fell 5.5% during the 3.1% year-on-year. We continued to work to 1.3% year-on-year. We converted our heatyear. This is largely due to the fact that water replace spent lighting with LED lights during ing system to heat pumps at a couple of consumption has fallen at our largest custhe year, and our optimisation of operations properties during the year, while optimising tomers, the Prison and Probation Service has yielded results. the operating lifespans of our technical and SiS. installations. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 40 D E S C R I P T I O N O F O P E R AT I O N S We are specialists in building secure facilities Many of our customers need to expand their operations or redevelop them. We have a proprietary project and development unit that manages complex projects at our properties in the form of new builds, extensions, redevelopments and technology upgrades. Our project volume increased considerably in 2017. Special­fastig­heter has chosen to establish an in-house project Projects in 2017 and development unit to meet its need for proprietary experThere were 95 (86) investment projects in progress at year tise in the field of secure facilities. Our project managers proend. The total investment volume for projects in progress is vide valuable expertise across the entire chain from concept estimated at SEK 2,095 million (1,364), of which SEK 1,169 milto completion, and we also have specialists in construction, lion was accrued as of 31 December 2017. Of the 95 projects in water and sewerage, electricity, the environment, energy, progress, 15 had estimated investments in excess of SEK 20 property automation and CAD/BIM. The unit is to meet our million, corresponding to around 87% of the total investment customers’ needs for appropriate and secure premises in a volume. business-minded way and contribute to long-term development of sustainable properties. We began recruiting in 2017 Prison and Probation Service business area to reinforce our skills in the area of fire safety. As our project • A major remand centre renovation and operational adaptavolume has increased significantly and we can see that major tion project was begun at the Kronoberg property in volumes are expected, we have worked intensively on our ­Stockholm in 2011. The project was completed in 2017. strategies for supplying the projects with resources. We com• Redevelopment and renovation, remodelling and extenmunicate our needs continuously to the sector and have sion at several buildings of the Hällby Prison continued in employed a number of employees in our project operations. 2017. Work will continue to be conducted in phases through to 2019. Environmental database for sustainable use • Security-enhancing measures were implemented and comof materials pleted at nine prisons across Sweden during the year. Special­fastig­heter operates in a material-intensive sector and • Several investigation projects are being conducted in the a systematic method for how we select and use materials is an business area, many of which are included in the Swedish important part of our sustainability efforts. We record all the Prison and Probation Service’s infrastructure plan. materials used in new construction, extensions and redevelopments in an environmental database. Among other things, this helps us to see if a material contains substances hazardDefence and Judicial System business area • The new production of the district court in Lund for the ous to health or the environment. The database also enables Swedish National Courts Administration is proceeding us to retrieve information about where a material is located in according to plan. The project encompasses about 10,560 our buildings should this come into question in the future. sq m and the building is scheduled for completion in the Regarding materials, our standards are higher than those second quarter of 2018. under the Sweden Green Building Council’s (Miljöbyggnad) criteria and we also document electrical, ventilation, pipe• The Swedish Police launched a review of its local needs in work, plumbing and control systems at component level. We the Kronoberg complex during the year, and so we proguide our suppliers through material selection requirements duced proposals for extensions and densifications. and material documentation. We also make sure waste management follows the requirements we have been set. Read Institutional Care and Other Special Operations more about our use of materials on page 31. ­business area • The business area is carrying out several investigations in Certification-ready buildings this business area into redevelopment, extension and new We attempt to obtain environmental certification of our buildbuilds to create long-term, sustainable buildings for our ings as far as possible, based on energy, indoor environment tenant, the Swedish National Board of Institutional Care’s and materials. The high security standards to which our buildoperations. ings are subject make it difficult for us to complete the final • Major redevelopment and extension projects were comcertification stage since this requires an external review, and pleted at the Bärby property in 2017. for security reasons we cannot grant access to all information • Redevelopment, extension and new build projects continabout our properties. For this reason, we have chosen to work ued at the Ljungaskog and Tysslinge properties. These will on the basis that our properties are ready for certification and be completed in 2018. we then decide on certification on a case-by-case basis. We • Construction of standard buildings with two departments work with the Sweden Green Building Council’s certification at the Folåsa, Johannisberg and Ljungbacken properties. system for new builds and redevelopments as though the • Construction of standard buildings with one department at property is to be certified, but we do not complete the final the Ljungaskog, Björkbacken and Klarälvsgården properties. stage of having an independent party conduct a review. In • Major redevelopment and extensions at the property in 2017, our new district court building in Lund obtained prelimiHässleholm. nary Gold-level SGBC classification. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T D E S C R I P T I O N O F O P E R AT I O N S 41 Investment projects in progress on 31 December 2017 Investment projects by business area Investment volume, SEK million Estimated Investment projects > SEK 20 million 1,832 Investment projects < SEK 20 million 263 ■ Prison and Probation Service business Total investment volume, projects in progress, area, SEK 467 million SEK million 2,095 ■ Defence and Judicial System business area, SEK 527 million ■ Institutional Care and Other Special Additional floor space, sq m Operations business area, SEK 1,101 Investment projects > SEK 20 million 26,747 million Investment projects < SEK 20 million 353 Total additional floor space, sq m, projects Total SEK 2,095 million in progress 27,100 Major investment projects in progress per 31 December 2017 Property name Customer Project description Additional floor space, sq m Kristallen 1 Swedish National Construction of new district court in Lund Courts Administration 10,560 Fridhem 9 SiS Extension of accommodation and school at Hässleholm juvenile care home 6,500 Kronoberg 18 The Swedish Prison Renovation and operational adaptation of the Kronoberg remand centre and Probation Service 563 Gräskärr 1:1 SiS Extension of accommodation and school at Ljungbacken juvenile care home 1,789 Grytnäs 2:1 SiS Extension of accommodation and school at Johannisberg juvenile care home 1,800 Funbo-Broby 1:3 SiS Redevelopment and new construction of accommodation, administration and communal areas at Bärby juvenile care home 1,885 Fålåsa 12:1 SiS Extension of accommodation at Folåsa juvenile care home 1,789 Gudhem 12:3 SiS Redevelopment and extension of accommodation and communal areas at ­Gudhemgården LVM home 292 Ljungaskog 15:28 SiS Redevelopment and extension of accommodation, educational premises and new 260 construction at Ljungaskog juvenile care home Tumbo-Berga 1:3, 1:5 The Swedish Prison Redevelopment and extension of building no. 9 at Hällby correctional facility and Probation Service 290 Kronoberg 18 Swedish Policy Authority Redevelopment of offices 0 Hall 4:4 SiS Modification of premises (from prison to institution) of Tysslinge juvenile care home 0 Ravelinen 1 The Swedish Prison Redevelopment and fire measures implemented at Kalmar correctional facility and Probation Service 0 Brätte 1:2 SiS Redevelopment of accommodation and communal areas at Brättegården juvenile care home 0 Bojan 2 The Swedish Prison Security-enhancing measures at Haparanda correctional facility and Probation Service 0 Kronoberg 18, Kristallen 1, Kronoberg 18, Bojan 2, remand centre new district court in Lund Police Authority’s offices Haparanda correctional facility Funbo-Broby 1:3, Hall 4:4, Ravelinen 1, Brätte 1:2, Bärby juvenile care home Tysslinge juvenile care home Kalmar correctional facility Brättegården juvenile care home Future project volumes Many of our customers have reviewed their organisarequirements from both existing and new c­ ustomers tions and enhanced the efficiency of operations in also mean that our project volumes have increased sigrecent years. Several have indicated that their needs for nificantly during the year and will continue to do so over premises have changed and expanded. Higher security the next five years. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 42 D E S C R I P T I O N O F O P E R AT I O N S Secure properties – secure finances Special­fastig­heter is one of the companies in the property sector that enjoys an extremely low credit risk and a stable financial position. We monitor economic trends carefully to safeguard our position moving forward. The past year Net financial items amounted to an expense of SEK 73 We issue our first green bonds in November 2017 – one ­million (expense: 79) . The positive change was largely with a five-year term and a nominal volume of SEK 500 mildue to the low market interest rate, but also the positive lion and one with a seven-year term and a nominal volume effect of the translation of foreign currency loans of SEK of SEK 750 million, in total SEK 1,250 million. Interest in 45 million (66). these bonds was so intense that they were oversubscribed. Our assessment is that we will continue to issue green Changes in derivative values were a negative SEK 63 milbonds over the coming years to a value of SEK 1 billion per lion (neg: 38). This is mainly due to an increasingly strong year. Funds raised by the issue is placed in a green account Swedish krona against the US dollar that leads to lower and deducted as projects that fulfil the conditions of our unrealised market values. green framework are developed. Outlook for 2018 Borrowing increased in 2017 due to acquisitions and At its December meeting, the Riksbank’s Executive Board increased project volumes. Corporate bond issues rose decided to keep the repo rate unchanged at negative from just under SEK 9.2 billion to SEK 10.9 billion in 2017. 0.50% and to reinvest redemptions and coupon payments The issue volume on the commercial paper market fell from in the government bond portfolio until further notice. The slightly more than SEK 3 billion to just over SEK 2.9 billion. Riksbank anticipates raising the interest rate slowly for the first time in mid-2018. During the year, we invested SEK 1 billion in Swedish covered mortgage bonds and used these as collateral for The decision of the Riksbank will lead to sustained low bank loans on the repo market. This has provided us with interest rates over the next few years, from which Special­ opportunities for faster funding for shorter terms and at fastig­heter can benefit by keeping a high proportion of our negative interest rates since the repo rate is at negative fixed-interest within one year. The central bank’s expan0.50%. sionary monetary policy involving sustained purchases of securities throughout 2018 will lead to a high level of marMaturities have become longer since we increased fundket liquidity, which Special­fastig­heter can leverage by raising in the long-term capital market. The fixed-interest term ing funds in short-term markets via commercial papers and was extended to capitalise on the low market interest rate whole loan repos. Credit spreads should continue to be during the year. low due to the expansionary monetary policy, and we can Interest-bearing liabilities Loan-to-value ratio Total net financial items trend SEK million % SEK million 15,000 58 200 60 13,781 56 181 12,861 53 12,088 50 12,000 150 136 40 9,000 117 30 100 6,000 20 50 3,000 10 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Interest-bearing liabilities increased in 2017 The loan-to-value ratio fell in 2017 since the Total net financial items were higher in 2017 as a result of acquisitions and increased property value rose more than the increase than 2016, due to major unrealised losses on investments. in liability. financial derivatives. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T D E S C R I P T I O N O F O P E R AT I O N S 43 benefit from this by issuing bonds with a medium-term Bond programme maturity. Over the next few years, the company plans to The company issues bonds denominated in SEK or EUR issue bonds for between two and three billion kronor in the in the Swedish capital market under an MTN programme bond market, which is roughly the same level as over the with a maturity of one year or longer. The programme has past few years. a total limit of SEK 13 billion or equivalent value in EUR. A total SEK 10.3 billion (9.2) had been utilised at year end. Special­fastig­heter’s financial operations In addition to the Swedish market, Special­fastig­heter has Trends in the financial market impact the company’s cost two outstanding bonds amounting to USD 50 million in the trend. Financial management must reflect and support the European market. Fixed-income and currency derivatives operations’ business objectives. Special­fastig­heter’s finanwere also entered into, meaning currency risk has been cial risks are to be limited while active financial manageneutralised. ment is to ensure low net financial items linked to the ­operations’ targets and conditions. This is achieved by We reduce financing risk by spreading maturities over identifying risks and managing them within set frameworks. ­different years and via loan commitments that cover the maturity of commercial paper and bonds for the years The aims of the financing activities are to: immediately ahead. The volume of loan commitments • Maintain the company’s strong financial position and totalled SEK 4,750 million. credit rating of at least AA • Limit the risks of negative effects on cash flow, earnings Ownership clause and the balance sheet Special­fastig­heter’s market programme and loan commit• Ensure access to necessary financing at reasonable costs ments include an ownership clause, which strengthens • Control financial risks according to the financial policy lenders’ positions. The clause means that lenders are entitled to call a loan in early if state ownership falls below 100%. • Ensure risk management through control and reporting Mortgage deeds Commercial paper programme No mortgage deeds are pledged as collateral for any debt The company has had a commercial paper programme in instruments. the Swedish market since 1999 with a limit of SEK 5 billion. A total of SEK 2.9 billion of the programme had been utilised at 31 December 2017. Capital structure Interest-rate trend Bond issues in 2017 SEK million % Maturity Amount, SEK million 15,000 1.5 Övriga skulder 5 years Specialfastigheter snittränta 500 1.2 5 years 500 12,000 Räntebärande skulder 5 årig bostadsobligation 0.9 5 years 350 Eget kapital 3 mån Stibor 9,000 5 years 500 0.6 7 years 750 6,000 0.3 0.0 3,000 -0.3 0 -0.6 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Equity Special­fastig­heter’s average Interest-bearing liabilities interest rate Other liabilities 5-year covered bond Equity increased in 2017 as a result of the 3-month Stibor net profit for the year. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 44 RESPONSIBILIT Y AND GOVERNANCE Governance of our operations Assuming responsibility for the entire value chain and effectively governing the operations are essential for creating value. We govern our operations based on a long-term and collaborative approach to increase business value for our customers, owners and other stakeholders. Key sustainability issues and risk management are integrated into all of our work. The international risk management standard ISO 31000:2009 guides our work in this area. We comply with the Swedish Corporate Governance Code and as a state-owned company we always endeavour to set a good example. Our sustainability efforts are reported in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T RESPONSIBILIT Y AND GOVERNANCE 45 Balanced risk-taking All business operations entail risks. However, when handled properly, balanced risk-­ taking promotes long-term value creation that considers both opportunities and risks. Identifying, analysing, managing and following up on risks are therefore priority issues. Process for managing risks Risk inventory Risk analysis Risk management Efficiency assessment Creating an inventory of Definition of the level of risk Proposals of measures, timeFollow-up, feedback existing and newly occurring based on probability and tables and distribution of and reporting on risk risks. consequence. responsibility. ­management. Analysis of probability and Risk levels Efficiency level – how we impact. ­manage each risk • Business-related risks Low risk Very good efficiency • Legal risks Medium risk Good efficiency • Environmental risks • Operative risks High risk Acceptable efficiency • Financial risks Very high risk Unacceptable efficiency In addition to the business opportunities that may be presRisk matrix ent in a risk, there are also threats that, if not managed correctly, can jeopardise our credibility and competitiveness Very probable and result in negative consequences for our stakeholders 18 20 19 17 15 and operating environment. Our risk-related work is an integral part of all our operaProbable tions and is based on a structured process that begins 21 10 with our annual business planning, during which the operations’ company-wide risks are identified, based on the possible consequences for Special­fastig­heter and for our Possible operating environment. Risk management at Special­ 7 9 1 8 4 6 fastig­heter follows the ISO 31000:2009 standard for risk management. 13 3 2 An assessment of probability and consequence is conMinor 16 14 12 11 ducted for each identified risk to determine its risk level, 5 20 after which point we produce an action plan containing Probability proposals of measures, timetables and distribution of Improbable responsibility. Finally we analyse our capability of managing the identified risk. We split our risks into five risk categories: business-related; legal; environmental; operaVery limited Limited Serious Very serious Catastrophic tional; and financial. The only risk with an extremely high Consequence/impact risk level is climate change. In respect of financial risk, the risk level is mostly medium. We have a good or very good The figures indicate specific risks that are described on pages 46–48. The colour of the square indicates the risk level and the colour in the risk management system, which was improved in 2017 in circle indicates our estimated efficiency level. terms of areas such as Loss in terms of price of purchased covered bonds and Reporting risk. Our extensive work during management reviews, while specific risk analyses with the use of materials has led to improved efficiency in are conducted for larger projects. terms of the “Use of substances hazardous to health and the environment” risk category. In terms of the “Skills Our ambition is to consistently improve our risk manageshortage, now and in the future” risk category, we have ment system. We are actively engaged in this area and are lowered our risk level as a result of our work with proactive able to note an increase in efficiency compared to previous skills sourcing. years. In 2017, we developed our risk management process and, in 2018, we will advance this one step further by conThe Board follows up identified risks once each year. Comtinuing to clarify and establish methods and systems for pany-wide risks are also followed up at least twice per year risk analysis. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 46 RESPONSIBILIT Y AND GOVERNANCE Business-related risks Business-related risks are attributable to events in our operating environment, among our customers and at our ­organisation, impacting both our business and developments in the property market. We analyse risks in the following areas: market, projects, organisation, credibility and value. Risk assessment Risk Management and checks Risk level Efficiency level Competition is intensifying in the market for public sector properties Our customers are 1 Loss of market  mostly state-owned operations with high security standards, so we must be best at providing position Medium Good them with secure, efficient and effective premises and good service. Work is continuously under way in collaboration with many of our customers to find good solutions that provide the best overall efficiency. We increased our project volume in 2017 through the development of our own properties, and proceeded to refine the portfolio by divesting properties that were not suitable for customers with security requirements. We also continued to reinforce our unique skills in the area of security. Our values and Code of Conduct guide us during our day-to-day operations. We have 2 Q uestionable a structured purchasing system and we comply with the Swedish Public Procurement Act. credibility Medium Very good Whistle-blower and incident reporting systems aim to detect irregularities and comprise a basis for developing our operations. Guidelines for addressing the threat posed by insiders and infiltrators have been prepared, since this know-how is critical for a credible and effective security measures. We work closely with our customers to meet both their current and their future needs. We 3 Shortage of suitconstantly monitor events in the market as well as legislation and regulations. The property able premises Medium Good management plans detail how our premises can be maintained and modernised. We have reviewed our maintenance process and will continue to prioritise maintenance work in 2018. We work in a structured manner and assess projects for risks. Project reviews guarantee good 4 Project delivery control and follow-up and ensure projects are on budget, on time and meet the scope of failure High Good supply and quality requirements. Production cost risks are limited to the greatest possible extent through contracts with both the contractor and tenant. Close dialogues are initiated at an early stage between the project unit and the purchasing unit prior to the procurement of consultants and contractors. Our project unit was strengthened through the addition of more assistant project managers in 2017 and a project group manager at the start of 2018. A new project management tool will be implemented in 2018. In order to avoid losing vital skills and experience, we plan for replacement recruiting. We 5 Shortage of  carried out a number of skills assessments during 2017 with the aim of planning the right skills appropriate skills Medium Good development areas for our employees, and we also undertook succession planning for key today and in the employees. Moreover, we are continuing efforts to strengthen our brand as an employer. We future are developing as purchasers and currently procure professional non-critical expertise for our core operations from external consultants and contractors. We have a Code of Conduct for suppliers as well as an internal Code of Conduct. Training 6 Risk of corruption for purchasers is conducted on an ongoing basis with the objective of providing know-how High Good and understanding of ethics to prevent the occurrence of corruption. We have improved our review and monitoring processes for suppliers and contracts and we also have a whistle­blower function (refer also to risk 13). We have zero tolerance for corruption, which is also one of our overriding strategic goals. A high rating and a very strong balance sheet that can cope with a market downturn. We draw 7 Falling ­m arket up long-term development and management plans for each property and follow them up value of Medium Good on an ongoing basis to retain our customers and maintain the value of our properties. The ­properties planning of maintenance measures and investments takes place in close consultation with customers. There is a risk that maintenance works will be delayed if customers do not give us access to their premises for maintenance measures, resulting in a deterioration in the quality of the properties. We conducted property risk analyses in 2017 as a basis for continuity plans. Legal risks Legal risks include those that concern our property owner responsibility such as the Work Environment Act, the Swedish Environmental Code and the Planning and Building Act. Risk assessment Risk Management and checks Risk level Efficiency level We are constantly reviewing our requirement for skills and skills enhancement and offer 8 Deficiencies in training to ensure our employees understand what property owner responsibility entails. We property owner High Acceptable keep informed about changes in legislation to ensure compliance with relevant legislative responsibilities requirements. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T RESPONSIBILIT Y AND GOVERNANCE 47 Environmental risks Environmental risks include all risks in our operations that may affect the environment, such as discharges into soil, the atmosphere and water or our use of the wrong materials in our construction. Risk assessment Risk Management and checks Risk level Efficiency level To ensure we do not incorporate hazardous material into our buildings or use such mate9 Use of substances rials in our operations through ignorance, we have clear guidelines and an environmental hazardous to Medium Very good strategist in charge of monitoring whether we have the appropriate know-how in-house and health and the that we assess every construction project regarding substances hazardous to health and environment the environment in component parts of the construction products selected. All material included in a building is documented in a database for future reference. In this regard, we have chosen to go beyond the SGBC’s requirements in terms of which material requires registration since we want to work proactively with this issue from a precautionary perspective. We have also chosen to set targets for material use. Climate change entails an increase in outdoor temperatures, rising sea levels and more 10 C limate change extreme weather events in the form of heavy precipitation and powerful winds. We will Very high Good reduce our climate impact by establishing ambitious targets for reducing carbon dioxide emissions, chiefly through more efficient energy use. Properties that are in danger zones in terms of potential consequences of climate change are protected by means of preventive measures. Examples of such measures are redundancy in terms of the supply of electricity, heating and cooling as well as weather and damp protection in buildings. Operative risks Operative risks include all risks in our day-to-day operations that affect how we handle daily operational assignments. We focus on the following risk areas: work environment, information security and organisational. Risk assessment Risk Management and checks Risk level Efficiency level We maintain a constant focus on security for our customers and employees. During 2017, 11 Physical and/or we trained service technicians, project managers and property managers in how to deal psychosocial High Good with threats and violence in the workplace, and systematic fire prevention to ensure they are injury to able to cope in different situations. We also conducted fire training at our local offices (a few ­e mployees employees received training in early 2018). Today, there is a high level of awareness regarding this risk. In many cases, customers are contractually obliged to provide alarms and guidance. In 2017, an app for working alone was evaluated and used in a number of places. Further evaluation is ongoing of other supports for working alone. We also provide employees with security guard support if necessary. Our management system for information security is certified in line with ISO/IEC 27001:2013 12 Loss of confidenand aims to guarantee the best possible conditions to protect both our information assets tial information High Very good and those of our customers. The certification, which was renewed in May 2015, will be subject for renewal in 2018. We have an interactive information security training course that is mandatory for all staff. We monitor the rapid developments linked to threats to the IT environment by analysing and assessing threats and vulnerabilities and using such analyses to come up with appropriate protective measures. We constantly strive to set clear standards and develop a sustainable, efficient supplier chain. 13 Failure to attract Our purchasing process is well-established and monitors contract compliance and loyalty. suitable suppliers Medium Good During 2017, we carried out a number of audits that addressed environmental standards and we distributed a self-assessment questionnaire that focused on the ethical and social requirements to every supplier that has accepted our Code of Conduct. In 2017, we continued with the self-assessments and processed their findings. We also completed four on-site audits wherever the results of the self-assessment required it. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 48 RESPONSIBILIT Y AND GOVERNANCE Financial risks Special­fastig­heter is exposed to different kinds of financial risk in its operations, including through fluctuations in profits and cash flow as a result of market valuations, financing, interest rates, credit and counterparty risks, currencies, exchangerate losses, electrical prices and risks associated with reporting, taxes and fees. Our financial policy for managing financial risks has been approved by the Board and forms a framework of guidelines and rules in the form of risk mandates and limits for financial operations. The overall objective of our financial department is to provide cost-effective funding and to minimise the adverse effects of market fluctuations on company earnings. Risk assessment Risk Management and checks Risk level Efficiency level Financing risk is one of the more significant risks we have to manage. Our goal is to ensure access 14 L ack of financing to the loan capital necessary for running our operations while also considering the total cost of Low Very good financing and the loan commitments necessary for the fulfilment of our financial policy. In order to limit financing risk, we must strive to raise credit with long maturities and an even maturity profile for existing loans. The majority of our financing takes places in the Swedish capital market, but issues are also made in international capital markets wherever appropriate from an overall cost and diversification perspective. To further reduce financing risk, there were unutilised backup facilities and overdrafts totalling SEK 4,750 million (4,736) as of 31 December 2017. This amount almost covers the maturity of commercial paper and bonds outstanding for a period of one and a half years. As of 31 December 2017, maturity was 3.4 years (3.6), and taking unutilised guaranteed loan commitments into consideration, maturity was 4.3 (4.0) years. Changes in market interest rates, the credit spread and time factors affect the purchase price of 15 Loss in terms of covered bonds. In order to counter this risk, we have taken up interest-rate swaps for equivalent price of purchased Medium Very good amounts. These have an equivalent impact on earnings in the opposite direction, which eliminates covered bonds price gains/losses. If the price change is due to a changed credit spread on covered bonds, it will have no impact on the interest-rate swap. In this case, the impact on earnings is only on the covered bond. The covered bonds we buy have the highest credit ratings and are negotiable. To reduce credit risk, investments are only permitted in securities with high credit ratings. On 16 C redit and 31 December 2017, investments were made in eight secured Swedish covered bonds with a total counter­party risk Low Very good nominal amount of SEK 1,000 million. Counterparty risk for derivatives is reduced through our agreement to net assets against liabilities with counterparties with whom we make derivative transactions. To reduce counterparty risk further, Special­f astig­heter may enter into agreements that govern the management of collateral pledged at net market value. The company’s counterparty risk in derivative contracts totalled SEK 57 million (90) as of 31 December 2017; this corresponds to the company’s total receivables from unrealised derivatives with positive values. As of 31 December 2017, we have received SEK 0 million (0) as deposits from our counterparties that can be used if a counterparty cannot meet its obligations. Changes in value may occur in connection with interest-rate derivatives depending on changes in 17 C hange in value the market interest rate and the time factor. In determining fair value, we use market quotations of financial derivMedium Very good on the closing date and generally accepted calculation methods. The change in value is reported atives in profit or loss. Currency translation to Swedish kronor is at the rates of exchange quoted on the closing date. Interest-rate swaps are measured by discounting future cash flows to present value. On the closing date, the change in value of interest-rate derivatives amounted to a negative SEK 63 million (negative: 38). However, losses or gains remain unrealised as long as the derivatives are not terminated prematurely. According to our financial policy, exposures must be hedged if they exceed a value equivalent to 18 Currency risks SEK 5 million. Exposures below SEK 5 million may be hedged following an assessment of the risk Medium Very good situation and hedging costs. Hedging takes place through financial derivatives that are measured and reported at fair value. The effects of changes in value are recognised in profit or loss under Change in value of financial instruments, unrealised. Liabilities in foreign currencies are translated at year end at the balance-sheet date’s exchange rate and the effect of these changes is reported in net financial items. In addition to a lack of financing, interest-rate risk is the most important of the financial risks. Our 19 Interest-rate risk interest rate management objective is to achieve low interest expenses over time while adaptMedium Very good ing the interest rate profile to the underlying business conditions. To manage interest expense and interest-rate risks, we continually assess the existing debt portfolio including derivatives in relation to the current market yield curve. We seek an interest-rate profile that is suitable in terms of total expenses, commercial conditions and applicable business plans. The practice of taking and exiting positions with the aim of making money – referred to as trading – is not permitted. Special­f astig­heter’s interest-rate profile is regulated in the financial policy by limiting the number of interest maturities within 12 months to a maximum of 70% of the net loan portfolio. The average fixed-interest term should be within the 1–5 year range. As of 31 December 2017, the average fixed-interest term was 3.2 years (2.6). It is extremely important for us to present a correct picture of our operations and financial posi20 Reporting risk tion. Special­f astig­heter has well-functioning internal controls. Our management system illusMedium Very good trates our working method in clear processes and links our policy documents to each process. We carry out annual internal audits of various processes to ensure good internal control. We constantly monitor various international rules and regulations and, to ensure accurate financial reporting, we follow the changes and revisions made to IFRS regulations. Different principles created for corporate governance also have a great impact on Special­f astig­heter, since we are required as a state-owned company to be transparent and exemplary within many fields. Changes made to the regulations for taxes and fees have a direct impact on our financial results. 21 Taxes and fees We follow developments in legislation and trends in standard practices to make sure we process Medium Very good tax and value added tax correctly. This mainly applies to changes in property tax, corporation tax, VAT and income tax. We always seek expert assistance for difficult issues in this area and we ensure the quality of our income tax calculations by recruiting external expertise. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T RESPONSIBILIT Y AND GOVERNANCE 49 Sensitivity analysis When performing risk analyses, it is important to conduct sensitivity analyses based on various scenarios to see which of them have the greatest impact on income, should they occur. In our own sensitivity analysis we noted that the cost of capital and the yield in terms of property valuations has the greatest impact on our earnings. Annualised earnings Variable Change impact, SEK million Rental income +/1 percentage point 16.1 Property operations and utilities excl. electricity +/1 percentage point 3.9 Maintenance expenses1 +/1 percentage point 2.9 Interest +/1 percentage point 45.6 Market rates, derivative instruments2 +/1 percentage point 24.9 Price change, purchased covered bond3 +/1 percentage point 30.4 Cost of capital4 + 0.25 percentage points -314 Cost of capital4 0.25 percentage points 324 Yield 4 + 0.25 percentage points -584 Yield 4 0.25 percentage points 643 1) Includes capitalised maintenance expenses according to IFRS. 2) Impact on earnings relates to the change in value of derivative instruments. 3) T  he impact on earnings relates to momentary changes in deposited covered bonds as of 31 December 2017 with a nominal value of SEK 1,000 million. 4) Impact on earnings relates to change in value of investment properties. Hinseberg correctional facility, Frövi SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 50 RESPONSIBILIT Y AND GOVERNANCE GRI Sustainability Report Special­fastig­heter’s Sustainability Report is integrated into its Annual Report and sustainability information pertaining to the GRI can be found in its various sections. This part of the Annual Report includes a description of our reporting principles and in-depth GRI information. Reporting principles No significant changes have been made regarding the Special­fastig­heter applies the 2016 GRI Standards: Core information provided in the 2016 Annual Report. In the option for sustainability reporting together with the GRI’s 2017 Annual Report however, Special­fastig­heter is reportsector disclosures for Construction and Real Estate. Based ing two new material topics with accompanying indicators. on the company’s strategies, targets, actual impact, Since the disclosures for material are not appropriate for expectations and interests of our stakeholders, Special­ us based on how we work, measure and set targets in the fastig­heter has decided to report ten sustainability areas materials area, we have chosen to design our own indicator (11 GRI topics) that are material and relevant to us and our to measure chosen materials. Two topics are no longer stakeholders. The selected sustainability areas and GRI included following last year’s annual report. Changes to disclosures are shown in the GRI list of contents on page demarcations and/or reporting principles for the data 52. The Sustainability Report is an integral part of the reported are indicated in the relevant text or table. Annual Report and sustainability information can be found in various sections, mainly in the front section of the Disclosures that have an environmental impact are reported report. with the property holdings for 2017. Descriptions of calculation and measurement methods, any limitations and The Sustainability Report covers the entire company assumptions are provided alongside each disclosure. including subsidiaries, and is applicable to the full-year 2017. The organisation is not split into regions. The SustainThe energy monitoring system takes into account the date ability Report follows the financial year and is published on which the area changed (for example, due to remeaannually. The most recent Sustainability Report was pubsurement, acquisition or divestment) and an average area lished in the 2016 Annual Report on 23 March 2017. The for the year as a whole is then calculated. We have also report is cross checked internally and reviewed and certiupdated the report to include a new type of media, biogas. fied by an external authorised public accountant. The contact for the Sustainability Report is Hanna Janson, Communications Director, telephone +46 10 788 62 10. SiS juvenile care home, Rebecka, Ekerö SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T RESPONSIBILIT Y AND GOVERNANCE 51 Special­fastig­heter’s governance of sustainability initiatives Special­fastig­heter’s Board is ultimately responsible for menting the sustainability agenda the company has comsustainability governance. In the management group, the mitted to. CEO bears overall responsibility, but each head of department is responsible for integrating sustainability in the The table shows Special­fastig­heter’s sustainability goverday-to-day operations. All of the organisation’s managers nance. The state’s ownership policy, the sustainability and employees are responsible for compliance with appli­policy, the business plan and our management system cable policies and guidelines. The CEO is responsible for provide overall governance and are therefore not spec­ensuring the requisite resources are in place for impleified below. Material sustainability Targets and outcomes areas Guidelines and instructions Follow-up Responsibility 2017 Economic performance Financial targets Interim reports/year-end CEO Target: Adjusted return Financial policy report CFO on equity, 8% Insider policy Annual Report Outcome: 13.2% Market plan Security Overall security policy Management review CEO Target: No form of corrupInformation security policy Ongoing security follow­Management tion or the giving or accepSecurity protection agreements ups group tance of bribes Guidelines on physical protection Ongoing risk analyses Head of Security Outcome: 0 cases Guidelines on information about Incident reporting Projects and incident reporting Development Guidelines for insider and infiltration Director threats ISO 27001 Customer satisfaction Management plan per property CSI CEO Target: CSI 67 (2018) Market plan Customer dialogues Business Director Outcome: CSI 65 (Dec. Property Man2016) agement Director Business area managers Work environment Guidelines on physical, organisaOrganisational analysis CEO Target: All employees tional and social work environment Follow-up of benefit of Managers have a development Guidelines on managing substance occupational health HR Director plan linked to the skills abuse problems ­services Head of Security inventory Instructions, action plan for bullying Measuring absence due Work EnvironOutcome: 68% Equal treatment plan to illness ment Committee Swedish Work Environment Act Incident reporting system Equal Treatment Swedish Working Hours Act Human rights risk analysis Committee Swedish Annual Leave Act Supplier environmental Purchasing policy Audits Head of Pur­ Target: Contract compliand social conditions Code of Conduct Self-assessments chasing, IT ance 90% ­a ssessments for suppliers Whistle-blower system and Quality Outcome: 91% Purchasing agreements Implementation/follow-up Managers meetings Risk analysis of human rights Anti-corruption Code of Conduct Whistle-blower system CEO Target: No form of corrupPurchasing policy Audits performed by Managers tion or the giving or accepCode of Conduct for suppliers ­internal controls tance of bribes Security policy Outcome: 0 cases Delegation arrangements Emissions Strategic energy and Interim reports/year-end Projects and Target: Reduce CO2 emisenvironmental targets report Development sions by 35% (compared Annual Report Director with the base year, 2012) Media ­monitoring Outcome: Reduction of 47% Energy Strategic energy and Interim reports/year-end Projects and Target: Energy consumpenvironmental targets report Development tion max 195.6 kWh per sq m Financial targets Annual Report Director Outcome: 199.4 kWh per Financial policy Media ­monitoring sq m Material Environmental programme Audits Projects and Target: Proportion of template for construction End documentation in Development material with good enviprojects the SundaHus database Director ronmental classifications Property Manin production should agement Director increase to 80% Outcome: 81.5% Equality and diversity Code of Conduct Measurement of key Managers Target: Increase the numEqual treatment plan ­performance indicators HR Director ber of employees with forSwedish Discrimination Act for diversity and equal Equal Treatment eign backgrounds to 10% opportunities Committee Outcome: 10% Salary survey Organisational analysis Survey of the company’s participation in workshops, “Växthuset” tool SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 52 RESPONSIBILIT Y AND GOVERNANCE Content Index as per GRI Content Global Content Global Index as Compact Index as Compact per GRI Disclosure Page principle per GRI Disclosure Page principle GENERAL DISCLOSURES Materials, Cont. GRI 102: General disclosures GRI 301: Materials Organisational profile Share of A and B classed material registered 102-1 Name of the organisation 59 in the SundaHus database (own indicator) 31 7, 8 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 2 Energy 102-3 Location of headquarters 2 GRI 103: Management approach 102-4 Location of operations 12 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 102-5 Ownership and legal form 3.59 and its Boundary 30, 54 102-6 Markets served 3.12 103-2 The management approach and its components 30, 51 102-7 Scale of the organisation 2 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 51 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 53 GRI 302: Energy 102-9 Supply chain 27–29 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation 55 8 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and CRE-1 The use of energy in buildings 31 its supply chain 27–29, 50 Emissions 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 30, 31 7 GRI 103: Management approach 102-12 External initiatives 53 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 102-13 Membership of associations 53 and its Boundary 30, 54 Strategy 103-2 The management approach and its components 30, 51 102-14 Statement from the senior decision-maker 4, 5 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 51 Ethics and integrity GRI 305: Emissions 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 55 of behaviour 1, 51 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 55 8 Governance CRE-3 Greenhouse gas emissions from buildings 30 102-18 Governance structure 59–65 Supplier environmental assessments Stakeholder engagement GRI 103: Management approach 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 18 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 53 3 and its Boundary 28, 54 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 19 103-2 The management approach and its components 51 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 19 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 28, 29, 51 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 18, 19 GRI 308: Supplier environmental assessment Reporting practice 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated environmental criteria 28, 29 8, 9 ­financial statements 60 Occupational health and safety 102-46 Defining report content and topic GRI 103: Management approach ­Boundaries 19 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 102-47 List of material topics 19, 52 and its Boundary 32, 33, 54 102-48 Restatements of information 50 103-2 The management approach and its components 51 102-49 Change in reporting 50 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 51 102-50 Reporting period 50 GRI 403: Occupational health and safety 102-51 Date of most recent report 50 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupa102-52 Reporting cycle 50 tional diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding and number of work-related fatalities 55, 56 1 the report 50 Diversity and equal opportunity 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with GRI 103: Management approach the GRI Standards 50 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 102-55 GRI content index 52 and its Boundary 32, 54 102-56 External assurance 58 103-2 The management approach and its components 51 MATERIAL TOPICS 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 51 Economic performance GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity GRI 103: Management approach 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and employees 32, 56, 57 1, 6 and its Boundary 27, 54 Supplier social assessment 103-2 The management approach and its GRI 103: Management approach ­components 51 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 51 and its Boundary 28, 54 GRI 201: Economic performance 103-2 The management approach and its components 51 201-1 Direct economic value generated 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 28, 29, 51 and ­distributed 54 GRI 414: Supplier social assessment Anti-corruption 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using GRI 103: Management approach social criteria 28, 29 1–6 103-1 Explanation of the material topic Security (company-specific topic) and its Boundary 25, 54 GRI 103: Management approach 103-2 The management approach and its 103-1 Explanation of the material topic ­components 51 and its Boundary 24, 25, 54 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 51 103-2 The management approach and its components 51 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 51 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and Security (company-specific areas) actions taken 25 10 Qualitative description 24, 25 Material Customer satisfaction (company-specific topic) GRI 103: Management approach GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 31, 54 and its Boundary 23, 54 103-2 The management approach and its components 30, 31, 51 103-2 The management approach and its components 51 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 51 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 51 Customer satisfaction (company-specific topic) Customer satisfaction index (CSI) 38 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T RESPONSIBILIT Y AND GOVERNANCE 53 GRI – general disclosures and material sustainability areas GRI information that cannot be found in the other parts of GRI 102-13 Membership of associations the Annual Report is published here. Organisation Type of participation ASIS International Sweden (American Member GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other ­Society for Industrial Security) workers BIM Alliance Member Gender distribution of temporary employees and per­ Swedish Construction Clients Forum Member manent employees Member of the Ethics ­Council Total number of employees 2015 2016 2017 Purchasing network (Special­fastig­heter, Member Akademiska Hus, Jernhusen) Women 38 (29.7%) 39 (29.8%) 42 (29.2%) Swedish Centre for Innovation and Member Men 90 (70.3%) 92 (70.2%) 102 (70.8%) Quality in the Built Environment Total 128 131 144 PurNet (purchasing network) Member Collaborative forum Member of steering and Total number of temporary management groups and employees 2015 2016 2017 various project groups (BIM, Women 2 0 3 HUT, Rules and agreements) Men 1 0 1 Smart Built Environment Member Total 3 0 4 SNOS (Säkerhet för näringsliv Member och ­samhälle) All figures pertain to 31 December in the year concerned. Stockholm Chamber of Commerce Member, the CEO is a city councillor All employees are full time employees. A certain proporTUC The Head of Purchasing, tion of the organisation’s work is carried out by external IT and Quality consultants, contractors or their subcontractors. These is a member of the management group for individuals are not covered by the summary. We are not ­s trategic purchasing able to report this separately as most of the external Development of public sector property Member human resources work intermittently and only a few have activities (UFOS) consultancy assignments with fixed working hours. The invoicing system does not allow the retrieval of cost data specified by consulting hours. No significant seasonal variGRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements ations in the number of employees occur. All employees are covered by collective-bargaining ­agreements. Special­fastig­heter belongs to the Almega GRI 102-12 External initiatives employers’ association and applies the civil servants’ Initiative union agreement for the property sector. Fossil Free Sweden Member BELOK Member GreenChain Member NMC (The Swedish Association for ­Sustainable Business) Member NSD (the Confederation of Swedish ­Enterprise’s security delegation) Member Workshop at the Halmstad correctional facility SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 54 RESPONSIBILIT Y AND GOVERNANCE GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary GRI topic Topic boundary Limitations Direct economic value Directly affects Special­fastig­heter’s business and development opportunities in generated and distributed the short and long term. Directly affects our stakeholders through the value we create for them, for example, in the form of owner dividends and tax to the state. Materials Direct impact through the choice of material in property management. Indirect We report the share of regisimpact on contractors’ use of materials through the material requirements we tered materials that meet set for our contractors. classes A and B in the SundaHus database. Energy Direct impact through energy use at offices and by property management serWe report our tenants’ vice vehicles. Indirect impact on technical installations in our properties and energy use in our property the choice of fuel through the material requirements we set for our contractors. holdings as the energy used Indirect impact through our tenants’ energy use. Indirect impact through conin our properties is considertractors’ energy use for new builds, redevelopments and extensions and able. through our suppliers’ energy use in the manufacture of materials. Emissions Direct impact through emissions from energy used at offices and by property We report emissions from management service vehicles. Indirect emissions from our tenants’ energy use. energy used in our property Indirect emissions from contractors’ energy use for new builds, redevelopholdings. ments and extensions and from our suppliers’ emissions in the manufacture of materials. Occupational health and Direct impact on the physical, organisational and social work environment safety internally at Special­fastig­heter. Indirect impact on the work environment at suppliers and contractors by setting and following up on requirements for their work environments. Equality and diversity Direct impact by promoting increased diversity at Special­fastig­heter and in the property sector generally. Supplier social assessment Indirect impact on working conditions and human rights at suppliers and ­contractors by setting and following up on requirements in terms of working conditions and human rights. Supplier environmental Indirect impact on environmental efforts at suppliers and contractors by setassessment ting and following up on environmental requirements. Anti-corruption Direct impact in the procurement and purchase, and through internal courses as well as from contact with customers and suppliers. Indirect impact on anti-corruption efforts at suppliers and contractors by setting and following up on anti-corruption requirements. Non-GRI aspects Company-specific areas Security Direct impact through our operational management that applies a security focus, including personal security, operational reliability, physical security and information security. Customer satisfaction Direct impact, since our behaviour toward and our deliveries to customers are reflected in how satisfied our customers are. GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed It is important for Special­fastig­heter to create value for its skills development of our employees. Employee initiatives owner and other stakeholders. We do this by strengthenthrough daily dialogue and collaboration with our customing our economic, environmental and social competitiveers are invaluable in creating the right product for the cusness as a property management company. Our responsitomer’s operation. Direct expenses that create value bility to the owner is to generate a financial return. Good include salaries, training, taxes and fees as well as payprofitability and a strong financial position enables longments to suppliers for goods and services. Variable costs term action and makes planning for sustainable construcinclude expenses for absence due to illness and the taxes tion and sustainable property management possible. It generated by staff and others. also provides us with the ability to continue investing in the Economic value generated Stakeholders 2015 2016 2017 Rental income Tenants 1,867 1,912 2,028 Financial income Finance market 4 19 64 Property sales Customers, property market -1 4 29 Distribution of economic value Operating expenses Suppliers 399 416 431 Salaries and benefits to employees Employees 101 109 116 Payments to financiers Finance market 230 98 137 Payments to the public sector (dividend) Owner 446 497 560 Payments to the public sector (taxes) Society 329 501 487 Unrealised change in value Property market -322 -865 -832 Unrealised change in value Finance market -45 38 63 Remaining in Group 732 1,141 1,159 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T RESPONSIBILIT Y AND GOVERNANCE 55 GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation miljovarden-for-2016-klara/. With the help of the district Energy purchased for our properties such as electricity, heating providers who delivered most district heating to district heating and how large a proportion is not renewus over the year, CO2 equivalents attributable to district able; biofuel, electric heating, bio oil, oil, gas and cooling. heating were calculated as 54.9 g CO2 eq/kWh. District The total amount of energy purchased for our properties heating CO2 equivalents decreased due to the supplier during the year was 790,340 GJ, compared to 807,611 GJ choosing to produce more heat with renewable fuel, and the previous year. The total amount of energy purchased in because we contracted supplies of green district heating the previous year is adjusted to reflect the 2017 property from a large supplier. holdings. During the year, we replaced fossil-fuel-derived energy with renewable energy at a number of properties. 2015 2016 2017 Energy use is followed up monthly at the property level District heating, renewable 5,158.5 4,589.5 4,134.4 and by energy type. District heating, non-renewable 335.1 340.2 263.9 Electricity 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 Total (tonnes, CO2 eq) 5,493.6 4,929.7 4,398.3 Electricity 392,161 398,719 388,230 District heating, renewable 265,408 267,350 271,108 Reportable quantities of refrigerants are reported to the Pellets 15,282 14,754 15,003 supervisory authority. Discharges are reported when disBio oil 4,996 4,438 3,979 charges occur, which was not the case during 2017. The Biogas 0 0 3,717 number of kilos of refrigerants increased partly due to Electric heating 24,425 24,708 22,981 property acquisitions and partly due to clearer reporting Cooling 57,100 58,382 56,058 given the new legislative requirements. Total renewable energy 759,373 768,351 761,077 Refrigerants, kg 2015 2016 2017 District heating, non-­ HFCs 2,908.35 2,828.46 3,260.62 renewable 17,242 19,814 17,305 Oil 11,952 12,526 8,843 Gas 6,507 6,921 3,116 GRI 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupaTotal non-renewable energy 35,701 39,261 29,264 tional diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and Total (GJ) 795,074 807,611 790,340 number of work-related fatalities We offer all of our employees industrial injury, group life and healthcare insurance. We also make use of occupaGRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions tional health services where necessary. All of our employHere we show emissions made up of direct emissions and ees who work in environments with an increased risk of emissions from our own production of heating. We use the contagious diseases are offered vaccinations. Swedish Environmental Protection Agency model to calculate our total CO2 emissions. Here we show emissions During the year, 16 work environment incidents were resulting from the use of oil, gas, pellets and bio oil use. reported in our incident reporting system. In 2016, 16 work CO2 eq emissions from combustion have been retrieved environment incidents were reported and 22 during 2015. from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, Registered work environment incidents cover high-risk http://www.naturvardsverket.se/Stod-i-miljoarbetet/ conditions, near-accidents and injuries suffered by Vagledningar/Luft-och-klimat/Berakna-dina-klimatutemployees, consultants and contractors, and this reportslapp/ The CO2 eq used for oil is 267.3g CO2 eq/kWh, for ing makes us better able to take preventive measures. gas 161.7g CO2 eq/kWh, for biogas 0 g CO2 eq/kWh, for pellets 7.1g CO2 eq/kWh and for RME 8.1g CO2 eq/kWh. Work-related accidents, near ­accidents and injuries 2015 2016 2017 Number of serious near accidents 2015 2016 2017 reported 0 1 0 Non-renewable energy 1,216.5 1,237.6 796.54 Number of serious accidents Renewable energy 42.6 33.8 38.51 reported 0 0 0 Total 1,259.2 1,271.5 835.1 Number of work-related accidents classified as work-related injuries that resulted in absence due to i­ llness 1 0 1 GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Number of work-related accidents classified as work-related illness 0 1 1 Here we report emissions made up of indirect emissions from purchased electricity and heating, using the market­The organisation is not split into regions and we do not based approach. Each year, we update the CO2 equivahave access to accident statistics broken down by gender. lents that we use when calculating CO2 emissions. The No work-related fatalities occurred during 2015–2017. We ­calculation of carbon dioxide emissions resulting from our comply with Swedish legislation when recording and use of district heating was based on supplier information reporting accident statistics. Because the number of regarding the fuel mix used in delivering the major pro­ work-related accidents is so low, we do not find it meaningportion of district heating to us during the year. The inforful to report accident ratios or ratios regarding work-­ mation is taken from https://www.energiforetagen.se/ related illnesses. pressrum/nyheter/2017/juni/fjarrvarmens­-­lokalaSPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 56 RESPONSIBILIT Y AND GOVERNANCE Absence due to illness, % of total The proportion of employees with a foreign background is working hours 2015 2016 2017 reported on page 32. The composition of the Board, execMen 1.84% 2.78% 1.05% utive management and employees is broken down by genWomen 4.95% 2.14% 3.44% der and age group. To enable comparisons with previous All employees 2.74% 2.60% 2.73% years, we report the distribution in the age groups 20–29, 30–39, 40–49, 50–59 and 60–69. Absence due to illness only refers to our employees, not consultants, contractors or their subcontractors. We do Number of people on the Board including alternates and not report their absence due to illness separately as exter­management nal human resources report any absence to their own 2015: Executive management: 5 women, 3 men. employer and not to us. Board: 6 women, 5 men. 2016: Executive management: 5 women, 3 men. GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies Board: 5 women, 6 men. and employees 2017: Executive management: 5 women, 3 men. The compositions of the Board and executive manageBoard: 5 women, 6 men. ment are presented in more detail on pages 66–67 and 68. Gender and age breakdown, Board, management and employees Board, including alternates 20–29 30–39 40–49 50–59 60–69 Total Average age 2015 Women 0% 17% 17% 67% 0% 55% 48 Men 0% 0% 0% 60% 40% 45% 57 Total 0% 9% 9% 64% 18% 52 2016 Women 0% 20% 20% 20% 40% 45% 51 Men 0% 0% 0% 67% 33% 55% 58 Total 0% 9% 9% 45% 36% 54 2017 Women 0% 20% 20% 20% 40% 45% 52 Men 0% 0% 0% 67% 33% 55% 59 Total 0% 9% 9% 45% 36% 55 Management 20–29 30–39 40–49 50–59 60–69 Total Average age 2015 Women 0% 0% 60% 40% 0% 63% 47 Men 0% 0% 33% 67% 0% 38% 51 Total 0% 0% 50% 50% 0% 49 2016 Women 0% 0% 60% 40% 0% 63% 49 Men 0% 0% 0% 100% 0% 38% 53 Total 0% 0% 38% 63% 0% 51 2017 Women 0% 0% 40% 60% 0% 63% 50 Men 0% 0% 0% 100% 0% 38% 54 Total 0% 0% 25% 75% 0% 52 Employees 20–29 30–39 40–49 50–59 60–69 Total Average age 2015 Women 5% 21% 40% 32% 3% 30% 45 Men 4% 17% 27% 46% 7% 70% 48 Total 5% 18% 31% 41% 6% 47 2016 Women 0% 23% 36% 38% 3% 30% 46 Men 2% 14% 28% 43% 12% 70% 48 Total 2% 17% 31% 42% 9% 48 2017 Women 2% 17% 33% 45% 2% 29% 46 Men 3% 19% 27% 36% 15% 71% 48 Total 3% 18% 29% 39% 11% 47 Position Women Men Total CEO 1 0 1 Accounting and Finance 10 4 14 Purchasing, IT and Quality* 8 5 13 Management support (HR/Security/ internal control/­E xecutive Assistant to the CEO, Communication) 8 1 9 Business areas 1 5 6 Property management 6 68 74 Projects & Development 8 19 27 Total 42 102 144 * In 2017, Operational support changed name to Purchasing, IT and Quality. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T RESPONSIBILIT Y AND GOVERNANCE 57 Assurance Report Auditor’s limited assurance report on Special­fastig­heter Sverige AB’s (publ) ­Sustainability Report. To Special­fastig­heter Sverige AB (publ) Introduction The audit firm applies the International Standard on Quality We have been engaged by the Board of Special­fastig­heter Control (ISQC) 1 and, accordingly, has a comprehensive Sverige AB (publ) to undertake a limited assurance system for quality control comprising documented guideengagement of Special­fastig­heter’s Sustainability Report lines and routines for complying with ethical requirements, for 2017. The company has defined the Sustainability professional standards, and applicable laws and regulaReport’s scope to the sections referenced in the GRI index tions. We are independent of Special­fastig­heter Sverige AB on page 52. (publ) in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulﬁlled our ethical Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. the Executive Management for the Sustainability Report Consequently, the procedures performed in a limited The Board and executive management are responsible for assurance engagement do not enable us to obtain assurthe preparation and presentation of the Sustainability ance that we would become aware of all significant matters Report in accordance with the applicable criteria that might be identified in a reasonable assurance described on page 50 in the Sustainability Report comprisengagement. ing the applicable parts of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines issued by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), Accordingly, the conclusion based on a limited assurance as well as the accounting and calculation principles that the engagement does not have the same degree of certainty company has developed and disclosed. This responsibility as a reasonable assurance conclusion. also includes the internal controls considered necessary for preparing a Sustainability Report that does not contain Our review is based on the criteria defined above and material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error. ­chosen by the Board and executive management. We ­consider these criteria suitable for the preparation of the Responsibilities of the Auditor Sustainability Report. We believe that the evidence we Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance concluhave obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide sion on the Sustainability Report based on the procedures a basis for our conclusion below. we have performed. Conclusion We have conducted our limited assurance engagement in Based on the limited assurance procedures we have peraccordance with ISAE 3000 Assurance Engagements formed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Inforto believe that the Sustainability Report is not prepared, in mation issued by IAASB, and in accordance with RevR 6 all material respects, in accordance with the criteria defined Assurance of Sustainability Reports issued by FAR. A limby the Board of Directors and Executive Management. ited assurance engagement consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Stockholm, 15 March 2018 Sustainability Report, and applying analytical and other limited assurance procedures. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature from, Ernst & Young AB and are less extensive than for, a reasonable assurance engagement conducted in accordance with IAASB’s StanMikael Ikonen Marianne Förander dards on Auditing and Quality Control and other generally Authorised Public Accountant Expert accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Accountant Member of FAR SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 58 Stockholm police headquarters, Kronoberg, Stockholm SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T RESPONSIBILIT Y AND GOVERNANCE 59 Corporate Governance Report Message from the Chairman It is therefore pleasing to Special­fastig­heter is a company wholly owned by the note a downturn in staff state. This entails a special responsibility. Our owner turnover and an upturn in – the nation’s citizens – have the right to expect that diversity. we always act in a manner that inspires confidence and which meets the high standards demanded of a The extensive efforts to sustainable business operation. The state’s ownership develop the company’s policy forms the basis of the Board’s governance. This governance and follow-up means that we comply with the Swedish Corporate have continued and have, Governance Code. for example, lead to building up a control unit. In the autumn, the Board decided An organisational analysis completed at the start of to appoint a Deputy CEO and CFO Kristina Ferenius the year found that confidence in the CEO, which was received this supplementary title from 1 January 2018. already strong, had improved further, that the management group is now working more strategically and The Board has discussed the formats for internal conthat information to employees had increased. Howtrol and internal audit. The Board decides on whether ever, communication and collaboration between the to adopt the internal control plan prepared by the CEO. units needed to be developed and therefore several activities were completed to improve it. The 2017 Board evaluation has shown that the Board, as in previous years, discharged its duties well and Continued intense competition for employees means that collaboration between the Board and the CEO is Special­fastig­heter has continued to work on its proexcellent. According to the evaluation, additional time active skills sourcing strategy. Among other actions, for analysing business intelligence in the property secthis has entailed further leadership development, skills tor and with customers is desirable. development in property management, recruitment of specialists and investments in increased diversity. Bo Lundgren, Chairman of the Board Corporate governance at Special­fastig­heter operations is a natural part of the long-term business stratSpecial­fastig­heter Sverige AB is characterized by the comegy and business development. Sustainability activities pany’s ability – from a sustainable social perspective – to are reported in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core create well-functioning principles and processes that option. During the year, efforts focused on increasing enable the efficient and controlled management, leaderawareness and skills among managers and employees in ship and development of operations. Special­fastig­heter’s relation to diversity. We have also conducted a risk analysis corporate governance report forms part of the statutory pertaining to human rights to gain an understanding of annual report. any such rights we risk violating, the consequences of such violations and how we can prevent this. Our risk manageState ownership ment enables us to identify threats and opportunities and, Special­fastig­heter Sverige AB is a Swedish limited liability based on this, the company’s overarching strategy areas company wholly owned by the Swedish state. The owner and goals are established. We apply the Swedish Corpogoverns Special­fastig­heter through the General Meeting rate Governance Code, (the Code) (www.corporategoverof shareholders and the Board of Directors in accordance nanceboard.se). In accordance with the Comply or Explain with the Swedish Companies Act, the Articles of Associaprinciple of the Code, the government has justified deviation and the instructions in the form of the state’s ownertions in certain matters. ship policy and other guidelines adopted by the government (www.regeringen.se). Based on this, Special­fastig­heter deviates from the Code as follows: Corporate governance • The owner’s guidelines mean that the Code rules conSpecial­fastig­heter’s corporate governance is based on cerning the preparation of decisions on the nomination Swedish legislation and regulations, and the state’s ownerof Board members and auditors are replaced by a speship policy stipulates that state-owned companies must cial process for state-owned companies. act in an exemplary manner in the field of sustainable • The independence of the members of the Board in relaenterprise and otherwise act in a manner that inspires pubtion to the state as a major shareholder is only reported lic confidence. Integrating a sustainability approach into in relevant listed companies. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 60 RESPONSIBILIT Y AND GOVERNANCE Corporate governance and reporting Appoints Reports to Shareholder Swedish state 100% Articles of Association General meeting of shareholders External auditor Remuneration Committee Board of Directors Audit and Finance Committee Accounting, Treasury Internal audit and Financial Control and internal control CEO Security Quality HR Management Strategic IT Communication Strategic Sourcing Business areas Property management Projects & Development • According to the Code, the CEO may be a member of changes to the Articles of Association, and approves the the Board but not its Chairman. The government considSustainability Report. The general meeting has not authoers it important to separate the Board’s and the CEO’s rised the Board to decide on whether the company shall roles. Accordingly, the CEO may not be a member of issue new shares or acquire its own shares. the Board. • Special­fastig­heter has no internal audit function indeThe Board is responsible for convening the general meetpendent from management as described under rule 7.3 ing of shareholders. The Board proposes guidelines to the of the Code. When audit requirements are identified by AGM for the remuneration of senior executives for the Board, these are procured externally from indepenapproval, and reports on whether guidelines decided dent auditors. The principal reason for these deviations upon previously have been adhered to and the reasons for from the Code is that Special­fastig­heter has only one any deviations. Special­fastig­heter calls an AGM no earlier owner, while the Code is mainly aimed at listed compathan six weeks and no later than four weeks before the nies with dispersed ownership. meeting. The company provides information on its website regarding the time and place for the AGM in conjuncArticles of Association tion with the interim report for the third quarter, which is Because the state owns 100% of the company, there is no normally at the end of October. regulation governing shareholding per shareholder contained in the Articles of Association. The Articles of AssociThe 2017 AGM was held on 24 April. The AGM was open ation lack specific regulations on the appointment and disand the general public was invited to attend together with missal of Board members or on changes to the Articles of other specially invited persons such as members of the Association. The Articles of Association are approved at Swedish parliament, customers and other stakeholders general meetings of shareholders and are available in their who were given the opportunity to pose questions and entirety on the company’s external website. receive answers. The owner was represented by Department Secretary Gustaf Hygrell from the Government General meeting of shareholders Offices of Sweden. The 2018 AGM will be held on 17 April. Special­fastig­heter’s highest decision-making body is the Documents prior to, and minutes from our AGMs are availgeneral meeting of shareholders. The Annual General able on Special­fastig­heter’s external website. Meeting (AGM), which is held within four months of the end of the financial year, considers the progress of the Board composition and working method company and passes resolutions on a number of central The Board is responsible for ensuring that companies in issues, such as the election of Board members and audiwhich the state participates are managed in an exemplary tors, adoption of the company’s balance sheets and fashion within the framework provided by legislation, the income statements, the distribution of profits and discompany’s Articles of Association, the state’s ownership charge from liability of the members of the Board and the policy and any other owner instructions. CEO. The AGM also decides on financial targets and SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T RESPONSIBILIT Y AND GOVERNANCE 61 Board nomination process Newly elected Board members are introduced to the comFor wholly state-owned companies, the following principany’s business focus, market, policies and systems for ples replace the rules of the Code regarding the preparainternal control and risk management. During 2017, tion of decisions on the appointment of Board members Special­fastig­heter’s Board consisted of seven members and auditors: elected by the general meeting and two full members and • Uniform and common principles for a structured Board two alternates appointed by the employee organisations. nomination process are applied. The aim is to ensure an Erik Tranaeus, Investment Director at the Ministry of Entereffective supply of skills and expertise to the companies’ prise and Innovation, has been co-opted for the period boards. covering Ulrika Nordström’s maternity leave from June. • The nomination process is coordinated by the unit for company analysis and corporate governance at the MinIndependence requirement istry of Enterprise and Innovation. The state’s ownership policy states that nominations to the • A working group analyses needs for skills and expertise Board must be published in accordance with Code’s on the basis of the company’s operations, situation and guidelines, with the exception of reporting independence future challenges as well as the composition of the in relation to major shareholders. The reason why the comBoards concerned. Any recruiting needs are then deterpany must report Board member independence is primarmined and recruitment process begins. ily to protect minority shareholders in companies with dispersed ownership. Wholly state-owned companies thus • Members are selected from a broad recruitment base lack such reasons for reporting independence. with the aim of making best use of the skills and expertise of men and women alike, as well as people with difThe work of the Board ferent backgrounds and experience. The Board is responsible for managing the company within the confines of the law and in accordance with the owner’s A more detailed description of the nomination process long-term interests. Corporate governance is conducted can be found in the state ownership policy. Once the profrom a social perspective and safeguards the company’s cess is completed, nominations are published in accorvalue-creating abilities in the long term. The Board bears dance with the Code. the ultimate responsibility for the organisation and administration of the company. The most important policy docuBoard composition ments are: The owner’s point of departure when nominating each of • Articles of Association the Board members is the Board’s skills requirement based • Minutes from general meetings on the relevant issues for the company. Board members must continuously acquire knowledge about the company • The state’s ownership policy and other guidelines that is necessary for the assignment. According to the Arti• Rules of procedure for the Board, instructions for the cles of Association, Special­fastig­heter’s Board may comallocation of work between the Board and the CEO, prise no fewer than three and not more than ten members instructions for financial reporting and policies adopted elected by the general meeting. The employee organisaby the Board During 2017, the Board held one statutory tions have the right to appoint a total of two full members meeting and eight scheduled Board meetings. and two alternate members. Board members are elected for one year at a time. Board member attendance at Board meetings in 2017 is presented in the table below. Board composition and attendance in 2017 Board and committee Board Remuneration Audit and Finance Elected, year fee, SEK thousand meetings Committee Committee Bo Lundgren, Chairman 2013 258 9/9 4/4 Jan Berg 2009 150 9/9 5/5 Carin Götblad 2013 130 8/9 4/4 Eva Landén1 2014 160 9/9 5/5 Mikael Lundström 2013 130 9/9 4/4 Ulrika Nordström2 2015 4/9 2/4 2/5 Erik Tranaeus 3 5/9 2/4 3/5 Maj-Charlotte Wallin 2016 150 8/8 4/5 Masoomeh Antonsson4 2013 9/9 Roger Törngren5 2011 8/9 Tomas Edström 6 2013 8/9 Erik Ydreborg7 2016 9/9 1) Chairman of the Audit and Finance Committee 2) Maternity leave from June to December 2017 3) Co-opted during Ulrika Nordström’s maternity leave 4) Employee representative 5) Employee representative 6) Alternate employee representative 7) Alternate employee representative SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 62 RESPONSIBILIT Y AND GOVERNANCE Agenda items during the year During 2017, the issues addressed by the Board included the following: February March April •T  he state’s ownership policy and other • Decision on the 2016 Annual Report and • Adoption of the interim accounts and guidelines for state-owned companies Sustainability Report interim report •A  uditors’ report on internal control and • Preparation of rules of procedure for the • Statutory Board meeting and adopthe annual accounts Board and its committees, and CEO’s tion of the Board’s rules of procedure •D  ecision on annual accounts for 2016 instruction including the CEO’s instruction and including proposed dividend • Preparation of policies instructions for financial reporting, rules of procedure for the Remunera•D  ecision to refrain from a Group contri• Adoption of guidelines for remuneration tion Committee, rules of procedure for bution and a shareholder contribution of senior executives the Audit and Finance Committee and • Decision to set a ceiling for borrowings • Decision on the notice regarding the 2017 approval of delegation arrangements. • Decision on investments and sales AGM for the 2016 financial year • Adoption of company-wide policies, • Decision on auditors • Decision on investments and sales the Supplier Code of Conduct and the Code of Conduct • Management of housing lets January February March • Decision on investments • Internal control plan 2017 April November December December •R  eview of risks and risk management June • Discussion with the management •C  apital structure and dividend forecast May regarding business and communica•O  verview of company insurance policies tion strategies •E  valuation of the Board, the CEO and • Decision on investments and sales internal control •A  doption of the 2018–2022 business plan June October and the 2018–2019 budget •P  roposals for election of external auditors September August July July • Decision on the need for independent • Adoption of the interim accounts internal audit and interim report •F  ield trips • Decision on sales • Auditors’ Q2 report October September • Discussion regarding forthcoming business plans • Follow-up of the business plan •A  doption of the interim accounts and interim report • Report on personnel issues •P  reliminary capital structure and dividend • Follow-up of the internal control plan (current year) •Y  ield requirement for energy projects • Adoption of the annual plans for committee and Board meetings in 2018 •D  ecision on increased scope for commercial paper • Discussion of risks and risk management • I nvestment decisions • Risk analysis of human rights • Decision to appoint a Deputy CEO • Decision on acquisitions and sales The work of the Board takes place in accordance with the and the highest loan amount. The Board appoints the rules of procedure adopted annually at the statutory meetCEO and approves any significant positions the CEO may ing of the new Board following the AGM. The rules of prooccupy outside the company. When the company is faced cedure govern the delegation arrangements within the with especially important decisions, the Board, acting company as well as the procedure for Board meetings, through its Chairman, must coordinate its view with reprereporting instructions and the allocation of work between sentatives for the owner and present it in writing prior to the Board, its Chairman, the CEO and Board committees. a Board decision. The work of the Board focuses on strategic issues, such as the focus of operations, material policies, market, finance Audit and Finance Committee and economics, major investments, risks, personnel and The Audit and Finance Committee includes at least three leadership, internal control and efficiency, and sustainable members appointed by the Board of which one is the development in regard to financial, environmental and Committee’s Chairman. The CEO and CFO also particisocietal responsibility. During the year, the Board adopted pate in the Committee, along with other company reprepolicies in respect of finance, sustainability, information sentatives when deemed necessary. The principal assignsecurity, purchasing, communications, quality, security ments according to the adopted rules of procedure and insiders. Other important policy documents adopted include supervising the company’s financial reporting, by the Board are the business plan including the budget, preparing quarterly reports for adoption by the Board, SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T RESPONSIBILIT Y AND GOVERNANCE 63 supervising the efficiency of the company’s internal conThe Board’s evaluation of its own work trols and risk management with regard to financial reportThe work of the Board is subject to annual evaluation. ing, supervising the company’s work with capital structure Work undertaken in 2017 was evaluated by means of an and other financing issues including the management of online questionnaire. The evaluation also includes a meafinancial risks and, together with company management, surement of how effectively internal controls are perceived the preparation of financing matters, finance strategy and to function in the company. The results of the evaluation policies for adoption by the Board. The Committee is will be compiled, discussed and reported to Committees, obliged to prepare minutes of its meetings and make the the Board and the owner. minutes available to the Board. During 2017, the Committee held five scheduled meetings. Committee member CEO attendance is shown in the table “Board composition and The CEO must ensure that the Board receives reports conattendance during 2017.” cerning the progress of Special­fastig­heter’s operations in respect of such matters as the company’s earnings trend, Remuneration Committee financial position and liquidity, information on the status of The Board appointed a Remuneration Committee that major projects, the efficiency of internal controls and includes the Chairman of the Board and a minimum of an important events. Reports must be structured in such a additional two members specially appointed by the Board. way that the Board is able to make well-founded assessThe CEO is present at Committee meetings as the ments. An instruction regarding the allocation of work recorder and the company’s HR Director usually particibetween the Board and CEO, and which clarifies the distripates. The Remuneration Committee’s principal task bution of responsibilities and reporting, is approved annuaccording to the adopted rules of procedure, is to prepare ally. The CEO does not serve as a Board member. matters for the Board regarding remuneration, remuneration principles and other terms of employment for the CEO The most important policy guidelines that must be and other members of company management, monitor approved by the CEO include the company’s strategies, and evaluate the application of guidelines for remuneraoperational goals, information security, risk management, tion of senior executives as resolved by the AGM and delegation arrangements, continuity planning, law lists applicable succession planning, remuneration structures (information concerning the most important changes in and levels on an overall level in the company. The commitlegislation that affect the work environment, the environtee must follow up and evaluate the application of these ment and construction), Code of Conduct and Supplier guidelines. The meetings must be minuted and the minCode of Conduct. utes provided to the Board. Auditors The Committee held five scheduled meetings during 2017. Auditors are elected by the owner at the AGM. The Board Committee member attendance is shown in the table presents proposals for the election of auditors to the AGM “Board composition and attendance during 2017.” based on a recommendation from the Board’s Audit and Finance Committee. The proposals for the appointment of Remuneration of senior executives auditors are drafted in accordance with the rules conSalaries and other benefits to personnel in company mantained in the EU Audit Regulation and Directive and are agement positions must be reasonable and competitive. published in accordance with Code’s guidelines. Remuneration must follow, not lead, current market trends. This is achieved through comparisons with other Ernst & Young AB were elected as auditors at the 2017 AGM relevant companies. Remuneration must be characterised with Mikael Ikonen as auditor in charge. The election took by moderation, prudence, be well balanced and contribplace for the period up until the close of the 2018 AGM. ute to good ethics and corporate culture, and reflect the responsibility the work entails. The company has no variPresentation of auditor; refer to page 67. able salaries or any forms of incentive programmes. The CEO has a defined-contribution pension plan. Pension The auditors elected by the AGM perform an annual terms for other senior executives follow an ITP (supplereview of the internal control. The auditors reported to the mentary pension) plan; employees engaged after 2013 Board twice and to the Audit and Finance Committee on have a defined-contribution pension plan. four occasions in 2017. In addition to the regular audit, Ernst & Young AB conducts annual examinations at our For information regarding salaries and remuneration, refer offices. to Note 7, Consolidated Financial Statements. The review of Special­fastig­heter’s 2017 Sustainability During 2017, the company adhered to the employment conReport was conducted by Ernst & Young AB. The report dition guidelines for senior executives adopted by the genwas assured by Authorised Public Accountant Mikael eral meeting of shareholders. The Board proposes that the Ikonen and Marianne Förander, Expert Member of FAR. company continue to follow these guidelines during 2018. For information regarding auditor fees, refer to Note 5, Remuneration of the Board Consolidated Financial Statements. Information regarding remuneration of Board members approved by the 2017 AGM is available in the annual report, Note 7, Consolidated Financial Statements. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 64 RESPONSIBILIT Y AND GOVERNANCE Description of internal control and risk management regarding financial reporting Control Risk Control Information and ­environment assessment activities communication Monitoring and development This description has been prepared in accordance with the Our management system forms an important part of our Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the Code, and is therecontrol environment and aims to ensure we work in line fore limited to how internal control over financial reporting with our assignment and our business model. Leading is organised. The Board’s statement regarding internal govoperations with the aid of a management system entails ernance and control is based on the framework document a systematic focus on customers (external and internal), COSO (The Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the a process-oriented approach and driving constant Treadway Commission). Internal control is undertaken not improvement efforts. Our system controls our working just through regulations and instructions but primarily by method through clear processes and policy documents staff at every level of the organisation. The internal control that are linked to each process. Special­fastig­heter’s system for financial reporting seeks to provide reasonable manage­ment system is certified for information security assurance that the company’s external reporting is comaccording to the ISO/IEC 27001:2013 standard. A periodic plete and correct. The aim of the internal control is to limit audit of the certification was carried out in May and no the risks of irregularities occurring that would affect the deviations were reported. view or assessment of the company’s financial results and position, ability to meet set business objectives and/or the Every year, a number of internal operational audits of the owner’s expectations of the company. It is therefore management system take place. These are not indepenimportant that internal control over financial reporting be dent internal audits according to the Code, but audits that adapted to the company’s risk assessment. The Board concomply with ISO standards. Special­fastig­heter has trained siders Special­fastig­heter to have well-structured accountinternal auditors among its employees, who audit our proing and financial management and internal controls. cesses and policies to check how effectively these function and are complied with. The internal auditors also contribControl environment ute to the dissemination of information about our manageThe basis for internal control over financial reporting is the ment system and they form an important part of the learncontrol environment comprising the organisation, its culing organization and efforts for constant improvements. ture, and decision paths, powers and responsibilities docuThe internal audit aims to ensure compliance with legislamented and communicated in policy documents such as tion, regulations, internal rules and best practices. The company policies, guidelines and instructions. Special­ CFO, head of finance and controllers provide support for fastig­heter’s internal controls are aimed at identifying, meainternal controls in business planning, financial calculasuring and minimising risks in the operation. The controls tions, analyses and follow-ups. The company’s IT manager comprise both preventive and controlling components. provides IT support and access and supervises IT system access, security and authorisations. The company has a Rules of procedure between the Board and CEO provide a whistle-blower function to enable attention to be drawn clear allocation of responsibilities to ensure good internal anonymously to irregularities. controls. Responsibility for maintaining an effective control environment and the day-to-day internal control work Risk assessment and risk management is delegated to the CEO through the Assessments regarding the risk of errors in the financial rules of procedure. The allocation of responsibility and reporting are made by the Board, management, the units delegation within the company are further clarified in our and the external auditors. A risk analysis seeks to identify delegation arrangements. Company-wide policies are processes where the risk of substantial errors in financial approved by the Board and updated at least once a year. reporting is greatest. Special­fastig­heter’s risks are Internal guidelines and instructions are decided by the described on pages 45–49. Our risk analysis tool helps us CEO, or the individual the CEO has delegated these powsystematically identify, analyse, evaluate and follow-up ers to, and are updated on an ongoing basis. risks at every level on an ongoing basis. The risk analyses are reviewed and analysed in turn, and management During the year, the Audit and Finance Committee followed assesses risks from a company perspective. up and supervised the financial reporting and efficiency of the company’s internal controls and risk management. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T RESPONSIBILIT Y AND GOVERNANCE 65 Control activities Monitoring and development Activities that are drawn up based on the risk analysis aim Monitoring takes place on an ongoing basis at several levto manage significant risks identified to eliminate or limit els within the company. The budget is approved annually the occurrence or effects of said risks. The Board and manby the Board, which receives financial reports and reconcilagement are informed about compliance with policy dociations from company management on a quarterly basis at uments and processes, and the effectiveness of the cona minimum in connection with interim reports. The compatrol structures. The management system contains the ny’s external auditors report their observations from processes that show how Special­fastig­heter should proreviews and their assessment of internal controls to the ceed and the controls that must be performed. Special­ Audit and Finance Committee and the Board at the schedfastig­heter’s documented allocation of responsibilities, uled autumn meeting, the final audit and as necessary. decision-making and delegation arrangements permeate This takes place in the presence of company management all of our processes. IT controls that support processes and or not, as the case may be. In the business plan and influence internal controls are created in our computer sysaccount closing processes, management regularly carries tems. There are also well-functioning internal reporting out reconciliations and follow-ups of operations. In order procedures. to ensure uniform financial reporting, there is an approved report plan. In order to ensure financial reporting regarding the company’s income and expenses follow internal guidelines and Follow-ups of completed investment projects are preinstructions, analyses and crosschecks are carried out by sented to the Board on an ongoing basis during the year. the internal auditors at various levels in the organisation, The company’s external auditors continually report the for example, in respect of deviations from approved plans results of reviews performed, actions to be taken and the and previous outcomes. During the year, we improved status of the latter to company management. Activities and controls in our purchasing process. Control activities are action plans stemming from risk management are followed also implemented in the processes specified in the internal up on an ongoing basis. When necessary, Special­fastig­ control plan, with the objective of developing the proheter engages external consultants to scrutinise and folcesses and preventing, detecting and correcting any low-up areas for the purpose of discovering opportunities errors or deviations. for improvement, any discrepancies and/or irregularities. The results of audits, follow-ups and risk analyses carried Information and communication out are reported to the CEO and company management. The company’s policy documents in the form of internal guidelines and instructions regarding financial reporting, Internal audit are updated on an ongoing basis by process owners and Special­fastig­heter has no internal audit function indepenmanagement and made available and known to employdent from management as described under rule 7.3 of the ees via our internal information and communications chanCode. When audit requirements are identified by the nels. Special­fastig­heter’s management system and Board, these are procured externally from independent intranet contain information that enables rapid communiauditors. The Board considers the follow-up reported by cation with all employees to inform them of new rules and the CEO, internal controls and internal audits in the manguidelines regarding financial reporting. All of our staff agement system in accordance with this document combear responsibility for keeping up-to-date with rules and bined with the review by the external auditors, to be suffiregulations and for complying with our guidelines. The cient to ensure that internal control over financial reporting Board regularly receives reports and financial information is effective, and does not contain any significant errors. from the CEO and external auditors. Special­fastig­heter The internal business audit described in this report concomplies with the guidelines for external reporting cerns only the audit of the company’s management system described in the state’s ownership policy. Reporting based on the requirements of the standards the company according to GRI Standards helps us clearly communicate adheres to. our sustainability. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 66 RESPONSIBILIT Y AND GOVERNANCE Board of Directors Bo Lundgren Jan Berg Carin Götblad Chairman of the Board Own consultancy Regional Police Commissioner Own business Elected 2009 Elected 2013 Elected 2013 Other board assignments Other board assignments Other board assignments Board member of Agenta Investment Board member of Interpeace and the Chairman of SVEDAB, Öresundsbrokon­Management AB Beridna Högvakten sortiet, Sparbankernas Riksförbund, SparPrevious experience Previous experience banksstiftelsen Finn, Lundgren & Hagren AB, Head of Credit, Venantius AB, Police Commissioner, Stockholm County, Vice Chairman of Sparbanken Skåne Project Manager, Securum AB Gotland County and Varmland; General Previous experience Counsel, SiS; Chief clerk, district court; legal Education Director, Swedish National Debt Office, counsel, Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Graduate in Engineering, CTH 2004–2013, Cabinet Minister, 1991–1994, Society, Swedish Psychological Association; Member of the Swedish Riksdag 1976–2004 Born National Board of Health and Welfare coordi1953 nator against violence in close relationships Education Graduate in Economics, Lund University, Education National Police Board Chief of Police proHonorary Dr. in Economics gramme, Bachelor of Laws, FBI, Preschool Born teacher programme 1947 Born 1956 Eva Landén Mikael Lundström Ulrika Nordström CEO of Corem Property Group AB (publ) CEO, NAI Svefa AB Department Secretary, Ministry of Enterprise Elected 2014 Elected 2013 and Innovation, Other board assignments Other board assignments Elected 2015 Board member of Klövern AB (publ) Board member of Elof Hansson Holding AB, Other board assignments AB Göta kanalbolag. Chairman of Värderings­ None Previous experience data AB, Fasticon AB Authorised Public Accountant, PwC, Previous experience CFO Bonnier Cityfastigheter, Previous experience Consultant, Boston Consulting Group; CFO Corem Property Group AB CEO, Akademiska Hus AB, Investment Manager, Government Offices Deputy CEO, Jones Lang LaSalle AB, of Sweden Education Head of Market Area, Skandia Fastigheter MSc Business and Economics, Uppsala Education AB, Head of Administration, NCC Fastig­ ­University. heter AB BSc Economics, SSE Born Education Born 1965 Graduate in engineering, KTH Royal Institute 1982 of Technology Born 1961 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T RESPONSIBILIT Y AND GOVERNANCE 67 Employee Representative Employee Representative Maj-Charlotte Wallin Masoomeh Antonsson Roger Törngren Own business Employee Representative Employee Representative Elected 2016 Appointed 2013 Appointed 2011 Other board assignments Other board assignments Other board assignments Board member of the Swedish Heart-Lung None None Foundation and the Fourth Swedish National Previous experience Previous experience Pension Fund Consultant, Ibitec, Property Management Engineer, Special­ Previous experience Consultant, Invid, ­ fastig­heter, Service Technician, Vasakronan, CEO of AFA Försäkring, Deputy CEO Alecta Consultant, Qurius Project programmer, control systems, pensionsförsäkring, CEO Jones Lang LaSalle Education TASAB. AMS AB, CEO Nordbanken Fastigheter AB, Systems analyst, Orebro University Education Adm. Manager Bredenberg & Co AB, ConControl systems/operations technology, troller Nordbanken Finans AB Born 1975 Qualified property management Education Born BSc Economics, SSE 1965 Born 1953 Employee Representative Employee Representative Auditor Tomas Edström Erik Ydreborg Mikael Ikonen Alternate member for Employee Alternate member for Employee Auditor in Charge, ­Representative ­Representative Ernst & Young AB Appointed 2013 Appointed 2016 Other significant audit assignOther board assignments Other board assignments ments Chairman, Central Sweden Volleyball None Bonava AB, D. Carnegie & Co AB, ­A ssociation, Manomet Rock AB Previous experience Corem Property Group AB, Hemsö Previous experience Industrial floor installer, building mainteAB, Slättö Förvaltning AB Head of Operations, AB Tierpsbyggen, Asset nance technician, service technician Born Manager, Sundsvall’s municipality Education 1963 Education High School Engineer, four-year electrical Mechanical engineer power studies Born Born 1964 1967 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 68 RESPONSIBILIT Y AND GOVERNANCE Management Åsa Hedenberg Torbjörn Blücher Christina Burlin Göran Cumlin CEO Business Director Sweden Human Resources Director Projects and Development Previous experience Previous experience: Previous experience Director CEO, Huge Fastigheter AB; CEO, Head of Property Unit, Swedish Personnel Director, Swedish Previous experience Uppsala hem AB; Market Area Fortifications Agency; Property Maritime Administration; Group Property Manager, SollentunaManager AP Fastigheter; Head Manager, Malmstaden AB (subPersonnel Director, Ostgota hem; Technical Manager, Stockof Development Properties, sidiary of Tornet Group); Property Correspondenten; Personnel holm Student Housing (SSSB); SEB Asset Management; PropManager, Prevoluta AB Director, SAAB Civil Aircraft Regional Manager, SWECO erty Manager, Hantverksoch Education Education Project Management Industri­byggen; Property ManTechnical structural engineer Bachelor of Arts Study Board assignments ager, Skanska Fastigheter AB programme in personnel manVice Chairman, SSSB Born Board assignments 1966 agement Education Ledamot Bonava AB, Envac AB Born Graduate in engineering, Royal Employed since Education 2005 1962 Institute of Technology Graduate in engineering, Employed since Born ­Surveyor, Royal Institute of 2012 1963 ­Technology Employed since Born 2015 1961 Employed since 2014 Kristina Ferenius Hanna Janson Henrik Nyström Åsa Welander Deputy CEO and CFO Communication Director Head of Purchasing, IT and Property Management Director Previous experience Previous experience Quality Previous experience Head of Finance, Huge Fastig­ Communications Manager AkaPrevious experience District Manager, Fastighets AB heter AB; CFO Enaco AB; Busidemiska Hus AB region StockHead of Purchasing, Partnertech Forvaltaren; Head of Leasing ness Controller Coor Service holm; Pro tem Communications AB; Strategic Purchasing, EricsBostader Fastighets AB ForvalManagement Sverige AB; CFO Director Akademiska HusAB; son; Strategic Purchasing, SAAB taren; Property Manager, Bygg­ Skanska Guest Relocation AB; Consultant, J KL AB Gothenburg Aircraft Vesta AB Head of Accounts, Swedish and Stockholm Education Education Enforcement Authority in Education Economics (upper secondary Law studies, Stockholm ­Stockholm BSc Economics, SSE school) ­University Education Born Born Born Master’s degree in economics, 1975 1963 1973 Stockholm University Employed since Employed since Employed since Born 2015 2007 2015 1968 Employed since 2015 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S 69 Contents Consolidated income statement 70 Note 1 Parent Company accounting policies 99 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 70 Note 2 Other income 100 Consolidated balance sheet 72 Note 3 Operating expenses 100 Consolidated changes in equity 74 Note 4 Administration 100 Consolidated cash-flow statement 76 Note 5 Auditors’ fees 100 Consolidated five-year summary 77 Note 6 Gain/loss on property sales 100 Note 7 Employees, payroll expenses and Board 100 fees Note 1 Group accounting policies 78 Note 8 Net financial items 100 Note 2 Other income 82 Note 9 Appropriations 100 Note 3 Property expenses 82 Note 10 Taxes 100 Note 4 Administration 82 Note 11 Appropriation of profits and dividend 101 Note 5 Auditors’ fees 82 Note 12 Buildings, building fixtures and fittings, 101 Note 6 Financial income and expenses 82 land, land improvements, in ground Note 7 Employees, payroll expenses and Board 83 ­fixtures and fittings fees Note 13 Construction in progress 102 Note 8 Realised gain/loss on property sales 84 Note 14 Plant and equipment 102 Note 9 Investment properties 85 Note 15 Financial assets 102 Note 10 Taxes 86 Note 16 Current investments 104 Note 11 Other property, plant and equipment 86 Note 17 Current receivables 104 Note 12 Financial investments 86 Note 18 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 104 Note 13 Other receivables 87 Note 19 Cash and cash equivalents 104 Note 14 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 87 Note 20 Untaxed reserves 104 Note 15 Cash and cash equivalents 87 Note 21 Interest-bearing liabilities 104 Note 16 Interest-bearing liabilities 87 Note 22 Other liabilities 104 Note 17 Other liabilities 88 Note 23 Accrued expenses and deferred income 104 Note 18 Accrued expenses and deferred income 88 Note 24 Related parties 104 Note 19 Financial risks and financial policy 89 Note 25 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities 104 Note 20 Related parties 94 Note 26 Events after the balance­sheet date 104 Note 21 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities 94 Note 22 Events after the balance­sheet date 94 Declaration by the Board 105 Parent Company – Income statement 95 Auditor’s Report 106 Parent Company – Statement of comprehensive 95 Property holdings 110 income Definitions Inside cover Parent Company – Balance sheet 96 Reporting calendar Inside cover Parent Company – Changes in equity 97 Annual General Meeting Inside cover Parent Company – Cash-flow statement 98 Addresses Back cover 70 C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Consolidated income statement, SEK million Note Full-year 2017 Full-year 2016 Rental income 1,846 1,751 Other income 2 182 161 Income from property management 2,028 1,912 Property expenses 3 -533 -503 Net operating income 1,495 1,409 Administration 4, 5 -55 -61 Financial income 6 64 85 Financial expenses 6 -137 -164 Profit from property management 7 1,367 1,269 Realised gain on property sales 8 29 4 Change in value of investment properties, unrealised 9 832 865 Change in value of financial instruments, unrealised 6 -63 -38 EBT 2,165 2,100 Tax 10 -446 -462 Net profit for the year 1,719 1,638 Of which attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholder 1,719 1,638  Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, SEK million Full-year 2017 Full-year 2016 Net profit for the year 1,719 1,638 Total other comprehensive income for the year, net after tax – – Total comprehensive income for the year 1,719 1,638 Of which attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholder 1,719 1,638 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S 71 Comments to the income statement Income from property management totalled Net financial expense SEK 73 million (expense: 79) SEK 2,028 m ­ illion (1,912). Net financial items include translations of foreign currency loans in the Rental income increased to SEK 1,846 million (1,751) as a result of new outcomes for 2017 and 2016. For 2017, these resulted in a positive leases. Other income rose to SEK 182 million (161), mainly due to a SEK exchange-rate change of SEK 45 million and, for 2016, a positive 9 million increase in modifications for customers and a rise of SEK 18 exchange-rate change of SEK 66 million. After exclusion of this effect, million in revenue from media. Compensation received was SEK 7 milthe net financial expense was SEK 118 million (expense: 145). Net finanlion lower than in 2016. cial items for the period were lower, primarily due to lower interest rates when renewing loans and from leveraging the low interest-rate Property expenses, SEK 533 million (503) levels for new borrowings. Our property expenses increased due to higher costs for customer modifications of SEK 9 million and a SEK 12 million increase in media Profit from property management, SEK 1,367 million (1,269) costs. In addition, we have agreed compensation of SEK 10 million Altogether, the above resulted in a year-on-year increase in profit from with customers for unforeseen changes pertaining to projects at the property management, where the increase in rental income was the Kronoberg property. single largest reason behind the increase in net operating income. Net operating income, SEK 1,495 million (1,409) Changes in value, SEK 769 million (827) Measured in SEK, net operating income was up year-on-year and was Value changes in investment properties totalled SEK 832 million (865). largely attributable to our increase in rental income. Financial instruments declined in value by SEK 63 million (decrease: 38) for the period. The change in value included a negative exchangeSurplus ratio, 73.7% (73.7) rate change of SEK 45 million (2). The surplus ratio shows the proportion of our revenues that remains after property expenses. Our figures were slightly below our target Tax expense, SEK 446 million (expense: 462) surplus ratio of a minimum 75% due to the increase in revenue from Tax comprised tax paid of SEK 157 million (expense: 142) and a modifications for customers relative to our total income and the lower deferred tax expense of SEK 289 million (expense: 320). margins on this revenue. Net profit, SEK 1,719 million (1,638) The increase was mainly due to higher rental income. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 72 C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Consolidated balance sheet, SEK million Note 2017 2016 ASSETS Non-current assets Investment properties 9 25,002 22,999 Other property, plant and equipment 11 6 9 Derivatives 12, 19 54 86 Other financial investments 12 1,114 956 Other non-current receivables 13 13 10 Total non-current assets 26,189 24,060 Current assets Trade receivables 144 206 Derivatives 12 3 4 Other receivables 13 12 80 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 14 29 18 Cash and cash equivalents 15 465 4 Total current assets 653 312 Total assets 26,842 24,372 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Share capital 200 200 Other contributed capital 616 616 Retained earnings, including net profit for the year 8,250 7,028 Total equity 9,066 7,844 Liabilities Non-current liabilities Green bonds 16, 19 1,244 – Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 16, 19 8,220 8,599 Derivatives 120 88 Deferred tax liabilities 10 2,990 2,701 Total non-current liabilities 12,574 11,388 Current liabilities Current interest-bearing liabilities 16, 19 4,317 4,262 Trade payables 148 164 Tax liability 28 23 Derivatives 27 29 Other liabilities 17 107 120 Accrued expenses and deferred income 18 575 542 Total current liabilities 5,202 5,140 Total liabilities 17,776 16,528 Total equity and liabilities 26,842 24,372 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S 73 Comments to the balance sheet Investments Changes in the value of investment properties Group investments in property projects totalled SEK 728 million (702) Jan–Dec 2017, SEK million for the period. Market value, 31 December 2016 22,999 Acquisitions + Investments incl. capitalised interest expenses 728 We acquired part of the Färöarna 1 property in Kista, Stockholm, + Acquisitions 670 which was thereafter reregistered as Färöarna 6. – Sales -227 Disposals + Unrealised change in value 832 In Q3, we sold Malmö Centralfängelset 1 in Kirseberg and, in Q4, we Market value, 31 December 2017 25,002 divested the Skövde 5:104 and Lygnersvider 1:29 properties. All sales were conducted as property sales. Unrealised changes in value 832 Market valuation of which, change in cost of capital and yield 959 The estimated values of Special­fastig­heter’s investment properties of which, new and renegotiated leases 56 are determined by means of an internal valuation based on actual data of which, change in the remaining term -272 in respect of rents and operating expenses. With regard to reliable rental income, the estimated cost of capital over the contract period of which, other 89 was between 5.00% and 5.25%. Most properties are at 5.25%. The required yield ranges mostly from 5.25% to 9.70% depending on propOther financial investments erty location. The market value was mainly impacted by investments Other financial investments of SEK 1,114 million (956) comprised and acquisitions and amounted to SEK 25,002 million at 31 December ­covered bonds of SEK 1,040 million (897) and cash deposits pursuant 2017. The unrealised changes in value recognised for the period to CSAs of SEK 74 million (59). amounted to SEK 832 million (865). Cash and cash equivalents Consolidated cash and cash equivalents totalled SEK 465 million (4). The increase was due to advance payments of rent. Interest-bearing liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities amounted to SEK 13,781 million (12,861). SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 74 C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Consolidated changes in equity, SEK million Attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholder Other Share contributed Retained Total 2017 capital ­c apital earnings equity Opening balance, 1 January 2017 200 616 7,028 7,844 Comprehensive income Net profit for the year – – 1,719 1,719 Other comprehensive income – – – – Total 200 616 8,747 9,563 Transactions with the shareholder Dividend – – -497 -497 Total transactions with the shareholder – – -497 -497 Closing balance, 31 December 2017 200 616 8,250 9,066 Other Share contributed Retained Total 2016 capital ­c apital earnings equity Opening balance, 1 January 2016 200 616 5,836 6,652 Comprehensive income Net profit for the year – – 1,638 1,638 Other comprehensive income – – – – Total 200 616 7,474 8,290 Transactions with the shareholder Dividend – – -446 -446 Total transactions with the shareholder – – -446 -446 Closing balance, 31 December 2016 200 616 7,028 7,844 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S 75 Equity Capital management Share capital The Board’s financial objective for the Group is to maintain a sound The share capital is divided into 2,000,000 shares with a quotient value capital structure and financial stability, to thereby retain the capital of SEK 100 and with one (1) vote per share, which applies to both the market’s confidence and form the basis for continued development of opening and closing number of shares in the above reporting periods. business operations. The target equity/assets ratio is 25–35% and strategic planning includes adaptation to meet this target. The Board Appropriation of profits aims to preserve a balance between high returns and the advantages The Board proposes that the 2017 Annual General Meeting of Special­ offered by a high level of equity. The Group’s profitability target is for fastig­heter Sverige AB resolve in favour of paying a dividend of SEK net profit, after including changes in value and associated deferred 560 million, or SEK 280 per share, to the owner. The proposed divitax, to correspond to 8% of average equity. Profitability is a variable dend constitutes 60.5% of the company’s equity and 6.2% of the target whose level is adjusted depending on the composition of the Group’s equity and is in line with financial dividend target stipulations. property portfolio. The adjusted return on equity for 2017 was 13.2% (13.7). From 2016, we have changed the calculation of Return on equity The company’s holdings of financial instruments were measured at and Adjusted return on equity to now include net profit for the period fair value in accordance with Chapter 4 Section 14a of the Annual in average equity. We have also restated these key performance indiAccounts Act. This entailed a decrease in equity of SEK 63 million cators retroactively. Over the last five-year period, Special­fastig­ excluding deferred tax, which represented approximately 6.8% of the heter’s adjusted return on equity averaged 12.6%, which well exceeds Parent Company’s equity excluding deferred tax. The proposed divithe Group’s target of 8.0%. Special­fastig­heter’s dividend policy is to dend to the shareholder reduces the Parent Company’s equity/assets distribute 50% of net profit for the year after adding changes in value ratio from 11.6% to 8.8%, and the Group’s equity/assets ratio from and associated deferred tax. The annual resolution on the dividend 33.8% to 32.4%. Group operations are run with stable, healthy profitmust also take into account the Group’s future investment needs and ability, and income is hedged in the long term through long lease financial circumstances. Over the last five years, the dividend has averagreements. In the Board’s assessment, after distribution of the proaged 7.3% (7.0) of equity. The Group will pay an extraordinary dividend posed dividend, the company will continue to have adequate financial when the capital structure and financial needs of the business so capacity to meet the requirements placed on the Group’s and the Parallow. No change took place in the Group’s capital management ent Company’s equity by the nature, scope, investment requirements during the year. Neither the Parent Company nor any of its subsidiarand risks of the business. ies is subject to external capital requirements. The proposal is therefore justifiable given the consolidation needs, liquidity and other circumstances of the Group and Parent Company. This means, inter alia, that the proposal does not hinder the company and its subsidiaries from meeting their obligations in the short and long terms. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 76 C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Consolidated cash-flow statement, SEK million Full-year 2017 Full-year 2016 Operating activities Net operating income 1,495 1,409 Central administration -55 -61 Net financial expense -73 -79 Reversal, change in prices -39 -4 Reversal of depreciation 3 2 Profit from sales, liquidations and acquisitions – 3 Income tax paid -152 -110 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 1,179 1,160 Change in working capital Change in receivables 115 104 Change in other current liabilities 16 53 Total change in working capital 131 157 Cash flow from operating activities 1,310 1,317 Investing activities Acquisition of investment properties -670 -585 Investment in investment properties -709 -702 Disposal of investment properties 235 81 Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 0 -1 Disposal of property, plant and equipment 0 0 Cash flow from investing activities -1,144 -1,207 Financing activities Investment, covered bonds -148 -371 Borrowings 17,514 18,660 Repayments of borrowings -16,574 -17,951 Dividend paid to Parent Company’s shareholder -497 -446 Cash flow from financing activities 295 -108 Cash flow for the year 461 2 Opening cash and cash equivalents 4 2 Closing cash and cash equivalents 465 4 Interest Interest received 17 14 Interest paid 108 85 Cash flow Group cash flow from operating activities before investments totalled SEK 1,310 million (1,317) during the period. Net investments in non-current assets amounted to a cash outflow of SEK 1,144 million (outflow: 1,207), which generated a cash flow after investments of SEK 166 million (110). A cash outflow of SEK 497 million (outflow: 446) was used for dividends, and investments in covered bonds amounted to an outflow of SEK 148 million (outflow: 371). Borrowings after repayments totalled SEK 940 million (709). The item, Investment, covered bonds, pertained solely to the investment of cash and cash equivalents and is part of long-term investments, where the company has chosen to retain liquidity instead of repaying borrowings. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S 77 Consolidated five-year summary The financial progress of the Group in summary Property related 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Income from property management, SEK million 1,858 1,872 1,867 1,912 2,028 Occupancy rate, % 98.8 98.3 98.7 98.6 99.0 Investments including property acquisitions, SEK million 497 371 419 1,288 1,398 Market value, investment properties, SEK million1 19,455 20,271 20,919 22,999 25,002 Floor space, sq m, thousand 1,109 1,066 1,058 1,088 1,079 Yield, % 7.6 7.3 6.8 6.5 6.2 Total assets, SEK million 19,857 20,571 22,012 24,372 26,842 Equity, SEK million 7,564 8,475 6,652 7,844 9,066 Property management related Rental income, SEK/sq m 1,574 1,600 1,618 1,644 1,700 Property operations, SEK/sq m2 285 283 288 271 300 Maintenance expenses, SEK/sq m2 and 3 182 198 207 265 266 Net operating income, SEK/sq m 1,312 1,347 1,322 1,324 1,377 Administrative expenses, SEK/sq m 56 56 62 57 50 Finance related EBT, SEK million 1,673 1,782 1,474 2,100 2,165 Net profit for the year, SEK million 1,301 1,390 1,178 1,638 1,719 Cash flow before investments, SEK million 1,041 1,119 844 1,317 1,310 Surplus ratio, % 78.0 77.6 75.0 73.7 73.7 Interest coverage ratio, cash-flow based4 4.6 5.3 6.6 8.7 11.4 Return on equity, %5 18.3 17.3 15.6 22.6 20.3 Adjusted return on equity, %5 13.6 10.8 11.8 13.7 13.2 Return on total capital, % 4 10.2 10.4 8.1 10.1 9.3 Loan-to-value ratio, % 48.4 44.4 57.8 55.9 53.3 Equity/assets ratio, % 38.1 41.2 30.2 32.2 33.8 Dividend, SEK million 481 3,000 6 446 497 560 1) Investment properties under construction are recognised using the fair value method from 2013–2017. 2) F or the 2013–2016 period, the cost of property managers was included in maintenance expenses. This item was moved to Property operations in 2017. We have restated the years from 2013–2016, so that the cost is included in Property operations for all years, thus enabling a fair comparison. 3) Of which capitalised: SEK 159/sq m for 2013, SEK 154/sq m for 2014, SEK 139/sq m for 2015, SEK 177/sq m for 2016 and SEK 195/sq m for 2017. 4) From 2017, we have changed the calculation of the Interest coverage ratio and Return on total capital. We have also restated these key performance indicators ­retroactively. 5) From 2016, we have changed the calculation of Return on equity and Adjusted return on equity to now include net profit for the period in average equity. We have also restated these key performance indicators retroactively. 6) Which comprised a dividend of SEK 929 million and a repayment of share capital of SEK 2,071 million. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 78 C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 1 Group accounting policies The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accorStandards To be applied from the financial year starting: dance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) published by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) IFRS 9 Financial Instruments  1 January 2018 and the interpretations of the IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRIC), IFRS 9 is a new standard that replaces IAS 39. The standard entails changes in the as adopted by the EU. Moreover, the Swedish Financial Reporting classification and measurement of financial assets, where classification under IFRS 9 is made based on characteristics inherent in the instruments and the business Board’s recommendation RFR 1, Supplementary Accounting Rules model applied for financial instruments. Hedge accounting methods are changed for Corporate Groups, has been applied. to better reflect the company’s risk management activities. Special­fastig­heter does not apply hedge accounting. The principles for impairment losses have been revised The Group’s eight limited companies are registered in Linköping and require more timely recognition by companies of any losses. The impairment model in IFRS 9 is based on expected losses. The recommendation requires, inter (Sweden). The Parent Company is called Special­fastig­heter Sverige alia, Special­fastig­heter to assess its expected credit losses. Since the majority of AB (556537-5945). Special­fastig­heter has a joint head office with Special­fastig­heter’s customers are from the public sector, with strong payment offices located at the following visiting addresses: Borggården, capacity and low credit risk, Special­fastig­heter does not expect the standard to have any material impact on its financial statements. SE-581 07 Linköping and Alströmergatan 14, SE-112 93 Stockholm. The Group’s subsidiaries own and manage real property, manage ­construction projects, own and manage movable property and purIFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018 sue related business activities. Refer also to Note 15 for the Parent IFRS 15 replaces all previously issued standards and interpretations that address revenue with one single model for revenue recognition. IFRS 15 addresses revenue Company. recognition from contracts and is general in nature. The standard is based on the principle that revenue should be recognised on the transfer of promised goods or Valuation principles applied in the preparation of the services to the customer, that is when the customer obtains control of that good or Parent Company’s and the Group’s financial statements service, which may occur over time or at a point in time. Revenue should comprise the consideration that the company expects to receive for the delivered goods or Assets and liabilities are recognised at cost, other than investment services. The standard requires separation of premises rental and service. Special­ properties and derivatives, which are measured at fair value. fastig­heter Sverige AB has also reviewed the Group’s total income and the existing leases to enabling mapping of the effects of IFRS 15. This review noted that no part Non-current assets held for sale are recognised at the lower of the is encompassed by IFRS 15. Remuneration for the company’s undertakings pursu­ ant to leases, such as supplying premises with heating, cooling, snow clearance and ­c arrying amount and the fair value less selling expenses. garbage collection, for example, are included in the rent. Tenants cannot influence the choice of supplier or frequency, or have any other impact on the supplier, in the Functional currency and presentation currency properties owned by the company. Moreover, some of these undertakings fall under a general responsibility for the property. Accordingly, leases only comprise rental The Parent Company’s functional currency is Swedish kronor (SEK), payments, which are not encompassed by IFRS 15 and instead come under IAS 17, which is also the presentation currency of the Parent Company and the and from 2019, IFRS 16. Accordingly, the introduction of the standard will not have Group. This means that the financial statements are presented in SEK. any material impact on the financial statements. Special­fastig­heter Sverige AB only operates on the Swedish market. All sums, unless otherwise stated, are rounded to the nearest million IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 kronor. IFRS 16 replaces IAS 17 Leases and associated interpretations. The standard requires lessees to recognise assets and liabilities attributable to all leases with the exception Estimations and assessments in the financial statements of leases that are shorter than 12 months and/or pertain to small amounts. Special­ fastig­heter’s leases are primarily defined as leases in accordance with IFRS 16. As a Preparing the financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires lessor, the company’s accounting will remain unchanged in all significant respects. the management to make estimations and assessments which influThe company will report leased service vehicles and company cars as a lessee in ence the application of accounting policies and the recognised accordance with IFRS 16. Special­fastig­heter’s assessment is that the new standard will entail substantial disclosure requirements but, otherwise, will have limited amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual outcomes impact on the financial statements. Under the new standard, most leased assets may differ from these estimations and assessments. will be recognised in the balance sheet and the lessee must separate costs for interest payments and depreciation on the asset. The new standard entails no major The estimations and assessments are reviewed regularly. Changes to differences for lessors. For Special­fastig­heter, the standard will mainly impact the recognition of leasehold agreements, leased vehicles and rent for the premises we estimates are recognised in the period in which the change occurs if utilise. These are to be recognised in the balance sheet and thus increase total the change has only affected this period, or in the period in which the assets. Moreover, ground rents will be recognised as depreciation of usufructs and change is made and future periods if the change impacts both the curas an interest expense, and accordingly will no longer be included in net operating income. Since Special­fastig­heter only has a limited number of leasehold properties, rent and future periods. leased vehicles and rented premises, the impact on the financial statements is assessed as limited. Assessments made by the company management in applying the IFRS that have a significant effect on the financial statements and estimates made, which may result in material adjustments in subsequent years’ Classifications etc. Non-current assets and non-current liabilities in the Parent Company financial statements, are described in more detail in notes 9, 16 and 19 and the Group consist essentially of the amounts expected to be to the consolidated financial statements. recovered or paid after more than twelve months from the balance­sheet date. Current assets and current liabilities in the Parent ComAccounting policies applied pany and the Group consist essentially of the amounts expected to be The accounting policies specified below, with exceptions described in recovered or paid within twelve months of the balance­-sheet date. more detail, have been consistently applied to all periods presented in the consolidated financial statements. The Group’s accounting policies have been consistently applied in the reporting and consolidation Consolidation principles Subsidiaries of the Parent Company and subsidiaries. Subsidiaries are companies that are subject to control by the Parent Company Special­fastig­heter Sverige AB. Control means the direct or Changes in accounting policies indirect right to design a company’s financial and operational strateNew standards and interpretations that entered force in 2017 have not gies in order to obtain economic benefits. In assessing whether conhad any impact on the financial statements other than certain suppletrol exists, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or conmentary disclosures. vertible are taken into account. Amendments to the IFRS and interpretations Subsidiaries are reported in accordance with the acquisition method. not yet adopted Under this method, an acquisition is regarded as a transaction IFRIC has not been applied in advance. whereby the Group indirectly acquires the subsidiary’s assets and assumes its liabilities and contingent liabilities. The cost to the Group is determined through an acquisition analysis at the time of the acquisition. In this analysis, the cost of the business combination is established, as are the fair values on the acquisition date of acquired identiSPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S 79 fiable assets as well as assumed liabilities and contingent liabilities. Taxes The cost of the subsidiary’s shares consist of the fair values at the Income taxes comprise current tax and deferred tax. Current tax is tax acquisition date for the assets acquired, assumed or acquired liabilito be paid or received for the current year, with the application of the ties, and transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition. tax rates that are adopted or established in practice as of the balance­Transaction costs are expensed in the Group. Consolidations of subsheet date, which also includes adjustment of current tax attributable sidiaries’ financial statements are entered in the consolidated financial to previous periods. Income tax is recognised in profit or loss except statements from the date of the acquisition until the date when conwhen the underlying transaction is recognised directly in equity and trolling influence ceases. where the associated tax effect is recognised in equity. Deferred tax is calculated using the balance­-sheet method based on temporary difTransactions eliminated on consolidation ferences between the carrying amounts and fiscal values of assets and Intra-Group receivables and liabilities, income or expenses, and unreliabilities. The IFRS 3 rule on the classification of acquisitions as busialised gains or losses arising from intra-Group transactions are eliminess combinations or asset acquisitions is based on making a separate nated in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. assessment for each individual transaction. On the acquisition of a business, the method of accounting to be used for the acquisition is Income assessed using the following criteria: the presence of employees and Revenue recognition the complexity of internal processes. Moreover, the assessment also The Group’s recognised income pertains mainly to rental income. takes into consideration the number of operations and the existence Advance invoices generate rental income and car-parking income, of agreements with various degrees of complexity. High fulfilment of which are therefore allocated to periods so that only the rent for the these criteria results in classification of the acquisition as a business respective period is recognised as income. Revenue is usually reccombination and low fulfilment in classification as an asset acquisition. ognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease, apart from Temporary differences in assets and liabilities that, at the transaction in exceptional cases where a different method better reflects how date, do not affect recognised or taxable profit are not recognised for financial benefits accrue to the Group. Interest income is recognised asset acquisitions. All companies acquired in 2017 have been classias revenue spread over the term by the application of the effective-­ fied as asset acquisitions. Those properties that are acquired as cominterest method. Dividend income is recognised when the right to pany transactions are assessed as clear asset acquisitions. Furtherreceive payment has been established. more, temporary differences attributable to participations in subsidiaries that are not expected to be reversed in the foreseeable Income from property sales future are not taken into account. When acquisitions of subsidiaries Income from property sales is normally recognised on the contract entail the acquisition of non-business combination assets, the cost of date unless the risks and benefits were transferred to the purchaser these assets and liabilities is allocated according to their relative fair on an earlier occasion. Control of the asset may have been transferred values at the acquisition date. The valuation of deferred tax is based prior to the occupancy date and, if so, the property sale is recognised on how the carrying amounts of assets or liabilities are expected to be as income at this earlier date. Agreements between the parties with realised or settled. respect to the risks, benefits and involvement in day-to-day administration are taken into account when estimating the timing of revenue Deferred tax is calculated in accordance with the tax rates and tax recognition. Moreover, any circumstances that may affect the outrules that were adopted or established in practice as of the balance­come of the transaction and which are beyond the control of the seller sheet date. Deferred tax assets concerning deductible temporary difand/or purchaser are also taken into consideration. ferences are only recognised to the extent that it is likely that these will be used. The value of deferred tax assets is reduced when it is no lonOperating expenses and financial income and expenses ger considered likely that they can be used. Operating leases Expenses in respect of operating leases are recognised in profit or Other disclosures pertaining to deferred tax are available in Note 10 loss on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Benefits obtained in to the consolidated financial statements. connection with the signing of a lease are recognised in profit or loss as a decrease in lease charges on a straight-line basis over the period Investment properties of the lease. Variable charges are expensed in the periods in which Investment properties are properties held with the objective of generthey arise. ating rental income and/or value growth. Investment properties are initially recognised at cost, which includes all expenses directly attribFinancial income and expenses utable to the acquisition. Investment properties are recognised on the Financial income and expenses comprise interest income from bank balance sheet at fair value. For further information, see Note 10 to the funds, investments, receivables, interest expense on loans, translation consolidated financial statements. of currency loans and unrealised and realised gains and losses on derivatives used in financial operations. Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are recognised in the consolidated Interest income on receivables and interest expenses on liabilities are financial statements at cost less accumulated depreciation. Cost calculated using the effective-interest method. Effective interest is includes the purchase price and expenses directly attributable to an the rate of interest which makes the current value of all estimated asset in order to bring it to the location and condition necessary for it future inflows and outflows during the expected fixed-interest period to be utilised in line with the aim of the acquisition. equal to the carrying amount of the asset or liability. Interest income from purchased covered bonds is recognised in the period during The recognised value of property, plant and equipment is removed which interest is paid. from the balance sheet on the asset’s disposal or sale, or when no future economic benefits are expected from the use, disposal or sale Interest income and interest expenses include accrued amounts for of the asset. Profit or loss that arises on the sale or disposal of an asset transaction expenses and differences between the initial recognised comprises the difference between the sale price and the recognised value of the receivable or liability and the amount settled on maturity. value of the asset less direct selling expenses. Profit and loss are recognised under other operating income/expense. Borrowing costs are charged against earnings in the period to which they relate except to the extent that they are included in the cost of an Leased assets asset. An asset for which interest can be included in the cost is, by Leases are classified in the consolidated financial statements as either necessity, an asset that takes significant time to complete for its financial or operating leases. A financial lease exists when the ecointended use or sale. nomic risks and benefits associated with ownership have substantially been transferred to the lessee; otherwise it is classified as an operating lease. Special­fastig­heter Sverige AB has classified all lease agreements as operating leases. Charges for operating leases are expensed over the term of the leases based on their utilization, which may differ from what has de facto been paid in lease charges during the year. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 80 C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Depreciation principles Recognition and derecognition in the balance sheet Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over an asset’s A financial asset or liability is recognised in the balance sheet when the ­estimated useful life. company becomes party to the instrument’s contractual conditions. Trade receivables are recognised in the balance sheet when the Estimated useful lives, plant and equipment invoice is sent. The depreciation methods applied and the assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed at the end of each year. Liability is recognised when the counterparty has performed and a contractual obligation to pay exists, even if the invoice has not yet Impairment losses been received. Trade payables are recognised at the time an invoice The recognised amounts of Group assets are reviewed at each is received. balance­-sheet date to assess whether any indication exists of an impairment loss. IAS 36 is applied for testing the need for impairment A financial asset is removed from the balance sheet when the rights for assets other than financial assets (which are tested in accordance inherent in the agreement are realised or expire or if the company with IAS 39), assets held for sale, disposal groups recognised in accorloses control over them. The same is valid for part of a financial asset. dance with IFRS 5, investment properties recognised at fair value in A financial liability is derecognised from the balance sheet when the accordance with IAS 40 and deferred tax assets. For assets excepted obligation in the agreement is fulfilled or in any other way extinunder the above, fair values are tested in accordance with the stanguished. The same is valid for part of a financial liability. dard concerned. Classification and valuation Impairment testing of property, plant and equipment Financial instruments that are not derivatives are initially recognised When an impairment loss is indicated, the asset’s recoverable amount at cost, which corresponds with the fair value of the instrument plus is calculated in accordance with IAS 36 (see below). If an essentially transaction expenses. This applies for all financial instruments except independent cash flow cannot be established for an individual asset, those that belong to the financial asset category and which are recassets are grouped at the lowest level possible for identification of an ognised at fair value in profit or loss – these assets are recognised at essentially independent cash flow (a cash-generating unit) for the fair value excluding transaction expenses. A financial instrument is assessment of any impairment need. An impairment loss is recognised classified on initial recognition on the basis of the purpose for which when the carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit (CGU) the instrument was acquired. The classification determines how the exceeds the recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised in financial instrument is measured after initial recognition, as described profit or loss. Impairment of assets attributable to a CGU is allocated below. in the first instance to goodwill. Proportional impairments are then made of other assets included in the CGU. Investments in the form of purchased covered bonds are initially ­recognised at a cost equivalent to the instrument’s fair value. The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less selling expenses and value in use. When calculating value in use, future cash Derivative instruments are initially recognised at fair value, which flows are discounted by a factor that takes into account the risk-free means that transaction expenses are charged against earnings for interest rate and the risk associated with the specific asset. the period. After initial recognition, derivatives are recognised as described below. Increases and decreases in value are recognised Impairment testing of financial assets under the item Change in value of financial instruments, unrealised. On each reporting date, the company assesses whether any objective When using interest-rate swaps, the interest coupon is recognised evidence exists of a financial asset or Group of assets needing impairas other financial income or other financial expense. Cash and cash ment. Objective evidence consists of observable circumstances that equivalents consist of cash and immediately available bank balances. have occurred and that have a negative impact on the possibility of recovering the cost. The recoverable amount for assets belonging Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss to the categories of loans receivable and trade receivables which are Financial instruments in this category are measured continuously at ­recognised at accrued cost is calculated as the current value of future fair value with changes in value recognised in profit or loss. These cash flows discounted by the effective interest rate applicable on include derivatives with a positive fair value. Derivatives are included ­initial recognition of the asset. Assets with a short maturity are not in the sub category termed held for trading. ­discounted. Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss. Covered bonds are measured at fair value at the price quoted on the Reversal of impairments balance­-sheet date, while increases and decreases in value are recAn impairment is reversed if there is both an indication that the impairognised as revenues and expenses under net financial items. Covered ment loss no longer exists and if a change has taken place in the bonds are included in the sub category termed held for trading. assumptions on which the calculation of the recoverable amount was based. However, impairment of goodwill is never reversed. A reversal Loan receivables and trade receivables is only made to the extent that the recognised value of the asset after Loan receivables and trade receivables are non-derivative financial reversal does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not listed in an recognised, less amortisation or depreciation where applicable, had active market. These assets are valued at accrued cost. Accrued cost no impairment been made. is determined on the basis of the effective-interest rate calculated at the acquisition date. Trade receivables are recognised in the amount Impairment of loans receivable and trade receivables recognised at expected to be received, that is after deductions for bad debts. accrued cost is reversed if a later increase in the recoverable amount can be objectively attributed to an event that has occurred after the Financial liabilities measured at fair value through impairment was carried out. profit or loss This category includes the Group’s financial derivatives with negative Financial instruments fair values. Changes in fair value are recognised in profit or loss. Financial instruments that are recognised in the balance sheet ­Derivatives are included in the sub category termed held for trading. include, on the assets side, loan receivables, financial investments, derivatives, trade receivables and cash and cash equivalents. The liabilities side contains loan liabilities, derivatives and trade payables. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S 81 Other financial liabilities Remuneration to employees Loan financing Pension plans All loan financing is initially recognised at cost, net after transaction All personnel are employed in the Parent Company. The pension plans expenses. Borrowing is then recognised at accrued cost and any difprincipally comprise retirement pensions, disability pensions and famference between the amount received and the repayment amount is ily pensions in the form of alternative ITPs (Supplementary Pensions recognised in net financial items over the loan term by application of for Salaried Employees). Retirement pension commitments for salathe effective-interest method. Borrowing in foreign currency is transried employees are secured through insurance with Alecta. According lated to SEK at the balance­-sheet date exchange rate and the effects to a statement from the Swedish Financial Reporting Board, UFR 10, recognised in net financial items. this comprises a multi-employer defined-benefit plan. Since the company has not had access to information which would have made it posThe Group applies IAS 23 Borrowing Costs. IAS 23 means that the sible to report the pension plan as a defined-benefit plan, it has also Group capitalises interest expenses attributable to investment propbeen reported as a defined-contribution plan. Commitments regarderties under construction. Capitalised interest expenses impact net ing contributions to defined-contribution plans are recognised as financial items positively and changes in market value negatively by expenses in profit or loss as they arise. a corresponding amount. Interest expenses are capitalised monthly at an interest rate equivalent to the average six-month Stibor plus Short-term employee benefits a surcharge. Short-term employee benefits are calculated on an undiscounted basis and recognised as an expense when the related services are Other financial liabilities received. Other financial liabilities, including trade payables, which are ­measured at accrued cost. Contingent liabilities A contingent liability is recognised when there is a possible obligation Cash and cash equivalents that arises from past events and whose existence is confirmed only by Cash and cash equivalents comprise bank balances. The assets are the occurrence of one or more uncertain future events or when there is judged to be negotiable immediately with negligible risk of changes an obligation that is not recognised as a liability or provision because in value, which means that the carrying amount is equivalent to the it is not likely that an outflow of resources will be required. fair value. Cash-flow statement Derivatives The cash-flow statement was prepared using the indirect method. The Group’s derivative instruments were acquired to hedge the interThe recognised cash flow includes only those transactions that entail est-rate and currency risks to which the Group is exposed. Derivatives inflows and outflows. Balances at banks are classified as cash and cash are initially recognised at cost on the transaction date, which means equivalents. that transaction expenses are charged against earnings for the period. After the initial recognition, derivatives are measured at fair Rounding value and changes in value are recognised as described below. Hedge Amounts in this annual report are expressed in SEK million without accounting is not applied by the Group. decimal places. Where amounts are less than SEK 1 million and rounded down, this is represented by a zero (0). In cases where the Derivatives measured at fair value outcome is actually zero, this is represented by a dash. Interest-rate derivatives comprise a financial asset or liability measured at fair value with changes in value recognised in profit or loss. Using interest-rate derivatives may give rise to changes in value due to changes in the market interest rate and the time factor. Interest-rate derivatives are initially recognised at cost in the balance sheet, and are subsequently measured at fair value together with changes in value in profit or loss. Exchange rates are hedged with the aid of currency derivatives (currency swaps combined with interest-rate swaps). Derivatives are measured at fair value on the balance­-sheet date exchange rate and interest rate and meet the currency effects from the translation of the loans at the balance­-sheet date exchange rate. Closing-date market prices and generally accepted calculation methods are used to determine the fair value of interest-rate and currency derivatives, which means that fair value is established according to levels 1 and 2. Currency translation to Swedish kronor is conducted at listed exchange rates on the closing date. Interest-rate swaps are measured by discounting future cash flows to their present value. When financing in foreign currency, all future payment flows are hedged so that no currency risk remains. Derivative instruments are used to hedge forecast electricity expenses and the derivatives are recognised at fair value in profit or loss. The fair value of electricity derivatives is based on balance­sheet date market values, according to Level 1, as provided by electricity suppliers that purchase electricity derivatives from Nord Pool. Electricity derivatives are raised to hedge electricity prices. Special­ fastig­heter passes on the major part of electricity expenses by invoicing tenants. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 82 C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 2 Other income Note 6 Financial income and expenses 2017 2016 SEK million % Invoiced energy and fuel expenses 72 54 Composition of net Invoiced services 103 94 financial items 2017 2016 2017 2016 Compensation received 7 13 Interest expense, loans 99 111 0.86 0.86 Other 0 0 Exchange-rate changes on foreign loans -45 -66 -0.39 -0.51 Total 182 161 Net interest income, derivatives 9 39 0.08 0.30 Gains/losses on ­investments 12 -4 0.10 -0.03 Note 3 Property expenses Other interest income and expenses -17 -14 -0.15 -0.11 2017 2016 Operating net financial items 58 66 0.50 0.51 Energy, fuel and water 143 131 Other financial expenses 16 14 0.15 0.11 Property operations 272 238 Capitalised interest Property tax 41 39 expense, projects -1 -1 -0.01 -0.01 Maintenance 77 95 Recognised net financial Total 533 503 items 73 79 0.64 0.61 Change in value of ­financial derivatives 63 38 0.54 0.29 Total net financial items 136 117 1.18 0.90 Note 4 Administration During the year SEK 1 million (1) in interest was capitalised in respect of investments in buildings under construction. Interest equivalent to 2017 2016 six months’ Stibor plus a surcharge was used when capitalising. Payroll expenses 42 48 Depreciation of plant and equipment 3 3 Net financial items recognised according Other expenses (Inspections, to category and class ­consultants’ fees, other) 10 10 Financial income 2017 2016 Total 55 61 Interest income from financial assets Refer to Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements, to see the not measured at fair value 0 1 total payroll expenses. Unallocated administrative expenses are Interest income from financial assets reported in this note. measured at fair value 17 14 Exchange-rate changes on foreign loans 45 66 Gains/losses on investments 2 4 Total financial income 64 85 Note 5 Auditors’ fees, SEK thousand Financial expenses 2017 2016 Interest expenses on financial liabilities not measured at fair value -99 -111 Ernst & Young Interest expenses on financial liabilities Audit assignment 571 561 measured at fair value -9 -39 Audit activities other than the audit Gains/losses on investments -13 – assignment 72 28 Other financial expenses -16 -14 Tax advice 44 146 Total financial expenses -137 -164 Other services 45 98 Total recognised net financial items -73 -79 Total 732 833 The audit assignment refers to the examination of the annual report, Change in value of financial derivathe accounting records and the administration by the Board and CEO. tives recognised by category and This also includes a fee for audit advice provided in connection with ­classification the audit assignment. Audit activities refers to the examination of the Changes in value on financial assets administration or of financial information arising from statutes, the Derivatives measured at fair value 8 47 Articles of Association, regulations or agreements that result in a Changes in value on financial liabilities report or other document also intended to form the basis for an assessment by persons other than the principal as well as advice or Derivatives measured at fair value -71 -85 other assistance brought about by observations during the review Change in value of financial derivatives -63 -38 assignment. Other services include advice that is not attributable to any of the above types of service and which do not concern taxes. The auditors Ernst & Young AB were elected at the 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017 AGMs. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S 83 Note 7 Employees, payroll expenses and Board fees, SEK thousand Parent Company total Pension expenses 2017 2016 2017 2016 Number of employees 144 131 Chairman of the Board – – Of whom women 29.17% 29.77% Other Board members – – Of whom men 70.83% 70.23% Total – – The subsidiaries have no employees. Senior executives Parent Company including the Board and senior executives 2017 2016 2017 2016 Salaries and other remuneration Chief Executive Officer 2,354 2,164 Salaries and other remuneration 76,724 72,588 Other senior executives 7,409 7,049 Social security expenses * 39,145 36,731 Total 9,763 9,213 * Of which, pension expenses 12,148 11,180 Pension expenses Board of Directors Chief Executive Officer 723 645 2017 2016 Other senior executives 2,305 2,075 Salaries and other remuneration Total 3,028 2,720 Chairman of the Board 258 258 Other Board members 720 719 Total 978 977 Specification of remuneration to Board members1 2017 2016 Salaries and other Salaries and other remuneration Other benefits remuneration Other benefits Bo Lundgren 258 – 258 – Jan Berg 150 – 150 – Carin Götblad 130 – 128 – Eva Landén 160 – 158 – Nina Linander2 – – 40 – Mikael Lundström 130 – 130 – Ulrika Nordström – – – – Erik Tranaeus 3 – – – – Maj-Charlotte Wallin 150 – 113 – Total 978 – 977 – 1) The 2017 AGM resolved that annual Board fees would be payable in an amount 2) Stepped down in conjunction with the 2016 AGM. of SEK 250,000 to the Chairman of the Board and SEK 120,000 each to other 3) Co-opted during Ulrika Nordström’s maternity leave. Board members. In addition to the ordinary Board fees, a fee of SEK 30,000 per year was paid to each member of the Audit and Finance Committee and SEK 10,000 per year to each member of the Remuneration Committee. A fee of SEK 40,000 per year was paid to the Chairman of the Audit and Finance Committee and SEK 10,000 per year to the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. Fees are only paid to members elected by the AGM, not employees of Special­ fastig­heter or the Government Offices of Sweden. No remuneration over and above that decided by the AGM has been paid to the Chairman of the Board or any Board member. Board fees have been paid as salary, but in two cases were invoiced within the framework of the operations conducted in the Board mem­ bers’ companies. When an assignment is carried out within a Board member’s company, fees to members of the Board and committees are paid with an addi­ tional amount equivalent to the social-security expenses that Special­fastig­ heter is otherwise not obliged to pay. Invoicing for Board and committee fees should be cost neutral for Special­fastig­heter. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 84 C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S continued, Note 7 Employees, payroll expenses and Board fees, SEK thousand Specification of remuneration to senior executives4 Salaries and other remuneration Other benefits5 Pension expenses6 Total 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 CEO, Åsa Hedenberg 2,354 2,164 49 56 723 645 3,126 2,865 Business Director Sweden, Torbjörn Blücher 1,184 1,161 59 59 357 365 1,600 1,585 CFO, Kristina Ferenius 1,299 1,270 59 58 428 318 1,786 1,646 Projects and Development Director, Göran Cumlin 1,193 1,117 46 47 382 368 1,621 1,532 Director of Operations Support, Henrik Nyström 908 850 35 22 293 241 1,236 1,113 Property Management Director, Åsa Welander 1,039 971 52 54 277 238 1,368 1,263 HR Director, Christina Burlin 1,017 950 0 0 363 343 1,380 1,293 Communication Director, Hanna Janson 769 730 0 2 205 202 974 934 Total 9,763 9,213 300 298 3,028 2,720 13,091 12,231 4) There are no individual management contracts or terms relating to severance Total for the Parent Company including the Board and senior executives payments for any senior executives other than the CEO. Notice periods mainly The Board, including alternates, comprises 11 (11) members; of whom five (five) follow collective agreements. There are some individual contracts with mutual are women and six (six) are men. Seven members are elected at the AGM and four 3or 6-month notice periods. Pensions follow an ITP plan with a retirement age members are appointed by employee organisations. From June 2017, a co-opted of 65. Board member stood in for a Board member on maternity leave. The executive 5) Company car, subsidised meals and other benefits such as healthcare insurance. management team, which includes the CEO, is made up of eight (eight) individu­ als; of whom five are women and three are men. No variable remuneration or 6) Any voluntary salary sacrifice arrangement is included in the total. agreements on financial instruments apply for senior executives. Retirement ­pension and family pension commitments for salaried employees in Sweden are secured through insurance with Alecta. According to a statement from the Swedish Financial Reporting Board, UFR 10, this comprises a multi-employer defined-benefit plan. For the 2017 financial year, the company did not have access to information that would have enabled it to recognise this plan as a defined-benefit plan. Accordingly, the ITP pension plan secured via insurance with Alecta was recognised as a defined-contribution plan. Fees for the year for pension insurance policies provided by Alecta were approximately SEK 5 million (4). Alecta’s surplus may be distributed to the policy owners and/or the insured. At year-end 2017, Alecta’s surpluses in the form of the collective consolidation level was 154% (149). The collective consolidation level is the market value of ­Alecta’s assets as a percentage of its insurance commitments calculated accord­ ing to Alecta’s actuarial commitments, which do not correspond with IAS 19. Sick leave, % of total working hours 2017 2016 Long-term sick Long-term sick Sick leave/ leave/Total sick Sick leave/ leave/Total sick Reg. hours, % leave, % Reg. hours, % leave, % Women 1.05 0.00 2.14 68.13 Men 3.44 59.92 2.78 51.08 Employees under 30 * * * * Employees aged 30–49 2.52 39.19 0.92 0.00 Employees over 49 3.03 66.69 4.26 70.56 All employees 2.73 59.92 2.60 55.17 *) No data is provided as the group is less than 10 people. Note 8 Realised gain/loss on property sales 2017 2016 Proceeds, properties sold 112 78 Fair value, properties sold -82 -72 Selling expenses -1 -2 Total 29 4 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S 85 Note 9 Investment properties Investment properties are recognised using the fair value method (IAS 40) Acquisition (+)/Disposals (–) Properties owned 2017 properties for the full year Total 2017 Opening fair value – 22,999 22,999 Investments regarding post-acquisition expenditure – 727 727 Capitalised interest expenses – 1 1 Acquisitions (+) 670 – 670 Divestments (–) -227 – -227 Unrealised changes in value – 832 832 Closing fair value 443 24,559 25,002 Acquisition (+)/Disposals (–) Properties owned 2016 properties for the full year Total 2016 Opening fair value – 20,919 20,919 Investments regarding post-acquisition expenditure – 701 701 Capitalised interest expenses – 1 1 Acquisitions (+) 585 – 585 Divestments (–) -72 – -72 Unrealised changes in value – 865 865 Closing fair value 513 22,486 22,999 Tax assessment value 2017 2016 Fiscal residual values 2017 2016 Buildings 3,077 2,920 Buildings 7,745 7,447 Land 1,007 972 Land 1,480 1,498 Total 4,084 3,892 Total 9,225 8,945 Investment properties Level 1 Prices quoted in active markets Investment properties are properties held with the objective of generLevel 2 Observable data other than data in Level 1 ating rental income and/or value growth. Investment properties are Level 3 Unobservable data initially recognised at cost, which includes all expenses directly attributable to the acquisition. Investment properties are recognised on the Valuation method balance sheet at fair value. Fair value is based principally on valuations The estimated values of Special­fastig­heter’s investment properties carried out by company personnel. Valuations are cross-checked are determined by means of an internal valuation based on actual against valuations carried out by independent, external appraisers data in respect of rents and operating expenses. In order to assure with recognised qualifications and appropriate skills for valuing propthe quality of the internal evaluation, it is cross-checked against an erties of the types and locations in question. External valuations take ­external evaluation of 48 (49) objects, equivalent to 87% (82) of the place every six months according to a rolling schedule. total value. If there are indications during the current year of substantial value External valuations take place according to a rolling schedule. The difchanges for individual properties, parts of the property holdings, or ference between the external and internal evaluations amounts to less the entire property holdings, the properties concerned are revalued than 3% (3). Special­fastig­heter applies a value below that obtained in conjunction with quarterly reporting. Fair value is based on the marfrom the external valuations. The market’s required yield is used prinket value, which is the estimated amount that would be obtained in a cipally when calculating residual values, that is the property’s estitransaction at the valuation date between knowledgeable, indepenmated market value at the end of the calculation period. dent parties who have an interest in the transaction being carried out after customary marketing in which both parties are assumed to have The calculations are performed on a nominal basis using inflation of acted with insight, common sense and without coercion. Both unreal2.0% (1.5) for the first year and 2.0% (2.0) per year for the remaining ised and realised changes in value are recognised in profit or loss. years in the calculation. The valuation properties generally have relaRental income and income from property sales are recognised in line tively long rental agreements with tenants who are considered to be with the principles described in the Revenue recognition section; see reliable payers. Therefore, it is appropriate to use a differentiated cost Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. of capital for net operating income and residual value in connection with the calculation of yield value. With regard to reliable rental Subsequent expenditures – Investment properties income, the estimated cost of capital over the contract period was ­recognised using the fair-value method mainly between 5.00% and 5.25%. The cost of capital in 2016 was Subsequent expenditures that entail a future financial advantage for between 5.25% and 5.60%. The required yield ranges mostly from the company, that is, which are value enhancing and can be calculated 5.25% to 9.70% depending on property location. The required yield in in a reliable manner, are capitalised as assets. Other expenditures, 2016 was between 5.60% and 10.00%. The average yield was 6.16% repairs and maintenance are expensed during the period in which (6.65). We note continued substantial market interest in our type of they arise. properties, known as public sector properties. As of 2013, IFRS 13 applies whereby the valuation of a property holdThe operations and maintenance expense levels used in the cash-flow ing is categorised according to one of three levels. There are different statements are derived from normalised values based on current degrees of uncertainty in the valuation depending on the level used. maintenance plans. Current rental terms have been used as the basis Special­fastig­heter uses Level 3, where the degree of uncertainty is in the cash-flow statements. The values take into account the best and greatest as there is insufficient transaction/market data to allow using maximum use of the properties. another level. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 86 C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S continued, Note 9 Investment properties Note 11 Other property plant and equipment Estimated market rents have been applied in the cash-flow statements Plant and equipment 2017 2016 from the moment when the current rental period expires. We Opening cost 25 21 obtained current market yield requirements and costs of capital from an external appraiser for use as supporting data in valuation calculaPurchases 0 4 tions. The appraiser has carried out various investigations and analySales and disposals 0 0 ses regarding the property category concerned. This included examClosing accumulated cost 25 25 ining various property transactions completed. Opening depreciation 16 13 Rental income for the year totalled SEK 1,846 million (1,751). Future Sales and disposals 0 0 rents attributable to non-terminable operational leases mature as Depreciation for the year 3 3 shown below. Closing accumulated depreciation 19 16 Closing residual value according to plan 6 9 Maturity Profile, SEK million 2017 2016 Within 1 year Properties 56 56 Housing 3 3 Note 12 Financial investments Between 1 and 5 years Properties 457 312 Derivatives 2017 2016 Beyond 5 years Non-current investments Properties 1,495 1,483 Interest-rate and currency derivatives measured at FVTPL 49 83 Total 2,011 1,854 Electricity derivatives measured at FVTPL 5 3 Total 54 86 Note 10 Taxes Current investments Interest-rate and currency derivatives Recognised in profit or loss 2017 2016 measured at FVTPL 0 0 Current tax 157 142 Electricity derivatives measured at Deferred tax expense 289 320 FVTPL 3 4 Total recognised consolidated Total 3 4 tax expense 446 462 Other financial investments Reconciliation of effective tax Non-current investments Recognised EBT 2,165 2,100 CSA deposits 74 59 Swedish income tax rate, 22% 476 462 Covered bonds 1,040 897 Tax-exempt income 0 0 Other shares and participations 0 0 Non-deductible expenses 1 0 Total 1,114 956 Adjusted sale proceeds -32 0 Standard interest tax allocation reserve 1 0 The Group has entered into Credit Support Annexes to ISDA agreements in order to manage exposures to counter-party risks in derivaLoss carryforwards – 0 tive contracts. These agreements are mutual and mean that the parTotal 446 462 ties jointly undertake to provide collateral in the form of cash and cash equivalents for the underlying value of derivative contracts outstandRecognised in the balance sheet ing. As of 31 December 2017, the Group had lodged collateral totalling Deferred tax liability 2,990 2 701 SEK 74 million (59). One deposit of SEK 33 million regarding Nordea and one deposit of SEK 41 million for Nomura. Collateral was lodged Current tax 28 23 in the form of eight (seven) covered bonds. As of 31 December 2017, Total 3,018 2,724 the collateral amounted to SEK 1,040 million (897). Deferred tax assets and liabilities Investment properties -2,681 -2 401 Financial assets 21 6 Tax allocation reserve -244 -214 Accelerated depreciation -86 -92 Total -2,990 -2,701 No deferred tax has been recognised in equity. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S 87 Note 13 Other receivables Of the Group’s and the Parent Company’s non-current loan liabilities, SEK 2,442 million (2,238) matures more than five years after the balance­sheet date. Non-current receivables 2017 2016 Value-added tax for adjustment 13 10 Foreign currency bonds are translated to the balance­-sheet date SEK Total 13 10 exchange rate. The fair value of derivatives corresponds to the translated amounts of the bonds, thus largely neutralizing the foreign exchange effects. The market value of foreign currency bonds is transCurrent receivables lated to the balance­-sheet date exchange rate and recognised in the Receivables, properties sold – 68 tables in SEK. Fair value is measured by discounting future cash flows Opening suspended VAT 12 6 at the market interest rate on the balance­-sheet date for the respecOther receivables 0 6 tive maturity. The fair value of foreign currency bonds is measured by discounting future cash flows at listed market interest rates and Total 12 80 exchange rates for the respective maturity at the balance­-sheet date. Funding is distributed as follows Note 14 Prepaid expenses and accrued Category – Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost income Carrying Nominal 2017 amount amount Fair value Overdraft facility – – – 2017 2016 CSA deposits – – – Prepaid energy expenses 4 4 Commercial paper 2,867 2,865 2,868 Other interim receivables 25 14 Fixed-interest bonds 7,647 7,655 7,914 Total 29 18 Floating-rate bonds 2,674 2,670 2,671 Inflation-linked bonds 184 190 184 Foreign currency bonds 409 456 418 Note 15 Cash and cash equivalents Total 13,781 13,836 14,055 2017 2016 Carrying Nominal Bank balances 465 4 2016 amount amount Fair value Total 465 4 Overdraft facility 14 14 14 CSA deposits – – – Commercial paper 3,011 3,010 3,014 Fixed-interest bonds 6,204 6,205 6,530 Note 16 Interest-bearing liabilities Floating-rate bonds 2,998 2,995 2,997 Inflation-linked bonds 180 190 180 2017 2016 Foreign currency bonds 454 456 482 Non-current liabilities Total 12,861 12,870 13,217 Loans 9,464 8 599 Current liabilities Loans 4,317 4,262 Total 13,781 12,861 Maturity profile Carrying Nominal Carrying Nominal 2017 amount amount Fair value 2016 amount amount Fair value 2017 – – – 2017 4,262 4,260 4,274 2018 4,317 4,315 4,323 2018 1,689 1,689 1,710 2019 1,851 1,850 1,885 2019 1,852 1,850 1,909 2020 1,120 1,120 1,146 2020 1,120 1,120 1,155 2021 1,700 1,700 1,763 2021 1,700 1,700 1,782 2022 2,351 2,350 2,375 2022 500 500 515 2023 409 456 418 2023 454 456 483 2024 975 980 1,043 2024 230 230 284 2025 500 500 521 2025 500 500 525 2026 374 375 397 2026 374 375 400 2027 – – – 2027 – – – 2028 – – – 2028 – – – 2029 and beyond 184 190 184 2029 and beyond 180 190 180 Total 13,781 13,836 14,055 12,861 12,870 13,217 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 88 C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S continued, Note 16 Interest-bearing liabilities Group financing in foreign currency at the balance­-sheet date 2017 Currency Nominal Interest % Interest in SEK Nominal amount in SEK Carrying amount in SEK USD 25,000,000 2.56 -0.03 227,790,000 204,395,000 USD 25,000,000 2.59 0.00 227,790,000 204,395,000 2016 Currency Nominal Interest % Interest in SEK Nominal amount in SEK Carrying amount in SEK USD 25,000,000 2.56 -0,07 227,790,000 227,040,000 USD 25,000,000 2.59 -0.04 227,790,000 227,040,000 Significant contractual conditions The Group’s loan agreements include an ownership clause which Note 17 Other liabilities ­entitles lenders to call in a loan early if the state’s ownership level falls below 100%. Other liabilities 2017 2016 Customer advances 0 15 Hedge accounting VAT 104 98 Hedge accounting is not applied by the Group. Other liabilities 3 7 Currency distribution Total 107 120 When funding in foreign currency, all future payment flows are hedged so that currency risks are eliminated. All interest payments and future repayments are hedged through currency swaps. The table “Group financing in foreign currency at the balance­-sheet Note 18 Accrued expenses and deferred date” shows foreign currency at the balance­-sheet date by original income currency and after taking currency swaps into account. Foreign currency loans are translated at the closing-date exchange rate and the 2017 2016 exchange-rate change is reported in net financial items. Deferred rental income 496 459 The Group has entered into Credit Support Annexes to ISDA agreeAccrued energy expenses 16 16 ments in order to manage exposures to counter-party risks in derivaAccrued interest expenses 40 47 tive contracts. These agreements are mutual and mean that the parAccrued social-security expenses – 2 ties jointly undertake to provide collateral in the form of cash and cash Accrued holiday pay 8 8 equivalents for the underlying value of derivative contracts outstandAccrued payroll tax 3 2 ing. The Group has not received any collateral as of 31 December 2017 but has provided collateral in two cases. Refer to Note 12 to the conOther items 12 8 solidated financial statements. Total 575 542 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S 89 Note 19 Financial risks and financial policy The Group and Parent Company are exposed to various types of financonnection with a major acquisition. To limit financing risk, Special­ cial risk through their business operations. The term financial risks fastig­heter strives to raise credits with long maturities and even matumeans fluctuations in the company’s performance and cash flow due rity profiles for commercial paper and bonds issued. To further reduce to the effect of interest-rate, financing, credit, currency and electricity financing risk, there are also guaranteed loan commitments and overprice risk. All Group financial risks are brought into the Parent Comdrafts totalling SEK 4,750 million (4,750). pany and managed from there. The Group’s financial risks comprise the financial operations of the Parent Company. The Group’s financial No special undertakings are included in loan commitments other than policy for managing financial risk has been adopted by the Board and ownership clauses and disclosure commitments. Two loan commitcomprises a framework of guidelines and rules in the form of risk manments totalling SEK 3,000 million increase the margin on loans drawn dates and limits for financial operations. The policy is designed to from the facility if the company’s rating falls below AA-. The maturity ensure that the owner’s required return on equity is achieved in the of financial liabilities has been spread over time to limit refinancing safest way possible. The overall objective of treasury operations is to risk. As of 31 December 2017, maturity was 3.4 years (3.3), and taking provide cost-effective funding and to minimise the adverse effects of unutilised guaranteed loan commitments into consideration, maturity market fluctuations on the Group’s earnings. was 4.3 (4.0) years. Financial operations During the year, we increased investments in covered bonds by SEK The Parent Company’s financial department manages the Group’s 150 million to a total nominal amount of SEK 1,000 million (850) with a financial transactions and risks centrally. The Finance Manager deals medium-term maturity; these investments are used as collateral for with operational activities. raising whole loan repos. Rating The company’s nominal gross financial liability totalled SEK 13,836 milThe credit rating institute Standard & Poor’s (S&P) has rated the comlion (12,870) at year end. Further reductions of the refinancing risk are pany’s long-term funding with an AA-F/Stable outlook and retained achieved by diversifying funding sources; refer to the “Credit faciliA-1+ for short-term funding. S&P raised the rating from AA to AA+ in ties” table. Borrowing is conducted in the Swedish and international 2005 given the continued long-term ownership aims of the Swedish credit markets through bond and commercial paper programmes and government and the company’s long-term ability to achieve the ownin the Swedish and international banking markets. Special­fastig­heter er’s return requirement. S&P confirmed the AA+ rating on 20 Decemconducts borrowing against the balance sheet without pledging ber 2017. When S&P assesses Special­fastig­heter’s stand-alone creditproperties. The company’s loan contracts have included an ownership worthiness – the company’s ability to stand-alone without Swedish clause ever since 1999, which strengthens lenders’ positions. The state ownership – we receive an AAcredit rating. clause means that lenders are entitled to call a loan in early if state ownership falls below 100%. Interest-rate risk Interest-rate risk refers to the risk of negative effects on interest The “Liquidity risk” table on page 91 shows agreed undiscounted expenses for existing and future financing due to interest-rate cash flows, which include all financial liabilities including interest paychanges. Special­fastig­heter’s interest-rate exposure is governed by ments. Where the future variable interest rate is unknown, it has been limiting the proportion maturing within 12 months to a maximum of estimated with the aid of implicit forward interest rates. Rental income 70% of the net loan portfolio. The average fixed-interest period is used to meet the future commitments presented in the table. Credit should be within a range of 1–5 years. On the closing date, the average risk is assessed as negligible for rental income. fixed-interest period was 3.2 years (2.6). The fixed-interest period shows how quickly a change in interest rates will impact in the form of Credit risks and counterparty risks in financial operations increased borrowing expenses. The objective of interest-rate risk Financial credit risk refers primarily to counterparty risks in connection management is to achieve low interest expenses over time while with receivables from banks and other counterparties. The risk arises adapting the interest-rate profile to underlying business possibilities. in derivatives trading or the investment of cash and cash equivalents. At 31 December 2017, the portfolio’s average interest rate for loans Special­fastig­heter’s policy to reduce credit risk is that the investment and derivatives was 0.82% (0.93). Inflation-linked bonds were issued of cash and cash equivalents and entering into of derivative contracts for SEK 190 million (190) to protect inflation-linked items in the income may only be carried out with a limited number of counterparties and statement, such as rental income and, operating and maintenance within approved limits. Cash and cash equivalents are used in practice expenses. to repay loans. Derivative counterparties are banks with high credit ratings. The company’s financial policy permits the use of derivatives. The main derivatives used are interest-rate swaps. The risk exposure of the The company’s counterparty risk in derivative contracts totalled SEK total portfolio is governed by limits for fixed-interest periods. This 57 million (90) as of 31 December 2017; this corresponds to the compaleads to the limitation of the total risk effect of the derivatives portfony’s total receivables from unrealised derivatives with positive values. lio. The company conducts derivative transactions to cost effectively manage the whole financial portfolio’s allocation of interest-rate Securities received/paid are in the form of cash deposits. exposure over time. The derivatives portfolio has created a redistribution of interest-rate exposure from shorter to longer terms; refer to the The credit risk in daily business operations is limited by advance “Maturity structure for fixed-interest and tied-up capital.” The volume invoicing of rents, long leases and by tenants having a strong connecof tied-up capital includes loans and investments in covered bonds. tion to the Swedish state. The fixed-interest volume includes loans, derivatives and investments in covered bonds. The loan liability is calculated as a net liability, after Financial items that have matured for payment at the year taking into account any positive balances and investments. end, SEK million 2017 2016 On the balance­-sheet date, unutilised guaranteed loan commitments, Financial assets 79 158 and cash and cash equivalents amounted to SEK 5,213 million (4,736) covering the refinancing risk for the next 17 months’ (15) maturity. Financial liabilities 3 5 Financing risk An impairment of SEK 0 million (0) was carried out on the balance­Financing risk refers to the risk that existing financing cannot be sheet date. SEK 1 million (1) of trade receivables were unpaid at 31 Janreplaced or only at exceptionally high cost. The risk to Special­fastig­ uary 2018. Trade payables of SEK 2 million (0) were unpaid in January. heter also includes not being able to secure financing, for example in SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 90 C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S continued, Note 19 Financial risks and financial policy Currency risk pany buys price-hedging contracts in the form of electricity futures. Foreign currency borrowing outside the Swedish market takes place if These are managed through day-to-day analysis of the electricity marit is advantageous from an overall cost or diversification perspective. ket and the company’s own portfolio. Price hedging is done in sub Foreign currency exposures must be hedged if they exceed a value items to reduce the risk of undertaking large price hedges in expenequivalent to SEK 5 million. Foreign currency hedging refers to the use sive circumstances. In this way the hedged portion increases as the of financial derivatives or matching between assets and liabilities. consumption date approaches. By the time a budgeted price is to be Since the Group’s activities are exclusively denominated in Swedish given for the coming year, a large portion has been price-hedged. krona, all currency risks in connection with financing in foreign currencies have been eliminated through currency derivatives. Because curSpecial­fastig­heter passes on most of the electricity cost to its tenants, rency exposure also occurs when financial electricity derivatives are which means the price risk to the company is negligible. taken up, they are hedged by means of currency derivatives. The effects of the unrealised change in value are reported under “Change Derivatives in value of financial instruments, unrealised” in the income statement, Special­fastig­heter uses derivative instruments to manage interest­while foreign currency loans are translated at the balance­-sheet date rate risk and to thereby achieve the desired fixed-rate structure and to exchange rate and reported in net financial items. manage currency risk and to hedge loans in foreign currencies. The following table shows the Group’s borrowing and hedging in forOver time, changes in value may arise in the derivatives portfolio eign currency. owing to changes in market interest rates and exchange rates. These unrealised changes in value are recognised in profit or loss. Electricity Nominal amounts (SEK) per business day derivatives are measured at fair value and recognised in profit or loss. The electricity consumption expense is recognised on an ongoing 2017 basis in profit or loss. Financial interest-rate derivatives are measured at fair value according to the closing interest rate as of the balance­Original currency Loan Derivative Total sheet date. USD 456.0 -456.0 0 Financial instruments measured at fair value 2016 The fair value of financial instruments can be determined in various ways. Original currency Loan Derivative Total Level 1 Fair value determined by prices quoted in an active market USD 456.0 -456.0 0 for the same instrument. Level 2 Fair value determined either by directly or indirectly Electricity price risk observable market data not included in Level 1. Electricity price risk refers to the risk of fluctuations in the future price Level 3 Fair value determined based on data that is not observof electricity adversely affecting the company’s operating expenses. able in the market. As a consequence of this, the company has established an electricity price policy with a long-term price-hedging strategy; refer to the The following table describes how fair value was determined for the “Hedged portion of future electricity consumption” table. To limit the company’s financial instruments. electricity price risk for estimated electricity consumption, the comFinancial instruments – Measured at fair value Prices quoted in an Measurement based on Measurement based on information 2017 active market (Level 1) observable data (Level 2) other than observable data (Level 3) Total Interest-rate swaps – -40 – -40 Currency swaps – -56 – -56 Electricity futures 6 – – 6 Net 6 -96 – -90 Prices quoted in an Measurement based on Measurement based on information 2016 active market (Level 1) observable data (Level 2) other than observable data (Level 3) Total Interest-rate swaps – -39 – -39 Currency swaps – 9 – 9 Electricity futures 3 – – 3 Net 3 -30 – -27 Credit facilities Loan limit Utilised 2017 2016 2017 2016 CSA deposits – – -74 -59 Guaranteed loan commitments 4,750 4,750 -465 14 Commercial paper 4,000 4,000 2,865 3,010 MTN programme 13,000 13,000 10,325 9,200 Private Placements 956 956 646 646 Whole loan repos 1,000 850 – – Investments -1,000 -1,000 -1,000 -850 Total 22,706 22,556 12,297 11,961 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S 91 continued, Note 19 Financial risks and financial policy Liquidity risk 2017 Loan Derivatives, inflow Derivatives, outflow Derivatives, total Trade payables Less than 3 months -2,280 2 -7 -5 -148 Between 3 and 12 months -2,156 27 -17 10 – Between 1 and 3 years -4,967 66 -62 4 – Between 3 and 5 years -3,919 43 -50 -7 – Total -13,322 138 -136 2 -148 2016 Loans Derivatives, inflow Derivatives, outflow Derivatives, total Trade payables Less than 3 months -3 148 2 -8 -6 -164 Between 3 and 12 months -2,514 32 -19 13 – Between 1 and 3 years -4,929 76 -59 17 – Between 3 and 5 years -3,555 66 -76 -10 – Total -14,146 176 -162 14 -164 Exposure to counterparty risks distributed across different rating categories Institute with long rating, 2017 Asset Liability Securities received/paid Net exposure AA22 -57 33 -2 A+ 18 -23 – -5 A 9 -65 41 -15 BBB+ – – – – Electricity derivatives 8 -2 – 6 Total 57 -147 74 -16 Institute with long rating, 2016 Asset Liability Securities received/paid Net exposure AA27 -64 48 11 A+ 29 -31 11 9 A 28 -19 – 9 BBB+ – – – – Electricity derivatives 6 -3 – 3 Total 90 -117 59 32 Hedged portion of future electricity consumption 2017 2016 Year GWh Min. limit Max. limit Proportion Year GWh Min. limit Max. limit Proportion 2018 102 70% 100% 79% 2017 102 70% 100% 79% 2019 102 40% 100% 60% 2018 102 40% 100% 55% 2020 102 20% 100% 30% 2019 102 20% 100% 50% 2021 102 0% 100% 25% 2020 102 0% 100% 30% Maturity profile for electricity derivatives 2017 2016 Year GWh Market value Year GWh Market value 2018 80 2 2017 81 3 2019 61 2 2018 57 1 2020 31 1 2019 51 -1 2021 26 1 2020 31 0 2022 0 0 2021 26 0 Total 198 6 Total 246 3 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 92 C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S continued, Note 19 Financial risks and financial policy Derivative portfolio’s market value 2017 2016 Nominal value Positive value Negative value Nominal value Positive value Negative value Currency swaps 456 9 65 456 28 19 Interest-rate swaps 3,104 40 80 3,305 56 95 Electricity futures – 8 2 – 6 3 Total 3,560 57 147 3,761 90 117 Sensitivity analysis Change Pre-tax change in profit or loss Change in equity after tax Change in net financial items if market rate Earnings decrease SEK 46 million (44) Equity decreases SEK 36 million (34) increases 1%, annual expense change Change in value of financial derivatives if Earnings increase SEK 25 million (22) Equity increases SEK 19 million (17) ­market rate increases 1% Currency risk is hedged by currency swaps, No change No change which removes the effect of exchange-rate changes Electricity price risk – electricity futures reduce No change No change price volatility. The majority of electricity expenses are then passed on to the tenants. Maturity structure for fixed-interest and tied-up capital Fixed-interest Tied-up capital 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 – 6,6141 – 4,2031 2018 5,5141 6002 4,2431 1,4892 2019 5982 8502 1,1762 1,652 2 2020 394 2 100 2 807 2 8202 2021 1,6952 1,5502 1,3892 1,5502 2022 1,8462 500 2,1462 500 2023 153 454 409 454 2024 845 230 975 230 2025 500 500 500 500 2026 374 374 374 374 2027 – – – – 2028 – – – – 2029 and beyond 284 180 184 180 Total 12,203 11,952 12,203 11,952 1) Includes CSA deposits given and received. 2) Includes investments in covered bonds. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S 93 continued, Note 19 Financial risks and financial policy Carrying amount per category 2017 2016 Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value Financial assets measured at FVTPL Interest-rate derivatives 40 40 56 56 Currency derivatives 9 9 28 28 Electricity derivatives 8 8 6 6 Loan and trade receivables Trade receivables 144 1441 206 2061 CSA deposits 74 741 59 591 Accrued interest income – – – – Cash and cash equivalents 465 465 4 4 Financial assets translated at balance­sheet date exchange rate Covered bonds 1,040 1,040 897 897 Other shares and participations 0 0 0 0 Financial liabilities measured at FVTPL Interest-rate derivatives 80 80 95 95 Currency derivatives 65 65 19 19 Electricity derivatives 2 2 3 3 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Commercial paper 2,867 2,8682 3,011 3,0142 Fixed-interest bonds 7,647 7,9142 6,204 6,5302 Floating-rate bonds 2,674 2,6712 2,998 2,9972 Trade payables 148 1481 163 1631 CSA deposits – – – – Accrued interest expenses 40 401 47 471 Financial liabilities translated at balance­sheet date exchange rate Inflation-linked bonds 184 1842 180 1802 Foreign currency bonds 409 4182 454 482 2 1) Fair value is measured by discounting future cash flows at the market interest rate on the balance­-sheet date for the respective maturity. The fair value of bonds in foreign currency is measured by discounting future cash flows at the balance­-sheet date exchange rate for the respective maturity. 2) Market quotations and generally accepted Level 2 calculation methods are used to determine fair value on the closing date. Financial assets and liabilities that are offset or covered by a general netting arrangement Amounts covered by a general or similar ­netting agreement1 Net amount in Financial instruFinancial collateral, 2017 Gross amount Offset amount ­balance sheet ments received/paid Net amount Derivative assets 57 – 57 -57 – – Derivative liabilities -147 – -147 57 74 -16 Total -90 – -90 – 74 -16 Amounts covered by a general or similar ­netting agreement1 Net amount in Financial instruFinancial collateral, 2016 Gross amount Offset amount ­balance sheet ments received/paid Net amount Derivative assets 90 – 90 -90 – – Derivative liabilities -117 – -117 90 59 32 Total -27 – -27 – 59 32 1) These financial assets and liabilities are only offset in the case of insolvency or upon suspension of payments by either party. These also include arrangements where the Group has no intention of divesting the instruments concurrently. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 94 C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S continued, Note 19 Financial risks and financial policy Summary of liabilities attributable to financing activities Cash flow items Non-cash items Closing Cash flow Effect of Closing ­balance from financing Accounting changed Change in Price ­balance 2016 ­activities effects exchange rate fair value change 2017 Interest-bearing liabilities 12,861 940 22 -45 – 3 13,781 Non-interest-bearing liabilities 120 -13 – – – – 107 Interest-rate and cross-currency swaps, fair value hedges 114 – – 45 -14 – 145 Electricity futures, fair value hedges 3 – – – -1 – 2 Total liabilities attributable to financing activities 13,098 927 22 – -15 3 14,035 This table is based on the new regulatory framework pursuant to IAS 7 whereby no comparative figures are needed for 2016. Note 20 Related parties Related-party transactions Parent Company Consolidated IFRS Annual Accounts Act 2017 2016 2017 2016 Intra-Group income – – 5 2 Intra-Group expenses – – – – Current intra-Group receivables – – 3 9 Non-current intra-Group receivables – – 394 217 Intra-Group liabilities – – – – Transactions with the shareholder Parent Company Consolidated IFRS Annual Accounts Act 2017 2016 2017 2016 Dividend – – 497 446 There are no dealings with the owner, the Swedish State, other than expenses and commitments with respect to pensions and similar benthose stipulated by law. The Parent Company, Special­fastig­heter efits of the Board, CEO and other senior executives, as well as conSverige AB, company registration number 556537-5945, has a close tracts concerning severance payments, see Note 7 to the consolirelationship with its subsidiaries; refer to Note 15 for the Parent Comdated financial statements. pany. For more information on salaries and other remuneration, Note 21 Pledged assets and contingent ­liabilities 2017 2016 Pledged assets None None Contingent liabilities None None Note 22 Events after the balance­-sheet date Special­fastig­heter Sverige AB has taken possession of the Läkaren 2 and 4 properties in Värnamo. These properties house tenants including the SiS Fortunagården institution. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T PA R E N T C O M PA N Y F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S 95 Parent Company income statement, SEK million Note Full-year 2017 Full-year 2016 Rental income 1,768 1,721 Other income 2 181 160 Net sales 1,949 1,881 Operating expenses 3 -518 -497 Depreciation of investment properties -609 -590 Gross profit 822 794 Central administration 4, 5 -55 -61 Gain/loss on property sales 6 86 49 Operating profit 7 853 782 Profit/loss from financial investments Other interest income and similar profit/loss items 8 74 66 Interest expense and similar profit/loss items 8 -208 -182 Profit after financial items 719 666 Appropriations 9 -100 -66 Tax on profit for the year 10 -137 -132 Net profit for the year 11 482 468 Of which attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholder 482 468 Parent Company – Statement of comprehensive income, SEK million Full-year 2017 Full-year 2016 Net profit for the year 482 468 Total other comprehensive income for the year, net after tax – – Total comprehensive income for the year 482 468 Of which attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholder 482 468 Since the Parent Company’s and the Consolidated income statements and balance sheets largely correspond, we have issued no separate comments for the Parent Company. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 96 PA R E N T C O M PA N Y F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Parent Company – Balance sheet, SEK million Note 2017 2016 ASSETS Non-current assets Investment properties 12, 13 15,000 14,904 Plant and equipment 14 6 9 Financial assets 15 2,267 1,677 Total non-current assets 17,273 16,590 Current assets Trade receivables 144 206 Current investments 16 3 4 Current receivables 17 15 87 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 18 28 18 Cash and bank balances 19 465 4 Total current assets 655 319 Total assets 17,928 16,909 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Restricted equity Share capital (2,000,000 shares) 200 200 Statutory reserve 42 42 Total restricted equity 242 242 Non-restricted equity Retained earnings 202 231 Net profit for the year 482 468 Total non-restricted equity 684 699 Total equity 926 941 Untaxed reserves 20 1,480 1,380 Liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities Green bonds 21 1,244 – Other loan liabilities 21 12,537 12,861 Non-interest-bearing liabilities Tax liability 10 24 23 Other liabilities 22 396 383 Deferred tax liabilities 10 775 787 Accrued expenses and deferred income 23 546 534 Total liabilities 15,522 14,588 Total equity and liabilities 17,928 16,909 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T PA R E N T C O M PA N Y F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S 97 Parent Company – Changes in equity, SEK million Attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholder Restricted equity Non-restricted equity Total equity Share Statutory Retained 2017 capital reserve ­earnings Opening balance, 1 January 2017 200 42 699 941 Comprehensive income Net profit for the year – – 482 482 Other comprehensive income – – – – Total 200 42 1,181 1,423 Transactions with the shareholder Dividend – – -497 -497 Total transactions with the shareholder – – -497 -497 Closing balance, 31 December 2017 200 42 684 926 Restricted equity Non-restricted equity Total equity Share Statutory Retained 2016 capital reserve earnings Opening balance, 1 January 2016 200 42 653 895 Comprehensive income Merged subsidiaries – – 24 24 Net profit for the year – – 468 468 Other comprehensive income – – – – Total 200 42 1,145 1,387 Transactions with the shareholder Dividend – – -446 -446 Total transactions with the shareholder – – -446 -446 Closing balance, 31 December 2016 200 42 699 941 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 98 PA R E N T C O M PA N Y F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Parent Company – Cash-flow statement, SEK million Full-year 2017 Full-year 2016 Operating activities Gross profit 822 794 Central administration -55 -61 Net financial expense -134 -116 Reversal, change in value of financial investments 63 37 Reversal, change in price of covered bonds -39 -4 Reversal of depreciation 612 593 Profit/loss from sales, liquidations and mergers – -58 Income tax paid -149 -109 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 1,120 1,076 Change in working capital Change in receivables 121 107 Change in other current liabilities -5 43 Total change in working capital 116 150 Cash flow from operating activities 1,236 1,226 Investing activities Acquisition of investment properties 0 -95 Investment in investment properties -1,166 -498 Disposal of investment properties 86 81 Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 0 -1 Disposal of property, plant and equipment 0 0 Cash flow from investing activities -1,080 -513 Financing activities Investment, covered bonds -148 -371 Borrowings 17,514 18,660 Repayments of borrowings -16,564 -18,554 Dividend paid to Parent Company’s shareholder -497 -446 Cash flow from financing activities 305 -711 Cash flow for the year 461 2 Opening cash and cash equivalents 4 2 Closing cash and cash equivalents 465 4 Interest Interest received 19 14 Interest paid 108 85 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T PA R E N T C O M PA N Y F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S 99 Note 1 Parent Company accounting policies The Parent Company applies the same accounting policies as the The following depreciation rates were used: Group, except in the cases specified below. The deviations between Building fixtures and fittings 10% per year the Parent Company’s and the Group’s policies arise from limitations Buildings 2–7% per year in the Parent Company’s ability to apply IFRS as a result of provisions In ground fixtures and fittings 5% per year in the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Pension ObligaLand improvements  5% per year tions Vesting Act, and in certain cases for tax reasons. Buildings Parent Company accounting policies Buildings in the Parent Company are recognised at cost less accumuThe Parent Company has prepared its annual accounts in accordance lated depreciation. Cost consists of the acquisition cost, land registrawith the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and Recommendation RFR 2 of tion costs and value enhancing improvements. Only expenses that the Swedish Financial Reporting Board, Accounting for Legal Entities. generate lasting value enhancement to a property are capitalised. Statements issued by the Swedish Financial Reporting Board applicaInterest expenses are also capitalised during the production period ble to listed companies are also applied. RFR 2 means that the Parent in the case of major new builds, extensions and redevelopments. Company must apply all EU-approved IFRSs and interpretations insofar as this is possible under the provisions of the Annual Accounts Act, In conjunction with the review of the economic useful life as described the Swedish Pension Obligations Vesting Act and with due considerin the Depreciation section above, the company is having all properation to the relationship between accounting and taxation. ties valued using the model described in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements. If the value of a property thus estimated falls Changes in accounting policies ­significantly below the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recNew standards and interpretations that entered force in 2017 have not ognised for the property. No impairments were recognised in 2017. had any impact on the financial statements. At 31 December 2017, the Parent Company’s property holdings were valued at SEK 23,399 million. Classification and structure The Parent Company’s income statement and balance sheet follow Plant and equipment the structure of the Annual Accounts Act. The principal difference in Plant and equipment in the Parent Company are reported at cost less comparison with IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements applied accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses in the same way in the layout of the Group’s financial statements is the presentation of as for the Group, but with the addition of possible positive revaluations. operating profit, financial income and expenses, non-current assets, equity and the occurrence of provisions as separate headings in the Leased assets balance sheet. For further information, see Note1 to the consolidated financial ­s tatements. Subsidiaries Participations in subsidiaries are recognised in the Parent Company Taxes in accordance with the cost method. Acquisition-related expenses for Untaxed reserves including deferred tax liabilities are recognised in subsidiaries are included in the cost of the shares in the subsidiary. the Parent Company. However, in the consolidated financial stateDividends received are recognised as income. ments untaxed reserves are divided into deferred tax liabilities and equity. Depreciation Earnings in the income statement have been charged with depreciaGroup contributions and shareholder contributions tion according to plan. In the case of plant and equipment, the differfor legal entities ence between fiscal and planned depreciation is reported as an The recipient recognises shareholder’s contributions directly in equity appropriation, and accumulated accelerated depreciation as untaxed and the donor capitalises contributions in shares and participations, reserves. A review of economic lives of buildings was carried out to the extent that impairment is not required. A Group contribution during the year. Since the maximum fiscal rate falls short of planned received by the Parent Company from a subsidiary is recognised depreciation, a deferred tax asset arises. The company includes the applying the same principles as customary dividends from subsidiardeferred tax asset in its total recognised deferred tax liability. ies and are recognised as financial income. Group contributions paid by the Parent Company to subsidiaries are recognised as an increase Planned depreciation is based on an asset’s cost and estimated in the carrying amount of the participations in the subsidiary. No ­economic life. Group contributions were paid during 2017. Financial risk management For further information, see notes 6, 12, 16 and 19 to the consolidated financial statements. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 100 PA R E N T C O M PA N Y F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 2 Other income Note 8 Net financial items 2017 2016 2017 2016 Invoiced energy and fuel expenses 67 53 Interest income, subsidiaries 2 1 Invoiced services 102 92 Interest income, covered bonds 17 14 Invoiced services within the Group 5 2 Other interest income 0 0 Compensation received 7 13 Investment gains 47 4 Other 0 0 Changes in value on revaluation Total 181 160 of ­financial derivatives 8 47 Financial income 74 66 Interest expenses, bonds 112 121 Other interest expenses -4 -37 Note 3 Operating expenses Investment losses 13 – Other financial expenses 17 14 2017 2016 Capitalisation of interest, projects Energy, fuel and water 139 128 in progress -1 -1 Property operations 265 237 Changes in value on revaluation of ­financial derivatives 71 85 Property tax 39 39 Financial expenses 208 182 Maintenance 75 93 Net financial expense 134 116 Total 518 497 Note 9 Appropriations Note 4 Administration 2017 2016 2017 2016 Difference between book depreciation Payroll expenses 42 48 and depreciation according to plan: Depreciation of plant and equipment 3 3 Plant and equipment -27 -41 Other expenses (Inspections, consulProvision to tax allocation reserve 227 212 tants’ fees, other) 10 10 Reversal from tax allocation reserve -100 -105 Total 55 61 Total 100 66 Note 5 Auditors’ fees Note 10 Taxes Refer to Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements. Recognised in profit or loss 2017 2016 Current tax expense 149 140 Deferred tax expense -12 -8 Note 6 Gain/loss on property sales Total recognised tax 137 132 Reconciliation of effective tax 2017 2016 Recognised EBT 619 600 Proceeds, properties sold 112 78 Book value, properties sold -25 -27 Swedish income tax rate, 22% 136 132 Selling expenses -1 -2 Tax-exempt income 0 0 Total 86 49 Non-deductible expenses 0 0 Adjusted sale proceeds 0 0 Standard interest tax allocation reserve 1 0 137 132 Note 7 Employees, payroll expenses and Board fees Recognised in the balance sheet Liabilities Refer to Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. Deferred tax liability 775 787 Current tax 24 23 Total 799 810 Deferred tax assets and liabilities Financial assets -21 -6 Capitalised maintenance expenses 141 101 Property depreciation, revaluation 655 692 Total 775 787 Deferred tax in respect of the revaluation reserve has been recognised in equity. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T PA R E N T C O M PA N Y F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S 101 Note 11 Appropriation of profits and ­dividend Land 2017 2016 Opening cost 1,388 1 098 The dividend paid to the shareholder in May 2017 totalled SEK Opening cost transferred through merger – 188 497,000,000 (SEK 446,000,000) and comprised an ordinary dividend, Surplus value on merger – 94 as defined in the dividend policy, of SEK 497,000,000. The dividend per Purchases – 10 share was SEK 249 (223). Regarding the dividend for this year, the Board Sales and disposals -17 -2 proposes that a dividend of SEK 280 per share be paid to the shareClosing accumulated cost 1,371 1,388 holder. A resolution will be taken by the shareholder regarding the diviClosing residual value according to plan 1,371 1,388 dend at the AGM. The dividend has not been taken up as a ­liability in the annual accounts. The dividend is estimated to total SEK 560,000,000. Tax assessment value, properties in Sweden 974 972 Non-restricted equity, Parent Company: Land improvements Retained earnings SEK 202,164,580 Opening cost 267 263 Net profit for the year SEK 482,032,235 Opening cost transferred through merger – 3 Total SEK 684,196,815 Projects completed 27 3 Sales and disposals -2 -2 The Board and CEO propose that earnings be appropriated as f­ ollows: Closing accumulated cost 292 267 Dividend payable to the ­shareholder SEK 560,000,000 Opening depreciation 127 115 To be carried forward SEK 124,196,815 Opening depreciation transferred through merger – 0 Total SEK 684,196,815 Sales and disposals -2 -1 Depreciation for the year 14 13 Note 12 Buildings, building fixtures and Closing accumulated depreciation 139 127 Closing residual value according to plan 153 140 fi ­ ttings, land, land improvements, in ground fixtures and fittings In ground fixtures and fittings Opening cost 312 303 Buildings 2017 2016 Opening cost transferred through merger – 7 Opening cost 12,460 11,176 Projects completed 42 2 Opening cost transferred through merger – 1,121 Sales and disposals -1 0 Surplus value on merger – 8 Closing accumulated cost 353 312 Purchases – 88 Opening depreciation 134 118 Projects completed 108 42 Opening depreciation transferred Capitalised maintenance expenses 131 118 through merger – 1 Sales and disposals -82 -93 Sales and disposals 0 0 Closing accumulated cost 12,617 12,460 Depreciation for the year 17 15 Closing accumulated depreciation 151 134 Opening depreciation 4,363 4,007 Closing residual value according to plan 202 178 Opening depreciation transferred through merger – 57 Total Sales and disposals -76 -62 Opening cost 15,293 13,516 Depreciation for the year 376 361 Opening cost transferred through merger – 1,509 Closing accumulated depreciation 4,663 4,363 Surplus value on merger – 102 Opening revaluations 4,274 4 274 Purchases – 98 Revaluations for the year – – Projects completed 193 55 Closing accumulated revaluations 4,274 4,274 Capitalised maintenance expenses 131 118 Opening depreciation on revalued amounts 335 203 Sales and disposals -103 -105 Depreciation for the year on revalued Closing accumulated cost 15,514 15,293 amounts 132 132 Closing accumulated depreciation on Opening depreciation 5,193 4 707 revalued amounts 467 335 Opening depreciation transferred through merger – 99 Opening impairment charges 94 94 Sales and disposals -79 -71 Impairment charges for the year – – Depreciation for the year 478 458 Closing accumulated impairment charges 94 94 Closing accumulated depreciation 5,592 5,193 Closing residual value according to plan 11,667 11,942 Opening revaluations 4,274 4 274 Tax assessment value, properties in Sweden 2,925 2,920 Revaluations for the year – – Closing accumulated revaluations 4,274 4,274 Building fixtures and fittings Opening cost 866 676 Opening depreciation on revalued amounts 335 203 Opening cost transferred through merger – 190 Depreciation for the year on revalued Purchases – – amounts 132 132 Projects completed 16 8 Closing accumulated depreciation on revalued amounts 467 335 Sales and disposals -1 -8 Closing accumulated cost 881 866 Opening impairment charges 94 94 Impairment charges for the year – – Opening depreciation 569 467 Closing accumulated impairment charges 94 94 Opening depreciation transferred through merger – 41 Closing residual value according to plan 13,635 13,945 Sales and disposals -1 -8 Tax assessment value, properties in Sweden 3,899 3 892 Depreciation for the year 71 69 Closing accumulated depreciation 639 569 Closing residual value according to plan 242 297 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 102 PA R E N T C O M PA N Y F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 13 Construction in progress Note 14 Plant and equipment 2017 2016 2017 2016 Opening balance 959 433 Opening cost 25 21 Accrued expenses for the year 730 699 Purchases 0 4 Capitalised maintenance expenses -131 -118 Sales and disposals 0 0 Projects completed -193 -55 Closing accumulated cost 25 25 Closing balance 1,365 959 Opening depreciation 16 13 Sales and disposals 0 0 Depreciation for the year 3 3 Closing accumulated depreciation 19 16 Closing residual value according to plan 6 9 Note 15 Financial assets 2017 2016 Shares in subsidiaries 692 408 Other shares 0 0 Receivables from subsidiaries 394 217 Derivatives measured at FVTPL 54 86 CSA deposits 74 59 Covered bonds 1,040 897 Value-added tax for adjustment 13 10 Total 2,267 1,677 Shares in subsidiaries 2017 Carrying amount, Subsidiary Equity Voting rights No. of shares SEK thousand Special­fastig­heter Lejonet 11 AB 100% 100% 500 294,402 Special­fastig­heter F-öarna 6 AB 100% 100% 1,000 281,609 Special­fastig­heter Gärdet AB 100% 100% 50,000 116,131 Nordrike Fastighets AB 100% 100% 500 50 Västrike Fastighets AB 100% 100% 500 50 Carrying amount of shares in subsidiaries 2017 692,242 Shares in subsidiaries 2016 Carrying amount, Subsidiary Equity Voting rights No. of shares SEK thousand Special­fastig­heter Lejonet 11 AB 100% 100% 500 291,881 Special­fastig­heter Gärdet AB 100% 100% 50,000 116,131 Nordrike Fastighets AB 100% 100% 500 50 Västrike Fastighets AB 100% 100% 500 50 Carrying amount of shares in subsidiaries 2016 408,112 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T PA R E N T C O M PA N Y F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S 103 continued, Note 15 Financial assets Shares, indirectly owned subsidiaries 2017 Carrying amount, Equity Voting rights No. of shares SEK thousand Owned by Västrike Fastighets AB Västrike 2 Fastighets AB (dormant company) 100% 100% 500 50 Säkerhetsfastigheter Sverige AB (dormant company) 100% 100% 500 50 Carrying amount of shares in subsidiaries 2017 100 Shares, indirectly owned subsidiaries 2016 Carrying amount, Equity Voting rights No. of shares SEK thousand Owned by Nordrike Fastighets AB 100% 100% 500 50 Nordrike 2 Fastighets AB Owned by Västrike Fastighets AB Västrike 2 Fastighets AB (dormant company) 100% 100% 500 50 Säkerhetsfastigheter Sverige AB (dormant company) 100% 100% 500 50 Carrying amount of shares in subsidiaries 2016 150 Information on company registration numbers and registered offices, 2017 Subsidiary Co. Reg. No. Registered office Special­fastig­heter Lejonet AB 559077-3015 Linköping Special­fastig­heter F-öarna 6 AB 556661-1447 Linköping Special­fastig­heter Gärdet AB 556910-1370 Linköping Nordrike Fastighets AB 556832-2290 Linköping Västrike Fastighets AB (dormant company) 556963-5187 Linköping Indirectly owned subsidiaries Co. Reg. No. Registered office Nordrike 2 Fastighets AB 556938-3929 Linköping Västrike 2 Fastighets AB (dormant company) 556963-5179 Linköping Säkerhetsfastigheter Sverige AB (dormant company) 556963-5161 Linköping SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 104 PA R E N T C O M PA N Y F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Note 16 Current investments Note 22 Other liabilities 2017 2016 2017 2016 Derivatives measured at FVTPL 3 4 Customer advances 0 – Total 3 4 Trade payables 147 162 Derivatives measured at FVTPL 147 117 VAT 99 98 Other liabilities 3 6 Note 17 Current receivables Total non-interest-bearing liabilities 396 383 2017 2016 Receivables from subsidiaries 3 9 Receivables, properties sold – 68 Note 23 Accrued expenses and deferred Opening suspended VAT 12 – income Other receivables 0 10 Total 15 87 2017 2016 Deferred rental income 469 452 Accrued energy expenses 14 14 Accrued interest expenses 40 47 Note 18 Prepaid expenses and accrued Accrued social-security expenses – 2 income Accrued holiday pay 8 8 Accrued payroll tax 3 3 2017 2016 Other items 12 8 Prepaid energy expenses 3 3 Total 546 534 Other interim receivables 25 15 Total 28 18 Note 24 Related parties Note 19 Cash and cash equivalents Refer to Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements. 2017 2016 Bank balances 465 4 Total 465 4 Note 25 Pledged assets and contingent ­liabilities 2017 2016 Note 20 Untaxed reserves Pledged assets None None Contingent liabilities None None 2017 2016 Accumulated difference between reported depreciations and ­depreciations according to plan 391 418 Tax allocation reserve 1,089 962 Note 26 Events after the balance­-sheet date Total 1,480 1,380 Special­fastig­heter Sverige AB has taken possession of the Läkaren 2 and 4 properties in Värnamo. These properties house tenants including the SiS Fortunagården institution. Note 21 Interest-bearing liabilities Refer to Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T D E C L A R AT I O N B Y T H E B O A R D 105 Declaration by the Board The consolidated financial statements and annual accounts The Administration Report for the Group and the Parent have been prepared in accordance with the international ­Company presents a true and fair overview of the activities, accounting standards referred to in Regulation (EC) No financial position and results of the Group and the Parent 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of Company and describes material risks and uncertainties 19 July 2002 on the application of international accounting faced by the Parent Company and the companies contained standards and good accounting practice and present a true in the Group. and fair view of the position and results of the Group and the Parent Company. Stockholm, 15 March 2018 Bo Lundgren Åsa Hedenberg Chairman CEO Jan Berg Carin Götblad Eva Landén Mikael Lundström Ulrika Nordström Maj-Charlotte Wallin Masoomeh Antonsson Roger Törngren Employee Representative Employee Representative Our Audit Report was submitted on 15 March 2018 Ernst & Young AB Mikael Ikonen Authorised Public Accountant, Ernst & Young AB SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 106 AUDITOR'S REPORT Auditor’s report To the general meeting of the shareholders of We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is suf­Special­fastigheter Sverige AB, corporate identity ficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. number 556537-5945 Key Audit Matters Report on the annual accounts and consolidated Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in accounts our professional judgment, were of most significance in Opinions our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the current period. These matters were accounts of Specialfastigheter Sverige AB (publ) except addressed in the context of our audit of, and in forming for the corporate governance statement on pages 59–65 our opinion thereon, the annual accounts and consoliand the statutory sustainability report on pages 50–57 for dated accounts as a whole, but we do not provide a sepathe 2017 financial year. The annual accounts and consolirate opinion on these matters. For each matter below, our dated accounts of the company are included on pages description of how our audit addressed the matter is pro6–105 in this document. vided in that context. In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in We have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the statements section of our report, including in relation to parent company as of 31 December 2017 and its financial these matters. Accordingly, our audit included the perforperformance and cash flow for the year then ended in mance of procedures designed to respond to our assessaccordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consoliment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial dated accounts have been prepared in accordance with statements. The results of our audit procedures, including the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material the procedures performed to address the matters below, respects, the financial position of the group as of 31 provide the basis for our audit opinion on the accompanyDecember 2017 and its financial performance and cash ing financial statements. flow for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by Valuation of investment properties the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. Our opinions do not Description of key audit matter cover the corporate governance statement on pages •A  t 31 December, the fair value of Specialfastigheter’s 59–65 and the statutory sustainability report on pages properties amounted to SEK 25,002 million and the 50–57. The statutory administration report is consistent change in value to SEK 2,003 million. Unrealised changes with the other parts of the annual accounts and consoliin value amounted to SEK 832 million and realised dated accounts. changes in value totalled SEK 1,171 million. A description of the appraisal of the property holdings has been proWe therefore recommend that the general meeting of vided in Note 9. shareholders adopts the income statement and balance • Each quarter, Specialfastigheter conducts an internal sheet for the parent company and the group. valuation of its entire property holdings and, moreover, in Q2 and Q4, control validations are performed by Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and external appraisers of a number of properties. This consolidated accounts are consistent with the content of means that in 2017, 87% of the market value, correspondthe additional report that has been submitted to the paring to 48 objects, were valued by external appraisers. ent company's audit committee in accordance with the • The valuations are based on the return using cash-flow Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. approach, which entails forecasting future cash flows. The required yield is assessed based on each property’s Basis for Opinions unique risks and on market transactions completed for We conducted our audit in accordance with International objects of a similar nature, since few directly comparable Standards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted audittransactions occur. Changes in unobservable input data ing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those applied in the appraisals are analysed at each balstandards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsiance-sheet date by the company management against bility sections. We are independent of the parent cominternally available information, completed or planned pany and the group in accordance with professional ethics transactions as well as information from the external for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our appraisers. Given the numerous assumptions and judgethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements that occur in connection with appraisals; we ments. This includes that, based on the best of our knowlbelieve that this area should be considered a key audit edge and belief, no prohibited services referred to in the matter. Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 5.1 have been provided to the audited company or, where applicable, its parent company or its controlled companies within the EU. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T AUDITOR'S REPORT 107 How our audit addressed this key audit matter In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and •W e have evaluated and examined the management’s consolidated accounts, our responsibility is to read the procedures for valuing properties through measures, information identified above and consider whether the including evaluating the appraisal method and appraisal information is materially inconsistent with the annual input data. accounts and consolidated accounts. In this procedure we •W e have also carried out comparisons against known also take into account our knowledge otherwise obtained market data. With support from our valuation specialists, in the audit and assess whether the information otherwise we have examined the company’s internal valuation appears to be materially misstated. model. We have also examined, with our valuation specialists’ support, the reasonableness of assumptions in If we, based on the work performed concerning this inforterms of required yield, vacancy rate, rental income and mation, conclude that there is a material misstatement of operating expenses. this other information, we are required to report that fact. •W e have assessed the appropriateness of the discloWe have nothing to report in this regard. sures provided in the annual accounts. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Chief ­Executive Officer Income taxes The Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer are Description of key audit matter responsible for the preparation of the annual accounts •T he tax expense in the income statement amounted to and consolidated accounts and that they give a fair preSEK 446 million. In addition, Specialfastigheter reported sentation in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act a deferred tax liability of SEK 2,990 million. Note 10 conand, concerning the consolidated accounts, in accordance tains a description of the tax calculation. with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors •T he calculation and reporting of current and deferred and the Chief Executive Officer are also responsible for tax are complex processes and, to a high degree, are such internal control as they determine is necessary to comprised of judgements and assumptions. These enable the preparation of annual accounts and consolijudgements and assumptions include, inter alia, decision dated accounts that are free from material misstatement, data for fiscal depreciation, directly deductible redevelwhether due to fraud or error. opment expenditure, sales of properties separately or as companies as well as changes in the value of properties In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated and derivatives. Given the numerous assumptions and accounts, The Board of Directors and the Chief Executive judgments that occur in connection with the calculation Officer are responsible for the assessment of the compaof taxes, we believe that this area should be considered ny’s and the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. a key audit matter. They disclose, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting. The How our audit addressed this key audit matter going concern basis of accounting is however not applied •O ur audit evaluated and examined the management’s if the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer procedure for calculating current and deferred tax as intend to liquidate the company, to cease operations, or well as examined the calculations against verification have no realistic alternative but to do so. data. With support from our tax specialists, we have assessed the application in terms of the applicable tax Among other tasks, the Audit Committee shall, without legislation. prejudice to the Board of Directors’ responsibilities and •W e have assessed the appropriateness of the disclotasks in general, oversee the company’s ﬁnancial reportsures provided in the annual accounts. ing process. Other Information than the annual accounts and Auditor’s responsibility consolidated accounts Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about This document also contains other information than the whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts annual accounts and consolidated accounts and is found as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether on pages 1–5, 50–57 and 110–114. The Board of Directors due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that and the Chief Executive Officer are responsible for this includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high level other information. of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated auditing standards in Sweden will always detect a material accounts does not cover this other information and we do misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from not express any form of assurance conclusion regarding fraud or error and are considered material if, individually this other information. or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these annual accounts and consolidated accounts. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 108 AUDITOR'S REPORT As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise We must also provide the Board of Directors with a stateprofessional judgment and maintain professional sceptiment that we have complied with relevant ethical requirecism throughout the audit. We also: ments regarding independence, and to communicate with • I dentify and assess the risks of material misstatement of them all relationships and other matters that may reasonthe annual accounts and consolidated accounts, whether ably be thought to bear on our independence, and where due to fraud or error, design and perform audit proceapplicable, related safeguards. dures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a From the matters communicated with the Board of Direcbasis for our opinions. The risk of not detecting a matetors, we determine those matters that were of most signifrial misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for icance in the audit of the annual accounts and consolione resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, dated accounts, including the most important assessed forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or risks for material misstatement, and are therefore the key the override of internal control. audit matters. We describe these matters in the auditor’s •O  btain an understanding of the company’s internal conreport unless law or regulation precludes disclosure about trol relevant to our audit in order to design audit procethe matter. dures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effecReport on other legal and regulatory requirements tiveness of the company’s internal control. Opinions In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consol•E  valuate the appropriateness of accounting policies idated accounts, we have also audited the administration used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer and related disclosures made by the Board of Directors of Specialfastigheter Sverige AB (publ) for the 2017 finanand the Chief Executive Officer. cial year and the proposed appropriations of the compa•C  onclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Direcny’s profit or loss. tors’ and the Chief Executive Officer’s use of the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders accounts and consolidated accounts. We also draw a that the profit be appropriated in accordance with the conclusion, based on the audit evidence obtained, as to proposal in the statutory administration report and that whether any material uncertainty exists related to events the members of the Board of Directors and the Chief or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the comExecutive Officer be discharged from liability for the pany’s and the group’s ability to continue as a going confinancial year. cern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report A separate list of loans and collateral has been prepared to the related disclosures in the annual accounts and in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act. consolidated accounts or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion about the annual accounts Basis for opinions and consolidated accounts. Our conclusions are based We conducted the audit in accordance with generally on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibiliauditor’s report. However, future events or conditions ties under those standards are further described in the may cause a company and a group to cease to continue Auditor’s Responsibility section. We are independent of as a going concern. the parent company and the group in accordance with •E  valuate the overall presentation, structure and content professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accorincluding the disclosures, and whether the annual dance with these requirements. accounts and consolidated accounts represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufachieves fair presentation. ficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. •O  btain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Chief ­Executive Officer business activities within the group to express an opinThe Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for ion on the consolidated accounts. We are responsible for appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. At the prothe direction, supervision and performance of the group posal of a dividend, this includes an assessment of audit. We remain solely responsible for our opinions. whether the dividend is justifiable considering the requirements which the company's and the group’s type of operWe must inform the Board of Directors of, among other ations, size and risks place on the size of the parent commatters, the planned scope and timing of the audit. We pany's and the group’s equity, consolidation must also inform of significant audit findings during our requirements, liquidity and position in general. audit, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identified. SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T AUDITOR'S REPORT 109 The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s examined the Board of Directors’ reasoned statement and organisation and the administration of the company’s a selection of supporting evidence in order to be able to affairs. This includes among other things continuous assess whether the proposal is in accordance with the assessment of the company’s and the group’s financial sitCompanies Act. uation and ensuring that the company's organisation is designed so that the accounting, management of assets The auditor’s examination of the corporate governance statement and the company’s financial affairs otherwise are conThe Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation trolled in a reassuring manner. The Chief Executive Officer of the corporate governance statement on pages 6–105 in shall manage the ongoing administration according to the accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Board of Directors’ guidelines and instructions and among other matters take measures that are necessary to fulfil Our examination of the corporate governance statement the company’s accounting in accordance with law and was conducted in accordance with FAR´s auditing stanhandle the management of assets in a reassuring manner. dard RevU 16 The auditor´s examination of the corporate governance statement. This means that our examination Auditor’s responsibility of the corporate governance statement is different and Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in and thereby our opinion about discharge from liability, is accordance with International Standards on Auditing and to obtain audit evidence to assess with a reasonable generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We degree of assurance whether any member of the Board of believe that the examination has provided us with suffiDirectors or the Chief Executive Officer in any material cient basis for our opinions. respect: •h  as undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission A corporate governance statement has been prepared. which can give rise to liability to the company, or Disclosures in accordance with Chapter 6 Section 6 the • in any other way has acted in contravention of the Comsecond paragraph points 2-6 of the Annual Accounts Act panies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of and Chapter 7 Section 31 the second paragraph the same Association. law are consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and are in accorOur objective concerning the audit of the proposed dance with the Annual Accounts Act. appropriations of the company’s profit or loss, and The auditor´s opinion regarding the statutory thereby our opinion about this, is to assess with reasonsustainability report able degree of assurance whether the proposal is in accorThe Board of Directors is responsible for the statutory susdance with the Companies Act. tainability report on pages 50–57, and that it is prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance Our examination was conducted in accordance with FAR’s with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor´s opinion regarding always detect actions or omissions that can give rise to liathe statutory sustainability report. This means that our bility to the company, or that the proposed appropriations examination of the statutory sustainability report is differof the company’s profit or loss are not in accordance with ent and substantially less in scope than an audit conthe Companies Act. ducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in As part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us auditing standards in Sweden, we exercise professional with sufficient basis for our opinion. judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. The examination of the administration and A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss is based primarily on the audit of the accounts. AddiErnst & Young, Jakobsbergsgatan 24, 111 44 Stockholm, tional audit procedures performed are based on our prowas appointed auditor of Specialfastigheter Sverige AB by fessional judgment with starting point in risk and materialthe general meeting of the shareholders on the 23 April ity. This means that we focus the examination on such 2017 and has been the company’s auditor since the 19 actions, areas and relationships that are material for the April 2012. operations and where deviations and violations would have particular importance for the company’s situation. Stockholm, 15 March 2018 We examine and test decisions undertaken, support for Ernst & Young AB decisions, actions taken and other circumstances that are relevant to our opinion concerning discharge from liability. As a basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proMikael Ikonen posed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss we Authorised Public Accountant SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 110 PROPERT Y HOLDINGS Property holdings Special­fastig­heter owns and manages a total of 96 (104) properties divided among three business areas. The buildings are spread geographically across the country. Number of Owned floor buildings Land area, sq m space, sq m ■ Prison and Probation Service business area 513 8,422,273 406,508 ■ Defence and Judicial System business area 28 519,797 406,942 ■ Institutional Care and Other Special Operations business area 589 8,232,306 264,514 Total: 1,130 17,174,376 1,077,964 Prison and Probation Service business area Number of Land area, Owned floor Property designation Location Municipality ­buildings sq m space, sq m Asptuna LINDHOV 15:19, 15:3 Norsborg BOTKYRKA 18 125,582 4,828 Beateberg KASSETTEN 1, VÄSTRA SKOGÅS 1:5 Trångsund HUDDINGE 4 26,584 3,754 Borås PROVAREN 2 Borås BORÅS 7 55,720 5,558 Brinkeberg RESTAD 3:13 Vänersborg VÄNERSBORG 3 48,049 7,412 Fosie FORNLÄMNINGEN 1 Malmö MALMÖ 3 33,109 7,661 Färingsö SVARTSJÖ 1:59 Svartsjö EKERÖ 8 47,559 4,722 Gruvberget GRUVBERGET 1:4–29, 1:31-34, 1:36–40, 2:1, 3:1, 5:2 Åmotsbruk BOLLNÄS 32 106,054 4,511 Gävle KÄLLÖ 46:1 Gävle GÄVLE 5 40,113 7,850 Hall HALL 4:15 Södertälje SÖDERTÄLJE 18 588,803 29,732 Halldalen HALL 4:14, 4:3, 4:5 Södertälje SÖDERTÄLJE 36 635,882 8,496 Halmstad EKETÅNGA 4:5 Halmstad HALMSTAD 5 42,579 5,457 Haparanda BOJAN 2 Haparanda HAPARANDA 5 21,631 3,075 Helsingborg KAVALLERISTEN 10 Helsingborg HELSINGBORG 8 31,077 4,645 Hinseberg HINSEBERG 1:8 Frövi LINDESBERG 23 372,932 11,548 Huddinge ROTORN 3 Huddinge HUDDINGE 1 8,016 8,970 Hällby TUMBO-BERGA 1:3, 1:5 Kvicksund ESKILSTUNA 20 258,596 8,561 Högsbo HÖGSBO 31:1 Västra Frölunda GOTHENBURG 7 35,588 7,445 Kalmar RAVELINEN 1 Kalmar KALMAR 3 4,857 2,993 Karlskoga SURPUSSEN 1 Karlskoga KARLSKOGA 8 79,485 5,868 Kristianstad VÄ 147:3 Kristianstad KRISTIANSTAD 6 43,019 6,961 Kumla LÖVSÅNGAREN 1, 2 Kumla KUMLA 32 520,310 51,215 Ljustadalen FILLA 8:5 Sundsbruk SUNDSVALL 4 37,555 1,371 Luleå PORSÖN 1:401 Luleå LULEÅ 4 27,085 3,944 Mariefred GRIPSHOLM 4:4 Mariefred STRÄNGNÄS 18 150,080 8,604 Norrtälje SKOGEN 1 Norrtälje NORRTÄLJE 15 191,228 18,464 Nya Saltvik SALTVIK 2:64 Härnösand HÄRNÖSAND 10 295,597 23,911 Nyköping MODELLEN 1 Nyköping NYKÖPING 3 23,144 6,464 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T PROPERT Y HOLDINGS 111 Number of Land area, Owned floor Property designation Location Municipality ­buildings sq m space, sq m Rödjan MARIEHOLM 1:8 Mariestad MARIESTAD 20 323,753 5,436 Sagsjön, Lindome ANNESTORP 4:74 Lindome MÖLNDAL 9 60,000 3,639 Skenäs SKENÄS 1:19 Vikbolandet NORRKÖPING 18 1,637,649 7,350 Skogome SKOGOME 2:2 Hisings Backa GOTHENBURG 14 275,307 12,868 Skänninge ÖSTANÅ 6 Skänninge MJÖLBY 14 146,508 16,353 Storboda ROSERSBERG 2:7 Rosersberg SIGTUNA 5 88,466 6,536 Sörbyn SÖRBYN 9:2 Hörnefors UMEÅ 22 861,265 8,770 Svartsjö SVARTSJÖ 1:60 Svartsjö EKERÖ 9 47,688 4,721 Svartsjö Bostäder SVARTSJÖ 1:60 Svartsjö EKERÖ 7 7,000 909 Tidaholm RAMSTORP 4:10 Tidaholm TIDAHOLM 17 277,255 15,315 Tillberga HUBBO-SÖRBY 9:48 Västerås VÄSTERÅS 8 64,251 13,502 Tygelsjö PILE 1:7, 1:10 Tygelsjö MALMÖ 18 120,662 10,306 Täby RÖNNINGE 3:4 Täby TÄBY 3 25,288 3,978 Umeå, Ersboda TEGLET 1 Umeå UMEÅ 4 38,034 3,902 Ystad TERMOSTATEN 1 Ystad YSTAD 7 59,550 8,198 Åby FUNBO-ÅBY 9:1 Uppsala UPPSALA 25 134,363 5,026 Österåker PRÄSTGÅRDEN 1:11 Åkersberga ÖSTERÅKER 7 405,000 15,679 Total Prison and Probation Service 513 8,422,273 406,508 Defence and Judicial System business area Number of Land area, Owned floor Property designation Location Municipality ­buildings sq m space, sq m FOI ARMERINGEN 1 Umeå UMEÅ 4 290,535 13,575 Formgivaren FORMGIVAREN 1 Solna SOLNA 1 9,169 34,967 Kista FÄRÖARNA 6 Kista STOCKHOLM 1 6,559 24,658 Försv N Undreg BERGNÄSET 3:53 Luleå LULEÅ 4 22,000 3,949 Lejonet LEJONET 11 Luleå LULEÅ 2 10,596 21,800 Kristallen KRISTALLEN 2 Lund LUND 0 2,647 0 Kronoberg KRONOBERG 18 Stockholm STOCKHOLM 7 42,358 163,000 Rådhuset FRUKTKORGEN1 Stockholm STOCKHOLM 1 13,595 22,765 Tegeludden TEGELUDDEN 8 Stockholm STOCKHOLM 1 3,504 14,812 Tre Vapen TRE VAPEN 4 Stockholm STOCKHOLM 3 94,224 66,458 Öb Högkvarteret KAVALLERISTEN 3 Stockholm STOCKHOLM 4 24,610 40,958 Total Defence and Judicial System 28 519,797 406,942 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T 112 PROPERT Y HOLDINGS Institutional Care and Other Special Operations business area Number of Land area, Owned floor Property designation Location Municipality ­buildings sq m space, sq m Bergsmansgården BROTORP 1:7 Fjugesta LEKEBERG 7 21,400 3,452 Björkbacken BERGSJÖN 21:1 Gothenburg GOTHENBURG 5 18,680 2,906 Brättegården BRÄTTE 1:2 Vänersborg VÄNERSBORG 15 98,300 4,175 Bärby FUNBO-BROBY 1:3 Uppsala UPPSALA 21 191,907 7,872 Ekebylund EKEBY 5:4 Rosersberg SIGTUNA 12 12,180 2,289 Eknäs EKNÄS 2:2 Enköping ENKÖPING 11 65,870 4,938 Fagared FAGERED 3:1 Lindome MÖLNDAL 15 378,805 7,029 Flygvapen­ MALMEN 2:8 Linköping LINKÖPING museum 5 71,853 17,296 Folåsa FÅLÅSA 12:1 Vikingstad LINKÖPING 18 153,604 5,689 Granhult GRANHULT 2:4 Ramsberg LINDESBERG 9 37,222 2,161 Gudhem GUDHEM 12:3, Gudhem FALKÖPING HOLMÄNGEN 7:1 19 217,084 11,066 Rebecka TROXHAMMAR 8:2 Skå EKERÖ 23 220,995 6,457 Hessleby HÄSSLEBY 2:2 Mariannelund EKSJÖ 15 500,060 7,189 Hornö HORNÖ 1:1, 1:8 Enköping ENKÖPING 18 398,223 5,107 Håga HALL 4:4, 4:7, 4:8, 4:10, 4:12, Södertälje SÖDERTÄLJE 4:13, TYSSLINGE 1:30, 1:31 9 174,795 4,485 Johannisberg GRYTNÄS 2:1, GRYTNÄS 2:11 Kalix KALIX 9 130,922 5,253 Karlsvik BOSJÖKLOSTER 1:716 Höör HÖÖR 13 96,879 3,606 Hässleholm FRIDHEM 9 Hässleholm HÄSSLEHOLM 2 16,116 1,305 Klarälvsgården ORRETORP 2:2 Deje FORSHAGA 6 243,800 2,590 Ljungaskog LJUNGASKOG 15:28 Örkelljunga ÖRKELLJUNGA 12 281,202 4,745 Ljungbacken GRÄSKÄRR 1:1, OLIDAN 3:17, Uddevalla UDDEVALLA ­OLIDAN 4:9 25 276,152 7,001 Lunden KLOSTERGÅRDEN 2:10 Lund LUND 1 26,391 4,621 Långanäs LÅNGANÄS 1:1 Eksjö EKSJÖ 30 434,995 8,946 Lövsta LÖVSTA 1:33, 1:67 Vagnhärad TROSA 37 500,628 9,247 Nereby NEREBY 1:1 Härestad KUNGÄLV 19 162,660 3,601 Perstorp UGGLAN 1 Perstorp PERSTORP 4 4,264 1,000 Renforsen DEGERFORS 38:9, Vindeln VINDELN SLAKTAREN 1 7 34,098 3,183 Revinge REVINGE 1:14 Lund LUND 22 472,000 17,912 Runnagården KRUSBÄRSBUSKEN 10 Örebro ÖREBRO 13 77,522 4,184 Ryds Brunn RYD 1:143 Ryd TINGSRYD 8 21,620 5,143 Råby STORA RÅBY 32:6, 32:21, Lund LUND 32:23 4 0 3,381 Rällsögården DAMMEN 1:11-15, 1:37, 3:1, Kopparberg LJUSNARSBERG 3:2, RÄLLSÖN 1:1–4 18 1,297,250 6,574 Rpk Gothenburg BACKA 866:772 Hisings Backa GOTHENBURG 1 25,417 4,462 Sandoskolan SANDÖ 1:4, 1:5, 2:5 Sandöverken KRAMFORS 38 433,348 30,830 Stigby STIGBY 1:9, 7:3 Visingsö JÖNKÖPING 17 78,146 7,064 Sundbo SUNDBO 7:106, 7:107, 7:109, Fagersta FAGERSTA 7:63 30 385,423 9,630 Vemyra VEMYRA 3:1, 3:2 Sollefteå SOLLEFTEÅ 12 173,400 4,293 Åstorp BULTEN 2 Åstorp ÅSTORP 2 17,939 5,007 Älvgården YTTERNORA 2:6, 2:7 Hedemora HEDEMORA 20 75,600 6,995 Östfora ÖSTFORA 1:30 Järlåsa UPPSALA 21 290,915 5,149 Öxnevalla BRÄNNARED 2:3 Öxnevalla MARK 16 114,641 6,681 Total Institutional Care and Other Special Operations 589 8,232,306 264,514 SPEC I A L FA S T I GH E T ER 2 017 A N N UA L A N D SUS TA IN A BIL I T Y R EP O R T Definitions Adjusted return on equity, % Occupancy rate, % Profit/loss after tax, after including changes in value and associated Total floor space of let premises in relation to total lettable floor space. deferred tax, in relation to average equity. Operating net financial items, SEK million Carbon dioxide, CO2 Interest expense less interest income for the year. When fossil fuels are burned, carbon dioxide – a greenhouse gas – is released. Profit from property management, SEK million Profit from property management is a specific earnings metric Equity, SEK million commonly used in the property sector to facilitate comparability Recognised equity. in the sector. It is calculated as the sum of net operating income, administrative expenses and net financial items. Equity/assets ratio, % Adjusted equity on the balance­-sheet date as a percentage Rent per sq m, SEK of total assets. Annual rent divided by the lettable floor space in square metres at the end of the year. Floor space, sq m Estimated lettable floor space in square metres. Return on equity, % Profit/loss for the year in relation to average equity. Green appendices Special­fastig­heter’s green appendices (also known as green leases) Return on total capital, % are a standardised template developed by the Swedish Property Net profit for the year plus financial expenses in relation to average Federation for reducing the environmental impact from premises. total assets. The agreement sets out the landlord’s responsibilities, the tenant’s responsibilities and shared responsibilities, and details the measures Secure facilities agreed by the landlord and tenant to reduce environmental impact Properties that have been adapted for operations with security through information and collaboration in terms of energy and indoor requirements in terms of operational, personal, information or environment, material selection and waste management. perimeter security. Green bonds Surplus ratio, % Bonds intended to finance environmentally sustainable projects. Net operating income divided by income from property Our framework is based on the Green Bond Principles. management. Greenhouse gases Whistle-blowing Greenhouse gases is an umbrella term for many different gases that This is the term and the function that we use to enable anyone to increase the greenhouse effect. anonymously state their suspicions regarding cases of corruption or other improprieties. Interest coverage ratio, cash-flow based Profit/loss before tax after adding financial expenses, changes Yield, % in value and gains/losses from property sales, divided by financial Net operating income divided by the average market value expenses excluding changes in value of financial derivatives. of investment properties. Loan-to-value ratio, % Interest-bearing net loan liabilities in relation to the closing value Special­fastig­heter has selected the above key performance indicators of investment properties. based on established practices in the real estate sector and our own governance. Net operating income, SEK million Income from property management less property expenses. Reporting calendar Annual General Meeting Interim report January–March 2018 17 April 2018, 11 a.m., 17 April 2018 Alströmergatan 14, Stockholm, Sweden Interim Report January–June 2018 11 July 2018 Interim Report January–September 2018 17 October 2018 Production: Special­fastig­heter in collaboration with Intellecta Corporate AB Photo: Special­fastig­heter’s image bank Addresses Special­fastig­heter Sverige AB (publ) Company registration number: 556537-5945 Head Office, Linköping Gothenburg Sundsvall Box 632, SE 581 07 Linköping Street address: Aminogatan 34 Box 37, 851 02 Sundsvall Street Street address: Borggården, SE 431 53 Mölndal address: Sjögatan 15 Linköping Telephone: +46 10-788 62 00 SE 852 34 Sundsvall Telephone: +46 10-788 62 00 Telephone: +46 10-788 62 00 Lund Head Office, Stockholm Box 4017, SE 227 21 Lund Örebro Box 12675, SE 112 93 Stockholm Street address: Traktorvägen 6, Lund Street address: Nygatan 31 Street address: Alströmergatan 14, Telephone: +46 10-788 62 00 SE 702 11 Örebro Stockholm Telephone: +46 10-788 62 00 Telephone: +46 10-788 62 00 info@specialfastigheter.se www.specialfastigheter.se www.linkedin.com/company/ specialfastigheter-sverige-ab
