Creating sustainable communities 30 June 2018 Annual Review 2018 iiHighlands, VicAnnual Review 2018 | Stockland About this report | iii About this report Welcome to Stockland’s 2018 Annual Review – reporting on our financial, social and environmental performance for the financial year, 1 July 2017 – 30 June 2018. This is our seventh integrated report. We continue to evolve our approach to Integrated Reporting across our corporate reporting suite. Our reporting approach and materiality are discussed on page 63. For Stockland, integrated reporting is a journey toward more meaningful corporate reporting and is a process of continuous improvement, one that we believe will provide great benefit to both our organisation and our stakeholders. Our full corporate reporting suite for 2018 includes: Annual Review Our integrated report focused on strategy, governance, and our financial, (online only) social and environmental performance. Annual Report A detailed account of our FY18 financial performance, including our response to the Financial Stability Board’s Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosure recommendations. Property Portfolio Details on each of the assets within our portfolio, updated every six months. Sustainability Reporting Our in-depth sustainability Deep Dives reported in accordance with (online only) GRI Standards “comprehensive”. www.stockland.com.au/sustainability Securityholder Review A concise version of the Annual Review sent to our securityholders. Copies of all reports are available online at: www.stockland.com.au/ corporate-reporting Contents Letter from the Chairman 02 Letter from the Managing Director and CEO 04 Our performance in FY18 06 Our business and strategy 11 OUR STRATEGIC FOCUS AREAS Grow our asset returns and customer base 19 Capital strength 25 Operational excellence 29 CREATING SHARED VALUE Optimise and innovate 35 Shape thriving communities 43 Enrich our value chain 49 Governance and remuneration 53 Our reporting approach and external assurance 63 Stockland is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and supports the Ten Principles of the Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption and the Sustainable Development Goal of the UNGC. Stockland’s Sustainability Reporting also serves as its UNGC Communication on Progress. FEEDBACK We welcome your questions and value your feedback about our reporting approach. Please contact us at reporting@stockland.com.au. Follow us at @stockland Find us at linkedin.com/company/Stockland About this report | 01 WELCOME Letter from the Chairman Our strategy to maximise value from community creation, coupled with Dear Securityholders, Our Logistics portfolio has also grown a disciplined approach strongly, supported by well-timed It is my pleasure to report another strong acquisitions and accretive development. to capital management, year of performance for Stockland. The Logistics now represent 15 per cent of our overall results demonstrate the resilience portfolio, up from 12 per cent five years ago. continues to deliver of our diversified business in this variable trading environment. We are proud of our position as the strong results. leading creator of liveable and affordable The execution of our strategy over the last communities and the important role five years has yielded some outstanding we play in bringing communities together outcomes for communities across Australia. at our retail town centres and workplaces TOM POCKETT CHAIRMAN In this time, we have delivered sustainable across Australia. and competitive profit growth with 10.8 per cent per annum compound STRONG PERFORMANCE earnings per security growth. Our strategy to maximise value from In driving our vision to create sustainable community creation, coupled with a communities we have built an exemplar disciplined approach to capital management, residential portfolio which has grown its continues to deliver strong results. return on assets from 8.7 per cent in FY13 Funds from operations (FFO) grew to 22.0 per cent in FY18, and is delivering by 7.5 per cent to $863 million and FFO impressive operating profit margins per security grew 6.6 per cent in FY18 of 18 per cent. We have also extended to 35.6 cents per security, reflecting our our capabilities through the creation community building capabilities. Statutory of a built-form business, tripling our profit was $1,025 million, down 14.2 per cent, townhome volumes. largely due to lower unrealised gains from Close to $1.3 billion of capital has been asset revaluations and financial instruments. recycled over the last five years to fund The residential portfolio delivered a the redevelopment of market leading retail standout performance with profit growth town centres and to renew our retirement up 24.3 per cent on FY17, underpinned by communities with a concentrated focus solid demand from owner occupiers. Our on enhancing customer choice and focus on owner occupiers and a broad range services. The success of these initiatives of housing and land options will position is demonstrated by 90 per cent customer us well in this environment, as illustrated by satisfaction in our retirement communities our increase in market share over the year. and specialty retail sales 10 per cent above national benchmarks in our retail town centres. Our major redevelopments, including Green Hills and Wetherill Park in New South Wales, are prime examples of our strategic direction as we remix our portfolio and create high quality shopping experiences with dining, lifestyle, services and entertainment options tailored to the communities we serve. 02 | Stockland Annual Review 2018 CORPORATE CULTURE BOARD RENEWAL We expect to achieve FFO Last year I observed how a strong culture In maintaining and enhancing the right delivers benefits to both employees and mix of skills on our board, we welcomed growth of 5 – 7 per cent securityholders. This year the importance Melinda Conrad to the Board in May 2018 of culture has become front of mind for and Christine O’Reilly will be joining us for the full year and are all boards across Australia as corporate on 23 August. Both are highly regarded targeting a distribution culture dominates media headlines. directors and bring extensive executive expertise across the retail, utilities and per security of 27.6 cents, The governance of corporate behaviour infrastructure sectors. Ms Conrad and is an essential part of business and representing 4 per cent our expectations as a Board are high. Ms O’Reilly will further complement and strengthen the Board’s experience and growth on FY18. We remain focused, together with the I look forward to their contribution. Leadership Team, on promoting a strong culture; one concentrated on our customers As required by the Stockland Constitution, Our Retirement Living portfolio had and ensuring employees are a strong first Ms Conrad and Ms O’Reilly will offer a challenging year largely due to negative line of defence for risk management. themselves for election by securityholders sector media coverage earlier in the year. at the 2018 Annual General Meeting on We continue to enjoy a high level 24 October 2018. We are starting a see some positive sales of employee engagement, above the momentum underpinned by our ongoing Australian National Norm as measured commitment to deliver contract choice, DISTRIBUTION by the annual, independently conducted renew our villages and provide valuable employee engagement survey. We also As forecast, our full year distribution services to residents. It is pleasing to note recently conducted an internal review was 26.5 cents per security, representing that we already complied with the majority of our culture which has identified key a payout ratio of 75 per cent of funds of recommendations coming from the strengths that we want to preserve, from operations. Greiner Review Report which examined such as respect, customer focus and and provided recommendations for We expect to achieve FFO growth of engagement, as well as areas for further 5 – 7 per cent for the full year and are improvements in the New South Wales focus and improvement including retirement living sector. targeting a distribution per security encouraging diversity of thought. of 27.6 cents, representing 4 per cent The Commercial Property business achieved Importantly, all our businesses receive growth on FY18, assuming no material another solid result with comparable FFO high customer satisfaction ratings, with change in market conditions. growth of 2.3 per cent on FY17. Our Workplace very strong 90 per cent satisfaction results and Logistics portfolio (previously Office, in our residential and retirement living CONCLUSION Logistics and Business Parks) continued to communities and at our logistics assets. Thank you to my Board colleagues and our perform well with 6.0 per cent comparable Our retail tenants rated us as top two employees for their continued enthusiasm FFO growth in logistics, high occupancy, in the industry, however our overall score and dedication to delivering exceptional strong leasing and good progress on our decreased in line with our peers to 72 per outcomes for communities across Australia. development pipeline. cent, largely due to the challenging retail The Board and I are confident the business We are confident in our diversified business sales environment. is well positioned for the future and look model with high recurrent earnings and We have retained our global sustainability forward to discussing these results with you conservative leverage. This enables us leadership credentials, upholding our listing at our Annual General Meeting in October. to create high quality masterplanned on the World Dow Jones Sustainability Index communities and retail town centres and for a decade. These credentials reflect remain focused on a disciplined approach our focus on managing non-financial to executing on our strategic priorities risk and finding the right balance of social, in the year ahead. environmental and economic outcomes TOM POCKETT for our business, investors, customers and CHAIRMAN the community. To further our commitment to transparency and sustainability, this year we were amongst the first Australian corporates to disclose our climate-related risks with our financial reporting. Letter from the Chairman | 03 WELCOME Letter from the Managing Director and CEO Our FY18 result has been driven by our focus on executing a more innovative and customer-centric We recorded Residential settlements our key strategic organisation with customer satisfaction of 6,438 lots, with a number of successful priorities; delivering over 81 per cent. project launches in Victoria and Queensland and the success of our existing communities the best masterplanned We are well placed for long-term sustainable growth in the future given in Sydney and Melbourne, contributing solid sales. communities across our leverage to key demand drivers including population growth, urbanisation, We remain well positioned in the deepest Australia, increasing infrastructure improvement, ageing part of the lending market, with over the resilience of our population and a growing focus on health 75 per cent of our product now sold to owner and wellbeing. Our strong balance sheet occupiers and continued demand for our retail town centres, also ensures that we are well positioned range of affordable house and land and growing our logistics to take advantage of opportunities that townhome product, despite a slowdown may arise in this changing environment. in the broader housing market. We anticipate portfolio and enhancing residential profit margins to remain above customer experience. REPOSITIONING OUR BUSINESS 17 per cent for the medium term and around FOR FUTURE GROWTH 18 per cent in FY19. Our FY18 result has been driven by our Importantly, our focus on the creation focus on executing our key strategic of liveable, affordable and connected MARK STEINERT priorities; delivering the best masterplanned MANAGING DIRECTOR AND CEO communities is driving increased market communities across Australia, increasing share, up 3.1 per cent, increased velocity the resilience of our retail town centres, of capital and higher profit margins. growing our logistics portfolio and Dear Securityholders, Operating profit for our Retirement Living enhancing customer experience. Over the last five years the management portfolio was down 16.7 per cent on FY17, FFO growth for the Group was 6.6 per cent with sales volumes impacted by adverse team and I have updated the strategy per security, slightly above our guidance sector media coverage and reduced to focus on our areas of strength, to drive range of 5.5 – 6.5 per cent. Net tangible settlements due to the timing of sustainable profit growth. Since that time, assets (NTA) per security was up 3.5 per development completions. We expect we have extended our position as the leading cent to $4.18 and our return on equity improvement in Retirement Living market creator of communities across Australia, was 11.2 per cent. conditions in 1H19 given improving customer grown our logistics weighting and increased the resilience of our retail town centre We remain the leading creator of sentiment and sales velocity. portfolio in this fast-moving environment. communities in Australia with our Residential Our overall results demonstrate the and Retirement Living businesses providing resilience of the portfolio in a variable We have successfully repositioned our customers with whole-of-life housing trading environment, with the business business by recycling assets to create options in liveable locations with close well-positioned to deliver sustainably a strong core business and will continue proximity to transport, schools and into the future, leveraging our customer to do this over the next two years. We have employment. In light of these synergies we experience to increase market share. streamlined our executive management combined our Residential and Retirement team and integrated our retirement Commercial Property remains the largest Living businesses into one integrated and residential businesses to improve portion of our portfolio. In June, we welcomed business, Stockland Communities, operational efficiency and position our new CEO of Commercial Property, Louise to be led by Andrew Whitson. the business for sustainable growth Mason, who has close to 30 years of into the future. The Communities business delivered experience in retail town centres, workplace, strong profit growth in Residential, up and logistics. Results across the asset classes These initiatives will save $8 million 24.3 per cent from FY17, with solid volumes remain solid, with signs of improvement in costs from FY20. We are also making of net deposits providing high profit visibility in retail sales despite challenging market clear progress on our journey to becoming for the year ahead. 04 | Stockland Annual Review 2018 conditions. Importantly, specialty sales our Retail Town Centre weighting to focus Sustainability also continues to be a key part per square metre were up 4.2 per cent and on leading centres in their trade area and of our competitive advantage. Throughout 81 per cent of our centres have specialty continuing to upgrade and grow our combined the year we have enjoyed a positive response sales above the national benchmark. Workplace and Logistics portfolio (previously from the community to our $30 million Office, Logistics and Business Parks) to greater investment in solar systems, delivering We delivered comparable growth in funds than 25 per cent of our total assets. in excess of a 10 per cent rate of return. from operations of 2.3 per cent across the portfolio, with 1.3 per cent in Retail Town The growth of this portfolio will primarily I am also pleased to confirm our continued Centres, 6.0 per cent in Logistics and be through delivery of our existing support of the United Nations Global a decrease in Workplace of 2.0 per cent, development pipeline, on land we already Compact, with whom we partner to promote reflecting ongoing vacancy in our control, as we reinvest proceeds from the responsible business practices and Perth asset. sale of non-core assets. sustainable development. Retail Town Centre income growth STRONG CAPITAL MANAGEMENT OUTLOOK was adversely impacted by increases in government charges, higher electricity We are in a strong capital management Economic conditions remain generally costs, and our tenant remixing and position, maintaining our S&P AStable positive and overall fundamentals continue upgrading strategy to future proof credit rating for the past 17 years and to be largely supportive for our business, our centres. Moody’s A3 rating obtained in August 2017. with strong population growth, solid This reflects the ongoing strength of our employment growth, low inflation and There was an overall net $133 million balance sheet and cash flows which have low interest rates. change in the valuation of our portfolio, enabled us to continue to broaden our with positive valuations on a number The land and housing market is clearly funding sources at competitive pricing of assets offset by negative revaluations moderating, driven by a range of factors despite volatile market conditions. at some of our non-metropolitan retail including finance availability. Our focus town centres. These negative revaluations Optimising the allocation of capital on differentiated masterplanned community were concentrated in central and north within each of our business units remains creation and housing affordability leaves Queensland centres where economic a key focus with a continued emphasis us well placed in this environment. We conditions are weak and tenant remixing on capital efficient land acquisitions have high volumes of residential contracts has reset income to more sustainable levels. in our Communities business to reduce on hand providing good visibility into the our capital needs. Close to 80 per cent future as markets moderate, in line with Our remixing strategy continues to attract of land acquisitions have been purchased our expectations. more customers into our retail town centres on capital efficient terms since FY13. with foot traffic up 2.5 per cent, helping We expect to achieve FFO per security ensure income resilience into the future. We have continued to actively manage our growth of 5 – 7 per cent for the full year, Income from growth categories including debt program, which has seen our weighted and are targeting a distribution per security food, dining, leisure, cinemas and services average cost of debt fall from 5.5 per cent in of 27.6 cents, representing 4 per cent now represents 41 per cent of our specialty FY17, to 5.2 per cent in FY18, and is expected growth on FY18, assuming no material store income. to fall further to around 4.8 per cent in FY19. change in market conditions. Gearing remains at the lower end of our During the year, we celebrated the launch of We have a clear vision to deliver into the 20 – 30 per cent target range, 22.2 per cent our $421 million redevelopment of Stockland future, and we are well positioned to benefit at the end of FY18. Green Hills; the largest retail redevelopment from the continued population growth and ever undertaken by Stockland. The centre Overall, we are in a very good position with demographic trends being experienced in brings together the best in on trend retail, operating cash flow and liquidity improving Australia, as we deliver liveable, affordable and entertainment, innovation and sustainability due to disciplined management and connected residential and retirement living and is a prime example of our ability to leveraging the timing, source and size communities, thriving workplace and logistic successfully upgrade and reposition our of debt refinancing. properties and vibrant retail town centres. retail town centres, to deliver outstanding I am proud of the contribution we continue customer outcomes and accretive returns. OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE to make to communities across Australia. The redevelopment is expected to achieve One of the major issues facing all large It is this contribution that will underpin an incremental IRR of around 12 per cent corporations is the increased pace of our financial success in the future and the in the 10 years post-completion and innovation and its ability to disrupt growth. delivery of our purpose to create a better an incremental, stabilised FFO yield We are embracing this challenge and have way to live. of around seven per cent. appointed a new executive committee In line with our commitment to reshape our position to focus specifically on our retail assets and re-weight our commercial technology and innovation capabilities. property portfolio, we continued to execute In addition to progressing the development our retail divestments strategy and are of our CORE Systems Program, which will MARK STEINERT targeting up to an additional $400 million provide digital-ready platforms to increase Managing Director and CEO of divestments over the next 12 – 24 months. efficiency and our ability respond to digital We are accelerating our strategy to improve opportunities, this role will also focus on the quality and growth potential of our enhancing our ability to progress commercial portfolio. This will be achieved by reducing outcomes from innovation projects. Letter from the Managing Director and CEO | 05 Our performance 06 | Cloverton, Vic Our key financial metrics STATUTORY PROFIT ($M) FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (FFO) ($M) $1,025m $863m FY18 1,025 FY18 863 FY17 1,195 FY17 802 FY16 889 FY16 740 FY15 903 FY15 657 FY14 527 FY14 573 Our statutory profit was $1,025 million, down 14.2 per cent, primarily FFO has been determined with reference to the Property Council reflecting lower mark to market gains on financial instruments and of Australia’s guidelines. It excludes adjustments such as unrealised smaller revaluation gains. fair value gains/losses, realised transactions occurring infrequently and those that are outside the course of our core ongoing business activities. DISTRIBUTION PER SECURITY (¢) FFO PER SECURITY (¢) 26.5¢ 35.6¢ FY18 26.5 FY18 35.6 FY17 25.5 FY17 33.4 FY16 24.5 FY16 31.1 FY15 24.0 FY15 28.0 FY14 24.0 FY14 24.8 The distribution payable for the full year ended 30 June 2018 FFO per security was 35.6 cents, up 6.6 per cent on FY17. is 26.5 cents per ordinary stapled security. Our distribution policy is to pay the higher of 100% of Trust taxable income or 75 – 85% of FFO. NET TANGIBLE ASSETS (NTA) PER SECURITY ($) ADJUSTED FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (AFFO) $4.18 $756m 9.9% on FY17 FY18 4.18 AFFO PER SECURITY (¢) FY17 4.04 FY16 FY15 FY14 3.68 3.53 3.82 31.2¢ 9.1% on FY17 While some retail town centre assets recorded downward AFFO is an alternative, secondary, non-IFRS measure used valuations, the overall portfolio saw a net $139 million increase, to assist in the assessment of the underlying performance contributing to a 3.5 per cent increase in NTA. of the Group. AFFO is calculated by deducting maintenance capital expenditure and incentive and leasing costs from FFO. Our performance | 07 Our key performance outcomes OUR STRATEGIC FOCUS AREAS Grow asset returns and our customer base COMMUNITIES RESIDENTIAL RETIREMENT LIVING OPERATING PROFIT OPERATING PROFIT $336m 24.3% $53m 16.7% LOTS SETTLED SETTLEMENTS – ESTABLISHED AND DEVELOPED 6,438 854 RESIDENT SATISFACTION OCCUPANCY 93% 95% OPERATING PROFIT MARGIN RESIDENT SATISFACTION 18.3% 90% RETURN ON ASSETS, CORE PORTFOLIO CASH RETURN ON ASSETS 22.0% 4.6% COMMERCIAL PROPERTY RETAIL TOWN CENTRES WORKPLACE AND LOGISTICS LOGISTICS FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (FFO) FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (FFO) $428m 2.2% Comparable FFO ↑ 1.3% $152m 6.2% Comparable FFO ↑ 6.0% OCCUPANCY OCCUPANCY 99.4% 98.7% RETAILER SATISFACTION TENANT SATISFACTION 72% – rated Top 2 90% WEIGHTED AVERAGE LEASE EXPIRY (WALE) WEIGHTED AVERAGE LEASE EXPIRY (WALE) 6.3 years 4.1 years DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE ~$500m ~$600m WORKPLACE Celebrated the opening of our FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (FFO) $421m Stockland Green Hills $54m 9.6% Comparable FFO 2.0% redevelopment, the largest OCCUPANCY redevelopment undertaken 88.3% by Stockland. TENANT SATISFACTION 82% WEIGHTED AVERAGE LEASE EXPIRY (WALE) 3.5 years 08 | Stockland Annual Review 2018 OUR STRATEGIC FOCUS AREAS Capital Operational strength excellence S&P RATING MANAGEMENT RESTRUCTURE $8m gross savings per annum from FY20 A-/stable for 17 years MOODY’S RATING EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT SCORE A3 83% GEARING CITATION BY WGEA (WORKPLACE GENDER EQUALITY AGENCY) Employer of Choice for Women 22.2% for 4th consecutive year WEIGHTED AVERAGE DEBT MATURITY 6.2 years GLOBAL LEADERSHIP IN SUSTAINABILITY WEIGHTED AVERAGE COST OF DEBT WORLD DOW JONES SUSTAINABILITY INDEX 5.2% RETURN ON EQUITY (ROE) 11.2% 10th year listed on the World Dow Jones Sustainability Index GLOBAL REAL ESTATE SUSTAINABILITY BENCHMARK (GRESB) Global Sector Leader for Diversified – Listed – Office/Retail CDP RECOGNITION Only Australian company recognised by CDP for leading global climate performance Our performance | 09 Our key performance outcomes CREATING SHARED VALUE – SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Optimise Shape thriving Enrich our and innovate communities value chain CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY HEALTH AND WELLBEING EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT, DEVELOPMENT, DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION • 5% reduction in carbon intensity of • Residential community national our Commercial Property portfolio liveability score of 78% • 83% employee engagement score, (52% reduction since FY06) 7% higher than the Australian • Resident satisfaction across National Norm • Increased total investment in our Residential communities is 93% solar to $30 million, exceeding • 80% of employees have flexible • Residential community resident work arrangement 10% return over 10 years personal wellbeing index score of 77%, above the national average • 45.1% of women in management, BIODIVERSITY 39.7% of women in senior • Retirement Living resident Personal management • Worked to rehabilitate and restore Wellbeing score of 82%, well above 204 hectares of biodiversity, and the national average HEALTH AND SAFETY will have protected around 2,202 hectares of land upon completion COMMUNITY CONNECTION • Corporate Lost Time Injury of our current residential Frequency Rate of 1.6, our lowest • $7.7 million invested in community rate in seven years developments. initiatives across Australia WATER MANAGEMENT AND QUALITY • 308 local organisations awarded SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT over $560,000 in total as grants • Delivered our Sights on Safety • Reduced the water intensity of our to our communities program focused on reducing Retail Town Centre and Workplace and Business Park assets by 5% • Six new inclusive playspaces injuries at our worksites and 11% respectively developed with the Touched • Expanded Mates in Construction by Olivia Foundation training to enhance awareness WASTE AND MATERIALS MANAGEMENT of mental health at our worksites EDUCATION AND PROSPERITY • 89% and 94% waste diversion rates for our Commercial Property • Final year of Green Hills Connectivity STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT developments and Residential centre project placing over 180 • Substantially progressed or developments respectively people in local employment completed 49 actions within our • Determined that our Retirement Innovate Reconciliation Action Plan Living portfolio generates $1.66 • Procured over $3.2 million from in social value for every $1 invested indigenous suppliers since 2014 by our business • Completed a human rights risk • Over 2,200 people attended review and identified action items Jamie’s Ministry of Food classes to enhance our capacity to identify at Stockland assets and address instances of modern • 479 students benefited from slavery in our supply chain Stockland mentoring through the Australian Business and Community Network • Over 11,000 primary school students engaged in STEAM programming through our partnership with the National Theatre for Children 10 | Stockland Annual Review 2018 Our business and strategy Our vision is to be a great Australian real estate company that makes a valuable contribution to our communities and our country. Oakleigh Industrial Estate, Vic 11 Our business Stockland is one of the largest diversified real estate groups in Australia with $18.2 billion of real estate assets. We are Australia’s largest community creator covering whole of life housing solutions. We own, manage and develop retail town centres, workplace and logistics assets, residential and retirement living communities. Our vision is to be a great Australian real employees who are guided by Stockland’s To optimise value to securityholders estate company that makes a valuable values of Community, Accountability, we are structured as a stapled security: contribution to our communities and our Respect, and Excellence (CARE). a combination of a unit in Stockland Trust country. Founded in 1952, today we leverage and a share in Stockland Corporation that Our primary objective is to deliver earnings our diversified model to help create thriving are together traded as one security on the per security growth and total risk-adjusted communities with dynamic town centres Australian Securities Exchange. This stapled securityholder returns above the Australian where people live, shop and work. structure allows Stockland to efficiently Real Estate Investment Trust index average, undertake property investment, property This approach is underpinned by our by creating quality communities and real management and property development purpose – “we believe there is a better estate assets and delivering great activities to create sustainable risk/ way to live” – and is brought to life by our customer experiences. reward outcomes. OUR PURPOSE OUR VISION OUR VALUES We believe there To be a great Australian real Community is a better way to live estate company that makes Accountability a valuable contribution to our Respect communities and country Excellence WE ARE WELL POSITIONED WITH A DIVERSE PORTFOLIO 13 3 1 4 1 1 24 10 9 2 1 11 15 14 5 14 23 Retail Logistics 6 8 Workplace 13 27 Residential Communities Retirement Living 12 | Stockland Annual Review 2018 Our portfolio COMMUNITIES 60 Residential Communities 124 families move in every week 82,000 lots remaining $22.2 billion* approximate total end value 65 Retirement Living villages 11,500+ residents 9,600+ established units 3,000+ units in development pipeline $1.5 billion funds employed COMMERCIAL PROPERTY 39 Retail Town Centres 3,500+ retailers 415,000+ customers every day $7.4 billion in value 1 million+ sqm of gross lettable area $6.8 billion+ p.a. retail sales 34 267 tenants Workplace And Logistics Assets 1.4 million sqm $2.8 billion in value In key locations for logistics, infrastructure and employment * Excluding value on projects identified for disposal For more information see our Property Portfolio www.stockland.com.au/property-portfolio Our business and strategy | 13 Our value chain This diagram demonstrates what we control and influence across the value chain. Currently undertaken by Stockland  urrently undertaken by Stockland C or coordinated using external parties Not currently undertaken by Stockland 1. Upstream 2. Funding 3. Acquisition 4. Design 5. Procurement, 6. Leasing 7. Asset and 8. Refurbish/ 9. Downstream products contracting & and sales property re-development products construction management • Building Downstream CAPITAL PARTNERING BALANCE SHEET DETAILED DESIGN MASTERPLANNING LEASING SALES ASSET MANAGEMENT PROPERTY materials services are • Building associated with MANAGEMENT the ongoing AND APPROVALS technologies operation of our properties and are not undertaken by Stockland. RETIREMENT LIVING They include: • Child care • Equipment leasing • Warehouse management RESIDENTIAL • Cleaning and security • Catering • Utilities provision RETAIL • Payments processing LOGISTICS & BUSINESS PARKS OFFICE Detailed Design Building and Sales By design Construction By commercial consultants By contractors agents 14 | Stockland Annual Review 2018 Stakeholder engagement We have a commitment to developing and maintaining strong At Stockland, we recognise the importance of engaging regularly relationships with a broad range of stakeholders across our and directly with all our stakeholder groups so that we understand diverse business and understanding and responding to their their expectations, issues and concerns. unique perceptions, needs and concerns. We practice open, honest, two-way communication and recognise the mutual benefits that result from genuine engagement for both our business and our stakeholders. Our key stakeholders How we engage Employees Our annual Our Voice employee survey measures employee engagement across the organisation. We have 1,690 employees in Australia. Employees are also provided with opportunities to provide feedback on specific issues throughout the year. Our intranet, stockXchange, is a key source of business news, activities and policies, and is updated each business day. Our annual roadshows provide an opportunity for our Executive Committee to interact with employees in each capital city where we operate and provide an update on our strategy and performance. For more information on our engagement with employees refer to our Employee Engagement, Development, Diversity and Inclusion Deep Dive. Government and regulators We engage regularly with all levels of government in New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, Federal, state and local governments set the Western Australia, South Australia and the Australian Capital Territory, both directly regulatory environment in which we operate. and through industry associations. We also engage with the federal government. For more information on our engagement with government and regulators refer to our Stakeholder Engagement Deep Dive. Securityholders and We provide investor briefings on our strategy and financial results. At our Annual General the investment community Meeting, retail securityholders can engage with our Board of Directors and are updated on our We have over 52,000 securityholders strategy and performance. Our management also meet regularly with institutional investors. in Australia and overseas. For more information on our engagement with securityholders and investors refer to our Stakeholder Engagement Deep Dive. Customers We regularly seek feedback from customers through surveys and research, and we incorporate We have daily contact with a diverse feedback into our product design and service offerings. range of customers, including commercial, Customer Relations Management Systems are in place across all of our businesses to support retail and logistics tenants, shoppers regular, effective and responsive engagement with our customers. in retail town centres, our residential For more information on our engagement with our customers refer to our Customer community customers and residents Engagement Deep Dive. in our retirement villages. Suppliers Spend associated with the development of our assets accounts for approximately 80% We procure services and products from of our annual direct procurement spend, with operational and corporate procurement over 3,600 active suppliers with the top each representing approximately 10% of annual procured spend. 100 suppliers representing approximately We actively monitor and engage with our suppliers. Our strategic suppliers (predominantly 75 per cent of our spend. involved in the development and construction of our assets) are prequalified to ensure they have the ability to meet general and project-specific sustainability and quality requirements. This involves an assessment of the occupational health and safety systems, financial viability and the environmental, social and sustainability capabilities of suppliers. For more information on our engagement with suppliers refer to our Supply Chain Deep Dive. Communities Our engagement with communities includes community and consultation forums, one-on-one The people who reside, work or engage meetings with community groups and local leaders, as well as surveys and research. in the areas where we operate. For more information on our engagement with communities refer to our Community Deep Dive. Media We regularly engage with the media to provide information about our business that We interact with journalists across a wide supports clearer and more accurate reporting. spectrum of local, regional, metropolitan and We aim to respond promptly to requests for information about our business activities. national print and electronic media outlets. For more information on our engagement with media refer to our Stakeholder Engagement Deep Dive. For more information see our Stakeholder Engagement Deep Dive Our business and strategy | 15 Our strategy MAXIMISE RETURNS THROUGH COMMUNITY CREATION We have three strategic focus areas: Grow asset returns and provide great NS CA customer experiences UR SE A MUNITIES GROW A COM ENGTH Driving returns in our core businesses by + CUST SSET STR creating liveable, affordable and connected OM RE AL communities, future proofing our retail ER T PIT Maximise L O G I S TI C S town centres and retirement villages, R E TA I L T O W and growing our workplace and logistics B returns portfolio organically through community Operational excellence creation E+ Improving the way we operate across the N AC Group to drive efficiencies, compliance, EN L KP C sustainability and employee engagement TR R ES WO Capital strength OP ERA CE Actively managing our balance sheet T IO N A EN to maintain diverse funding sources L E XC E L L and an efficient cost of capital OUR SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY – CREATING SHARED VALUE Our sustainability strategy integrates Community with our business strategy and priorities, Health & Connection providing a better way to deliver shared Wellbeing Education value for all stakeholders. We have three core sustainability priorities: • Shape Thriving Communities E THRIV • Optimise and Innovate SHAPMMUNITIEING CO S • Enrich Our Value Chain. Each sustainability priority is pursued C Str apita t through action in several focus areas. en l gt Asse h ow s & We explore our sustainability priorities Gr turn Base and focus areas throughout this review. Re omer st Cu Stakeholder Engagement Biodiversity OU I Water ICH HA I N P T IM Governance E N R UE C & Risk Management NO I S E & Quality V AL N R O VA TE Supply Chain & Climate & Energy O perat ional E x c el le n c e Employees DEL Waste & Materials I VE R LUE ING SHARED VA 16 | Stockland Annual Review 2018 Responding to our challenges and opportunities Stockland adopts a rigorous We recognise that making business consultants and the communities decisions that involve calculated risks, in which we do business. approach to understanding and managing these risks within sensible There are various risks that could impact and proactively managing tolerances, is fundamental to creating our business. The nature and potential long-term value for securityholders and the risks faced in the business. meeting commitments to our employees, impact of these risks change over time. Our risks include but are not limited to: tenants, customers, business partners, SHORT TERM –STRATEGY EXECUTION Security Housing Ability risks and Change within affordability Regulatory and to harness unexpected the retail sector continues to impact policy changes digital business market events impacts retail the dynamics impact our business opportunities impact business operating models of the Australian and customers to remain continuity and housing market competitive community resilience The retail landscape Our Residential Substantial policy To remain competitive, The safety of our is constantly evolving. business is influenced reform presents both we must continually customers and Within the last 10 by the dynamics of opportunities and assess and leverage employees is a key years the sector has the Australian housing potential impacts digital innovation. This priority. Managing seen a convergence market. Housing for our business and includes facilitating a their safety and of technological affordability remains customers. Planning, connected and agile the resilience of advances, in particular of key concern for infrastructure and tax workforce, more the communities in e-commerce, the entry Australians. We reform remain key efficient business which we operate is of new, international consider a suite of policy areas where and supply chain becoming increasingly retailers and changes measures is required we will continue to processes, and digital complex. This includes in underlying to unlock housing engage with industry lead nurturing and safety and security consumer behaviour. supply and address and government. We customer-centric risks associated with These changes have affordability, including will also continue to: innovation. terrorism, cyber challenged some of early planning • focus our In March, the executive threats and extreme our retailers. We have and delivery of development level position, Chief weather events. been proactive and infrastructure, and activity in areas Technology and have pre-empted many simplified development To make our business where governments Innovation Officer, was more resilient we will of the changes and will controls to enable support growth created to enhance continue to: housing diversity. To continue to: • drive leadership in our ability to progress • remix our assets address affordability, commercial outcomes • train our employees areas including the and increase their with a focus on we will continue to: retirement living from innovation projects. experiential retail, • partner with risk awareness sector, housing To remain competitive, food catering and government and affordability and • undertake regular we will also continue scenario testing retail services industry to drive energy policy to execute our including beauty solutions through proactive Information Technology • engage with peers and health service • provide a broader initiatives and strategy with a focus and across industries providers mix of value for engagement on long-term strategic • invest in asset • redevelop our assets money housing • create developments investment, and the upgrades and adapt to create diverse, options in line with best identification and community design walkable town • balance the demand practices to garner integration of technical to improve resilience centres that form from home owners support from enhancements across • actively manage our the social hub of and investors so governments and the business. This corporate insurance the community our residential community and includes developing program. • leverage deep communities remain prepare for potential online residential customer insights attractive to buyers regulatory changes. We also have strategies and retirement in place for unexpected and analytics to • improve efficiency living engagement inform our tenant market events that across the business opportunities, may impact business remixing and and manage costs improved development centre design continuity such as while investigating and management potential volatility • divest non-core alternative building processes and within our supply assets subject to methods and builde-enabled retail chain and energy market conditions. to-rent models town centres. price shocks. • address what our customers want by providing a strong community value proposition. Our business and strategy | 17 LONGER TERM – CHANGING MARKETPLACE Ability to develop Capital market Ability to meet Climate change products and volatility impacts Increasing the changing impacts our assets, deliver experiences our ability to expectations on nature of workforce operations and the that meet future transact and access organisations from to attract, engage broader community customer and suitable capital the community and retain societal employees demands Extreme weather Our ability to develop Our long-term growth Community The ability to attract, and other climate products that meet is dependent on our expectations on the engage and retain change related events anticipated future ability to access capital social and behavioural our employees is have the potential customer and societal at the appropriate time operations of a critical to our overall to damage our assets, demands is crucial to and cost as capital “good corporate” are business performance. disrupt operations the sustainability of our markets fluctuate in changing. Corporates Similar to customer and impact the business, particularly response to domestic are increasingly experience, employee health and wellbeing considering Australia’s and global economic expected to work experience is becoming of our customers changing demographics, shifts. Variable in partnership with increasingly important. and communities. including an aging economic activity and the community Employees expect population and more changing capitalisation and government a work environment We are committed socially conscious rates may impact the on societal issues. that enables greater to creating climate millennials. valuation of our assets flexibility in both where resilient assets that and our ability to Corporate leaders are and how they work. operate with minimal We will remain access capital. also expected to create disruption in the focused on: a positive corporate We are focused on event of increased • customer choice So that we can culture by shaping how we actively set climate events, as including diverse continue to raise business outcomes employees up for well as building strong housing products sufficient capital to through a system of success and will communities that are and offering fund growth, we will beliefs, values and continue to: equipped to adapt retirement living continue to: behaviours and a focus • improve our systems to climate change risks contract options • focus on retaining a on customers. and processes and opportunities. • evolving our strong balance sheet to provide more To do this, we will We are well placed market leading at appropriate levels to meet these efficient ways to work continue to: product innovation of gearing • encourage flexible expectations and have • assess our portfolio and deepen our • maintain and a strong reputation work practices for climate and customer insights increase access for sustainability supported by our community resilience using our proprietary to diverse funding leadership and new collaboration and implement Liveability Index sources community platforms action plans research, Stockland • maintain our prudent development. We use • train our senior • embed climate Exchange (our capital management a variety of tools to leaders to be resilience within our online research policies assess the health of more agile and standard asset risk community), • recycle capital from our culture including resilient through assessments Quantium (which divested non-core our annual employee programs such • evolve our scenario provides data-driven assets. engagement survey as our Stockland analysis over time. customer insights to capture employee Leadership to inform how we feedback and our Experience. To further demonstrate view markets and our commitment to Stockland Leadership opportunities) and Experience to build climate action and best other data sources practice disclosure we leaders that align with • enhancing our design our values. were an early adopter excellence, providing of the Financial greater functionality Stability Board Task and value for Force on Climatemoney that meets related Financial the demands of Disclosures (TCFD) Australia’s changing recommendations. demographics Our response is detailed on page 19 • creating sustainable of the Annual Report. and liveable communities and assets, resilient to changes in climate. More information on Stockland’s risk management policy is available at www.stockland.com.au/about-stockland/corporate-governance 18 | Stockland Annual Review 2018 OUR STRATEGIC FOCUS AREAS Grow asset returns and our customer base Driving returns in our core businesses by creating liveable, affordable and connected communities, future proofing our retail town centres and retirement villages, and growing our workplace and logistics portfolio organically Stockland Shellharbour, NSW | 19 Our business unit results PRIORITIES AND RESIDENTIAL COMMUNITIES PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW ($M, unless otherwise stated) FY18 FY17 Change Lots settled (lots) 6,438 6,604 2.5% ↓ COMMUNITIES Residential Revenue 1,830 1,767 3.5% ↑ – Including superlot revenue 1 58 91 36.6% ↓ EBIT (before interest in COGS) 435 412 5.6% ↑ OPERATING PROFIT EBIT margin 23.8% 23.3% ↑ 24.3% Operating profit (FFO)2 336 270 24.3% ↑ OPERATING PROFIT MARGIN Operating profit margin 18.3% 15.3% ↑ 18.3% ROA – core portfolio3 22.0% 20.8% ↑ RETURN ON ASSETS (CORE) ROA – total portfolio 20.4% 15.2% ↑ 22.0% 1 30 superlot settlements in FY18; 44 superlot settlements in FY17. RESIDENT SATISFACTION 2 Operating profit is equal to FFO for the Residential business. 93% 3 Core excludes impaired projects. RETIREMENT LIVING COMMUNITIES ($M, unless otherwise stated) FY18 FY17 Change COMMUNITIES EBIT 56 69 19.4% ↓ Retirement Living Operating profit (FFO) 1 53 63 16.7% ↓ Occupancy 95.0% 95.0% OPERATING PROFIT Cash ROA 4.6% 6.2% ↓ 16.7% Established CASH RETURN ON ASSETS – Established settlements (units) 618 731 15.5% ↓ 4.6% – Withheld settlements (units)2 73 49 49.0% ↑ RESIDENT SATISFACTION Total settlements (units) 691 780 11.4% ↓ 90% Average re-sale price $356k $339k 4.9% ↑ Turnover cash per unit $89k $86k 3.6% ↑ Turnover cash margin 25.1% 25.4% ↓ COMMERCIAL PROPERTY Reservations on hand (units) 121 128 5.5% ↓ Retail Town Centres Development Workplace and Logistics Average price per unit $504k $539k 6.3% ↓ Average margin – excludes FUNDS FROM OPERATION (FFO) Deferred Management Fee (DMF) 20.2% 19.1% ↑ 2.3% Development settlements (units) 163 270 39.6% ↓ growth in comparable FFO across Reservations on hand (units) 98 58 69.0% ↑ our Commercial Property portfolio 1 Operating profit is equal to FFO for the Retirement Living business. RETAIL TENANT SATISFACTION 2 Typically associated with brownfield developments like Cardinal Freeman. 72% rated Top 2 COMMERCIAL PROPERTY WORKPLACE AND LOGISTICS Funds from operations TENANT SATISFACTION 89% ($M, unless otherwise stated) FY18 FY17 Change Comparable growth OCCUPANCY • Retail Town Centres 428 419 2.2% ↑ 1.3% ↑ 99.4% • Logistics 152 143 6.2% ↑ 6.0% ↑ across Retail Town Centre portfolio • Workplace 54 59 9.6% ↓ 2.0% ↓ OCCUPANCY Trading profit 1 5 98.7% Net overheads (21) (18) across Logistics portfolio Total Commercial Property 614 608 0.9% ↑ 2.3% ↑ Return on assets (ROA) 7.8% 8.1% 20 | Stockland Annual Review 2018 COMMUNITIES Residential Maximise returns North Lakes, Qld by creating thriving communities OPERATING PROFIT $336m 24.3% The Residential business delivered strong We remain well positioned in the deepest profit growth, up 24.3 per cent from FY17, part of the lending market, with over STRATEGIC PRIORITIES with solid volumes of net deposits from 75 per cent of our product now sold to high margin Sydney and Melbourne owner occupiers and continued demand projects providing high profit visibility for our range of affordable house and land The Residential business is making for the year ahead. and townhome product. good progress on its plans to make the portfolio more resilient and We recorded settlements of 6,438 lots, Finance availability has had a moderating profitable in the future by continuing with a number of successful project launches effect on the housing market, but our focus to focus on: in Victoria and Queensland – Grandview, on differentiated masterplanned community Mt Atkinson, Waterlea, Promenade and creation and housing affordability leaves Reshaping the portfolio 1.  Kalina – and the success of our existing us well placed in this environment. We Actively manage the portfolio communities at locations like Willowdale and have strong pre-sales, low cancellation rates to increase the velocity of capital, Elara in Sydney, and Highlands and Cloverton and a continued focus on delivering product improve returns and maintain an in Victoria, contributing solid sales. to a majority owner occupier market at optimal pipeline with a preference affordable price points. to acquire land on capital efficient This result and the strong position we are terms. We continue to make good in for FY19 and beyond reflects good sales In FY19, we expect to deliver over 6,000 progress in activating our land levels despite moderating overall market residential settlements with future profit through the launch of new projects. conditions with 5,478 contacts on hand growth to be delivered through more as at 30 June 2018. The quality of our townhome settlements and strong 2. B  roaden our market reach masterplanned communities which offer operating profit margins, subject to market Increase revenue by creating high amenity, affordability and strong conditions. We anticipate residential profit a better community value connections, with many close to heavy margins to remain around 18 per cent in proposition that drives high rail, is driving increased market share, FY19 and 17 per cent over the medium term. customer referrals and broaden up over 3 per cent to 14.5 per cent, and market reach through a medium Our business will continue to benefit from density/built form offering. velocity of sales. price growth realised in the Sydney and We are the leading creator of communities Melbourne markets over recent years, 3. Improving efficiency in Australia with our Residential and affordability, strong housing demand Continue to manage costs by Retirement Living businesses providing and supply fundamentals and increasing maintaining strong contractor customers with whole-of-life housing medium density settlements. relationships and closely options in liveable locations with close managing tender processes. proximity to transport, retail and services, education and employment. STONG DEMAND FOR AFFORDABLE, LIVEABLE COMMUNITIES +6,400 75% lots settled in FY18 of purchasers were 50% of purchasers were +350 Townhomes settled owner occupiers first home buyers in FY18 Our strategic focus areas | Grow asset returns and our customer base | 21 COMMUNITIES Retirement Living Leading operator and developer OPERATING PROFIT $53m 16.7% Operating profit in Retirement Living was down 16.7 per cent on FY17, with sales volumes impacted by adverse sector media coverage and reduced settlements due to the timing of development completions. We are seeing some positive sales momentum in our Retirement Living business. Q4 sales are up 14.9 per cent on the FY17 corresponding quarter, underpinned by our ongoing commitment to improve contract choice, village quality and providing broader services to our residents. The retiree market is responding well to investment in our existing villages and new developments in masterplanned communities, like Mernda Retirement Village in Melbourne and Willowdale Mernda Retirement Village, Vic in Sydney. We’ve continued to improve our customer We finished FY18 by entering a project offer with Benefits Plus home care partnerships development agreement for a new vertical STRATEGIC PRIORITIES and the rollout of new contract choices, village in Epping, Sydney, and we continue ‘Capital Share’ and ‘Peace of Mind’, with to explore opportunities to sell non-core assets to recycle capital in our development The business remains focused the latter placing a cap on the deferred pipeline, which is on track to deliver a number on being a preferred operator and management fee (DMF) and secures the of completions before the end of the year. developer of retirement living villages exit value for incoming residents. We have by creating high quality retirement also had success with ‘Aspire’, a new We expect improvement in retirement living villages in Australia. The business product for downsizing Australians who market conditions in 1H19 given improving has a clear strategy to continue purchase their home and land outright customer sentiment and sales velocity. to improve its return on assets by: under community title. 1. differentiating the customer experience through access to a range of resident care ENHANCING CUSTOMER CHOICE and other services 2. actively managing the portfolio Contract Home Care Non-DMF Choice Partnerships Aspire Product 3. growing development volumes 4. divesting non-core villages. 22 | Stockland Annual Review 2018 COMMERCIAL PROPERTY Retail Town Centres Create market leading Stockland Green Hills, NSW retail town centres FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS $428m Comparable FFO ↑1.3% 2.2% The Retail Town Centre business saw some positive improvements in FY18 with comparable specialty sales up by 4.2 per cent, to $9,378 per square metre and total MAT up by 3.4 per cent with strong growth in resilient categories such as retail services. Comparable Retail Town Centre FFO growth was 1.3 per cent over the year, impacted by higher outgoings and retail remixing. The overall success of our remixing strategy our ability to successfully upgrade and is beginning to be reflected in higher retail reposition our assets, to future proof them STRATEGIC PRIORITIES sales growth, which has continued to and deliver accretive returns. improve over the year. Following the official opening of Stockland The Retail business maintains its This precinct remixing strategy continues Green Hills in March this year, total like focus on creating market leading to attract more customers into our centres for like MAT is up 5.7 per cent. The stabilised town centres by providing the services with foot traffic up 2.5 per cent and will initial yield on development is estimated to and lifestyle options to enhance the help ensure income resilience into the future. be 7 per cent and the IRR around 12 per cent. customer experience at our centres. Income from growth categories including We continue to remix our centres food, dining, leisure, cinemas and services We also completed the $37 million to create leading community and now represents 41 per cent of our specialty redevelopment of Stockland Wendouree entertainment hubs and maximise store income. (Vic) in June, targeting an IRR of 13.8 per cent trade area market share. and stabilised FFO yield of 7.2 per cent, and We continue to focus on improving continue on schedule with the first stage of Our retail mix continues to evolve, customer experience to ensure that our the $86 million Stockland Birtinya greenfield underpinned by supermarkets, Retail Town Centres provide the services town centre development on the Sunshine mini majors, food catering, fast casual and lifestyle options customers are seeking Coast, part of our $830 million Oceanside dining, specialty food, entertainment, in this changing retail environment. masterplanned community. targeted apparel, health and services. The $421 million redevelopment and launch We will continue to focus on tailoring of the new Stockland Green Hills (NSW) our offering to each specific trade retail town centre is a prime example of area, cultivating retailer relationships and long-term sustainable rent, and invest in industry research and OUR RETAIL TOWN CENTRE STRATEGY technology to adapt to an evolving retail landscape. Our objective Our focus We create We have completed around community $200 million of divestments and Metro markets: Unique, convenient Community places are targeting up to an additional $400 million of divestments over destinations “It’s your place.” the next 12 – 24 months. Convenient Regional markets: Leading destinations Curated to our customers Our strategic focus areas | Grow asset returns and our customer base | 23 COMMERCIAL PROPERTY Workplace and Logistics Grow and develop Coopers Paddock, NSW a leading portfolio LOGISTICS FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS $152m Comparable FFO ↑6.0% 6.2% WORKPLACE FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS $54m Comparable FFO ↓2.0% 9.6% We have combined logistics, business parks increase in valuation on completion, reflects STRATEGIC PRIORITIES and office into Workplace and Logistics the success of our focus on growing this to simplify our operating structure and portfolio. This project has achieved an initial increase the focus on growth. yield of 7.3 per cent and is expected to Our focus is on growing and developing reflect an IRR of 10.7 per cent. a market leading portfolio of logistics High occupancy was maintained across and workplace properties to greater the logistics portfolio, with a robust leasing We are focused on executing the $600 million than 25 per cent of our total assets. performance in Sydney and Melbourne, development program on land we control The growth of this portfolio will overall 324,400 square metres of space and have lodged a development approval primarily be through delivery of was leased over the period. to redevelop Macquarie Technology Park, our existing development pipeline, Sydney, with a masterplan vision for on land we already control, targeting Our workplace assets are largely located a $500 million state-of-the-art technology incremental IRRs of 9 plus per cent in the strongly performing Sydney market. hub to cater to workers of the future. and stabilised FFO yields of 7 plus Post balance date, we completed the sale per cent. of our non-core Canberra office asset for consideration of $24 million. We are developing a market leading portfolio of logistics centres by Our logistics developments continue to leveraging our existing communities progress very well. The successful delivery and land, strong tenant relationships of the $77 million Coopers Paddock Logistics and asset management skills to Centre in Warwick Farm this period, which become a scale player in this market. is fully leased and saw a 23.7 per cent We will continue to focus on optimising the returns of our workplace portfolio. Our portfolio STRONG WORKPLACE AND LOGISTICS DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE $99m $600m is now predominantly located in Sydney and we will continue to assess development opportunities. $99 million under construction $600 million in the future Yennora, Sydney development pipeline Ingleburn, stage 2, Sydney Willawong, stage 1, Brisbane 24 | Stockland Annual Review 2018 OUR STRATEGIC FOCUS AREAS Capital strength Actively managing our balance sheet to maintain diverse funding sources and an efficient cost of capital. Aspire Elora, NSW | 25 Our progress PRIORITIES AND PROGRESS OVERVIEW We maintained our focus on prudent decreased to 5.2 per cent (FY17: 5.5 per balance sheet management, continuing to cent) as we draw down on new lower cost STRATEGIC PRIORITIES utilise diverse funding sources throughout debt and older, higher cost hedges continue the year. During the current year Stockland to expire. We have extended our weighted repaid USD 204 million ($311 million) of notes average debt maturity further to 6.2 years • Maintain a strong balance sheet that were issued in the US private placement (from 5.5 years as at 30 June 2017) as we to support future growth market. In January 2018 new US private continue to take advantage of our ability to placement notes equivalent to $286 million source longer dated funding across a variety • Maintain diverse funding sources were issued with tranches of between of debt capital markets. 10 and 15 years. In addition, a $478 million • Maintain disciplined capital Interest cover has remained stable at Euro bond and a $51 million Asian bond were allocation 4.8 : 1 (30 June 2017: 4.8 : 1). executed in the year to replace maturing US private placement facilities. The new notes The value of the Commercial Property were issued at a competitive rate and investment portfolio has increased by demonstrate continued strong support from $344 million to $10,599 million primarily FY18 PROGRESS debt investors and acknowledgement of our due to net valuation uplift (up $143 million robust credit profile. Our gearing level including equity-accounted joint venture decreased marginally to 22.2 per cent at investments) and capital and development • Maintained S&P A-/stable credit 30 June 2018 (FY17: 22.7 per cent). Gearing expenditure of $421 million, partially offset rating for 17 years and Moody’s remains within our target range of by the $172 million of disposals including credit rating of A3 20 – 30 per cent and we retained our 77 Pacific Highway (NSW) and Stockland A-/Stable credit rating from S&P and Wallsend (NSW). • 22.2% gearing remains within obtained an A3 rating from Moody’s our target range of 20 – 30% (equivalent to S&P’s A-). Valuations for the Retail Town Centre portfolio were mixed, with a net $61 million • Reduced average cost of debt We manage our exposure to financial reduction. This is primarily due to more to 5.2% for FY18 markets, including movements in foreign conservative rental growth assumptions and exchange rates and interest rates, through capitalisation rate expansion at some of our • Increased our access to diverse the use of derivative financial instruments non-metropolitan retail town centres, funding sources in order to provide greater certainty over particularly in central and north Queensland • 66% of land payments made future financing costs, taking advantage where economic conditions remain soft. Our relate to land purchased in particular of the current historically low Logistics and Workplace portfolios delivered on capital efficient terms interest rate environment. Through actively valuation gains of $117 million and $83 million managing our debt portfolio and hedging respectively during the period driven by positions, the fixed/hedge ratio is now back rental growth and continued capitalisation within our target range at 95 per cent (June rate compression across several assets. 2017: 109 per cent) and we continue to look Valuation gains across the portfolio saw our for opportunities to lock in favourable rates weighted average capitalisation rate reduce for the Group going forward. The weighted marginally from 6.2 per cent to 6.0 per cent. average cost of debt for the year has BALANCE SHEET ($M) FY18 FY17 Change % Cash 333 238 39.9% ↑ Real estate assets: 1 • Commercial Property 10,599 10,255 3.4% ↑ • Residential 3,432 2,453 39.9% ↑ • Retirement Living 4,167 3,848 8.3% ↑ Other assets 760 701 8.4% ↑ Total assets 19,291 17,495 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 3,938 3,529 11.6% ↑ Retirement Living resident obligations 2,741 2,629 4.3% ↑ Other liabilities 2,236 1,410 58.6% ↑ Total liabilities 8,915 7,568 Net assets/total equity 10,376 9,927 4.5% 1 Includes non-current assets held for sale, inventory, investment properties, equity-accounted investments and certain other assets. 26 | Stockland Annual Review 2018 The increase in capital and development New US private placement notes equivalent to development at Green Hills. Investment expenditure predominantly reflects to $286 million were issued with tranches in Retirement Living totalled $213 million continued investment in the Logistics of between 10 and 15 years. In addition, a with main villages including Cardinal development pipeline including the $478 million Euro bond and a $51 million Asian Freeman (NSW), Willowdale (NSW) and redevelopment of Willawong (Qld), bond were executed in the year to replace Birtinya (Qld). Investing cash inflows Ingleburn (NSW) and Yennora (NSW). maturing US private placement facilities. includes $25 million return of capital The new notes which broaden our funding received from our investment in BGP (FY17: Residential assets, which represent mainly sources were issued at a competitive rate $71 million final dividend from BGP) together land under development, increased to and demonstrate continued strong support with proceeds from sale of investment $3,432 million at 30 June 2018 as we from debt investors and acknowledgement properties of $278 million (FY17: $74 million). successfully re-stocked our portfolio through of our robust credit profile. During the A further $65 million of contracted land acquisitions including land previously year, Stockland repaid USD 204 million investment property sales is due acquired on capital efficient terms settled ($311 million) US private placement notes to complete post year end. during the year and new capital efficient on maturity. acquisitions entered into during the year. Net financing cash flows reflect the net proceeds from borrowings to fund New capital efficient acquisitions in FY18 CASH FLOWS acquisitions and development expenditure, were made through put and call options, ($M) FY18 FY17 Change % offset by dividends and distributions paid whereby an asset and a corresponding Operating cash during the year. liability included within other liabilities, relating to future payments for this land flows (excluding payments for land) 1,224 1,204 1.7% ↑ EQUITY which results in a nil Net Funds Employed impact until some future point if and when Payments Distribution/Dividend the options are exercised. By way of for land (496) (283) 75.3% ↑ Reinvestment Plan (DRP) example, the 2018 operating cash flows In the current year, Stockland issued Investing include cash payments for land acquisitions cash flows (426) (380) 12.1% ↑ 16,069,134 securities (FY17: 26,357,840) 66 per cent of which had been bought under under the DRP. The DRP security price capital efficient terms, in locations which Financing cash flows (207) (511) 59.5% ↓ for the 30 June 2017 distribution was have seen strong capital appreciation in the determined by the average of the daily time since the original contract was signed. Net change in volume weighted averages over a 15-day In the same way, a large portion of the cash and cash trading period and applying a 1.0 per cent options booked this year relate to the equivalents 95 30 discount. Sydney market, which remains fundamentally Cash at the end On 21 February 2018 we announced the undersupplied for new housing land. This of the period 333 238 includes a contract for land at Marsden Park suspension of the DRP in respect of the (NSW) signed in December 2017, payments half year distribution for the six months for which will only commence in 2020 and Net operating cash inflows (excluding ended 31 December 2017. On 22 May 2018 under the option agreement extend out payments for land) increased as a result we announced the continued suspension as far as 2024. of $81 million higher property development of the DRP in respect of the 30 June 2018 sales revenue. Despite 166 fewer residential distribution. On 23 August 2018 we We maintained a disciplined approach lots settled compared to FY17, the average announced the termination of the DRP. to development expenditure and finished price per lot increased due to a change in goods levels remain appropriate. Excluding product mix to NSW and Qld. In addition, DISTRIBUTIONS acquisitions, the underlying asset value $50 million was received relating to deferred of Residential has fallen, because of the The dividend and distribution payable for settlements, offset by $91 million lower net the year ended 30 June 2018 is 26.5 cents significant settlements of 6,438 recorded receipts from Retirement Living residents during the year. per security. Our distribution policy is due to lower turnover events. to pay the higher of 100 per cent of Trust The value of the Retirement Living real Payments for land have increased taxable income or 75 – 85 per cent of FFO. estate related assets, net of resident significantly driven by deferred settlement obligations, was $1,426 million, an increase The distribution for the year comprises: payments for acquisitions made in previous of $207 million from June 2017. This primarily years and a number of payments relating Stockland (cents) FY18 FY17 reflects capital expenditure on the to strategic acquisitions to restock the development pipeline at Birtinya (Qld), Corporation dividend, portfolio. These capital efficient purchases fully franked – – The Residences – Cardinal Freeman (NSW) are expected to deliver strong profit margins and Willowdale (NSW), fair value uplift on given capital growth since contract signing. Trust distribution 26.5 25.5 the Retirement Living portfolio, partly offset by an increase in resident loan obligations Net cash outflows from investing activities Total dividend/ created on first sales of development units. reflect our continued commitment distribution 26.5 25.5 to growing our asset base and mainly Total debt increased by $409 million to comprises payments for and development $3,938 million at 30 June 2018 as a result of Registers closed at 5.00pm (AEST) on of Commercial Property investment 29 June 2018 to determine entitlement increased operating activity during the year property assets of $463 million, with the funded by the drawing down of bank debt. to the year end dividend/distribution, largest individual contribution relating which were paid on 31 August 2018. For more information please see our Annual Report 2018 www.stockland.com.au/corporate-reporting/downloads Our strategic focus areas | Capital strength | 27 Our progress CASE STUDY Tax strategy – our approach to tax Stockland’s tax strategy is to conduct all The key principles of our TCGF are TAX CONTRIBUTION SUMMARY its tax affairs in a transparent, equitable summarised as follows: As one of Australia’s largest diversified and commercially responsible manner, real estate groups, which owns, develops • A tax strategy that ensures all tax whilst having full regard to all relevant and manages commercial property affairs are conducted in a transparent, tax laws, regulations and tax governance assets, residential and retirement living equitable and commercially processes, to demonstrate good communities, Stockland contributes responsible manner, whilst having corporate citizenship. to the Australia economy, through the full regard to all relevant tax laws, Consistent with the Board approved low regulations and tax governance various taxes levied at the federal, state tax risk appetite, Stockland maintains processes, to demonstrate good and local government level. a low tax risk profile to ensure we remain corporate citizenship; For 2018 these taxes totalled more a sustainable business and an attractive • A balanced tax risk appetite which than $228 million, and were either borne investment proposition, in both the is consistent with the Board approved by Stockland as a cost of our business short and long term. risk appetite, to ensure Stockland or collected and remitted as part of our remains a sustainable business broader contribution to the Australian TAX CONTROL AND GOVERNANCE and a reputable and attractive tax system. POLICY FRAMEWORK investment proposition; The chart below illustrates the types Stockland maintains a Tax Control • A commitment to engage and maintain of taxes which contributed to the taxes and Governance Framework (TCGF), relationships with tax authorities paid and/or collected and remitted reviewed and approved by our Board which are open, transparent and for the 2018 year: Audit Committee, which outlines the co-operative, consistent with principles governing Stockland’s tax Stockland’s Code of Conduct TOTAL TAX CONTRIBUTION strategy and risk management policy. and Ethical Behaviour policy; and Our Tax Control and Governance • An operating and trading business Framework is consistent with the based in Australia, with no strategic guidelines published by the Australian intentions of engaging in any tax Taxation Office (ATO) regarding tax risk planning involving the use of offshore management and governance processes entities or low tax jurisdictions. FY18 for large business taxpayers. TOTAL TAX VOLUNTARY TAX TRANSPARENCY CODE CONTRIBUTION We undertake periodic reviews of the TCGF to test the robustness of the As part of Stockland’s commitment $228m design of the framework against ATO to tax transparency and demonstrating benchmarks and to demonstrate the good corporate citizenship, Stockland operating effectiveness of internal has adopted the Australian Federal controls to stakeholders. Government’s Voluntary Tax Transparency Code (TTC), which provides a set of principles and minimum standards % to guide medium and large businesses 35 Net GST paid on public disclosure of tax information. 29 PAYG withholding Tax Disclosures & Information 30 State taxes (includes land tax, For information and detailed & payroll taxes) reconciliations of Stockland’s tax 5 Other duties and levies expense, effective tax rate and deferred 1 Fringe Benefits Tax tax balances please refer to section (B3) in the 2018 Annual Report. 28 | Stockland Annual Review 2018 OUR STRATEGIC FOCUS AREAS Operational excellence Improving the way we operate across the Group to drive efficiencies, compliance, sustainability and employee engagement. Newport, Qld | 29 Our progress PRIORITIES AND PROGRESS OVERVIEW RESHAPING OUR BUSINESS Streamlining our management FOR FUTURE GROWTH In August 2018, we announce the STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Innovation and technology streamlining of our Executive Committee, combining our Residential and Retirement One of the major issues facing all large Living business into one integrated business, corporations is the increased pace Stockland Communities, to be led by • Drive operational efficiency of innovation and its ability to disrupt Andrew Whitson. • Continue to improve technology growth. We are embracing this challenge use and systems and appointed a new executive committee We are proud of our position as the leading position to focus specifically on our creator of liveable and affordable residential • Strong commitment to safety technology and innovation capabilities. and retirement living communities across In addition to progressing the development Australia. These changes will ensure we • Maintain high employee of our CORE Systems Program, which will continue to execute on our communities engagement provide digital-ready platforms to increase strategy, taking advantage of our integrated • Achieve leading sustainability efficiency and our ability respond to digital model and leveraging capabilities across credentials opportunities, this role will also focus the group. on enhancing our ability to progress The Chief Operating Officer function commercial outcomes from was also restructured and responsibilities innovation projects. reallocated across the Executive Committee. FY18 PROGRESS As part of our CORE Systems Program, In addition to these changes, after during the year we completed the delivery 12 successful years at the head of our and implementation of SuccessFactors Commercial Property business, in June 2018 Operational efficiency (Human Resources module) and are seeing John Schroder ended his time in the role. significant efficiency gains including • Streamlined management with In his place we welcomed as our new CEO improved employee self-service and access gross cost savings of $8m per of Commercial Property Louise Mason, who to Human Resources data. Importantly, our annum from FY20 joined us with over 25 years of experience employees are recognising improvements in retail town centres, workplaces Technology and innovation being made, with 100 per cent of employees and logistics. • Appointed Chief Technology recognising that we are improving systems and Innovation Officer and processes, and 81 per cent indicating The operational synergies and cost that computer management systems are savings created through the streamlining • Progressing our CORE providing information to help them do their of our organisational structure and the Systems Program work (an increase of 35 per cent compared introduction of new talent in Commercial to FY17). Property and Technology and Innovation, Safety will assist in lifting the quality of our retail We have also enjoyed an overwhelmingly • Reduced our lost time injury town centres, growing our workplace and positive response from the community to frequency rate to 1.6, the lowest logistics portfolio and driving innovation our announcement of a $23.5 million solar rate in seven years and digitisation across our business. rollout across ten of our retail town centres Overall these initiatives will save gross Employee engagement (bringing our total investment in solar to costs of $8 million per annum from FY20. $30 million). This project’s excellent return • Improved our employee on investment is a great example of the engagement score to 83% areas where we are enhancing our ability The introduction of new – seven points above the Australian norm to deliver commercial outcomes from our innovation projects. talent in Commercial Sustainability leadership Property and Technology • Retained our global sustainability and Innovation, will assist leadership credentials in lifting the quality of our retail town centres, growing our workplace and logistics portfolio and driving innovation and digitisation across our business. 30 | Stockland Annual Review 2018 OUR CORPORATE CULTURE The safety of our employees, This year the importance of culture has become front of mind for all boards and customers and partners executives across Australia as corporate is always paramount. This culture dominated media headlines. We remain focused on promoting a strong year, we achieve the lowest culture; one concentrated on our customers lost time injury frequency and ensuring employees are a strong first line of defence for risk management. rate (LTFIR) in seven years Our intense focus on our customers The Senior Leadership Experience program continues to be our flagship leadership How we engage with our customers development offering targeted at Senior is an important element of our culture. Managers and General Managers and Understanding and responding to our focusing on those areas of management customers’ changing needs and improving and leadership we are seeking to enhance. customer experience is critical to the The Senior Leadership Experience success of our business. We remain program delivers an immersive leadership committed to enhancing customer development experience across inclusive centricity and our engagement with leadership, design thinking, change customers at all stages of their journey and wellbeing. with Stockland. The safety of our employees, customers and We continue to receive high customer partners is always paramount. This year, we satisfaction ratings across our business, achieve the lowest lost time injury frequency with very strong 90 per cent satisfaction rate (LTFIR) in seven years, dropping results in our residential and retirement to 1.6 from 1.8 in FY17, a result of ongoing living communities and at our logistics improvements in employee training and assets. Our retail tenants rated us as top risk awareness. two in the industry, however our overall score decreased in line with our peers to 72 per cent, largely due to the challenging retail sales environment. Our strong employee engagement and safety record We continue to enjoy a high level of employee engagement, above the Australian National Norm as measured by our annual, independently conducted employee engagement survey, ‘Our Voice’. We also recently conducted an internal review of our culture which has identified key strengths that we want to preserve, such as respect, customer focus and engagement, as well as areas for further focus and improvement including encouraging diversity of thought. Our strategic focus areas | Operational excellence | 31 CASE STUDY Our industry-leading solar rollout Stockland Shellharbour, NSW We are continuously improving how Mark Steinert, Managing Director we source and use energy throughout and CEO, said, “Investing in technology our assets. A major focus has been the such as solar energy is not only rollout of 6.4 hectares of solar panels environmentally sustainable, it also across 10 of our retail town centres; makes good business sense. Our the largest rooftop solar project ever forecast average yield over a 10 year undertaken by a retail landlord in period is 11.6 per cent on capital Australia at the time of its announcement. invested, generating strong shared The $23.5 million investment will see us value for both our investors and install more than 39,000 photovoltaic our communities.” (PV) panels, comparable in size to more The project reaffirms our position than nine football fields, across the roof as a global leader in sustainability, space on shopping centres including and provides potential for future Stockland Merrylands (NSW), Stockland participation in the national energy Burleigh Heads (Qld), Stockland Point market. It also brings us closer to our Cook (Vic) and Stockland target of a 60 per cent carbon intensity Wendouree (Vic). reduction for our Retail Town Centre With the project expected to generate and Workplace assets over the FY06 17.2 GWh of additional renewable – FY25 period. energy every year, it will account for 20 to 25 per cent of retailers’ baseload and “Investing in technology usage, excluding supermarkets and department stores. such as solar energy is We added another three sites to the not only environmentally rollout near the end of FY18. Once sustainable, it also makes complete, the investment will increase our combined retail town centre solar good business sense. Our generation capacity to 15.72 MW over forecast average yield 13 sites generating in total 20,000,000 kWh per annum. over a 10 year period is 11.6 per cent on capital invested, generating strong shared value for both our investors and our communities.” 32 | Stockland Annual Review 2018 We are proud to maintain our reputation as Global leadership credentials an employer of choice with recognition for our leadership in the areas of gender equity and graduate employment from: the Workplace Gender Equality Agency (WGEA) – Gender Equality Employer of Choice for the fourth consecutive year, CoreData – Eighth consecutive year Top 20 Best Australian Workplaces for New in World Down Jones Sustainability Dads, and both the Australian Financial Index – Real Estate Top 5 Review and the Australian Association for Graduate Employers as a Top Employer for Graduates for the second consecutive year. SUSTAINABILITY LEADERSHIP Sustainability also continues to be a key Only Australian company part of our competitive advantage and listed on the Global CDP a strong driver of employee engagement. A-List for climate action Our proactive approach to emerging issues across the areas of governance, environmental management and social inclusion and development have kept us at the forefront of corporate sustainability. Pleasingly, we have retained our global Global Sector Leader for listed, sustainability leadership credentials diversified – Office/Retail from leading sustainability indices across the globe. “Leading” Our proactive approach Recognised by Australian Council to emerging issues across of Superannuation Investors for our the areas of governance, “Leading” sustainability disclosure environmental management and social inclusion and development have kept us at the forefront of corporate sustainability. Our strategic focus areas | Operational excellence | 33 CASE STUDY Cloverton Vision Centre, Vic Enhancing our customer centricity Customer focus is a key priority across We are increasing our use of customer Listening to their feedback generates Stockland, as we engage with our immersion workshops in our development ideas from staff on improving the customers to understand their needs, planning. The workshops involve customer experience, which are collected priorities, goals and challenges. We do engaging prospective customers for and prioritised by team leaders for this through: feedback on our initial design plans, implementation. Staff also listen in with floor plans and marketing which inform our contact centre to hear phone calls • our research community, Stockland early planning and development of our and discuss improvement opportunities Exchange new communities. Different functions with front line staff. We are already • conducting customer immersion across our business interact directly actioning two major initiatives as a result workshops early in our development with customers and share insights with of Stockland Listens, and have a pipeline process the whole project team. In this way, of ideas under consideration by our • Our Stockland Listens customer we are better able to identify potential Customer Experience team. immersion program. issues early on and put the customer Over 250 of our people have engaged at the heart of our project team’s We set up Stockland Exchange almost with Stockland Listens to date, and the decision-making, ultimately leading five years ago and today we have over program will be extended to all business to a better outcome. 5,500 members who are residents, units in FY19 and become part of our prospective residents and shoppers. Stockland Listens was launched this normal operating rhythm. We use this community to reach out year to make it easier for staff within to customers and get their feedback our Residential business to connect with, on a range of different issues. This listen to, and learn from our customers. provides us with a quick and costCustomers attend staff meetings in each effective means of engaging with our state and share their home buying stories. customers and acting on their feedback. Some examples of how we have used the Stockland Exchange include: • testing new ideas and initiatives • voting on community names • feedback on future parks • input into future town centres • positioning of and communication about our communities. 34 | Stockland Annual Review 2018 CREATING SHARED VALUE Optimise and innovate We aim to provide business solutions that better serve our customers while reducing our impact on the environment. Wetherill Park, NSW 35 | Our progress PRIORITIES AND PROGRESS OVERVIEW One of our sustainability strategy focus areas is to provide business solutions that OUR TARGETS STRATEGIC PRIORITIES better serve our customers while reducing our impact on the environment. As one of Australia’s largest developers and owners Climate and Energy Climate change & energy efficiency of real estate we have an enduring focus 60% reduction in carbon • Reduce emissions, invest in on climate change mitigation and emissions by FY25 in alternative energy supplies, and adaptation, eco-efficiency (including Commercial Property. improve portfolio climate resilience energy, water and waste management) and biodiversity management. All new residential and Biodiversity retirement living communities • Minimise our impact on ecological RESILIENT COMMUNITIES AND ASSETS to be designed as 10% more communities and protected energy efficient than For the benefit of our stakeholders or significant species regulatory standards. and society more broadly we are committed • Design our communities to to creating climate resilient assets that operate with minimal disruption, as well Water Management and Quality promote connection to nature as building strong communities that are Retail Town Centres and Water management and quality retirement living villages to equipped to adapt to climate change risks • Improve water consumption and opportunities. reduce water intensity by five efficiency and sustainable sourcing per cent, and all new residential We have a comprehensive approach communities designed to exceed • Deliver projects that minimise to assessing and managing the physical minimum water efficiency water use and positively contribute risks of climate change for both our assets standards by five per cent. to local water catchments and our local communities, residents and Waste and materials management customers. Our approach includes national risk Biodiversity • Reduce, reuse and recycle our mapping of our portfolio, undertaking climate New masterplanned community waste, minimising our contribution and community resilience assessments at developments to have an to landfill prioritised assets and implementing action aggregated net positive plans based on those assessments. contribution to biodiversity • Specify the use of sustainable materials This year we have extended the coverage of value by FY20. our assessments to any new masterplanned Waste and Materials communities, an additional three retirement living villages and several Commercial Divert at least 85% of Retail FY18 PROGRESS Property assets. Details of our process Town Centre development and assessment scoring can be found waste from landfill. in our Climate Resilience Deep Dive. Divert at least 60% of Residential Climate change & energy efficiency To complement our understanding of the development waste from landfill. • 5% reduction in carbon intensity of physical risks, during the year we undertook scenario analysis including scenarios Divert at least 45% of Commercial our Commercial Property portfolio limiting global warming to below 2°C Property operational waste (52% reduction since FY06) to enhance our understanding of risks and from landfill. • Increased total investment in opportunities associated with the transition solar to $30 million, exceeding to a low carbon economy. Our 2°C scenario 10% return over 10 years analysis confirmed that our existing Our work on climate mitigation, through our Biodiversity commitments to energy efficiency and emissions reduction activities, and climate renewable energy are appropriate for adaptation is highly regarded in the industry • Rehabilitated 204 hectares of leveraging low carbon opportunities. and we were the only Australian CDP Climate biodiversity, and upon completion It also enhanced our understanding of risks A List company to be recognised on the 2,202 hectares protected on including land development regulation and CDP A list. We were also amongst the first current residential developments climate risk disclosure. More information Australian companies to respond to the Water management and quality on our 2°C scenario analysis is provided Global Financial Stability Board’s Task Force in the case study on the next page. on Climate-related Financial Disclosure, • Reduced water intensity of our releasing our response to the Australian retail town centre and workplace Securities Exchange with our Financial and business park assets by 5% Statements in February 2018 and again and 11% respectively in August 2018. This includes our approach Waste and materials management to climate risk governance, strategy, risk management, targets and performance. • 89% and 94% waste diversion rates for our Commercial Property developments and Residential developments respectively 36 | Stockland Annual Review 2018 CASE STUDY What does net zero emissions by 2050 look like for Stockland? We completed a scenario analysis The scenario analysis incorporated issues such as the willingness of to understand risks and opportunities the key assumption that Australia would governments or employees to work presented by a low carbon future, be carbon neutral by 2050 as a means with us if we are seen as a climate leveraging 2°C scenarios from both of contributing to the global objective laggard. Our industry-leading investment the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate of limiting warming to 2°C compared in renewable energy and our continued Change (RCP2.6 ) and the Australian to a pre-industrial baseline. The analysis dedication to energy efficiency position contribution to the Deep Decarbonization included changes to energy networks, us well to take advantage of opportunities Pathways Project. Our scenario analysis climate policy, customer preferences, associated with the transition to a low using 2°C scenarios builds upon our and investment flows that would plausibly carbon economy. existing scenario analysis that we have lead to carbon neutrality by 2050. We have integrated the outcomes of our used for several years to understand Our analysis confirmed the importance scenario analysis into our corporate risk the distribution of physical risks across of policy and legal issues such as carbon register and will continue to use the our portfolio. Our workshop to test the pricing and climate risk disclosure, approach to understand how to remain scenarios involved many teams within technological issues such as automation a climate leader into the future. our business, such as Development, and electrification, market issues such Project Management, Asset Operations, as customer and investment preferences Group Risk, Group Sustainability, Group for low carbon solutions, and reputational Legal, and Stakeholder Relations. CLIMATE SCENARIOS Climate-related risks and opportunities vary depending on future climate conditions, policy changes, technology shifts, and market movements, as shown in RCP 8.5 and RCP 2.6 scenarios by the IPCC. BUSINESS-AS-USUAL SCENARIO ‘AGGRESSIVE’ MITIGATION SCENARIO Emissions continue rising at current rates Emissions halved by 2050 As likely as not to exceed Not likely to exceed 4°C by 2100 2°C by 2100 BUSINESS IMPACTED BY PHYSICAL RISK BUSINESS IMPACTED BY TRANSITION RISK Changes to climate conditions Policy, technology, market, legal changes CHANGES TO TEMPERATURES, CARBON REGULATION RAINFALL PATTERNS, SEA LEVEL RISE LAND DEVELOPMENT REGULATION EXTREME WEATHER, FLOODS, CYCLONES, HEATWAVES EXPECTATIONS ON CORPORATES TO BE LOW CARBON INCREASED MAINTENANCE AND OPERATIONAL COSTS INCREASED NEED TO CHANGES TO CONSUMER AND UPGRADE/RETROFIT ASSETS INVESTOR PREFERENCES HEALTH AND WELLBEING IMPACTS TECHNOLOGY SHIFTS For more information see our Climate Resilience Deep Dive and Management Approach www.stockland.com.au/sustainability Creating shared value | Optimise and innovate | 37 Our progress TARGETING ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND RENEWABLES The declining cost of solar infrastructure CASE STUDY works in tandem with the increasing cost of conventional energy to make solar a sound business investment. We look to design and technology innovation and access to alternative energy supplies. In FY18 we completed our largest solar photovoltaics (PV) installation at Stockland Green Hills (NSW, 1.85 MW), as well as an additional installation at Stockland Caloundra (Qld, 0.25 MW). This brings our total portfolio solar PV capacity in FY18 to 4.36 MW and generating approximately 6,000,000 kWh in renewable energy annually. Our total committed investment in solar is around $30 million, leading the industry with an expected 16.36 MW of solar PV capacity across our Commercial Property portfolio by the end of FY19. In addition to our investment in renewables we also completed lighting upgrades that will result in approximately 1,700,000 kWh of annual electricity savings. Powering up our portfolio with We recognise that we also have an important role in encouraging more efficient Tesla Destination Chargers living options. Examples of these initiatives We are delivering a $200,000 national Once complete, Tesla owners will enjoy include encouraging electric vehicle use by rollout of Tesla Destination Chargers the convenience of charging locations installing over 65 electric vehicle charging across up to 31 retail town centres at our retail town centres from Cairns stations in 23 of our retail town centres; and from Cairns to Melbourne. Tesla owners to Melbourne. developing a four bedroom home at our can now charge their cars for free North Shore (Qld) community to achieve a The 43 Tesla Destination Chargers in our retail town centres, boosting NatHERS1 thermal comfort rating of 9.3 out rolled out to date in 23 locations convenience for customers while they of 10. The home is equipped with solar and complements our 24 free ChargePoint shop, dine, or spend time with family battery storage, and acts as a sales office facilities in 13 locations throughout and friends. and education tool for prospective residents. Australia, which have been used Louise Mason, CEO of Commercial more than 3,600 times by customers Property, said: “In the ever changing since 2015. retail landscape, technology is We are proud to be leading the sector increasingly critical to drive innovation, by investing in both EV charging efficiency and engagement with capacity and renewable energy, both our customers.” of which are crucial to the future of “We know electric vehicles are part our retail town centres and cities. of the future and we look forward to offering more features like this to meet “In the ever changing continuing Australian demand.” retail landscape, Hon Craig Laundy MP, former Federal Assistant Minister for Industry, technology is increasingly Innovation and Science joined the critical to drive Stockland team to launch the initiative, and to charge up the first Tesla vehicle innovation, efficiency at Stockland Cammeray in Sydney. and engagement with Mr Laundy said it was great to our customers.” see two companies with corporate philosophies that were committed to sustainability – in Tesla and Stockland – working together to 1 The Nationwide House Energy Rating Scheme expand low emissions technology. (NatHERS) is a star rating system (out of ten) that rates the energy efficiency of a home, based on its design (www.nathers.gov.au). 38 | Stockland Annual Review 2018 SNAPSHOT Our Environmental Performance GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS The chart opposite provides absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions (kgCO2-e) greenhouse gas emissions totals (in kgCO2-e) since FY14. FY18 25,453 82,591 Our Residential business constitutes the majority of our Scope 1 FY17 26,884 87,860 emissions, the levels of which vary each year in accordance with civil contractor construction activity. Commercial Property FY16 35,036 89,881 constitutes the majority of our Scope 2 emissions, which have FY15 26,368 97,763 been decreasing over time because of our energy efficiency and renewable energy initiatives. FY14 22,102 99,927 Scope 1 Scope 2 WATER MANAGEMENT AND EFFICIENCY We are currently committed to a five per cent reduction in water Commercial Property Emissions Intensity intensity by FY20, against the FY17 benchmark. The chart below FY25 TARGET 43.6 shows the water intensity result for our Commercial Property FY18 52.0 portfolio (Workplace, Business Parks and Retail) since FY14. FY17 54.9 WASTE MANAGEMENT FY16 58.6 We set waste targets for our operational assets and our FY15 60.7 developments. FY14 61.6 • Achieve a minimum 60 per cent waste diversion from landfill FY06 109.0 for all new residential construction contracts by FY20. This year we diverted 94 per cent of waste from landfill across our residential developments. Commercial Property Water Intensity (kl/sqm) • Achieve a minimum 45 per cent waste diversion from landfill FY18 0.94 for Retail Town Centre, Workplace and Business Parks operations FY17 0.98 (by FY20). We achieved a diversion from landfill of 33 per cent for FY16 1.00 Retail Town Centres and 37 per cent for Workplace and Business Parks. We continue to enhance waste management across our FY15 0.96 Commercial Property operations in pursuit of our FY20 target. FY14 0.98 • Achieve a minimum 85 per cent waste diversion from landfill for Retail Town Centre, Workplace and Business Parks developments (by FY20). This year we diverted 89 per cent of waste diversion. RENEWABLE ENERGY GENERATED The table below illustrates our solar generation over the past five years, and estimated generation at end of FY19. FY18 FY17 FY16 FY15 FY14 FY19 Estimate Energy generated using solar PV (kWh) 3,274,463 2,387,168 1,940,689 292,124 175,374 Total solar PV capacity at end of reporting period (MW) 4.36 2.26 1.36 1.36 0.05 16.36 60% FY25 emission intensity reduction 52% Emissions intensity reduction $90m+ Cost savings to date target (2006 baseline) progress to date Our full environmental data pack is available online at www.stockland.com.au/sustainability Creating shared value | Optimise and innovate | 39 Our progress CREATING SUSTAINABLE AND INCLUSIVE In FY18 we achieved ratings across a large NABERS and Green Star certifications ASSETS AND DEVELOPMENTS portion of our portfolio with the following Asset ratings and certifications are key means of assuring and demonstrating key achievements: • 6 Star Green Star ‘World Leadership’ – 4.18 stars NABERS Energy the quality of our assets. These ratings Communities rating for our Waterlea (Vic) Retail Town Centre portfolio average serve as independent validation that key residential community currently under sustainability aspects, including social and environmental factors, have been development in Melbourne • 5 Star Green Star ‘Australian Excellence’ – 4.35 stars considered in our asset designs, NABERS Energy Design rating (Retail Centre v1) for our Workplace and Business Parks portfolio developments and operations. Stockland Green Hills (NSW) development average Assets that are highly rated and can • 4 Star Green Star – As Built rating (Retail demonstrate optimal performance are often more attractive to customers and investors. Centre v1) on our Stockland Baldivis (WA) development 42 centres Not only do they guarantee a certain level Green Star Performance • completed Green Star – Performance rated Retail Town Centres, Workplaces of energy and water efficiency, and therefore portfolio rating on our Workplace and and Business Parks cost savings over the long term, they also Business Park portfolio. incorporate various design features that promote social inclusion and enhance health and wellbeing. Buildings with high • completed NABERS Waste and Indoor Environment ratings on three assets in our 3.57 stars NABERS Water environmental ratings can demonstrate Workplace and Business Parks portfolio Workplace and Business Parks higher return on investment over time. • registered our forthcoming Retirement portfolio average Living development at Newport (Qld) Not only do they guarantee under the Green Star – Design & As Built rating tool 27 assets a certain level of energy • confirmed 11 of our standard Townhomes Green Star Design & As Built, Communities and Retirement Living rated assets and water efficiency, home plans and 10 of our Retirement and therefore cost savings Living home plans to be compliant with Livable Housing Australia (LHA) Silver 3.18 stars over the long term, they also design standard. NABERS Water Retail Town Centre portfolio average incorporate various design features that promote RATING TOOLS FOR MORE social inclusion and enhance SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT, health and wellbeing. OPERATIONS AND LIVING We have a strong commitment to the use Green Star of product rating and certification tools Tools developed by the Green to ensure the sustainability performance Building Council of Australia that rate of our projects and assets. the sustainable design, construction and operation of buildings and communities using a scale of 1 to 6 stars, with 1 being Minimum Practice and 6 World Leadership NABERS The National Australian Built Environment Rating Scheme uses measured and verified performance information to assess energy efficiency water usage and other factors of a building or tenancy and its impact on the environment using a scale of 1 to 6, 6 being a market leading performance. Livable Housing Australia A three-tiered performance certification for liveable housing design including more accessible design for all stages of life – Silver, Gold and Platinum. 40 | Stockland Annual Review 2018 OUR GOAL OF NET POSITIVE We have identified biodiversity that will be BIODIVERSITY IMPACT protected on site in 20 of our projects under We develop new land for housing, including construction in FY18. We will have placed infrastructure and social amenities, to approximately 2,202 hectares of land into create sustainable, thriving communities. protection for the purposes of biodiversity Development brings challenges and management once these projects opportunities that we manage as we deliver are complete. our projects. In particular, developments Our FY20 target is to make a net positive on greenfield sites can impact local contribution to biodiversity value across bushland habitat, ecological communities our residential developments, as measured and protected or significant species. by our biodiversity calculator. The only We aim to minimise and mitigate these project with significant biodiversity impacts to protect the biodiversity of our assessed by the calculator in FY18 was surrounding environments and appreciate Mt Atkinson (Vic). At Mt Atkinson our overall that preserving biodiversity enhances the impact will be positive once the project liveability and vitality of our communities is complete with 39 hectares of land over the long term. Our Liveability Index rehabilitated and replanted (score of +11.94). survey results tell us that our residential A full list of projects scored by our calculator customers value this green space and since FY15 is provided in our Environmental a connection to nature. Data Pack. More information on the methods behind our biodiversity calculator can We will have placed be found in Our Management Approach to Biodiversity. approximately 2,202 hectares of land into  For more information on our energy, carbon, water, waste, materials protection for the and biodiversity management visit www.stockland.com.au/sustainability purposes of biodiversity management once these projects are complete. Creating shared value | Optimise and innovate | 41 CASE STUDY 6 Star Green Star – World Leadership for Waterlea We were awarded a “World Leadership” We have designed 20 per cent of Our Green Star ratings 6 Star Green Star – Communities rating homes to Livable Housing Australia Silver by the Green Building Council of Australia Design standard to provide for the needs provide external (GBCA) for our Waterlea medium density of growing families and people with verification of our residential development. This highly disabilities, injuries and life changing coveted certification helps to confirm circumstances. Design features improve projects’ sustainability the position of Waterlea as one of the most sustainable residential communities access to the home, navigational space within the home and provide a more credentials. We continue in Australia. Waterlea is our first medium comfortable living environment without to use Green Star density project to be rated under the compromising the quality of life for residents. across all areas of our Green Star – Communities tool and one of the first medium density projects Anthony Scafidi, Senior Development Manager said, “We have worked closely business to benchmark in Australia to be rated. and enhance our with sustainability groups, the Green The Green Star rating framework aligns Building Council of Australia and Livable performance. with our own strategic priorities to Housing Australia to design the new improve the community and environmental community to be a model development outcomes of our projects. Waterlea for affordability and sustainability. scored full credits for ‘governance’ and The team has worked incredibly hard rated highly across the rating areas over the past 18 months to deliver this of ‘liveability’, ‘economic prosperity’, outcome and we are proud to be at ‘environment’ and ‘innovation’. the forefront of sustainable design. We can expect to see continued customer The design elements of each home value placed on Green Star homes work to reduce environmental impact, with residents benefiting from design including innovative features such as features that reduce the impact solar panels, rainwater tanks plumbed on the environment.” for toilet and laundry usage, and garages fitted with an electric vehicle charging point. For home owners, this means reduced power and water bills and a lower impact carbon footprint. 42 | Stockland Annual Review 2018 CREATING SHARED VALUE Shape thriving communities Our research indicates that health and wellbeing, community connection and education contribute most to liveable communities. Elara, NSW | 43 Our progress PRIORITIES AND PROGRESS OVERVIEW Our ability to shape thriving communities is a fundamental element of our success. OUR TARGETS STRATEGIC PRIORITIES To do this we focus on what our customers want and those elements that make a liveable community including wellbeing, community All Stockland Communities Health and wellbeing connection, and opportunities for lifelong (residential and retirement living) • Activities and places that learning and prosperity. We focus on these score above the Australian encourage positive physical and three social impact areas because our average National Wellbeing mental health and wellbeing proprietary customer and industry research Index to FY20 tells us these are the areas that matter when • Smart design that optimises our customers are deciding where to live, Achieve consistent Stockland accessibility, safety and mobility work, play and shop. National Liveability Index scores of 80% across our residential Community connection We coordinate our efforts in the communities • Activities that foster engagement, community through a combination pride and a sense of belonging of mechanisms including: Make a meaningful contribution to community health and • Customer engagement – maintaining • Design that encourages sense wellbeing, community high levels of communication with our of place and supports recreation connection and education local community to ensure we are and participation in partnership with community responsive to their needs groups supported directly and by Education and prosperity • Community development – local the Stockland CARE Foundation • Programs that support economic community infrastructure and initiatives employment within our communities that enhance the communities in and around Stockland assets • Design that facilitates learning and In FY18, we completed our annual proprietary education opportunities for all ages • Community investment – our employee volunteering and giving program and Liveability Index survey receiving close to 2,500 survey responses from residents across • Stockland CARE Foundation – over 40 residential communities. This our charitable trust, which delivers research tells us how satisfied our residents FY18 PROGRESS infrastructure, programs and initiatives are once they have moved into our residential to Australian communities. communities, what we are doing well, and learnings that we can take forward for future Health and wellbeing In FY18, we completed developments. Insights from this research • Residential community national our annual proprietary are used to inform strategic planning of each liveability score of 78% (new community and our national community methodology) Liveability Index survey design guidelines. • Residential community resident and we received close to In FY18, we scored 78 per cent on our new personal wellbeing index (PWI) 2,500 survey responses Liveability Index modelling which is calculated score of 77%, above the using regression modelling. We also national average from residents across over introduced a new question this year which • Retirement Living resident PWI 40 residential communities. asks residents if the community has met or exceeded their expectations, and 88 per cent score of 82%, well above the of residents responded positively on this national average CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT metric. The proportion of residents agreeing As highlighted in our business unit summaries they are likely to recommend Stockland has Community connection on page 20–24 we retained a high level of also increased, which is an important metric • $7.7 million invested in community customer satisfaction across the group. because referrals are a key source of new initiatives across Australia In addition to surveying our customers business. We have now reset Liveability Index • 308 local organisations awarded on their level of satisfaction with the service targets to be achieved by FY22. over $560,000 in total as grants we provide we also seek feedback from to our communities beyond the point of sale. As Australia’s largest residential developer, Education and prosperity we understand both the excitement and • 180 people placed in local the challenges that come with living in a new employment through the Green Hills community. Through the insights gained from Connectivity centre our Liveability Index, we remain committed • Determined the social value to investing in what matters most to our generated by our Retirement residents as we develop our new communities. Living portfolio 44 | Stockland Annual Review 2018 CASE STUDY Early amenity delivers liveability at Aura Moving into a brand new community Aura residents were included in our In fact, 60 per cent of Aura residents say is an exciting time for our residents, annual Liveability Index survey for the they have recommended the community many of whom have just purchased their first time in 2018. Aura’s Liveability Index to others, which is substantially higher first home. This experience is enhanced score was 78 per cent, a strong result than the average across all communities. even further when we are able to bring for a new community. Aura residents’ These results are a testament to the forward the delivery of key community average wellbeing score is at 81 per cent, strong efforts by our Residential business infrastructure for the benefit of above the national average of 74-76 per to deliver early amenity at Aura and the community’s initial residents. cent (according to the Personal Wellbeing actively address any issues as they arise. Index measured by Deakin University). Our $5 billion Aura (Qld) residential As Australia’s largest residential Residents also feel that their standard community on the Sunshine Coast developer, we understand both the of living has improved since moving is the largest project ever undertaken excitement and the challenges that come to Aura (85 per cent). by Stockland and will continue to develop with living in a new community. Through for at least the next 25 years. We have Satisfaction with public spaces and the insights gained from our Liveability made a concerted effort to provide open amenity is at 86 per cent, which is one Index, we remain committed to investing space, community facilities, and other of the highest results across our portfolio. in what matters most to our residents programs early in the development Residents said that they enjoyed “the as we develop our new communities. lifecycle, so that residents who move in cleanliness of park facilities and family during the first stages do not have to wait friendly orientation”, they remarked for years to enjoy everything that this 6 how “the public landscaping and design Star Green Star community has to offer. makes Aura feel well-built and well thought-out”, and they were “proud” to tell people they lived at Aura. Creating shared value | Shape thriving communities | 45 Our progress OUR COMMUNITY CONTRIBUTION OVERVIEW The table below provides an overview CASE STUDY of our community contributions. In FY18, we invested over $6.9 million through our community development, community investment programs and the Stockland CARE Foundation, as verified by Corporate Citizenship. A further breakdown of these contributions by category is provided in our Community Data Pack. Community Contribution category FY18 Community development $4,734,707 Community investment $1,222,587 Management costs $982,704 Total community contribution $6,939,998 Measuring the social value In addition to the items outlined above, created by our Retirement we also facilitate community contributions through our stakeholders and through the provision of space, bringing our total Living communities community contribution to $7,776,317. More We know, from talking with residents, into the village. For most, they detail on these community contributions there is intrinsic social value created expressed the sentiment that they did is provided in our Community Deep Dive. through living in a Stockland retirement not realise how good the move would village for those residents, the local be, and would have considered moving VALUING OUR CONTRIBUTION community and state-level government. earlier had they known. These focus Over the past year, we also sought to To better understand and communicate groups helped EY researchers to design quantify the social contribution of our this social value created by our a specific survey around the key themes Retirement Living portfolio and completed Retirement Living portfolio for its (outcomes) identified to measure the a Social Return on Investment (SROI). The residents, the local community and statebenefit and value created by the SROI aimed to put a financial value on the level government, we completed a Social villages for our residents and other social contribution that is made by us for Return on Investment (SROI) research stakeholders. For all residents surveyed our Retirement Living residents, the local project in partnership with Ernst & Young (637 in total), sense of community and community and state-level government. (EY). The outcomes of the SROI will assist sense of safety and security were the The SROI is 1:1.66. This means that for every us to communicate and enhance the most significant wellbeing outcomes. $1 that we invest in our Retirement Living intangible social value that we create This was closely followed by reduced portfolio, it creates $1.66 in social value. in our Retirement Living business. worry, stress and concern, and The analysis is explored in the case greater independence. Our approach was four-fold: study opposite. Some key findings from the SROI include: 1. Conduct extensive stakeholder engagement • The SROI found that Stockland Retirement Living creates $1.66 in 2. Design a Theory of Change and social value for every $1 invested Measurement Framework • 64 per cent of the positive changes 3. Undertake a resident survey reported by residents are to measure the outcomes attributable to the services and 4. Assign proxies to value the outcomes. amenities provided by Stockland Part of our stakeholder engagement • 41 per cent of residents felt their involved four resident focus groups wellbeing would have worsened which were vital in unpicking the depth during the course of the year if they of, and commonalities among, our had not been living in a Stockland residents’ experiences of Stockland retirement village retirement living. Overall a range of • It is estimated that state-level consistent positive and supportive government authorities receive sentiments were heard from the nearly as much value in the form residents about their experiences and of avoided costs in health and care the value they have gained from moving services ($162 million). 46 | Stockland Annual Review 2018 OUR COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT Focusing on local employment During the fortnight, our corporate, ACTIVITIES AND PARTNERSHIPS at Green Hills, NSW employee, partner and community Many of our community development The Green Hills Connectivity Centre, contributions to the Foundation exceeded activities are delivered with the assistance a collaboration between us and the primary $245,000. We have integrated supplier of our community partners. The following contractor on our Green Hills redevelopment, and contractor engagement into our are examples of how our focus areas are sought to leverage the economic potential annual Foundation Fortnight for FY19 delivered at our assets. More detail on of the redevelopment to address the high (we did not host a fundraiser targeting our partnerships can be found in our level of youth unemployment in the Maitland suppliers and contractors in FY18 Community Data Pack. area. The aim of the Connectivity Centre as originally intended). was to connect local job seekers with • participation of retirement living Community connection through inclusive employment opportunities in the communities in Family Day (formerly play with Touched by Olivia redeveloped Stockland Green Hills (NSW), known as Grandparents Day). Family We built six new inclusive playspaces and to upskill individuals in preparation Day provided an opportunity to raise in collaboration with our Stockland CARE for the workplace. awareness about the CARE Foundation Foundation partner Touched by Olivia. and its charity partners in a fun Over the two years of its operation, the environment involving activities including These playspaces are designed so that Connectivity Centre placed more than children of all abilities can play together, face painting, petting zoos, craft tables, 180 local people in jobs, exceeding its treasure hunts and food and drink. In including those with physical disabilities, initial target of 100. Importantly, the vision, hearing and mobility impairments, FY18, 1570 residents and family members majority of placements were in sustainable participated compared to 830 in FY17. or spectrum disorders such as autism. employment. The Connectivity Centre In FY18, we built two inclusive playspaces also ran workshops such as the Customer • fundraising and volunteering efforts that at Stockland Green Hills (NSW), two Service Workshop, Driver Learner and resulted in: at Stockland Wendouree (Vic), one Driver Awareness workshops, and • support for 100 families who will have at Stockland Rockhampton (Qld), and Interview Technique workshops, all access to Redkite’s full suite of one in our Sienna Wood (WA) designed to enhance the employability programs and services residential community. of local residents. • six new inclusive playspaces. Healthy eating with Jamie’s Ministry The Connectivity Centre wound $7.7m of Food up operations as the $421 million Our partnership with Jamie’s Ministry redevelopment project drew to a close. of Food continued to expand across our We will continue to work with our builder residential communities, retirement living partners at our development projects to establish a broader local economic contributed to community communities and retail town centres. benefit resulting from our work. investment and development We delivered fiveand seven-week cooking 782 programs that teach members of the community how to prepare simple, healthy, STOCKLAND CARE FOUNDATION fresh and affordable meals at the fixed In FY15, the Stockland CARE Foundation kitchen at Stockland Wetherill Park made its inaugural commitment to Redkite (which closed in January 2018), and community development initiatives and Touched by Olivia which were chosen delivered across Australia through community outreach pilots at as the first charity partners to receive our Willowdale (NSW) and Elara (NSW) 4,336 financial and in-kind support from the residential communities, and our Hillsview Foundation for a minimum three-year (SA) retirement living community. At period. The Foundation has extended these Hillsview, we invited prospective residents partnerships into FY19. Since the launch to the final two weeks of the program, of these partnerships, we have focused on hours volunteered by our employees resulting in reservations for two homes. 154 embedding the Stockland CARE Foundation We continued to work with the Jamie’s purpose, partners and programs into our Ministry of Food Mobile Kitchens in offices and assets. Queensland and Western Australia by Supported by our state employee volunteer employees volunteered for providing funding, marketing, and logistics committees, our employees ran numerous student mentoring support. We also delivered ‘Learn Your Fruit events, fundraisers and volunteering and Veg’ school holiday programs in five activities throughout FY18. Some of the of our retirement villages, and specially highlights of the year included: For more information on our community designed cooking demonstrations for development and investment visit Men’s Health Week in two of our villages • Foundation Fortnight, which is a www.stockland.com.au/sustainability in Victoria. Over 2,215 customers, residents concentrated two week period of and local community members have targeted events and activations to participated in the programs held in FY18. promote awareness and raise funds for our Stockland CARE Foundation and its partners. FY18 was the third year for Foundation Fortnight, which was held from 2 October 2017 to 15 October 2017 at our state offices and selected assets. Creating shared value | Shape thriving communities | 47 CASE STUDY Shipwreck Park brings inclusive play to Sienna Wood Shipwreck Park at our Sienna Wood With one in five Australians living with (WA) residential community was a disability, inclusive playgrounds such officially opened in December 2017 as Shipwreck Park provide easy access on International Day of People with and fun, stimulating play areas that Disability. Shipwreck Park was designed celebrate the abilities of all children. in collaboration with the Touched Elements of the playground include By Olivia Foundation and provides viewing platforms, giant swings, an atmosphere where children of all a dual all-abilities flying fox, in-ground abilities can play together, including trampolines, slides and musical those with physical disabilities, vision, equipment for beating out tunes. hearing and mobility impairments, or spectrum disorders such as autism. We are proud to partner Touched by Olivia, one of our CARE with the Touched By Olivia Foundation partners, believes that all children, regardless of ability, Foundation to spread the can lead healthier and happy lives. joy of inclusive play at our Touched by Olivia advocates for an inclusive society, through its national residential communities network of inclusive playspaces and retail town centres and social enterprises that provide training and employment for people across Australia. with disabilities. At the opening, Col Dutton, General Manager for WA, said “We are very proud to be setting a new benchmark for inclusive, imaginative outdoor play in WA. Not only does Shipwreck Park celebrate diversity and inclusion, but at three times the size of the WACA, spanning six hectares, it is also our largest park in Western Australia.” 48 | Stockland Annual Review 2018 CREATING SHARED VALUE Enrich our value chain When we collaborate our outcomes are strong and relationships prosper. Newport Retirement Village, Qld | 49 Our progress PRIORITIES AND PROGRESS OVERVIEW We know that when we successfully collaborate across our value chain our OUR TARGETS STRATEGIC PRIORITIES outcomes are stronger and relationships more prosperous. This sustainability strategy focus area concentrates on the Stakeholder Engagement Employee engagement, diversity elements that make our business more Maintain stakeholder development and inclusion robust; our suppliers, our employees engagement plans for all active and how we engage with the • Attract and retain highdevelopment projects, and broader community. performing employees deliver stakeholder engagement workshops to our employees • Develop authentic, accessible and SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN performance-focused leaders MANAGEMENT – SAFETY, HUMAN Supply Chain RIGHTS AND THE ENVIRONMENT Launch our Sustainability Supply chain management Throughout the year we continued to in our Development Supply • Identify and address key social, collaborate with our suppliers to achieve Chain guideline environmental and governance health, safety, and quality outcomes risks beyond our direct control through our ‘Sights on Safety’ initiative. Employee Engagement • Encourage sustainable procurement Sights on Safety focuses on identifying Maintain employee engagement and implementing measures to reduce score above 80% Stakeholder engagement the number of serious incidents at our • Develop and maintain strong developments and assets. The program Increase women in management relationships through regular is aimed at driving safety behaviours to 50% by 2020. and genuine engagement and advancing better practice on with stakeholders our developments, construction sites, operational assets and where possible, across the broader construction industry. With regard to the human rights aspect of our supply chain framework we have FY18 PROGRESS been working with our contractor partners This sustainability strategy regarding participation in health, safety focus area concentrates and wellbeing initiatives on our sites. This has been demonstrated with our continued Employee engagement, diversity on the elements that make work with Mates in Construction to improve development and inclusion • 83% employee engagement score, our business more robust; mental health awareness at our worksites. We have also extended this to our head 7% higher than Australian our suppliers, our employees office by raising awareness about mental National Norm and how we engage with the health issues facing construction workers in conjunction with our national mental health • 80% employees with flexible work arrangements broader community. promotion campaigns such as RUOK Day. We acknowledge that within the broader • 45.1% women in management, construction industry supply chain there 39.7% in senior management may be risks associated with labour Supply chain management practices. For this reason, we consider • Delivered Sights on Safety that industry collaboration is the most program focused on reducing appropriate means to increase transparency injuries at worksites and have committed to working with members of our peer group to create • Enhanced awareness of mental an industry-wide supplier survey across health at our worksites through our broader supply chain. Mates in Construction training Stakeholder engagement • Substantially progressed or completed 49 actions in our Reconciliation Action Plan • Procured over $3.2 million from indigenous suppliers since 2014 • Completed a human rights risk review enhancing our capacity to address modern slavery in our supply chain 50 | Stockland Annual Review 2018 Over the course of FY18, we have HIGH EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Our Gender Equity, Flexibility and Disability, worked with our suppliers to establish SUPPORTED BY COMMITMENT Parents and Carers, Wellbeing and Cultural a sustainability schedule for inclusion in TO DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION Inclusion, and LGBTI+1 employee advocacy project requirements. We continue to work We continue to outperform the Australian groups (EAGs) are a key component of our across our business and with our suppliers high performing norm for employee approach to diversity and inclusion. Key to implement these requirements across engagement with a score of 83 per cent, achievements in these areas include: the development of our assets. as measured by Willis Towers Watson. • Gender equity: Women in management The schedule aims to: Our results reiterated the importance our increased to 45.1 per cent and senior people place on diversity and inclusion, women in management was consistent at • improve environmental impact through which continues to be a key driver for 39.7. Our gender pay equity ratio remains environmental management systems, engagement and retention. The diversity within our target range at 98.3 per cent. environmental and waste management and inclusion Index from our 2018 Our Voice plans, reuse of spoil on site and the use • Flexibility and disability: 80 per cent survey has increased to 87 per cent (86 per of recycled materials and materials that of employees have a flexible work cent in FY17), and continues to be seven have lower embodied energy arrangement in place via our ‘One points above Australian National Norm. Simple Thing’ initiative. Six students • prioritise health, safety and wellbeing We have a firm commitment to improve the interned at Stockland as part of the programs and initiatives such as Mates diversity of our workforce and continue to Stepping Into program for university in Construction build a culture of inclusion in our workplace. students with a disability. Two went • promote Aboriginal and Torres Strait It outlines our aim to leverage the maximum on to permanent positions. Islander employment opportunities potential of our people, irrespective of • Parents and carers: Our rate of return with our contractors differences, such as gender, ethnicity, age, from parental leave continues to be well • seek to understand how we can partner physical abilities, gender identity, gender above our target of 80 per cent. Following with our contractors to improve female expression, sexual orientation, family status, the enhancement of our parental leave participation in the construction industry beliefs, and perspectives. policy in FY17, there has been a near • raise sustainability awareness through Targets and metrics that guide our approach 50 per cent increase in men taking initiatives such as the Supply Chain to diversity and inclusion include: parental leave. Sustainability School and implementation • Wellbeing and cultural inclusion: of the Green Star suite of rating tools • targets for women in: management, continued to advance our Reconciliation senior management and job families • drive community engagement by working Action Plan commitments and piloted with lower female representation. with contractors to hold events to involve a resilience course for our leaders focused residents in the delivery process of their • parental leave return rates targeting on stress management. new community greater than 80 per cent return, as well • LGBTI+: The LGBTI+ EAG was formed as growing the proportion of males taking • enhance understanding of emerging risks in FY18 and quickly established itself primary carers leave such as modern slavery through working as a vital component of our diversity with the Supply Chain Sustainability School. • target range for gender pay equity ratio and inclusion agenda. • gender diversity of our succession For more information on our supply pipeline and talent population For more information on our chain and management visit employee engagement visit www.stockland.com.au/sustainability • diversity and inclusion related indices www.stockland.com.au/sustainability from our annual Our Voice employee engagement survey • flexible working practices through One Simple Thing. 1 LGBTI+ stands for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and intersex, with the ‘+’ added to indicate inclusion of other diverse sexual orientations and gender identifies. In FY18 the LGBTI+ EAG was contained within the ‘Wellbeing, Cultural Inclusion and LGBTI+’ EAG, however the LGBTI+ EAG has been established as a standalone EAG from FY19 onward and so is indicated as such here. Creating shared value | Enrich our value chain | 51 Our progress CASE STUDY Benchmarking to enhance our LGBTI+ inclusion strategy Being positive toward LGBTI+ Australian Workplace Equality Index employees contributes to a workplace result, which also recognised the that is inclusive of all employees, explicit support provided by our regardless of race/ethnicity, gender, executive and senior leaders for age, disability, religion, sexual LGBTI+ inclusion at Stockland. orientation, gender identity or intersex The LGBTI+ EAG is using the Australian status. A positive attitude toward Workplace Equality Index results to employees means they can be confident inform the forward strategy for LGBTI+ in bringing their whole selves to work, inclusion at Stockland. Priorities for speaking their mind, and contributing the next twelve months include: their perspectives for the benefits of the business as a whole. • targeted LGBTI+ inclusion and awareness training Over the past year, our LGBTI+ Employee Advocacy Group achieved • continuing to expand our internal substantial progress in formalising its employee network strategy and benchmarking Stockland’s • enhancing policies and procedures position as an LGBTI+ inclusive employer. to provide for explicit inclusion of LGBTI+ individuals The group led the completion of our first submission to the Australian • formalising the EAG strategy and Workplace Equality Index, which drives action plan. best practice for LGBTI+ inclusion Image: Members of the Stockland LGBTI+ in Australia and sets a comparative EAG, along with Pride in Diversity Director benchmark for Australian employers Dawn Hough, upon lodging our first across all sectors. Australian Workplace Equality Index In its first year of existence the LGBTI+ submission in March 2018. EAG launched an internal employee network, marked days of significance such as Wear It Purple Day, and enhanced the language used in some of our policies and procedures. These achievements were recognised by our 52 | Stockland Annual Review 2018 Governance and remuneration The Stockland Board oversees the high standard of corporate governance, integrity and accountability required of a professional and ethical organisation. Stockland Shellharbour, NSW | 53 Corporate governance The Board believes that Stockland’s governance accords fully with the principles and recommendations of the ASX Corporate Governance Council as summarised in our corporate governance statement at www.stockland.com.au/about-stockland/ corporate-governance. Tom Pockett Carolyn Hewson Barry Neil Stephen Newton Chairman Non-executive Non-executive Non-executive ROLE OF THE BOARD (Non-executive) The Board is accountable to securityholders, ensuring that the operations of Stockland are being effectively managed in a manner that is properly focused on its economic, social and community objectives. The Board has overall responsibility for the good governance of Stockland. As set out in the Board Charter, the Board: Carol Schwartz Mark Steinert Andrew Stevens • oversees the development and Non-executive Managing Director Non-executive and CEO implementation of Stockland’s corporate strategy, operational performance New non-executive board directors – objectives and management policies Melinda Conrad and Christine O’Reilly with a view to creating sustainable Ms Melinda Conrad and Ms Christine O’Reilly are both highly long-term value for securityholders; respected directors. Ms Conrad joined the Board in May 2018 • oversees the development and and has already made a valuable contribution to the Board implementation of Stockland’s overall drawing on her extensive expertise in retail and consumer-related framework of governance, risk management, industries. Ms Christine O’Reilly also joined us this year, in August Melinda Conrad internal control and compliance which Non-executive 2018, and brings a wide range and depth of skills from her 30 years underpins the integrity of management of experience in the utilities, energy and infrastructure information systems, financial reporting investment sectors. and fosters high ethical standards Both new Directors will further complement and strengthen throughout Stockland; the Board’s experience and expertise in a range of areas. • appoints the Managing Director, As required by the Stockland Constitution, Ms O’Reilly and approves the appointment of the Ms Conrad will offer themselves for election by securityholders Company Secretary and Senior Executives at the Annual General Meeting on 24 October 2018. reporting to the Managing Director and Christine O’Reilly Non-executive determines the level of authority delegated to the Managing Director; • oversees compliance with laws and Stockland’s Directors, Senior Executives • sets Executive remuneration policy, regulations which apply to Stockland and employees are required to maintain high monitors Senior Executive performance and its businesses; and ethical standards of conduct. Stockland’s and approves the performance objectives Code of Conduct (the ‘Code’) is periodically and remuneration of the Managing • appoints and monitors the independence reviewed and endorsed by the Board and Director and his or her direct reports of Stockland’s external auditors. covers dealings with both external parties and reviews Senior Executive and The Board aims to ensure that its and internal operations. Further information Board succession planning and securityholders are kept well-informed in relation to the Code together with key Board performance; of all major developments and business policies including in relation to whistleblowers, • approves and monitors the annual events that are likely to materially affect fraud and corruption, securities trading, budget, business plans, financial Stockland’s operations and financial government relations and privacy are statements, financial policies and standing and the market price of its located on the Stockland website. financial reporting and major capital securities. Further information in relation expenditure, acquisitions and to communication with Stockland’s divestitures; securityholders is located on the Stockland website. • determines and adopts dividend and distribution policies for Stockland; Further information on Stockland’s governance including our policies can be found at stockland.com.au/corporate-governance 54 | Stockland Annual Review 2018 Diversity of Board Skills and Experience Diversity of Board skills and experience GOVERNANCE 100% STRATEGY 100% FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT 75% CAPITAL MANAGEMENT 75% RISK MANAGEMENT 87.5% CUSTOMER MARKETING INCLUDING DIGITAL 75% TECHNOLOGY 50% REMUNERATION 62.5% WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY 87.5% SUSTAINABILITY 50% MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS 75% EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP 100% PROPERTY INDUSTRY EXPERIENCE 75% COMPOSITION AND DIVERSITY banking and finance, government and In defining the Board’s requirements for new OF THE BOARD regulatory relations and environmental, Directors, consideration is given to the skills, Stockland is committed to having a social and governance matters. It is also professional experience, and educational Board whose members have the capacity advantageous for some Board members backgrounds of continuing members of the to act independently of management, to have experience in the audit and risk Board, the organisation’s strategy and any and have the collective skills and diversity management field, capital management, identified skills required to supplement the of experience necessary to optimise mergers and acquisitions, people Board’s capabilities as the organisation’s the long-term financial performance management and executive remuneration. strategy evolves. Criteria used includes of Stockland so as to deliver long term The Board believes that the core skills the value of gender diversity on the Board. sustainable profitable returns to of importance to Stockland are well Stockland has for many years had a focus securityholders. represented among the current Directors. on actively encouraging gender diversity In addition, most Directors have occupied As at the date of this report, the Board at all levels within the organisation and a senior executive management positions comprised one Executive Director and seven culture that supports workplace diversity in large corporations both in Australia and Non-Executive Directors. The Boards of and inclusion. As part of this focus, gender globally, including CEO and CFO positions, Stockland Corporation Limited and Stockland diversity targets are set by management covering a wide range of industry sectors Trust Management Limited have the same and regularly reviewed and endorsed or have held senior positions in relevant Directors. Directors’ details are available by the Human Resources Committee. finance and accounting disciplines. on our website www.stockland.com.au/ In addition, we have a formal Diversity and about-stockland/board-and-executive. The Board also believes that it is important Inclusion Policy which is available on the to maintain a range of director tenures The Board recognises the advantage of Stockland website at www.stockland.com. to facilitate orderly Board renewal while having a mix of relevant business, executive au/about-stockland/corporate-governance. maintaining valuable continuity and and professional experience on the Board, corporate knowledge among Directors. Further details of this policy and our the importance of cultural and ethical As at 30 June 2018, of the eight Directors, achievements, including measurable values, and the benefits of diversity, including the Managing Director, five had objectives for achieving gender diversity, including gender diversity. The Board tenure of less than six years, one had tenure are set out in the Remuneration Report has identified a range of core skills and of between six and nine years and two had on pages 39 to 54 within the Directors’ experience that will assist the Board served for more than nine years. In March Report as well as on the Stockland website collectively to fulfil its oversight role 2018, Dr Nora Scheinkestel retired from the at www.stockland.com.au/abouteffectively. These include experience with Board. Melinda Conrad joined the Board on stockland/sustainability. property investment and management, 18 May 2018 and on 31 May 2018 Stockland property and community development, announced that Christine O’Reilly would join construction and project management, the Board on 23 August 2018. retailing and consumer marketing, technology (including digital), industrial supply chain logistics, funds management, Governance and remuneration | 55 BOARD AND DIRECTOR PERFORMANCE The Chairman also meets one-on-one equates to one year’s base Board fees. The Board has instituted a formal process with each Director annually to discuss their All new directors will have a period of three to review the performance and effectiveness individual contribution, their views on the years to comply with this policy. Stockland of the Board, the Board Committees and Board’s performance and their suggestions also has a policy regarding the minimum individual Directors. The Human Resources for improvement in Board processes or securityholdings for Senior Executives as set Committee oversees this process. procedures. Following these sessions, the out in the Remuneration Report. Both these Chairman provides feedback to individual policies are intended to align the personal On a regular basis an external review is Directors as necessary. financial interests of Directors and Senior also conducted. An external consultant Executives with those of securityholders. was engaged to facilitate a review of Board DIRECTOR REMUNERATION AND performance in 2017. As part of the external SECURITIES OWNERSHIP review, each Director completed an Non-Executive Directors receive fees for interview with the external consultant their services, being an all-inclusive fee relating to the Board’s role, composition, including statutory and elected procedures, practices and behaviour. superannuation contributions. Members of the Executive Committee also participated in feedback with the external To underpin the alignment of Directors and consultant and observations and securityholder interests, the Board believes recommendations from the review were that Directors should hold a meaningful presented to and discussed with the Board number of Stockland securities. In August with various action items identified and 2015 the Board revised its existing policy to implemented during FY18. increase the minimum number of securities each Non-Executive Director is required to acquire from 10,000 to 40,000 securities within a reasonable time of becoming a Director. The increased minimum roughly BOARD COMMITTEES Four permanent Board Committees have been established to assist in the execution of the Board’s responsibilities: Human Resources Committee The Committee seeks to ensure that there is a strong link between employee reward, Stockland’s performance and ultimately securityholder returns. The Committee also seeks to ensure that remuneration for Non-Executive Directors is designed to attract and retain talented and experienced individuals. Refer to the Remuneration Report on page 39 of our Annual Report. Audit Committee The Board delegates oversight of the preparation of Stockland’s Financial Reports and the maintenance of a sound financial reporting control environment to the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee works in conjunction with the Sustainability Committee, Human Resources Committee and Risk Committee to assist the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities for ensuring Stockland has adopted and maintains appropriate corporate governance procedures. Risk Committee The Board is responsible for establishing a framework of risk management across Stockland. The purpose of the Risk Committee is to assess the effectiveness of Stockland’s overall risk management framework and support a prudent and risk aware approach to business decisions across Stockland. The Committee reviews the framework on an annual basis including in the 2018 financial year to satisfy itself that it continues to be sound and that any changes are reviewed and resolved at Board level. Sustainability Committee Stockland recognises that a sustainable future for its business depends upon the sustainability of the communities, economy and society in which it operates. The purpose of the Sustainability Committee is to consider the social, environmental and ethical impact of Stockland’s business activities; major corporate responsibility and sustainability initiatives and changes in policy; and stakeholder communication about Stockland’s corporate and sustainability policies. The membership and the procedures for the Committee meetings are set out in the charters for each Board Committee located on the Stockland website at www.stockland.com.au/about-stockland/corporate-governance. 56 | Stockland Annual Review 2018 Remuneration At Stockland, the Human Resources We remain committed to an executive Both these policies Committee is responsible for recommending remuneration framework that supports Senior Executive remuneration policies to Stockland’s objectives to deliver growth are intended to align the Board for its approval and is charged in EPS and total risk-adjusted securityholder the personal financial with reviewing Stockland’s remuneration returns above the average Australian Real policies each year to ensure that they Estate Investment Trust index, to create interests of Directors and remain fair and competitive when compared to those of companies of similar size, quality property assets and to deliver value for our customers and alignment Senior Executives with business mix and complexity in the property with the delivery of our strategic priorities. those of securityholders. industry in Australia. There were no changes to the remuneration framework during FY18. GROW ASSET RETURNS AND OPERATIONAL CAPITAL OUR CUSTOMER BASE EXCELLENCE STRENGTH Strategic priorities Strategic priorities Strategic priorities Provide great customer experiences, Improve the way we operate across the Actively manage our balance sheet actively manage our portfolio and Group to drive efficiencies, compliance, to maintain diverse funding sources develop new assets sustainability and employee engagement and an efficient cost of capital FY18 Financial highlights FY18 Financial highlights FY18 Financial highlights • Annual Growth in Funds From • ROE of 11.2% • TSR over 3 yrs of 16.0% Operations of 7.5% to $863m • NTA per security of $4.18 • CAGR in EPS over 3 yrs of 5.2% • FFO per security of 35.6cps • Distribution of 26.5 cps growth of 6.6% WHAT DID OUR EXECUTIVES RECEIVE? • In FY18, there was no increase in the Fixed Pay for the Managing Director as the current level of Fixed Pay remains appropriate. The Managing Director’s Fixed Pay has remained unchanged for the prior five years. • The Fixed Pay for one Senior Executive was increased to reflect their increased scope of responsibilities and market relativities. The average increase in Fixed Pay for the Senior Executives was less than 1%. • Our considered approach to remuneration will continue in FY19 with no increases planned for the Fixed Pay of the Managing Director or the majority of our Senior Executives • A range of STIs against target was awarded to the Managing Director and Senior Executives this year and awards are set out in section 3.3. The STIs awarded reflected a mixed performance against the Corporate Balanced Scorecard. Any individual STI awarded above target takes the form of Stockland securities which vest in future years, subject to continued service by those executives and to Stockland’s clawback policy. • Three year underlying profit per security CAGR of 5.2% was above the minimum vesting threshold of 4.5% set in FY16. Accordingly 70.1% of the EPS component of the FY16 LTI award has vested. TSR over the three year performance period of 16.0% which was below the performance benchmark (the ASX AREIT 200 index excluding Stockland) of 30.9% and accordingly none of the TSR component of the FY16 LTI awards has vested. These combined outcomes resulted in the vesting of 35.05% of FY16 LTI awards. Governance and remuneration | 57 FIXED PAY SHORT TERM INCENTIVES LONG TERM INCENTIVES Fixed Pay includes salary, superannuation STI rewards the annual progress towards Our LTI plan aims to align executive and other employee benefits. Annual long-term objectives. All permanent remuneration with securityholder returns reviews of Fixed Pay take into account each employees employed at 30 June of the and help retain our key talent. LTI awards individual’s skills and experience relevant applicable financial year and who have are issued as performance rights granted to their roles, internal and external greater than 3 months service are eligible under the Stockland Performance Rights benchmarks and the importance of a to be considered for a STI award. Plan. Half of the LTI allocated to Senior considered approach to pay. Our policy Executives is linked to Stockland’s STI awards are dependent on Group, is to review Senior Executives’ Fixed Pay performance against underlying EPS business unit and individual performance each year against independently provided growth targets with the remaining half measures based on a Balanced Scorecard external data sources and market linked to a TSR performance hurdle. approach which the Board uses to set benchmarks from a group of ASX50 financial and non-financial Key Performance The tables below show Stockland’s companies and larger property firms, Indicators (KPIs) that are aligned to overall performance against the respective ensuring that our Fixed Pay remains business strategy and key priorities. underlying EPS and TSR performance competitive with companies of comparable The Corporate Balanced Scorecard is hurdles for the three years to 30 June 2018. size and complexity in our industry. used by the Board to determine the size For the 2018 financial year, Fixed Pay did of the overall STI pool. not increase for our Managing Director and CEO or for the majority of our Senior Executives. The average increase across all key management personnel (KMP) in FY18 was less than 1%. Target/ benchmark Actual Out/(Under) % Vesting Hurdle performance performance performance Vested Weight outcome EPS for FY16 – 181 Compound Average Growth Rate EPS1 4.5% 5.2% 0.7% 70.1% 50% 35.05% TSR for FY16 – 182 Relative TSR FY16 – FY182 30.9% 16.0% (14.9%) 0.0% 50% 0.0% Total Vesting 35.05% 1 Based on underlying profit. For LTI awards made in FY17 and future years, the Earnings (EPS) performance benchmark is FFO per security. 2 Benchmark based on ASX AREIT 200 Index excluding Stockland. For LTI awards made in FY17 and future years, the TSR performance benchmark is a tailored index comprised of 6 large companies forming 80% and 9 smaller companies forming 20%. The performance rights that were awarded to the Managing Director and CEO and other Senior Executives under the Performance Rights Plan in FY18 are outlined in the table below. These awards are subject to a three year performance period (FY18 – FY20) with the awards measured against two performance hurdles: Relative TSR and FFO Growth. As advised at the October 2017 AGM, the maximum vesting hurdle based on the Compound Annual Growth Rate for FFO for LTI awards granted during FY18 was 6.2% (40.0 cps) for the three years from 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2020, with the threshold or minimum vesting hurdle being 4.5% (38.1 cps). 58 | Stockland Annual Review 2018 CORPORATE BALANCED SCORECARD The Board’s assessment of performance against the Corporate Balanced Scorecard in FY18 is provided in the following table. Strategic Priority KPI Commentary Overall Rating Business and Financial Performance (75%) Group and Business Unit performance Group Performance • Funds from Operations per security (FFOps) guidance • FFOps growth was 6.6% to 35.6 cps. Above Target of 4.5 – 6.5%; and • Return on Equity1 (ROE) of 10.5 – 11%. • ROE1 was 11.2%. Business Performance • Operating Business financial performance in line Business unit financial performance was mixed: On Target with plan; • Commercial Property FFO of $614 million was in line with FY17 and in line with plan. • Residential Operating Profit of $336 million was well up on FY17 and above plan. • Retirement Living profit of $53 million was down on FY17 and below plan. • Maintain conservative debt profile and remain within • Average Debt Maturity was over five years and Credit Above or policy limits for gearing, interest cover, asset mix, Rating and liquidity buffer maintained with gearing On Target credit rating and debt profile and interest cover all within guidelines • Credit rating maintain Arating • Debt maturity profile >5 years • Liquidity buffer 10% above committed and undrawn facilities • Gearing within range 20 – 30% • Deliver against Key Business Priorities • Mixed progress against our key business and On or Below strategic priorities Target Customer, Stakeholder and Sustainability • Achieve independent customer satisfaction ratings • The customer satisfaction scores were above target On Target goals for each business unit for Residential, on target for Retirement Living and mixed for Commercial Property with Logistics above and Retail slightly below target • Embed sustainable business practices across Stockland • Recognised as a leading Global Real Estate firm in DJSI Above or and make good progress towards environment Sustainability Survey. Continued progress across our On Target improvement goals GHG measures and other sustainability targets Organisational Performance (25%) People Management • Maintain employee-initiated turnover (employees rated • turnover reduced from FY17 and was 10.9%; Above Target good and above) to 12.0% or less • Achieve employee engagement target – 80% • Employee engagement score increased on FY17 Above Target and was 83%; • Increase women as percentage of total management • Women in management was 45.1% Below Target at 47.3% or better • Increase women as percentage of total senior • Women in senior management was 38.9% On Target management to 39% or better • Increase female General Managers to 36.4% or better • 34.5% of General Managers were females Below Target • Progress longer term diversity and • Good progress made including again being recognised On Target inclusiveness objectives as a WGEA Employer of Choice for Gender Equality for fourth consecutive year. Operational Excellence and Risk Management • Continued Process Improvement and • Whilst a number of deliverables such as new HR, Sales Below Target enhanced innovation and Marketing systems were implemented in line with project milestones, the majority of other deliverables have been delayed • Embed strong risk compliance and safety • Excellent safety record with no major preventable On Target management practices injuries with continued embedding of the risk and compliance framework 1 Excluding Residential workout projects. ROE was 11.0% including these projects. Governance and remuneration | 59 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OVER THE PAST FIVE YEARS Underlying profit, FFO, EPS and other key financial performance measures over the last five years are set out below. FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 Underlying profit ($M) 1 555 608 660 696 731 FFO ($M) 2 573 657 740 802 863 AFFO3 ($M) 452 531 624 687 756 Statutory profit ($M) 527 903 889 1,195 1,025 Security price as at 30 June 4 ($) 3.88 4.10 4.71 4.38 3.97 Distributions/Dividends per security (cents) 24.0 24.0 24.5 25.5 26.5 Underlying EPS (cents) 24.0 25.9 27.8 29.0 30.2 FFO per security (cents) 24.8 28.0 31.1 33.4 35.6 AFFO per security (cents) 19.6 22.6 26.3 28.6 31.2 Statutory EPS (cents) 22.8 38.5 37.4 49.8 42.3 Stockland TSR – 1 year (%) 20.5 12.3 16.4 7.1 (7.0) A-REIT 200 TSR (excluding SGP) – 1 year (%) 11.3 24.2 21.1 (6.7) 11.5 Tailored index TSR5 – – – – 7.2 1 Underlying profit was the non-IFRS performance measure used in determining the EPS component of LTI remuneration for periods up to and including 30 June 2016. Performance against this benchmark is set out in section 3.4 of our Remuneration Report in our Annual Report. 2 FFO is a non-IFRS measure which replaced underlying profit as Stockland’s primary reporting measure from FY17. This change recognises the importance of FFO in managing our business and the use of FFO as a comparable performance measurement tool in the Australian property industry. The reconciliation of FFO to statutory profit is provided on page 11 of the Annual Report. 3 AFFO is stated exclusive of derivative close out costs and inclusive of Commercial Property and Retirement Living maintenance capex. 4 FY13 closing security price was $3.48. 5 Tailored AREIT 200 index comprised six large companies forming 80 per cent and nine smaller companies forming 20 per cent as detailed in section 2.2 of our Remuneration Report in our Annual Report. Measured from FY17. 60 | Stockland Annual Review 2018 REMUNERATION OUTCOMES Executive remuneration outcomes Executives received a mix of remuneration during FY18 including Fixed Pay, STI awarded as cash and deferred securities and LTI awarded as performance rights. The table below outlines the cash remuneration that was received in relation to FY18 which includes Fixed Pay and the non-deferred portion of any FY18 STI. The table also includes the value of DSTI awards from FY16 and FY17 which vested during FY18 and LTI awards from FY16 which vested during FY18. Executive Remuneration (Non-Statutory Presentation) Awards 4 Total cash Total which4 STI awarded payments in Previous years’ Previous years’ Remuneration lapsed and received relation to DSTI that 4 LTI that 4 (received and/ or4were 4 Fixed Pay1 as cash financial year were realised 3 were realised 3 or realised) forfeited4 $1 $ $ $4 $4 $ $4 Executive Director Mark Steinert 2018 1,500,000 702,000 2 2,202,000 1,014,208 1,326,726 4,542,934 1,711,320 Managing Director and CEO 2017 1,500,000 750,000 2 2,250,000 1,080,721 1,889,970 5,220,691 1,776,090 Senior Executives Stephen Bull 2018 700,000 300,000 1,000,000 313,888 355,525 1,669,413 479,171 Group Executive and CEO, Retirement Living 2017 700,000 420,000 1,120,000 307,708 491,655 1,919,363 462,090 Robyn Elliot 5 2018 128,250 68,400 196,650 – – 196,650 – Chief Technology and Innovation Officer 2017 – – – – – – Katherine Grace 2018 600,000 320,000 920,000 198,286 266,141 1,384,427 342,266 General Counsel and Company Secretary 2017 550,000 293,333 843,333 176,426 178,485 1,198,244 356,970 Louise Mason 6 2018 75,000 – 75,000 – – 75,000 – Group Executive and CEO, Commercial Property 2017 – – – – – – – Tiernan O’Rourke 2018 875,000 420,000 1,295,000 314,229 451,345 2,060,574 581,847 Chief Financial Officer 2017 875,000 466,667 1,341,667 323,700 643,860 2,309,227 604,440 Darren Rehn 2018 750,000 450,000 1,200,000 361,262 382,831 1,944,093 513,396 Group Executive and Chief Investment Officer 2017 750,000 450,000 1,200,000 362,664 499,320 2,061,984 499,320 Michael Rosmarin 2018 600,000 280,000 880,000 228,124 318,771 1,426,895 410,716 Chief Operating Officer 2017 600,000 320,000 920,000 214,235 454,425 1,588,660 427,050 John Schroder 7 2018 1,050,000 600,000 1,650,000 590,978 557,602 2,798,580 1,896,056 Group Executive and CEO, Commercial Property 2017 1,050,000 630,000 1,680,000 430,664 794,970 2,905,634 746,790 Simon Shakesheff 2018 600,000 293,333 893,333 241,543 318,771 1,453,647 410,716 Group Executive, Strategy and Stakeholder Relations 2017 600,000 320,000 920,000 244,763 434,715 1,599,478 427,050 Andrew Whitson 2018 750,000 450,000 1,200,000 379,846 382,831 1,962,677 513,396 Group Executive and CEO, Residential 2017 750,000 450,000 1,200,000 362,664 531,075 2,093,739 499,320 1 Fixed Pay includes salary, superannuation and salary sacrificed items. 2 For Mark Steinert this is 50 per cent (two thirds for Senior Executives) of his STI awards. The remaining 50 per cent of his STI (one third for Senior Executives) was deferred in Stockland securities which vests over two years following the performance year, 50 per cent after year one and 50 per cent after year two subject to continued employment. 3 This represents the value of all prior years’ deferred STI and LTI which vested during FY18 using the 30 June 2018 closing security price of $3.97. 4 The value shown represents the value of any previous years’ equity awards which lapsed or were forfeited during the financial year. The FY18 values are based on the closing 30 June 2018 security price of $3.97 (FY17: $4.38). 5 Robyn Elliot was appointed 26 March 2018. 6 Louise Mason was appointed 4 June 2018. 7 John Schroder ceased employment 2 July 2018. In addition to the above, post year end John received a termination benefit payment of $1,050,000. Governance and remuneration | 61 Remuneration Ratio – Managing Director/Employee Remuneration Measure FY18 FY17 FY161 FY15 FY14 Managing Director’s annual total compensation ÷ employee median annual total compensation 39 46 48 44 44 % increase in Managing Director’s annual total compensation ÷ employee’s median % increase -5.38 1.08 -0.26 1.50 6.04 1 Annual total compensation for each year is calculated as Fixed Pay FTE (as at 30 June of end of performance year) + STI FTE (awarded for relevant performance year) + LTI ( allocated at start of performance year), for employees who participated in the Remuneration Review plus sales employees paid on a commission basis. GENDER PAY EQUITY RATIO FY18 98.3% We aim to achieve gender pay equity within roles by considering FY17 98.6% an individual’s positioning against the relevant market benchmark and comparing gender outcomes. This analysis is shown in the FY16 97.4% gender pay equity ratio table below. Our target is for a gender FY15 97.2% pay equity ratio of 100 per cent plus or minus three per cent across the company. This means that males and females would be paid the FY14 96.9% same for performing similar roles, with a small variance to allow 100% for different levels of experience and other factors. Using the gender pay equity ratio overcomes the limitation of measuring pay equity based solely on average fixed pay by job band, which ignores different market values placed on different jobs. 62 | Stockland Annual Review 2018 Our reporting approach and external assurance The aim of our integrated approach is to inform investors and other stakeholders on how our business creates value over the short, medium and long term. Aura, Qld | 63 MATERIALITY PROCESS Stockland has used the materiality definition from the Integrated Reporting Framework that states ‘an integrated report should disclose information about matters that substantively affect the organisation’s ability to create value over the short, medium and long term’. We identified our FY18 material matters using the following process. The issues identified through this process and the sustainability content in the Annual Review are reviewed and approved by Stockland’s executive team and the Board. IDENTIFY EVALUATE AND PRIORITISE ALIGNMENT AND DISCLOSURE We combined the outcomes of the An integrated reporting materiality Following the materiality workshop, following two materiality processes workshop was held with members of the the identified material matters were to identify draft material matters: leadership team to identify any additional validated via a six stage collaborative relevant issues, rank issues of greatest assessment undertaken by Group 1. Materiality test capturing internal significance and prioritise them based Strategy. This included input from and external perspectives in alignment on their ability to affect value. teams across the whole business. with the principles of AA1000 and GRI G4, including: Material matters were mapped The final list of material matters was in terms of their potential impact presented to our internal Integrated • Investor research and engagement; on value creation over the short, Reporting Committee. • Customer feedback and insights; medium and long term. Once confirmed, the matters formed • Employee surveys; the basis of the Board and Executive • Political and regulatory Committee’s strategy discussion. developments; • Industry engagement and advocacy; and • Social and mainstream media. 2. An internal operational and strategic risk assessment. The resulting list of matters served as a starting point for our integrated reporting materiality workshop. MATERIAL MATTERS Through our materiality research, we have Our material matters also align with the core Our material matters are detailed on identified emerging societal issues that focus areas of our sustainability strategy. page 17 under ‘Responding to our risks impact the landscape in which we operate. We anticipate that these matters will evolve and opportunities’. They represent future risks and opportunities over time and we will continue to work with for our business and our stakeholders over relevant stakeholders to shape these issues the short, medium and long-term. going forward. Further information on how we are responding to these matters can be found on our website at www.stockland.com.au/corporatereporting/materialmatters ASSURANCE The sustainability reporting content within the Annual Review has been externally assured in accordance with the Australian Standard for Assurance Engagements (ASAE3000): Assurance Engagements other than Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information and (ASAE 3410): Assurance Engagement on Greenhouse Gas Statements by Ernst & Young (EY). A copy of EY’s assurance statement is available on our website at www.stockland.com.au/about-stockland/sustainability 64 | Stockland Annual Review 2018 This reports cover and text are printed on ecoStar, made with 100% recycled fibre in a Process Chlorine Free environment. ecoStar is FSC® certified and produced with a carbon neutral manufacturing process. Paper production and the printing process were carried out under ISO 14001 certified systems. Point Cook, Vic Stockland Corporation Ltd ACN 000 181 733 Stockland Trust Management Limited ACN 001 900 741; AFSL 241190 As responsible entity for Stockland Trust ARSN 092 897 348 Head Office Level 25, 133 Castlereagh Street Sydney NSW 2000 Sydney Telephone 02 9035 2000 Melbourne Telephone 03 9095 5000 Brisbane Telephone 07 3305 8600 Perth Telephone 08 9368 9222 www.stockland.com.au
