Sustainability Report 2017 Industry Data Comprehensive specific driven information ELEVATE Sustainability Report 2017 Our purpose and mission In 2017, we conducted over 12,000 assessments and audits with a geographic reach to 100 We believe in sustainable, balanced and inclusive countries. But our model is not only about economic growth. We believe in an economic performing audits to high standards of quality model that collectively activates business and and integrity. As industry leaders of the beyond other stakeholders to improve people’s lives and audit model, we also institute processes before preserve the planet. This requires a commitment audits, during facility visits, and solutions separate to transparency, visibility and the thoughtful from audits that deliver scalable and sustainable management of risk and performance. It requires improvements for businesses and workers. a commitment to business driven sustainability. Our business-minded perspective and relentless To achieve this purpose, we engage, we innovate, focus on integrity, transparency, innovation, we inspire, we ELEVATE. sustainability and measurable impact across the full value chain deliver lasting positive change Our unique place in the industry for companies, brands and retailers, suppliers, factories and workers. ELEVATE is the leading business risk and sustainability solutions provider. We deliver This positioning gives ELEVATE a unique improved organizational performance through viewpoint on the challenges and opportunities sustainability and supply chain assessment, to improve program design and inform the consulting, program management and analytics. development of our industry. This report shares some of these insights and experiences as ELEVATE is the only independent sustainability we work to elevate our own contribution and and supply chain services provider with global sustainability journey. reach, local expertise and a beyond audit assessment and improvement service portfolio. We combine this model with unique insights  http://www.elevatelimited.com/ derived from quality data and that fuel program effectiveness and impact. Figure 1: Countries and locations of our operational, delivery and client services teams Hamburg SLOVAKIA London San Tokyo Francisco Chicago Florence New York Istanbul Delhi Los Angeles Shanghai Karachi Hangzhou Taipei Dhaka Shenzhen Bangalore Hanoi Hong Kong Mexico City Chennai Ho Chi Minh Singapore Offices Regional Hubs Sao Paulo Headquarters Sydney www.elevatelimited.com | info@elevatelimited.com 2 Contents 1. A message from our CEO 4 2. About this report 5 2.1 Understanding our impact 5 2.2 Materiality assessment 5 3. Our governance structure and growth 7 3.1 Ownership model 7 3.2 Board of Directors 7 3.3 Our leadership team 8 3.4 Growing the ELEVATE family 8 4. Our products and services 10 4.1 Assessment 11 4.2 Consulting 12 4.3 Programs 17 4.4 Analytics 20 5. Our commitment to ethics and integrity 21 5.1 Compliance with laws and regulations 21 5.2 Ethics and integrity 21 5.3 Business risks and resilience 23 5.4 Data security and privacy 23 5.5 Occupational health & safety 24 5.6 Human rights 24 6. Our people and business processes 25 6.1 Sustainability policy 25 6.2 Employee development 25 6.3 Employee attraction & retention 26 6.4 Diversity and inclusion 26 7. Appendix: United Nations Global Compact 27 © Copyright. ELEVATE Hong Kong Holdings Limited. All rights reserved. This work must not be reproduced, recreated, recorded, copied, printed, uploaded, stored, shared or transmitted in any form or by any means without prior written permission of the copyright owner. Breach of these terms may result in legal prosecution. ELEVATE Sustainability Report 2017 1 A message from our CEO The industry of sustainability and supply chain risk our commitment to beyond-audit. We announced management is highly dynamic and continually the acquisition of two like-minded companies: influenced by major geopolitical and economic CSR Asia, a leading corporate sustainability forces. Keeping pace with these changes requires consulting firm in Asia, and Laborlink, an innovation and transformation regardless of the innovative world-leading worker engagement sector or geography in which one operates. It business. We also re-invigorated our efforts requires continued examination of one’s business to scale assessment in new geographies and practices and their impact on people and the share analytics solutions with our clients, planet. At ELEVATE, we are committed to leading stakeholders and the wider industry. To achieve the industry by evolving our own practices and these outcomes, we have invested to create new guiding others through their own journey of and expanded internal teams and put in place a transformation to address emerging social and number of initiatives that safeguard and further environmental trends. develop our most precious assets; namely our people, our integrity and our quality. In 2016, ELEVATE formalized its support and became a signatory of the United Nations (UN) This growth brings new and exciting opportunities Global Compact. This is our first report as a to build even stronger partnerships with our signatory of the UN Global Compact. It covers clients as we enter new geographies, sectors and the 2017 calendar year. This report also marks service lines. It also presents both anticipated a clear milestone in our own history as we work and unanticipated challenges. At the core of our consciously to integrate the ten principles of response to these challenges is our unwavering the Global Compact into our business strategy commitment to our people, to excellence and to and operations. This first report focuses mainly integrity in all we do. This same committment on establishing our framework for analysis motivates our involvement as a founding and and reporting. It includes a number of policy active member of the Association for Professional statements and recognizes the additional Social Compliance Auditors (APSCA). It continues structural changes that will follow in 2018. Future to set us apart. reports will include more on targets and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) relevant to each Like any company, we are learning, and as we principle so we can monitor and communicate our learn, we will continue to improve our internal progress annually. This first report is delivered via protocols and systems in ways that enable mindful PDF but we expect future reports to be delivered growth and proactive communication. This report online with quarterly KPI updates. forms part of our effort to disclose and share our performance and evidence our commitment to In 2017, we started an internal transformation continuous improvement. We invite you to join us to expand our product offering in response to on this journey… emerging trends, client demand and to re-affirm Sincerely, Ian Spaulding, Chief Executive Officer, ELEVATE www.elevatelimited.com | info@elevatelimited.com 4 ELEVATE Sustainability Report 2017 2 About this report 2.1 Understanding our impact 2.2.1 Stakeholder engagement ELEVATE was formed by the founders of In 2017, we invited stakeholders to participate mission-driven companies who share a passion in an online sustainability survey. The survey for innovation and impact. We believe in asked our stakeholders to identify and rate what sustainable, balanced and economic growth. We sustainability issues they perceived as being believe in an economic model that collectively most relevant and material to our business. More activates business and other stakeholders to than 100 stakeholders from all key ELEVATE improve people’s lives and preserve the planet. geographies participated. This included our This requires a commitment to transparency, employees, board members, clients, academics visibility and the thoughtful management of risk and thought leaders within the industry. All and performance. For more than 10 years our submissions were anonymous in order to support teams have delivered sustainability services an open and transparent dialogue. The results of for multinationals, suppliers and factories. This this sustainability survey will also be combined work has helped shape an industry. It has helped with our annual employee survey to enable a transform business and improve lives. richer understanding of improvement areas and engagement in 2018 and beyond. Our first sustainability report covers the 2017 calendar year. This report marks a series of next NGO Academic 3% steps in our story and vision; namely to actively Industry 10% Contractor 3% embed the principles of sustainability into our own business, and to initiate data-driven analysis of our impact. It provides information about Figure 2: governance, structure, our mission and vision. As Stakeholder Employee Customer distribution 64% 20% a signatory to the UN Global Compact, this report also includes practical actions we are taking as a company to implement the Ten Principles within the four areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Mexico 2% Australia 2% 2.2 Materiality assessment Others 9% Singapore 2% U.K. 4% This first report is intended to identify and Hong India 4% Kong then evidence our engagement to address Figure 3: 21% the most material issues. For ELEVATE this Geographic reflects a combination of our business goals, distribution U.S. those sustainability issues most relevant to our 34% stakeholders and the EQT responsible investment China 22% reporting criteria (see Section 3). www.elevatelimited.com | info@elevatelimited.com 5 ELEVATE Sustainability Report 2017 2.2.2 The materiality matrix These ten most material issues form the framework for our sustainability efforts. They The provision set of our most material reflect both where we should focus inside sustainability issues were then determined by ELEVATE and also how we can work with our considering the importance of each issue to customers to effect sustainability impact(s) in both the above stakeholders and our business. their supply chain and thus in our wider sphere Together these are presented in Figure 4 where of influence. This report provides our first initial the top ten most material issues are: disclosure, progress and improvement intentions 1. Ethics and integrity against each of these areas. It focuses more on 2. Compliance with laws and regulations what we are doing inside ELEVATE to transform 3. Data security and privacy our business. Future reports will focus more on 4. Employee development the metrics and impact of our activities on the 5. Employee attraction and retention supply chains of our clients. 6. Diversity and inclusion 7. Client engagement 8. Occupational health and safety 9. Human rights 10. Internal communication Figure 4: Matrix of importance to stakeholders and business 4.0 6 Ethics & Integrity Legal compliance Human rights Employee development Data security 5 & privacy Employee attraction Internal comms Diversity & inclusion Supply chain Customer engagement management Occupational H&S Economic value Product labeling 4 distributed 4.0 Waste material Energy management Climate change Community engagement Water Stakeholders Biodiversity 3 2 1 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 Business Stakeholder viewpoints “Much of ELEVATE’s sustainability impact depends on us successfully leading the industry and influencing and advising our clients to adopt better practices in the factories and communities in which they operate and on their environmental footprint. Client engagement is therefore not just one of our material issues but also is crucial to our way of working as a catalyst for business driven sustainability.” Mark Jones, Senior Vice President, Customer www.elevatelimited.com | info@elevatelimited.com 6 ELEVATE Sustainability Report 2017 3 3.1 Ownership model Our governance, structure and growth Members of the ELEVATE board include: In 2016, EQT acquired a majority stake in ELEVATE. The founders and management of ELEVATE remain significant shareholders alongside EQT. As a portfolio company in the EQT Mid Market Fund, ELEVATE complies with EQT’s Responsible Investment (RI) Policy. This requires us to produce an annual EQT Per Setterberg, Tak Wei Chung, Responsible Investor (RI) Transparency Report EQT, Chair EQT, Partner that covers factors such as the environment, labor and human rights and ethics. EQT is a signatory to the United Nations-supported Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) Initiative and works actively with its portfolio under the premise of responsible ownership. 3.2 Board of Directors Michael Hauge Sørensen, Ian Spaulding, EQT, Industrial Advisor ELEVATE, CEO Our board of directors meets quarterly as part of the company’s governance procedures to review strategy, business growth, and to ensure the company is operating in alignment with its values. As the majority shareholder in ELEVATE, EQT holds three of the five ELEVATE board positions.  http://www.elevatelimited.com/about/our-people Mark Jones, Therése Lennehag, ELEVATE, Senior Vice EQT, Advisor to the board President, Customer Stakeholder viewpoints “ELEVATE’s approach to sustainable supply chains is about helping companies “future-proof” their operations. ELEVATE was clearly ahead of its competitors with services it was providing, but what ultimately attracted us was the company’s entrepreneurial mindset and culture of innovation. Both companies have a strong belief that genuine management of environmental, social and corporate governance (ESG) factors is fundamental to business success and strong financial performance.” Tak Wai Chung, Partner at EQT Partners, Investment Advisor to the EQT Mid Market fund Independent financial review www.elevatelimited.com As part of ELEVATE’s |operational info@elevatelimited.com procedures, the company hires an independent third-party organization to complete7 a financial audit as part of its annual financial audit and due diligence process. ELEVATE Sustainability Report 2017 3.3 Our leadership team EQT invests in good companies across the world with a mission to help them develop into great In 2017, we implemented a number of structural and sustainable businesses. EQT is a signatory and organizational changes to position ELEVATE to the United Nations-supported Principles for for beyond audit through both organic and Responsible Investment (PRI) Initiative and works inorganic growth. This included the establishment actively with its portfolio under the premise of of four clear pillars: assessment, consulting, responsible ownership. As a portfolio company program management and analytics. in the EQT Mid Market Fund, ELEVATE complies Our leadership team includes senior leaders with EQT’s Responsible Investment (RI) Policy. for each of these four delivery teams as well as This requires us to produce an annual EQT their associated geographies and services. It Responsible Investor (RI) Transparency Report also includes leaders from our corporate and that covers factors such as the environment, labor shared services teams such as finance, human and human rights and ethics. resources, marketing and information technology. In 2017 we expanded the ELEVATE family through the acquisition of CSR Asia and Laborlink. 3.4 Growing the ELEVATE family These investments form part of our consulting organization and extend our services to cover EQT acquired a majority stake in ELEVATE in new areas of sustainability consulting, reporting 2016. As the majority shareholder in ELEVATE, and technology-driven worker engagement. EQT holds three of the five ELEVATE Board They support our continued focus on innovation of Directors positions. The founders and and disrupting industry norms to improve both management of ELEVATE remain significant sustainability and supply chain performance. shareholders alongside EQT. Figure 5: Important events in ELEVATE history 2008-2017 ELEVATE milestones INFACT + Level Works INFACT acquires merge and rebrand as EQT invests Narrowgate Services ELEVATE in ELEVATE 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 China-based INFACT Global Partners February 2017 ELEVATE acquires CSR Asia is founded by Ian Spaulding and colleagues (Level Works and CSR Asia founded in 2004) August 2017 ELEVATE acquires Laborlink www.elevatelimited.com | info@elevatelimited.com 8 ELEVATE Sustainability Report 2017 3.4.1 CSR Asia 3.4.2 Laborlink CSR Asia was founded in 2004 in Hong Kong on Since 2010, ELEVATE has been at the forefront of a belief that business can be a positive force for worker engagement solutions. The acquisition of change. It has grown to become a trusted expert Laborlink supports our joint vision to scale worker on sustainability across Asia with staff based engagement globally by embedding technologyin Hong Kong, Singapore, Bangkok, Sydney enabled surveys with the annual auditing cycle and Japan. As an Asia-based company, CSR and as part of our self-assessment, capacity Asia is uniquely positioned to work alongside building and supplier ownership processes. companies in the region, helping them to embrace Laborlink is a mobile platform that establishes sustainability at every level of the organization and a two-way communication channel for workers with a real understanding of local challenges. to share their viewpoints in real-time, and for Acquiring CSR Asia expands our footprint organizations to obtain clear visibility of worker into new geographies and sectors such as well-being in their supply chains. Since 2010, construction, finance, telecoms and transport. Laborlink technology has been deployed in It also expands our corporate consulting activity 16 countries and has reached over 1,000,000 beyond responsible sourcing to include wider workers. Laborlink goes beyond audit by capturing Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) the direct viewpoints of workers. This empowers strategy and sustainability reporting, research, us to facilitate dialogue across all layers of the advisory, community investment and strategic / supply chain i.e. from factory workers, to factory community investment and networks. management, suppliers and brands / retailers.  http://www.csr-asia.com  http://mylaborlink.com Figure 6: Laborlink offers clients an unfiltered view of their supply chains Reliable Feedback Actionable Data Better Factories Laborlink uses the tools that Laborlink provides timely snapshots Join a network of over 30 companies are already in the hands of of your supply chain so you can that believe that what’s good for workers. With a variety of mobile keep a pulse on what’s happening workers can also be good for technologies, from Interactive on the factory floor before problems business. Direct worker feedback Voice Response (IVR) to WeChat, occur. Key survey topics provide enables our partners to measure Laborlink is the most cost-effective worker insights on job satisfaction, impact, benchmark, and improve way to collect unfiltered feedback worker safety, factory conditions, worker well-being in a way that directly from workers. working hours and wages. drives business results. Stakeholder viewpoints “CSR Asia’s mission-driven purpose to support responsible, inclusive and sustainable business is a great fit with ELEVATE’s fous on integrated supply chain solutions for brands, retailers, suppliers, factories and workers.” Richard Welford, Chairman of CSR Asia “No one else in the industry has a deeper commitment to transparent auits or a broader set of tools to drive worker impact than ELEVATE. For that reason, we integrated Laborlink into ELEVATE’s products and services. This integration is essential to realizing our vision of a world where every worker is heard.” Heather Canon (Franzese), Co-founder of Laborlink and Vice President, Worker Engagement www.elevatelimited.com | info@elevatelimited.com 9 ELEVATE Sustainability Report 2017 4 Our products and services Our products and services are explicitly structured to support our clients in their in the value chain around the common intention of business driven sustainability; by evidencing management of business, sustainability and how sustainability solutions can drive improved supply chain risks. This includes our assessment, business performance. Delivering these programs consulting, program management and analytics for our clients is an important part of our business services. These four pillars collectively enable us and of our contribution to the United Nations to engage, influence and activate all stakeholders Global Compact principles. Figure 7: Our unique service portfolio fuels a virtuous cycle of continuous improvement Assessment Consulting APSCA funding company and “A” member Over 1.5 million workers engaged via with over 12,000 assessments per year in ELEVATE and Laborlink and more than more than 100 countries 150,000 eLearning lesson completions Analytics Programs An online Customer Portal supports “live” Expert outsourcing and Client Services decision-making about program design, teams that support the most effective effectiveness and impact program delivery Stakeholder viewpoints “The ELEVATE product portfolio enables its clients to (a) benchmark supplier performance via assessments (b) implement consulting solutions that enable improvement and capacity building (c) manage these together as a cohesive and integrated program, using (d) analytics to report and improve on performance over time.” Kevin Franklin, Senior Vice President, Product www.elevatelimited.com | info@elevatelimited.com 10 ELEVATE Sustainability Report 2017 4.1 Assessment Coalition), Fair Labor Association, ICTI Ethical Toy Program, Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC) Robust, ethical and transparent assessments and Higg Verification and Sedex Members Ethical audits require more than a tick-the-box approach. Trade Audit (SMETA) 2-and 4-pillar. They form part of a program designed to enable impact, continuous improvement and sustained In 2017 we conducted over 12,000 social and change for brands, retailers, suppliers, factories, environmental audits in over 100 countries. This workers and communities alike. ELEVATE covered industries such as apparel, electronics, is acknowledged throughout the industry for food and beverage, consumer goods, retail and enabling this change through our unwavering more. ELEVATE also became one of the largest commitment to quality, integrity and a unique global verification providers for the SAC Higg understanding of international best practice as Index Facility Environment Module (FEM) 2.0 to well as on-the-ground conditions and cultural and assess and verify environmental performance at local practices. apparel and footwear facilities. Our current assessment and audit services In 2017, we also released our own ELEVATE include labor and social compliance, Responsible Sourcing Assessment (ERSA) environmental impact, supply chain security and standard. ERSA is informed by a robust building structural, electrical and fire systems. benchmarking against international standards and industry programs, including Global Social We are approved to work with brands, retailers, Compliance Programme (GSCP), Ethical Trading suppliers and factories to conduct assessments Initiative (ETI), International Labor Organization representing a range of industry initiatives, (ILO) and many more. Starting in 2018, all including Business Social Compliance Initiative ELEVATE Responsible Sourcing Assessments (BSCI), the Responsible Business Alliance (ERSA) will include a worker sentiment survey; (formerly the Electronic Industry Citizenship first in China and then as part of our global assessment services.  http://www.elevatelimited.com/ersa Stakeholder viewpoints “Our assessment business is one of the foundations for ELEVATE’s supply chain services. Assessment allows us to more effectively identify and address emerging risks and improve responsibility at all levels of the global supply chain. We are committed to continuous improvement within our assessment business creating greater transparency and worker insights to help transform supply chains.” Darren Cunliffe, Senior Vice President of Operations www.elevatelimited.com | info@elevatelimited.com 11 ELEVATE Sustainability Report 2017 4.2 Consulting 4.2.2 Factory services ELEVATE is explicitly designed as a beyond ELEVATE has a long history of supplier and audit business. We support clients at all parts factory capacity building. Our approach to of the global supply chain via a wide variety of capacity building is different to other service services including strategy and program design, providers. We believe that high-impact risk assessment and segmentation, due diligence, capacity building requires ongoing contact and capacity building, impact evaluation and reporting. engagement that leverages multiple different Together these services support our clients tools including in-person training, group-work and through all parts of their continuous improvement deep in-factory engagement as well as eLearning. process. This includes for corporate multinational These services are combined together in ways brands, suppliers, factories and even workers. that support “constant contact” and experiential learning. They are designed to build management 4.2.1 Corporate advisory systems and deliver sustained and lasting improvement(s) in the most challenging social and Our advisory team supports the attainment of labor issues. sustainability outcomes by blending a unique mix of subject matter expertise, industry insight Our Factory Improvement Services (FIS) work as well as deep regional and in-field experience. aims to build a partnership-based capacity This includes in the areas of responsible sourcing building program that embeds business driven strategy, risk assessment, code of conduct and sustainability into the DNA of factories. ELEVATE program design as well as due diligence support. teams empower factory and line managers to We also produce independent and high quality understand and evaluate the relationship between research including country, region and industry social compliance and improved business trend reports, white papers and briefs that inform performance. This requires engagement with the strategy and build visibility on supply chains and core business teams including factory managers, other aspects of sustainability such as inclusive line managers or nominated discipline leads business, shared value, climate change and (human resources, finance, etc.) as well as disaster preparedness. workers themselves. The acquisition of CSR Asia in 2017 added new The acquisition of Laborlink in 2017 accelerated depth to the ELEVATE advisory portfolio. As one our ability to attain and scale meaningful bottomof Asia’s leading sustainability consultancies, CSR up insight on worker perceptions and identify Asia brings new services relating to sustainability gaps in current management practice. Worker strategy, human rights due diligence, reporting, engagement results provide valuable insight that community investment and research. It also can help inform a training strategy and content expands ELEVATE’s geographic footprint to development. It also supports our ability to include Singapore, Japan, Malaysia, Thailand maximize and measure the impact of capacity and Australia. These complement our existing building on working conditions, human rights and responsible sourcing and supply chain services the environment. and extend our ability to support clients beyond the United States, Europe and Australasia. Stakeholder viewpoints “At ELEVATE we help develop strategies that embed sustainability into business practices, enhance performance and profitability, and drive greater positive environmental and social impact. From board level conversations on strategy and risk management, right down to the detailed analysis of performance metrics, to internal capacity building and stakeholder engagement, we provide holistic support for those looking to be in business for the long term.” Samantha Woods, Director, Hong Kong, CSR Asia www.elevatelimited.com | info@elevatelimited.com 12 ELEVATE Sustainability Report 2017 4.2.3 Worker engagement We are now able to engage workers in three ways beyond audit: ELEVATE worker engagement solutions leverage • Integrated assessments with Worker technology, training, worker voice, and workerSentiment Surveys: Incorporating worker management dialogue to drive impact and surveys into traditional assessments and improve business performance as well as worker audits to help clients gauge worker well-being well-being. They capture the viewpoints and based on direct worker feedback. grievances of workers in ways that audits alone • Standalone-focused surveys: Capturing cannot achieve by providing a safe, anonymous worker feedback about specific topics to and independent platform free of recrimination. help brands measure the impact of current The addition of Laborlink technology has been programs and assess potential areas instrumental in our ability to scale and expand our of improvement through short, focused existing worker survey capabilities. technology-enabled surveys. This includes using WeChat, Facebook Messenger and other user-preferred platforms in addition to legacy integrated voice response solutions in less developed markets. • Comprehensive surveys: Partnering with brands and factories to conduct deep-dive inperson surveys with supervisors and workers. Results are analyzed to identify areas for improvement that are delivered together with brands, suppliers, factories and workers. www.elevatelimited.com | info@elevatelimited.com 13 Laborlink Bangladesh collaborative program Between July 2015 and August 2017, Laborlink implemented a two-year, multi-brand collaborative program to better understand and address some of the underlying causes for poor working conditions in Bangladesh’s garment factories. The Laborlink Bangladesh Collaborative (LBC) program was delivered with financial support from the C&A Foundation. It used mobile technology to collect anonymous feedback from over 53,000 workers across two separate survey modules: Workplace Safety and Workplace Communications. Nearly 130 baseline and follow-up surveys were completed across 40 factories that supply American and European brands and retailers. The program identified four key recommendations for turning worker insights into action: 1. Workplace Communications: Implement more trainings and eLearnings to improve worker-management relationships and reduce the prevalence of abusive language in factories. 2. Grievance Mechanisms: Build awareness on how to use factory grievance mechanisms and communicate all follow-up actions to inform workers of how complaints are being addressed. 3. Workplace Safety: Increase safety protocol communications so workers understand what actions are being taken by management to create safe and healthy working conditions. 4. Worker Engagement: Continue engaging with workers to identify new improvement opportunities, and leverage their feedback when designing, implementing, and measuring improvement actions. Figure 8: Insight from the Bangladesh collaborative enabled significant improvement from 2015-2017 Baseline and followup survey responses from 20,736 workers across 25 factories “Are safety issues taken seriously?” Safety vs. job satisfaction Safety vs. supervisor satisfaction 16% of workers initially reported that 73% of baseline responses indicated 56% of baseline responses indicated they do not believe safety is taken that workplace safety is the main that supervisor dissatisfaction is high seriously by factory management reason for worker job satisfaction when safety is not taken seriously +3% improvement in the followup +4% improvement in the follow-up +3% increase in workers believing safety is taken seriously by mgmt Baseline and followup survey responses from 32,467 workers across 40 factories “Do you hear abusive language?” Know how to make a complaint Safety vs. supervisor satisfaction 47% of workers reported in the baseline 38% of workers initially reported they 18% of workers initially reported they survey that their factory’s management were unable or unsure of how to make do not know, or do not believe, that a uses abusive language a formal complaint complaint will be researched fairly +6% improvement in the followup +9% improvement in the followup +4% improvement in the followup Review the Laborlink Bangladesh Collaborative Report for program results, factory case studies, and more detailed recommendations for brands and suppliers.  http://www.elevatelimited.com/bangladesh-report  https://www.candafoundation.org ELEVATE Sustainability Report 2017 4.2.4 eLearning Figure 9: eLearning lessons designed for brands, suppliers and factories for a shared understanding of sustainability. ELEVATE has developed over 50 eLearning lessons and hundreds of client lessons to raise awareness and knowledge on various supply chain sustainability topics including workplace recruitment practices, environment management, and forced labor laws. By the end of 2017, our eLearning users have completed over 150,000 lessons. In 2017, there was a 47% increase in our eLearning lesson completions compared to 2016. All aspects of the lesson production process are handled in-house, which enables us to pull from our industry-leading experience in supply chain sustainability and deep knowledge of factories to develop relevant and compelling learning tools. 4.2.5 Events and training ELEVATE’s content development teams are at the forefront of the latest insights into trends in sustainability and supply chain social, environmental, technical and business performance. We combine their expertise with our events and training logistics team to provide a full suite of services from content development, sourcing speakers, marketing materials, registration, onsite support and postevent communications. Each year, we organize on behalf of brands and retailers a series of supplier summits, industry association conferences, and classroom and webinar trainings for all levels of the supply chain. We conduct regular training on topics such as aligning business strategy with the SDGs, sustainability strategy and reporting, and community investment impact measurement. eLearning eLearning for global supply chains Delivering training to factories, suppliers and brands Select courses now The ELEVATE approach to eLearning ELEVATE eLearning provides a scalable, standardized approach for delivering introductory social and environmental performance training to factories, suppliers and brands. Our courses use fully animated video with interactive exercises, making complex topics simple, and all training can be tracked through our intuitive learning management system. www.elevatelimited.com | info@elevatelimited.com 15 We engage thousands of industry stakeholders every year… In 2017, ELEVATE engaged thousands of industry stakeholders around the shared objective of business driven sustainability. These include multinationals, suppliers, factories, not-for-profits and even workers at factories and farms. The impact of these engagements is significant. They improve our collective understanding of key issues, support the sharing of best practices and empower participants via experiential and reinforced learning. Examples of our engagements in 2017 include: • More than 50 companies and NGOs participate in our Strategic Partner program that engages members on key issues relating to sustainable development, supports the sharing of best practices and challenges and connects members with peers in their industry • Over 20 consultation sessions were held with our Community Investment Round Table (CIRT) members to help enhance their community investment strategies. These sessions form part of the suite of services delivered to CIRT members in order to help them stay informed of the latest development trends, best practices, as well as provide networking and stakeholder engagement opportunities with the NGO sector • 500+ individuals representing a mix of business, NGOs, government and academia from 30 countries participated in the CSR Asia Summit to further the dialogue on future proofing sustainable business through strategy, community investment, supply chain management, stakeholder dialogue and more • Hosting four ELEVATE Leadership Series events in Stockholm, New York, Hong Kong and London to facilitate thoughtful and solutions-oriented discussions around ethical and responsible sourcing practices with over 300 supply chain industry influencers • Delivering 11 webinars on emerging risks and trends in supply chains facilitated by our internal subject matter experts on topics like factory-level grievance mechanisms, human rights due diligence, predictive analytics and country-specific social compliance trends • Engaged thousands more via our independent, evidence-based and trusted publications including the CSR Asia’s weekly newsletter as well as four high impact publications o Tracking the Trends: CSR Asia’s annual expert stakeholder research report provides a snapshot of what issues and trends likely to emerge and how stakeholders expect businesses to respond o The Role of ICT in Realising Education for All by 2030: Focusing on the role that technology can play in helping achieve United Nations Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 4, this report encourages prioritisation of equitable access to quality education for all ages and to fill gaps in education systems worldwide o Agribusiness and the SDGs: How the Agribusiness Sector in ASEAN can embrace the Sustainable Development Goals: A tool to help companies assess which SDGs are most relevant to their businesses, especially on issues such as smallholder inclusion and gender inequality, while also scoping opportunities to incorporate the SDGs into their own strategies o Agribusiness in ASEAN: Making the Case for Smallholder Inclusion: A profile of ten agricultural companies from across Southeast Asia demonstrating that despite social, environmental and political challenges the private sector has the ability to create change and cultivate company growth through diversity and inclusiveness Stakeholder viewpoints “Our Strategic Partner program creates a distinctive space for leaders in sustainability to convene, cocreate and accelerate their impact. We curate content, events and training for members, and the company representatives themselves drive best practice in sustainability solutions as part of the network.” Mabel Wong, Director, CSR Asia ELEVATE Sustainability Report 2017 4.3 Programs Since October 2013, ELEVATE has been responsible for developing the local operation ELEVATE is recognized for managing complex, and managing the inspections, remediation and industry-wide initiatives and programs. We have support activities of the Alliance in Bangladesh. a demonstrated ability to extend the reach of projects by leveraging our extensive private sector As the project manager, ELEVATE built a team of network. Our track record also shows evidence 65 dedicated staff that has: of bringing major projects online in compressed • Managed structural / electrical / fire safety timeframes, managing multi-stakeholder projects, assessments and remediation in more than and extensive experience in assessment and 850 factories capacity building. We excel in bringing strong • Developed and implemented a training financial management, budgeting, and business program for 1.4 million workers and 19,000 impact measures to social programs. We also security guards on fire and building safety manage local compliance programs for leading issues brands and retailers as part of our program • Implemented the Amader Kotha (“Our support services. Voice”) helpline with Laborlink that tracks and manages more than 30,000 calls annually and is available in over 950 factories 4.3.1 Alliance for Bangladesh • Organized and hosted the annual Fire & Worker Safety Building Safety Expo’s in Bangladesh with over 5,000 attendees The Alliance for Bangladesh Worker Safety was founded by a group of North American apparel  http://www.bangladeshworkersafety.org companies and retailers and brands following the Rana Plaza building collapse that tragically claimed the lives of 1,134 workers and left thousands injured. www.elevatelimited.com | info@elevatelimited.com 17 ELEVATE Sustainability Report 2017 4.3.2 Supplier Ownership Figure 10: Our supplier ownership activities improve knowledge and relationships with factories and brands Suppliers and vendors are taking greater ownership to manage and improve working Baseline review conditions in the supply chain. In the past brands and retailers would bypass Factory profiles their suppliers and vendors by going directly to the factories they sourced from and auditing them without supplier engagement. Suppliers / vendors Segmentation & risk mapping tended to wait for the audits and then react to any non-compliance issues found. This is changing. Supplier guidelines ELEVATE now works actively with engaged suppliers to see the potential business value of investing in their own responsible sourcing On the ground support programs. This includes building guidelines, policies and a graduation path. Audit and CAP ELEVATE will continue to work with vendors in 2018 as we collectively build and refine the business case for developing cost-effective social In-factory consulting responsibility programs. Supplier selection & on-boarding procedure www.elevatelimited.com | info@elevatelimited.com 18 Winner of “Most Innovative New Program” Sedex Awards 2017 ELEVATE and the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) received the “Most Innovative New Program’ award by Sedex in 2017 for their joint Workplace of Choice program. RBA partnered with ELEVATE to develop a unique 32-month program called Workplace of Choice. This impact-focused program strengthens the sustainability of Malaysia’s vital electronics sector by drawing on worker engagement to promote safe and fair labor practices for foreign migrant workers; and implementing innovative educational and capacity building practices that support remediation. The objectives of this program have been to: • Understand how workers are recruited, screened and contracted in home and host countries. It achieved this through direct engagement via worker surveys, • Educate factory owners and senior management on changes in Codes of Conduct / requirements from brands / retailers, governments, and other stakeholders, • Support factories to identify gaps in their current practices and management systems with the updated requirements (e.g. recruitment process, contract preparation, passport retention, and internal communication mechanism), • Provide training and education directly to workers and factories on worker management dialogue, grievance mechanisms, and foreign migrant worker issues, • Establish an independent, external third-party helpline that provides workers with an accessible and timely avenue to raise concerns or inquiries. The Workplace of Choice program was developed and implemented in collaboration with the RBA organization, individual RBA members, Humanity United, Malaysian factories, local and foreign workers, ELEVATE, and NGOs. Key findings from the program include: • 23 electronics factories enrolled covering 46,000 workers, with 50% being foreign migrant workers from 12 different countries in Asia • 78% of factories have reimbursed excessive recruitment fees or developed internal policies to prevent these practices; 79% of factories have made progress on passport retention • 2,700 workers surveyed, 68% of whom are foreign workers and with all findings providing valuable insights to worker perspectives on the recruitment, hiring and employment management process. ELEVATE expects this work to continue in 2018 due to a new grant from the Walmart Foundation and the RBA Foundation. The new Responsible Workplace Program engagement will continue until 2020 as we expand beyond electronics to all sectors in Malaysia, add direct foreign migrant worker engagement, and introduce training and certification for recruitment agents to transform the market for ethical business practices.  https://humanityunited.org  http://www.responsiblebusiness.org/media/docs/RWP-RRP.pdf ELEVATE Sustainability Report 2017 4.4 Analytics From this information, our consultants and client services teams empower clients to build more Our vast repository of assessment, worker impactful programs. survey and eLearning results allows us to surface unique insights that help our clients drive lasting In 2018, we will further enhance our analytic sustainability interventions in factories and support through the launch of a new customer economies globally. This propriety intelligence portal including risk indices and visualizations is categorized, tagged and uploaded to our data that support supply chain segmentation, warehouse where it feeds our Tableau platform. benchmarking and equivalency. Figure 11: Global risk maps Figure 12: Wage trends Figure 13: Predictive modelling Figure 14: Supply chain risk scorecard Stakeholder viewpoints “We work closely with our clients to integrate data insights and analytics into program strategy designs that are risk-based and leverage driven. Through this segmentation work, businesses are better informed and more empowered to proactively manage complex supply chains in a thoughtful and impactful way.” Yun Zheng, Senior Sustainability Consultant “Our “beyond audit” vision is about shifting from a reactive to predictive approach using risk analytics to design client-specific, targeted solutions. At ELEVATE, we leverage data from on-site experts, who conduct factory assessments, capture worker sentiment through interviews and surveys, to produce over a million data points annually. This unique position enables us to blend our data with credible public domain sources to generate live supply chain risk insights with greater levels of granularity.” Vignesh Venkataraman, Associate Consultant, Data Analytics and Sustainability www.elevatelimited.com | info@elevatelimited.com 20 ELEVATE Sustainability Report 2017 5 Our commitment to ethics and integrity 5.1 Compliance with laws We are committed to maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance and ethical and regulations conduct. These ethical standards are set-out in our employee handbooks and global policy We believe part of acting ethically and with framework. Perceived breaches of these integrity is complying with all applicable laws, requirements are reported to our Chief Executive regulations and other legal requirements in the Officer and investigated by our Vice President, countries where we do business. Our operations, Global Quality and Integrity. This section outlines human resource and compliance functions work a number of these policies and how they function. together to maintain fair and consistent labor, employment and operational policies. 5.2.1 Our Code of Ethics As part of our onboarding process, all employees Corruption remains one of the world’s biggest and contractors are informed of ELEVATE’s challenges. It also poses serious legal, employment policies. Employees receive commercial and reputational risks to our additional materials covering benefits and business. Our employment policy explicitly compensation in greater detail. In addition, our prohibits employees from offering or accepting assessment team is provided with training and bribes or participating in corrupt activities. This guidance to help avoid situations that could is reinforced in our Code of Ethics that applies compromise the integrity of an audit. to all ELEVATE employees and contractors. The Code is designed to support the effective and 5.2 Ethics and integrity transparent delivery of all products and services globally. All employees and contractors are At ELEVATE, we pride ourselves on our high expected to understand and comply. Violations standards of integrity, ethical conduct and are not tolerated. Any ELEVATE employee found professionalism. This includes our engagements to be soliciting or accepting any commission, with internal teams, clients, factories, workers and payment, gift, service, favor or any other benefit the communities where we operate. ELEVATE related to their work from a client will be in breach employees are often placed in positions of of contract under terms of gross misconduct. This trust and power which must not be abused, is grounds for immediate dismissal within the disrespected or dishonored. confines of the law. 100% of our employees have signed the Code of Ethics.  http://www.elevatelimited.com/about/policies Stakeholder viewpoints “Our clients trust ELEVATE as counselors to outsource their responsible sourcing program, evaluate and make recommendations on supply chain risk, or assess social /environmental compliance through assessments. We recognize the significance of this, which is why we are expanding our Quality & Integrity program to ensure we exceed expectations while enhancing worker well-being globally.” Davis Guan, Vice President, Global Quality & Integrity www.elevatelimited.com | info@elevatelimited.com 21 ELEVATE Sustainability Report 2017 limited.com www.elevate ited.com info@elevatelim our s wider team Code of Ethic loyees and contractors . We call this rigorous deli very of all ELE VATE aVATE emp sparent and client sustain app lies to all ELE the effective, tran s and partners of do. of Eth ics to sup port ors, adv isor rything we This Code Cod e is designed ide. As the assess inte gral part of eve s.” This s worldw are an “Associate in all countrie inte grity and ethics serv ices ens ure “ways of products and onsibility to duct in our s, it is our resp exceptiona l ethical con bility program mitment to tolerated. collective com ics are not outline our Code of Eth g sections ations of this The followin our valu e chain. Viol across working” and ate in or t not particip sions and mus nts & gifts or commis Illegal payme offer or acc ept bribes r or any othe r tes must never t, gift, service, favo E Ass ocia . , pay men gross • ELEVAT s of any kind commission er terms of upt activitie accepting any r contract und facilitate corr to be soliciting or be in breach of thei fines of the law. l tes foun d a client will the con and / or civi • Associa work from issal within ce criminal ted to their ediate dism is to commen benefit rela nds for imm VATE policy be t. This is grou duct, the ELE policy will not misconduc gross miscon breach of this remain in doubt, d cases of iate. as being in • In validate as deemed appropr was not understood ELE VAT E Associates proceedings efit Ethics, t that the receipt of ben ledging this Code of men now sor. • Any argu ing and ack their supervi If, after read ification from accepted. ask for clar onsibility to it is their resp for ext ern al interaction s with ELE VATE or any of Guidance other party doing busines ediately repo rted / e / gift? ory, or any must be imm ring the brib vendor, fact or provided Who is offe from a offe red ine. benefit rece ived h gifts or ben efits Point hotl Any gift or stioned. Suc the Ethics uld be que recorded via its clients sho sor and / or iate supervi tly the appropr always stric disclosed to following is / gift ? epta nce of any of the benefit ious. Acc nature of the always obv What is the s. Some not may take many form e) of any form acc ess ories Benefits cial valu and of commer tronic gad gets forbidden. elry, items laptops, elec gifts (e.g. jew ile phones, or physical products, mob • Money g sample of ndise includin g vacations • Mercha any kind, includin ets, boat tickets ing of railway tick • Paid lodg g air-tickets, s sport includin ount coupon • Paid tran l tokens, disc clubs, or gam bling g tokens, mea bs, hostess pensation • Gamblin lving nightclu members receives com inment invo s to family entity that • Enterta g loan factory, or ber of any kind , incl udin any vendor, family mem VATE • Loans efic ial interest in exte nds to any ation of ELE ership or othe r ben restricti on ten authoriz Any own nts. Said ownership ent with out prior writ • E or its clie loym r paid emp from ELEVAT r into any othe t’s approva l and ploy ees may not ente VAT E managemen • Em ELE d, subject to E’s policy that s be accepte is ELEVAT may at time cafeteria. It g benefits the factory ordance with The followin come from claim in acc n: agement that business and agement and come authorizatio worksite man ELEVATE offe red by own mea ls when on red by worksite man • Meals for thei r n, if offe r portion. ocia tes should pay ls may only be take sho uld pay for thei all Ass . Mea ociates exp ens e allowances is ordered, Ass 5.2.2 EthicsPoint hotline E ay’ ELEVATE has established a firewall between ELEVAT . If ‘take-aw ory cafeteria from the fact Page 1 of 2 Business Driv en Sustainabil ity assessment services and improvement services Our EthicsPoint hotline is a confidential, reporting at project inception to address this issue. A tool, available to anyone (including employees detailed work instruction identifies those factories and clients such as factories, suppliers and that have engaged our improvement or consulting brands) to report any perceived illegal, unethical services and exempts them from our assessment or improper conduct involving ELEVATE teams. services for a period of 12 months or longer Reporting is carried out through a secure depending on client-specific requirements. This website or a toll-free multilingual hotline. We are is further safeguarded by the clear segregation committed to protecting the anonymity of anyone of responsibilities between delivery and business who brings forward a claim. We do not tolerate development teams in our organizational any retaliation against the individual as outlined structure. Exceptions must be approved by the in the Grievance Mechanism and Remediation client in writing. Statement within our Employment Policy. Our commitment to integrity aims to reduce and All allegations are taken with the utmost sincerity eliminate all conflicts of interest which could and reviewed using a defined internal process to undermine ELEVATE’s work and services. We create consistency across our global operations in encourage employees to reflect on all work how we handle and address all issues. and projects they are assigned to and identify and communicate any potential issues to our Areas of improvement for 2018: Vice President, Global Quality and Integrity Continue to expand our corporate quality for investigation and ultimate sign-off by our and integrity teams to address the needs of executive leadership team. our business. In 2018, one of our goals is to strengthen best practices within our assessment 5.2.4 Impartiality statement services and to expand this to our consulting teams. We will also conduct additional outreach When assigning service teams, ELEVATE and training on EthicsPoint with our employees ensures each service team member (including and strengthen our whistleblower processes. assessors, consultants and contractors) is free from any interests that might compromise 5.2.3 Conflicts of interest impartiality during service delivery. Each service team member is obligated to disclose ELEVATE provides assessment, improvement all real or potential conflicts of interest at the and consulting services to factories. The time the conflicts are apparent, and to disclose improvement and consulting part of our business any existing or perceived relationship between represents a relatively small portion of ELEVATE’s themselves and the organization for whom the turnover. We understand this service may present service will be provided; any exceptions must be a potential conflict of interest with our assessment reviewed and written approved by Vice President, business. Global Quality and Integrity.  http://www.elevatelimited.com/about/quality-and-integrity www.elevatelimited.com | info@elevatelimited.com 22 ELEVATE Sustainability Report 2017 5.2.5 Employee training and awareness 5.3 Business risks and resilience To reinforce ethics and integrity as an integral part In 2017, we instigated a formal Business Risk of ELEVATE culture, we will continue to expand Committee including representatives from all awareness of our Code and related policies business lines. This Committee supports the through the ELEVATE Academy to all employees. proactive identification of emerging ethics and All employees and contractors are required to integrity issues and works with our internal teams review and sign our Code annually as part of our to ensure they are remediated. It also governs Ethics & Integrity Awareness activities. the annual review of local and company-wide business risks with an initial focus on the most Areas of improvement for 2018: material business units, namely our assessment To further support our clients in upholding the and corporate functions. highest ethical standards in a situation of crisis in their supply chain management we are developing Areas of improvement for 2018: additional crisis communication and management As part of our plans for transformational growth guidance. This is currently implicit in our Data across key industries and geographies, we will Security and Confidentiality Procedure and will be further prioritize our business resilience strategy developed into a separate document during 2018. in 2018. We will conduct regional risk reviews to identify business risks. We will also develop a 5.2.6 Influencing the audit industry resilience plan for each significant business risk identified in order to maintain business continuity. We are committed to building cross-sector industry capacity. As a recognized, global toptier assessment provider, we believe we have 5.4 Data security and privacy a responsibility to influence and shape the Data security and privacy concerns are integrity of the audit industry. We are proud to increasingly material to both ELEVATE and our be a founding member of the Association of stakeholders. We are proactively managing these Professional Social Compliance Auditors (APSCA) concerns through a number of different activities. and to participate in the Executive Board. This includes the use of world-class third-party ELEVATE was an active supporter of the APSCA suppliers with strong data security protocols. auditor certification pilots conducted in Turkey We also engaged an independent third-party in November 2017. We look forward to further assurance provider to conduct a review of our engagement and participation in the certification own information and systems security protocols. roll-outs in 2018. Initial outcomes from this work identified the need for further controls on both technologies APSCA was created to enhance the consistency / platforms themselves as well as our policies and credibility of individual auditors and and ways of working. An extensive remediation organizations performing independent social project has been initiated and will be implemented compliance audits, and to promote the use of throughout 2018. In addition, we are expanding independent social compliance audits as a tool to our information technology function, tools and advance conditions for workers globally. processes to deliver efficiencies and enhanced collaboration to support our growing business. APSCA’s certification process will ensure auditors have consistent training, education, background Areas of improvement for 2018: checks, and demonstrated competencies which We are committed to protecting client and are standard requirements in comparable stakeholder personal information. We have professional auditor associations. continued to strengthen and clarify our privacy  www.theapsca.org policy in preparation for the European Union General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) which goes into effect in May 2018. Stakeholder viewpoints “ELEVATE presents a unique opportunity to build technology-based solutions that deliver supply chain insights and value-added services for our clients that improve their sourcing and risk management while also enhancing the productivity of our associates.” Rohit Kamat, Senior Vice President, Information Technology www.elevatelimited.com | info@elevatelimited.com 23 ELEVATE Sustainability Report 2017 5.5 Occupational health & safety Internally, we are committed to: • Bringing value to the communities in which We prioritize the health and safety of our we live and operate while respecting people’s employees working across the world and are culture and heritage. committed to doing our best to safeguard their • Behaving in a manner that respects the well-being. As experts in assessing occupational human rights of those affected by our health and safety in our clients entire value chain, operations and remediate individuals and our focus will always be on trying to improve communities adversely impacted by our conditions at production sites. However, we operations. recognize there are different risk profiles across our organization depending on job responsibilities In addition, we are committed to treating our and geographic locations. employees and contractors with respect and dignity and ensuring all labor is voluntary. There Areas of improvement for 2018: were no known instances of forced labor nor any We have plans in place to manage any type of breaches of fundamental human rights at any of significant health and safety incident, but we our operations in 2017. More information related acknowledge there are opportunities to improve to our policies relating to human rights is available our overall health and safety protocols. We within our employment and sustainability policies. anticipate these improvements will occur in 2018 as part of our planned organizational resiliency Areas of improvement for 2018: initiative. In 2018, we will also implement a series As part of our investments in regional teams and of protocols to track employee injuries and near predictive analytics we have developed a new misses as part of our occupational health and approach to detecting forced labor and preventing safety procedures and notifications. We will also human rights abuses and exploitation in global roll-out an alcohol and drugs policy. supply chains. For 2018, we will be rolling out and scaling up our award-winning approach to protect vulnerable workers. 5.6 Human rights Respecting and leading on human rights issues is a defining part of ELEVATE’s purpose as a business; and will continue to define our future strategy and growth. We do that through advising our clients and leading our industry to improve labor and environmental practices in global supply chains. www.elevatelimited.com | info@elevatelimited.com 24 ELEVATE Sustainability Report 2017 6 Our people and business processes The purpose-driven dedication, expertise and passion of our people sets us apart from others in the industry. From our assessors, to our business strategies with it is a core responsibility of the ELEVATE leadership team and is assessed annually by the board of directors and as part consultants to our operational support, every of ELEVATE’s reporting to EQT for its annual ELEVATE employee is focused on enabling the Responsible Investor (RI) Transparency Report. company to deliver high quality, insightful and innovative solutions that fully support business driven sustainability. 6.2 Employee development We believe corporate sustainability starts with a company’s value system and a principled As a professional services organization our approach to doing business. We are actively people are our most valuable asset. We are working to ensure our operational strategy, actively working to expand our talent development policies, procedures and culture reflect and align program and to providing all teams with the tools with the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. and support they need to be effective in their work. In 2017, ELEVATE implemented its first global talent review process to improve transparency and gain consistency in how employees are evaluated. 6.1 Sustainability policy This talent review and appraisal process allows our management teams to work with employees In 2017, ELEVATE introduced its sustainability to build development plans that help them achieve policy. This policy defines our commitment to their professional goals while continuing to responsible business practices emphasizing the improve our professional bench strength. environment, health and safety, employment and supply chains and community issues that Areas of improvement for 2018: our operations affect. The policy applies to all As part of our broader talent and employee ELEVATE-owned operations. development strategy, we will identify opportunities for active talent management Given the global reach and diversity of ELEVATE’s initiatives based on insights from the 2017 talent operating footprint, implementation of the policy review. This will help further refine and develop may vary by country. Accountability for adhering employee skillsets to better support our business to this policy and aligning our operational and growth and operational strategies. Stakeholder viewpoints “ELEVATE attracts purpose-driven, highly-skilled professionals. They are committed to producing the highest quality possible for our clients, and we are equally committed to providing them with opportunities to grow in their careers and expand their skillsets.” Amy Lee, Director, Global Human Resources www.elevatelimited.com | info@elevatelimited.com 25 ELEVATE Sustainability Report 2017 6.3 Employee attraction At the end of 2017, ELEVATE had over 400 fulltime employees located in 18 different countries. and retention Around 84% of these employees are located in Asia, 11% in the Americas, 5% in Europe and the Promoting from within when possible is a key part remainder in strategic growth markets. Around of our employee attraction and retention efforts. 55% of the total number of employees are in our We are proud to share that 21 employees were assessment division, with 16% in consulting and promoted within 2017 and that we retained more 15% in our programs division. The remaining than 80% of our total staff. 15% of ELEVATE employees are located in our corporate team including the finance, legal, human As we continue to grow our business, our resources, information technology, sales, client recruitment efforts have increased significantly. services and marketing functions. We recognize our own employees are a great resource for us to identify the right candidates ELEVATE believes strongly in the need for local to join the ELEVATE family; which is why we recruitment, development and empowerment. implemented an employee referral program Our emphasis on local expertise, local legal and to reward employees financially for helping language fluency is a key differentiator across all successfully recruit qualified candidates. More of our service lines. Around 96% of all ELEVATE than 25 candidates have been referred since the employees are recruited and employed locally. program launched during the third quarter of 2017, As an equal opportunities employer, ELEVATE leading to the successful onboarding of over ten is committed to treating our employees and new employees. contractors with respect and dignity as outlined in our employment policy. This position is reflected in As part of our retention strategy, we conduct different ways across the ELEVATE organization an annual employee engagement survey to at all levels of the business. ELEVATE teams understand what issues are most important to perform relatively well on gender diversity but our employees and how we can better support we recognize the need for more women in the them. We believe active listening and responding most senior and executive roles. At the end of to employee feedback is directly tied to increased 2017, 48% of the ELEVATE leadership team were productivity and employee satisfaction. women (vs. 52% of the entire employee base). Areas of improvement for 2018: Plans are in place for a strengthened employee Figure 15: Gender diversity at ELEVATE in 2017 survey in 2018 that will provide a constructive Gender diversity within ELEVATE and in leadership environment for ELEVATE employees to engage 52% 52% in this period of rapid growth. We look forward 48% 48% to the outcomes from this engagement; from which we will develop and deliver regional and service specific improvement plans. Adopting new All employees Leadership team communication channels, such as Yammer, will also improve employee engagement. Male Female 6.4 Diversity and inclusion Areas of improvement for 2018: ELEVATE is currently in a period of significant Diversity and inclusion is fundamental to creating organic and inorganic growth. Changes to our and maintaining our strong, innovative culture. employee base as a result of any acquisition or We believe diversity extends to the unique styles, partnership may have an impact on our 2018 experiences, identities, ideas and opinions of diversity figures. ELEVATE is currently evaluating our employees, and is a key part of our ability to the development of a separate diversity and develop and accelerate high-performing teams. inclusion policy in order to support diversity further at senior and executive levels. Stakeholder viewpoints “We see clear, informative and two-way internal communication as one of the keys to building an even stronger community at ELEVATE. Leveraging technology such as Yammer will generate company-wide conversations – peer to peer across our geographies, adding a great dynamic to established employee – supervisor communications.” Bronwyn Alexander, Director, Marketing and Communications www.elevatelimited.com | info@elevatelimited.com 26 ELEVATE Sustainability Report 2017 7 Appendix: United Nations Global Compact This table supports our communication on progress by correlating the content of this report against each of the UN Global Compact’s ten principles. Principal Report section or page number • Our products and services 4 Principle 1: Support and respect the protection of • Laborlink Bangladesh Collaborative Program p.14 internationally proclaimed human rights. • Human rights 5.6 • Sustainability policy 6.1 • Our products and services 4 • Compliance with laws and regulations 5.1 Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit • EthicsPoint hotline 5.2.2 in human rights abuses. • Human rights 5.6 • Sustainability policy 6.1 • Compliance with laws and regulations 5.1 Principle 3: Uphold the freedom of association • Internal communication 2.2.2 and the effective recognition of the right to • Human rights 5.6 collective bargaining. • Sustainability policy 6.1 • Our products and services 4 • eLearning 4.2.4 Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of • “Most Innovative New Program” 2017 Sedex p.19 forced and compulsory labor. • Compliance with laws and regulations 5.1 • Sustainability policy 6.1 • Our products and services 4 Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor. • Compliance with laws and regulations 5.1 • Sustainability policy 6.1 • Compliance with laws and regulations 5.1 Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in • Sustainability policy 6.1 respect of employment and occupation. • Diversity and inclusion 6.4 Principle 7: Support a precautionary approach • Sustainability policy 6.1 to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote • Sustainability policy 6.1 greater environmental responsibility. • Our environmental footprint 5.6 Principle 9: Encourage the development and • Sustainability policy 6.1 diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • Our environmental footprint 5.6 • Ethics and integrity 5.2 • Our Code of Ethics 5.2.1 Principle 10: Work against corruption in all its • EthicsPoint hotline 5.2.2 forms, including extortion and bribery. • Conflicts of Interest 5.2.3 • Impartiality statement 5.2.4 • Employee development 5.2.5 www.elevatelimited.com | info@elevatelimited.com 27 ELEVATE Sustainability Report 2017 www.elevatelimited.com | info@elevatelimited.com © ELEVATE Hong Kong Holdings Limited. All rights reserved.
