Changing for the better Sharing responsible practices with our supply chain Sus ta in a b ili t y Re p o r t 2 0 1 7 Contents About This Report 1 Social and Community Engagement 53 Targets and UN SDGs 2 Environmental Management 57 Chairman’s Statement 8 R&D for Responsible Palm Oil 65 Board of Directors’ Statement 10 GRI Standards Index 69 About GAR 11 United Nations Global Compact COP 74 How We Approach Responsible Glossary of Acronyms 76 Palm Oil 18 Feedback and Contact Our Materiality Assessment 26 Engaging Our Stakeholders 31 Our cover photo shows a group of smallholders in our Marketplace and Supply Chain 35 concession in Riau Work Environment and Industrial Relations 47 About This Report About this report (102-1) Golden Agri-Resources Ltd (GAR or the Company) published • Sustainability Context: presenting performance in the its first sustainability report in 2011. Since then, we have wider sustainability context progressively continued to improve how we report and engage with our stakeholders in an open and transparent • Materiality: focusing on issues where we can have the manner. greatest impact and that are most important to our business and stakeholders Through our sustainability reporting, we hope to provide stakeholders with a better understanding of our approach • Completeness: including all information that is of to responsible palm oil and our progress in meeting our significant economic, environmental, and social commitments. impact to enable stakeholders to assess the Company’s performance Scope of this report (102-45, 102-46, 102-48, 102-49, 102-50, 102-51) In 2017, we updated our assessment of our material This report covers our environmental, social, economic sustainability issues, please refer to page 26 of the report and governance performance across all our plantations, for more information on this. mills and some key aspects of palm oil sales operations of GAR in Indonesia, which is our main production base For a full content index of our GRI Standards indicators where we employ the majority of our work force and with relevant references provided, please refer to page 69 where we have the most impact. of the report. Unless otherwise stated, the report does not include the Assurance (102-56) Company’s other activities outside of Indonesia. We are committed to working towards the full assurance of the information presented in our sustainability report. The content of this report focuses primarily on activities In this report, as with our previous two reports, we have carried out within the financial year of January to sought the calculation and independent verification December 2017. There have been no restatements of of our GHG emissions for our subsidiary in Indonesia, information and there are no significant changes in the PT SMART Tbk (SMART), by EY. scope of our reporting from the previous report covering the financial year 2016. In addition, we also commissioned two independent assessments from Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) Reporting Framework (102-49, 102-54) to carry out a survey of workplace practices in some of We have adopted the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) our estates in Indonesia, and the Rainforest Alliance (RA) Standards as our reporting framework. This report has to assess the implementation of the GAR Social and been prepared to be in accordance with GRI Standards – Environmental Policy (GSEP). Core option. This includes adhering to the GRI principles for defining report content: More information, including our verification statement from EY and reports on the independent assessments • Stakeholder Inclusiveness: responding to stakeholder undertaken, can be found on our website at: expectations and interests www.goldenagri.com.sg Su stainab ili t y Re po r t 1 201 7 Targets and UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) (102-10, 102-15 , 103-3) Conservation of High Carbon Progress on UN SDGs CO2 Stock (HCS) forests and peatlands; Conservation of biodiversity and High Needs Work Conservation Value (HCV) On Track Achieved areas; Preventing Fire and HazE Key Commitments Progress Future Targets No development of • HCS Approach rolled out in GAR’s • Continue to implement HCS and the conservation 18 concessions Approach of HCS forests • Conservation planning with local • Joint conservation planning to be communities: 13 villages agreed to carried out with 5 more villages in protect over 7,000 hectares of 2018 (see schedule on GAR website) HCS forests No development of • Physical rehabilitation of • Continue with physical rehabilitation and the conservation 2,600 hectare Peat Ecosystem at • Continue with Integrated Ecological of peatlands of any PT AMNL, West Kalimantan Farming projects for communities depth • Over 100 hectares of buffer zone with local beneficial plants Develop strategies • Integrated Ecological Farming for long-term launched to support rehabilitation rehabilitation of efforts peatlands No development of • Rehabilitated over 1,400 hectares of • Continue with riparian buffer zone and the conservation riparian buffer zones implementation of HCV areas • SMART Research Institute (SMARTRI) in new R&D collaboration with Cambridge University on riparian restoration Conserve and protect • Achieved target of releasing 100 • Renewing partnership with OFI rare, threatened and wild-born, ex-captive orangutans in 2018 and continuing to work endangered species in partnership with Orangutan on rehabilitating and releasing as well as ecosystems Foundation International (OFI) orangutans and critical habitats of rare, threatened and endangered species No burning for new • Virtually zero fire incidents on our • Community fire-free programme plantings, replantings concessions expanded to include 15 more or other development • Fire-free programme Desa Makmur villages: 5 in Riau and 10 in (Zero Burning Policy) Peduli Api (DMPA), successful in Central Kalimantan reducing firespots and hotspots • Continue to train GAR Emergency since launch in 2016 Response Team and to maintain • All villages qualified for fire-fighting equipment in all estates infrastructure aid amounting to IDR1.9 billion after evaluation • Integrated Ecological Farming projects rolled out for local communities in 3 pilot villages involving 60 farmers (majority women) 2 GOL D EN AG R I-R E S OU RC ES LTD Needs Work Rights of communities and On Track Achieved indigenous peoples Key Commitments Progress Future Targets Respecting the right • GAR has rolled out Participatory • Continue with PM in 16 villages in to Free, Prior and Mapping (PM) which aims to respect 2018 (see schedule on GAR website) Informed Consent and safeguard community FPIC (FPIC) for indigenous rights in over 80 villages peoples and local • No incidents of FPIC violations or communities and violations of rights of indigenous recognising the need peoples in 2017 for food security in new developments Labour relations and human rights; Occupational Health and Safety and Employee Wellbeing; Talent Retention, Development and Training Key Commitments Progress Future Targets We commit to • No incidents of discrimination or • Implement action plans based upholding and abuse reported in 2016 on studies by external parties to promoting the United • 187 labour unions representing improve labour practices Nations Universal 48,370 non-management • Continue to maintain peaceful Declaration of employees (95%) and productive industrial relations Human Rights for all • Results of Business for Social through open dialogue, fair workers, contractors, Responsibility (BSR) study on GAR labour practices, and respectful indigenous labour practices published on GAR communication in the workplace peoples and local website – action plan formulated communities in all based on study company operations • GAR reaffirmed commitment to UN Global Compact principles including Human Rights by signing up to the UNGC (our subsidiary SMART has been a signatory since 2006) Ensure plantations • Number of fatalities not decreasing • Aim for zero fatalities and mills have an • Reinforced KPIs of Zero Accidents • Reduce the frequency and severity OHS policy in place and Fatalities for all management of accidents and regularly report • Conducted thorough investigations against it of each accident to uncover underlying causes, using expert investigators to help develop additional and enhanced safety measures • Added safety measures and training for employees in aftermath of accidents Talent Retention, • Turnover rate lower than 2016 • HR to continue to focus on talent Development and retention and training Training Su stainab ili t y Re po r t 3 201 7 Targets and UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Progress on UN SDGs Traceability and Supply Chain Transformation; Needs Work Supplier Inclusiveness and On Track Achieved smallholder livelihoods Key Commitments Progress Future Targets Traceable and • Achieved target of 100% • Maintain full TTP transparent supply Traceability to Plantation (TTP) for • Continue sharing responsible palm chains all GAR-owned mills oil practices with supply chain • 39% of palm supply chain fully traceable • Training and support • 100% TTP for 3rd-party mills by for 3rd-party mills to achieve 2020 TTP by 2020 We will implement • In 2017, 6 grievances were raised – • Continue to actively work towards a a robust due 2 have been resolved resolution of all open cases diligence system • Closed 2 earlier grievances • Continue to assess suppliers for that will identify • Assessed 19 suppliers for compliance with GSEP and other non-compliant environmental impacts and 39 GAR policies suppliers. We will set suppliers for social impacts up a transparent and accountable system where stakeholders can inform us of issues within our supply chain. We will respond to any issues using our grievance process in a timely and transparent manner Engaging and • 79 visits to 73 supplier mills since • Conduct site visits to complete supporting our 2015; 40 suppliers visited in 2017 sustainability overview reports suppliers • Site visit and analysis of Tarahan of our remaining refineries/ Refinery suppliers (including bulking stations smallholders) completed • Continue with capacity building events to assist and support suppliers • Annual SMART SEED workshop for • Extend engagement and suppliers sustainability support efforts • Special workshop on Leuser to suppliers at plantation Ecosystem for suppliers operating level including agents and near the area smallholder farmers • Support for 100% of 69,100 plasma • Facilitate collaborations on a smallholders landscape level between GAR, • Innovative Financing and other independent suppliers, farmers, support schemes for 4,500 government, and Civil Society independent smallholders to date Organisations (CSOs) to improve • Increasing partnerships with responsible practices • Continue to promote Innovative customers to support improvement Financing and smallholder support in smallholders’ livelihoods and schemes sustainability (see page 42 for more • Continue to work with details) multi-stakeholders such as customers to improve smallholder livelihoods 4 GOL D EN AG R I-R E S OU RC ES LTD Needs Work Corporate governance, On Track Achieved ethics and integrity Key Commitments Progress Future Targets We comply with • No incidents of corruption or • Continue to comply with applicable applicable laws in bribery in 2017 anti-bribery and anti-corruption all the countries, laws and regulations in line with in which we do GAR’s policies and commitment to business, that UNGC principles are designed to prevent bribery and corruption, including all anti-bribery and corruption laws Progress on UN SDGs Yield Improvement Key Commitments Progress Future Targets Continuous yield • Breakthrough in yield improvement: • Eka 1 and Eka 2 being developed for improvement to launch of non-GMO clonal seeds progressive roll out; replanting with reduce pressure Eka 1 and Eka 2 with potential the clonal seeds to start in 2022 on new land to produce over 10 tonnes/ha/year development without of crude palm oil (CPO) intensification of (current national average: the use of chemical 3.5 tonnes/ha/year) pesticides and fertilisers Product quality and safety Key Commitments Progress Future Targets All of our processes, • Continued reformulation of • Continue to prioritise elimination of products and consumer products to eliminate all trans fatty acids in 2018 services will meet, or trans fatty acids • Continue to research best methods exceed, all applicable • Continued with mitigation processes to minimise co-contaminants safety and health to minimise co-contaminants (for regulations e.g. 3-MCPD) Su stainab ili t y Re po r t 5 201 7 Targets and UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Needs Work Community relations and On Track Achieved empowerment Key Commitments Progress Future Targets Empowering people • 100% of estates have social and • Continue to empower through community community programmes communities and multiply the development • Integrated Ecological Farming positive impacts of our business programmes launched at 11 villages to boost through a range of education, food self-sufficiency and income healthcare, social and economic programmes Women, diversity and inclusion Key Commitments Progress Future Targets The Company is • No incidents of discrimination or • Continue to ensure equal firmly committed harassment in 2017 opportunities regardless of race, to provide equal • Miminal progress in increasing colour of skin, religion, gender, opportunity in women representation in national origin or any other class all aspects of Senior Management or Board employment and will not tolerate any discrimination or harassment based on race, colour of skin, religion, gender, national origin or any other class Progress on UN SDGs Operational Footprint: Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions; water; use of fertilisers, pesticides and chemicals; waste Key Commitments Progress Future Targets Report and reduce • Reduced 40-55% of emissions • Set short, medium and long term greenhouse gas through methane capture at mills reduction targets by 2018 (GHG) emissions (see page 61) • Explore reduction of GHG and • Finalised calculations of GHG expand methane capture activities emissions at Kalimantan upstream from now till 2020 operations Water • Water consumption is remaining • Carry out water footprint steady and not decreasing assessment to better manage water consumption 6 GOL D EN AG R I-R E S OU RC ES LTD Needs Work On Track Achieved We recognise • Continued with Intergated Pest • Intensify efforts to develop concerns over the use Management to minimise use of practices that reduce pesticide and of chemical fertilisers herbicides and pesticides herbicide use and pesticides and (see page 63) • Continue to use Integrated aim to reduce and • Zero paraquat use Pest Management minimise their use. We will stop the use of paraquat Identify, reduce, • 100% of liquid and solid waste from • Maintain 100% reuse of solid and reuse, recycle and CPO production process is reused liquid waste generated from CPO dispose of waste in and recycled production process an environmentally • Reduced over 250 tonnes of plastic • Explore further optimised use of responsible way packaging waste in 2017 – a further solid and liquid waste 13% reduction from 2016 • Explore further ways to reduce packaging waste Climate change adaptation Key Commitments Progress Future Targets All of our processes, • SMARTRI continued R&D efforts to • Continue R&D on adaptive planting products and produce more drought and disease materials and agronomic practices services will meet, or resistant seeds exceed, all applicable • SMARTRI continued R&D on safety and health agronomic practices to account for regulations climate change Su stainab ili t y Re po r t 7 201 7 Chairman’s Statement (102-14) In our downstream business, we continued to face a competitive market environment and declining CPO prices during the year affected our margins. We remain focused on improving operational efficiencies across the value chain while offering a larger portfolio of value-added products and services to global customers for better margins. We will continue to innovate and be responsive to changing market demands with our product offerings. We enter the year 2018 in a robust financial position with sound liquidity and improved credit profile for the financial market. More efficient financing and refinancing costs will be our focus in the years ahead. Positive outlook for palm oil We believe that in the short term, CPO price could maintain its position as the increase in production will be absorbed by the robust growth in demand. We are also confident about the long-term prospects of palm oil. As world population and income per capita continue to rise, food production needs to double in order to secure Franky Oesman Widjaja adequate food supplies. With limited agricultural land, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer the target of producing more food with less area will play a vital part in sustainable agriculture. Palm oil is the best candidate to fulfil this demand, especially with the upcoming industry replanting that is expected to double For GAR, 2017 was another year of strong performance, current yields. Apart from food usage, oleochemicals and demonstrating our distinct and growing competitive edge biodiesel will also continue to provide additional demand from an integrated business model with a strategically for palm oil as a feedstock. balanced portfolio of upstream and downstream businesses. GAR’s remarkable performance stemmed Sharing responsible practices, transforming from our upstream business as plantation output our supply chain rebounded after the previous year’s decline following the In 2017, we continued to make progress on our journey El Niño phenomenon. At the same time, we were able towards responsible palm oil production including taking to extract further value as we continue to streamline our steps towards increased transparency and traceability of downstream assets. our supply chain. At the same time, we are taking note of areas where we need to improve our performance and After being hit by the severe El Niño in 2015, weather to this end we have commissioned external assessments conditions became favourable and production picked and a new materiality assessment to help us understand up from the fourth quarter of 2016. Our fruit production where we can improve. for the reporting period grew by eight percent with an average yield of 20.5 tonnes per hectare, which continues Significant milestones to be the best amongst our peers. Consistent focus on As a leading player in the palm oil industry, our operational efficiencies contributed to the successful commitment to responsible palm oil involves not just our expansion of the plantations and palm oil mills segment company’s operations, it extends to our supply chain. To EBITDA margin by six percent. meet this commitment, we completed another significant milestone in 2017 by achieving 100 percent Traceability GAR’s planted area reached over 500,000 hectares by to the Plantation (TTP) for all GAR-owned mills. This is the end of the year. Our upstream division also achieved a continuation of the mapping of our suppliers which its replanting target at almost 10,000 hectares. This began with the achievement of 100 percent Traceability accelerated replanting is aligned with our intensification to the Mill in 2015. Our independent suppliers are also strategy aimed at improving production yields from each mapping their supply chains and we aim to have them hectare of our land. Our strategy involves replanting report full TTP by end 2020. with new and higher yielding seeds, as well as rolling out infrastructure for mechanisation and precision agriculture. TTP means we can guarantee the provenance of our raw materials and is in line with the efforts of our major GAR’s Indonesian refineries performed well, achieving customers who are also working on full transparency of much higher utilisation rate and a production volume their palm supply chain. But for us, this achievement has record due to our focus on higher value-added products. even greater significance because it is a key part of our This is an excellent accomplishment against the wider efforts to help our suppliers change for the better. overcapacity situation in the country. Through deeper engagement, we reduce supply chain 8 GOL D EN AG R I-R E S OU RC ES LTD risks while helping our industry become more responsible the participation of GAR as a signatory to the UNGC. We and resilient. have been committed to the UNGC Principles since 2006 when GAR’s subsidiary, SMART became a signatory of the In parallel with our mapping efforts, we have been carrying UNGC and we will continue to report on our companyout targeted site visits; monitoring our suppliers as part wide progress through this Sustainability Report. of risk assessment and management; and assessing their needs to help them upgrade their capacity to implement As a company that firmly believes in sustainability, we are responsible practices. Our SMART SEED workshops are now honoured to be named in the Dow Jones Sustainability an annual event and themes are chosen based on feedback Indices (Asia-Pacific), the longest established sustainability and assessment of suppliers’ most pressing needs. In 2017, index in the world. We debuted in the index in 2017 we also held a workshop for our suppliers operating near following a rigorous assessment of our Environmental, the Leuser Ecosystem to heighten their awareness of the Social and Governance policies and practices. We are also protected status of Leuser, and how to stop sourcing palm proud to be a member of the SGX Sustainability Index, oil from growers that may be operating in protected areas. including the Sustainability Leaders Index. The progress made in this area aligns with UN Sustainable Continuous improvement Development Goal (SDG) 12 – Responsible Consumption It is with great sadness that we report that there were and Production – as we try to improve the livelihoods work-related accidents which resulted in six fatalities in of our suppliers especially small farmers while ensuring 2017 and our deepest sympathies are with their families. sustainable production. Addressing this issue has become an urgent priority for us and we are strengthening internal systems and procedures Last year, we also made a breakthrough in long-term in order to achieve zero fatalities and accidents in the yield improvement when we launched two new planting future. materials – Eka 1 and Eka 2. These non-GMO clonal seeds, which can potentially produce more than 10 tonnes In the similar spirit of continuous improvement, we of CPO per hectare per year, are set to revolutionise asked several external parties including the Rainforest productivity and will be rolled out progressively in our Alliance to assess our implementation of the GAR Social plantations. Eka 1 and Eka 2 are the results of our longand Environmental Policy (GSEP). They have reported held belief in investing in technology and R&D to advance that in the main we are progressing and have the right sustainable productivity, while reducing the need to open procedures in place, but have also recommended some more land for agriculture. This puts us on track to deliver areas for improvement. We have devised action plans UN SDG 2 which aims to increase agricultural productivity based on the findings. to relieve global hunger. To check that we are aware of issues which impact We continue to make progress on other fronts including our business and our stakeholders, we carried out an our innovative community conservation partnerships. extensive materiality assessment in the second half of Participatory mapping with communities continues apace 2017, reaching out to many of our stakeholders for and more villages have signed conservation agreements feedback and input. The materiality assessment helps to protect over 7,000 hectares of High Carbon Stock us respond to the changing business environment and (HCS) forests. expectations from our stakeholders. Through this, we have been able to map out our material issues which will We remain vigilant against fire and in the second year guide our strategic planning and reporting. of our collaboration with villages in Jambi and West Kalimantan on long-term fire prevention, we are glad As we continue to work on our various sustainability to report that the programme has helped to reduce initiatives, we believe that continued support from hotspots and firespots. Long-term initiatives to change developed and progressive markets is crucial to sustain the mindset of local communities and convince them to the efforts of the palm oil industry as it transitions towards abandon the use of fire for agricultural purposes remains more responsible practices. This is particularly critical for a priority for us. the millions of smallholders who depend on palm oil for their livelihoods and who need external markets which We also achieved our target of releasing 100 orangutans are supportive of responsibly produced palm oil. through our multi-year partnership with Orangutan Foundation International (OFI) last year. We are now exploring new ways to continue this important initiative. These efforts in environmental management allow us to deliver the goals of UN SDG 15 which aims to preserve Franky Oesman Widjaja Life on Land. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 29 June 2018 Our support for the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact and the UN SDGs has been reaffirmed by Su stainab ili t y Re po r t 9 201 7 Board of Directors’ Statement (102-14) As the largest palm oil grower in Indonesia, GAR believes and industry standards including the Roundtable on that socio-economic growth can go hand-in-hand with Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). Principles and Criteria, environmental protection and sustainable practices. the High Carbon Stock Approach (HCS) and the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Our sustainability strategy uses a methodical approach to understanding our most material issues across all To ensure the appropriate level of oversight and areas of our business – this includes our impacts on the guidance, we have established a Sustainability Committee environment, the communities around us, our workers, our comprising the senior leadership team across the supply chain and the consumers who use our products. upstream, downstream and corporate centres which meets regularly to oversee the development and In 2015, we updated our policy governing sustainability implementation of GAR’s sustainability strategy. The and launched the GAR Social and Environmental Committee reports to the Chairman and CEO and Policy (GSEP). It covers the key economic, social and the Board, and is a key part of GAR’s efforts to embed environmental issues facing the palm oil industry, sustainability in its everyday operations. and serves as the company’s main roadmap towards responsible palm oil production. Ultimately, we believe that our investment in responsible palm oil production is essential in helping our business Based on this policy, we have set performance improvement thrive and create value for shareholders, our employees targets for our material sustainability issues. The monitoring, and the community. evaluation and reporting of our performance through our Annual and Sustainability Reports helps us track our progress and identify areas for improvement. We work on achieving our goals through engagement, partnership and collaboration with key stakeholders For and on behalf of the Board including government, communities, Civil Society Franky Oesman Widjaja Organisations (CSOs) and our industry peers. Furthermore, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer we benchmark our performance against international 29 June 2018 10 GOL D EN AG R I-R E S OU RC ES LTD About GAR (102-2, 102-4, 102-6) 173,700 jobs in Indonesia 51,000 permanent employees 53,600 fixed-term employees 69,100 plasma smallholders About Gar Value chain of our business in Indonesia 500,000 427 T manages more than ORE HAN M 30 supplier mills across Indonesia hectares of palm oil estate— 4% of CONSUMER Indonesia’s planted BRANDS estates Products 20% sold in Owns more than of our managed estates are owned by our plasma smallholders 46 palm oil mills 70 countries world-wide Research and Plantation and Processed Milling Basic Product Processing Development Harvesting Product Seedling Crude Palm Oil Refining Branded and Unbranded Cooking Oil Margarine and Specialty Fats Biodiesel Operates bulking stations, crushing plants and palm Palm Kernel Palm Kernel Kernel Crushing oil refineries in eight main Meal locations across Indonesia Palm Kernel Oil Oleochemicals Fatty Acids Glycerine Upstream Downstream Su stainab ili t y Re po r t 11 201 7 About GAR (102-2, 102-3, 102-4, 102-5) Listed on the Singapore Exchange since 1999, GAR Our products are sold globally to a diversified customer and its subsidiaries form one of the leading integrated base by leveraging our extensive distribution network, palm oil plantation companies in the world, with a total strong merchandising, branding, and destination revenue of more than USD7.5 billion and underlying marketing. GAR’s shipping and logistics capabilities are profit of USD254 million in 2017. bolstered by our ownership of vessels, sea ports, jetties, warehouses and bulking facilities in strategic locations. GAR’s primary activities are located in Indonesia and range from cultivating and harvesting oil palm trees, The chart below sets out a simplified corporate structure processing fresh fruit bunches (FFB) into crude palm oil of the business including principal operating subsidiaries (CPO) and palm kernel (PK), to refining CPO into industrial and intermediate holding companies. It also shows the and consumer products such as cooking oil, margarine, structure of shareholding between GAR’s publicly traded shortening, biodiesel and oleochemicals, as well as shares and Flambo International Ltd, an investment merchandising palm products throughout the world. company owned by the Widjaja family. 50.35 percent of GAR shares are directly and indirectly held by Flambo GAR also has operations in China and India, where International Ltd and 49.65 percent are publicly held. we operate a deep-sea port, oilseed crushing plants, production capabilities for refined edible oil products as GAR operates independently, as each business group well as other food products such as noodles. of the Widjaja family has its own separate management Corporate Structure of GAR Flambo International Ltd Public 50.35% 49.65% Plantation and Palm Oil Mills Oilseeds and Consumer Products Palm and Laurics 100% Florentina International 92% PT SMART Tbk (Oilseed crushing and refinery, manufacturing (Oil palm plantation and refinery) and marketing of food products) 100% PT Ivo Mas Tunggal 100% Shining Gold (Oil palm plantation and refinery) (Oilseed crushing and refinery) 100% PT Sawit Mas Sejahtera 82% Ningbo Port (Oil palm plantation and refinery) (Deep sea oil and grain port) 100% PT Sinar Kencana Inti Perkasa 100% PT Sinarmas Cakrawala Persada (Oil palm plantation) (Consumer products and distribution) 100% PT Binasawit Abadipratama (Oil palm plantation) 100% Golden Agri International (Merchandishing) 75% Gemini Edibles & Fats India Note: (Refinery and marketing) Simplified corporate structure with principal operating subsidiaries 12 GOL D EN AG R I-R E S OU RC ES LTD Our plantations and mills in Indonesia Kalimantan 216,754 ha 26,351 ha 6.6 million tpa Sumatra 169,906 ha 76,501 ha 6.4 million Papua tpa 13,335 ha 300,000 tpa Nucleus planted area in hectares CPO mills capacity in tonnes per annum Plasma planted area in hectares Downstream capacities in Indonesia Kalimantan 900,000 tpa 675,000 tpa 300,000 tpa Sumatra 2.5 million tpa Java 1.1 million tpa 440,000 tpa 1.3 million tpa 300,000 tpa Refinery in tonnes per annum Oleochemicals plant, including operations under JV, Kernel crushing plant in tonnes per annum in tonnes per annum Biodiesel plant in tonnes per annum Su stainab ili t y Re po r t 13 201 7 About GAR team and independent directors. GAR’s subsidiary of estates owned by GAR (called ‘nucleus’) totaling SMART, is marketed under the Sinar Mas brand. However, 399,995 hectares and estates owned by smallholders GAR and SMART are not subsidiaries of Sinar Mas, as Sinar (called ‘plasma’) amounting to 102,852 hectares. Mas does not refer to any operating business entity. The harvested FFB are processed in GAR-owned milling The scale of our operation (102-4, 102-7) facilities, which are strategically located near the GAR maintains its position as the leading oil palm plantations, to produce CPO and PK. GAR has 46 mills plantation group in Indonesia with estates spanning the with a combined installed annual capacity of 13.3 million archipelago. tonnes of FFB. During the year, our mills produced 2.18 million tonnes of CPO and 545,000 thousand tonnes We manage 172 oil palm estates with a total area of of PK. 502,847 hectares. As at end 2017, the planted area consists Palm Oil – an SDG commodity (102-15) versatility have resulted in rapidly growing worldwide Palm oil is produced from the fruit of oil palms, which demand. grow in fertile regions close to the equator. Oil is extracted from both the fruit and its kernel (the nut In Indonesia, palm oil production has helped to lift at its centre), producing crude palm oil, crude palm millions of rural farmers out of absolute poverty. It is kernel oil and palm kernel expeller, which can be estimated that a palm oil farmer can earn up to seven further refined and used in different products. times more than a subsistence farmer. It provides direct and indirect employment for an estimated 16 Palm oil has the highest yield of any oil crop and million people and generated USD23 billion worth of makes more efficient use of land in its production palm oil exports in 2017 for Indonesia. Palm oil estates than any other vegetable oils. In 2017, mature oil also provide critical infrastructure and facilities for palms occupied less than seven percent of the total rural populations and gives them access to healthcare harvested area for vegetable oils. However, in the and education. Through this, palm oil is helping to form of palm oil and palm kernel oil, they supplied 37 deliver several UN SDGs including ending poverty, percent of global vegetable oil production in 2017. generating decent work and economic growth, providing quality education and health and wellbeing, It is also extremely versatile, used as a cooking oil, and reducing inequalities. in foods such as margarine and ice cream, and in thousands of non-food products from soaps to The chart below shows that palm oil not only cosmetics, candles and pharmaceuticals. Palm oil produces the best yield of all commercial oil crops is also a valuable biofuel, which can contribute to but also creates less impact in terms of fertiliser and reducing carbon emissions. Palm oil’s low cost and pesticide usage. Resources needed to produce major vegetable oils (MT/ha/year) 3.56 47 2 0.82 99 11 0.54 315 29 Palm Rapeseed Soybean Yield – Tonnes of oil produced per hectare Fertiliser – Kg to produce one tonne of oil Source: Oil World and Pesticides – Kg to produce one tonne of oil The Guardian 14 GOL D EN AG R I-R E S OU RC ES LTD The value chain of our palm oil business in April 2018. This initiative is part of our strategy of (102-7) refocusing our business model for our China oilseed Our palm oil business, which is mostly in Indonesia, is division. fully vertically integrated and involved in every aspect of palm oil production. We develop and produce oil GAR also operates a food business in China through palm seeds, plant and manage oil palm plantations, Florentina International Holdings Limited, which harvest and mill the fruit of the palms to create our palm manufactures and distributes a variety of economy products (CPO and PK). We then refine CPO and crush and premium grade snack noodle and instant noodle PK to produce higher value products such as cooking products, and other snack products in the country. oil, margarine, shortening, biodiesel, oleochemicals and other palm oil derivative goods. We sell our products This business contributes to the performance of both in bulk to wholesalers and direct to consumers Oilseeds and Other segments (see page 133 of GAR through some of Asia’s most popular food and cookery Annual Report 2017 Note 42 “Operating Segment brands. In Indonesia, our products are marketed under Information” for further details). our prominent brands, Filma and Kunci Mas. Balancing sustainability with strategic We aim to offer an extensive range of products, and growth opportunities (102-10) focus our R&D on evolving our portfolio to meet To sustain our long-term growth, we continue to study customer demand. This includes consumer demand the potential for oil palm plantations in other countries. for higher quality and more sustainable palm oil goods. We are investing in Africa through The Verdant Fund LP, a private equity fund that owns Golden Veroleum We also have destination processing in China and India, (Liberia) Inc (GVL). The Liberian government has the two largest consumers of edible oils. In China, we granted GVL a concession to develop land for oil palm produce refined vegetable oils by blending palm oil plantations. The GSEP applies to all GAR investments with soybean oil to accommodate market demand. In and as such GVL follows sustainable development addition to that, our plants also produce value-added practices as laid out in the policy. GVL is also a member products such as margarine, shortening and butter of the RSPO and adheres to its Principles and Criteria. oil substitute. In India, we own refinery plants and As at end of 2017, GVL cultivated approximately 16,800 established brand in the eastern part of the country, hectares of oil palm plantations, with GAR providing supported by an extensive distribution system. technical expertise to ensure quality and sustainability. Our palm oil business contributes to the performance Our financial performance in 2017 (102-7) of Plantations and Palm Oil Mills as well as Palm and During 2017, GAR posted a revenue of over USD7.5 Laurics segments (see page 133 of GAR Annual Report billion, four percent higher than the previous year. EBITDA 2017 Note 42 “Operating Segment Information” for grew by 16 percent to USD665 million whilst underlying further details). profit increased by 36 percent to reach USD254 million. The value chain of our oilseeds and others This strong performance was on the back of the business (102-7) recovery in palm product output. With adjusted net In China, GAR owns integrated vegetable oil facilities debt to equity ratio of 0.42 times and total consolidated comprising oilseed storage, crushing and refining assets of USD8.1 billion as at 31 December 2017, GAR’s facilities, and one of the country’s largest deep-sea financial position continues to strengthen. ports. Through our deep-sea port operation in Ningbo, Zhejiang Province, we import and store oils and grains, We are also confident about the long-term prospects including refined palm oil from our own operations in of palm oil. As world population and income per capita Indonesia and soybean. Our oilseed crushing facilities continue to rise, food production needs to double in in Ningbo and Tianjin produce soybean meal to be sold order to secure adequate food supplies. With limited within China, and crude soybean oil that is, in turn, agricultural land, the target of producing more food processed by the refineries together with other edible with less area will play a vital part in sustainable oils including palm oil. agriculture. Palm oil is the best candidate to fulfil this demand, especially with the upcoming industry In November 2017, we entered into a conditional replanting that is expected to double current yields. agreement to divest our subsidiary, Sinarmas Natural Apart from food usage, oleochemicals and biodiesel Resources Foodstuff Technology (Tianjin) Co., Ltd, will also continue to provide additional demand for that owns and operates oilseeds crushing and refining palm oil as a feedstock. facilities in Tianjin. The divestment was completed Su stainab ili t y Re po r t 15 201 7 About GAR The chart below shows GAR’s economic value generation from its integrated palm oil business and its distribution during 2017. Economic value generated and distributed from palm oil business* in 2017 (201-1) 2017 Direct economic value generated Revenue from external parties **(USD’000) 6,701,282 Economic value distributed (% of revenues) Operating costs 81.5% • Plasma farmers 4.1% • Other suppliers 77.4% Employee wages and benefits 8.3% Payments to providers of capital 3.1% Tax payments to governments 3.9% Community investments (Philanthropy) 0.1% Economic value retained (calculated as ‘Direct economic value generated’ less ‘Economic value distributed’) Economic value retained *** 3.1% Note: * Refers to the performance of Plantation and Palm Oil Mills as well as Palm and Laurics Segments ** Including income from financial investments and sales of assets *** Including R&D expenditure Our corporate governance (102-18, 102-22, Ethics and compliance (102-16, 102-17, 103-1, 102-23, 102-26, 102-32) 103-2, 103-3, 205-3, 415-1) We are committed to the highest standards of corporate At GAR, we are committed to pursuing our business governance, and to complying with the principles of objectives with integrity and in compliance with the the Code of Corporate Governance published in 2012. law, no matter where we operate. We comply with applicable laws in all the countries in which we do The make-up of our board is an important part of our business, including all anti-bribery and corruption approach to corporate governance. Currently, the regulations. No incidents of bribery or corruption were Board has seven members, including four independent identified in 2017 and as such, no disciplinary action directors, who exercise objective judgment in our was necessary against any employees. GAR does not corporate affairs, and offer independent, constructive make any corporate political contributions. criticism as required. The Board is headed by GAR’s Chairman and CEO, Mr. Franky O. Widjaja and is We expect all our employees, contractors and business responsible for overseeing all aspects of our business, partners to adhere to the GAR Code of Conduct including our commitments to sustainability. A full list of which is communicated to all our existing and new our Board of Directors and their profiles can be found on employees. The Code is purposefully designed to be our website. practically applicable to our day-to-day business, with definite guidelines on acceptable and unacceptable Remuneration policy (102-35) behaviour. The Code emphasises the Company’s For details of GAR’s remuneration policy for the Board commitment to fair employment practices; diversity; please see page 37 in the GAR Annual Report 2017. and its stand against discrimination and zero tolerance for harassment or abuse. No cases of harassment and From 2015, the Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) abuse were identified in 2017 and as such, no disciplinary which are used to evaluate performance and linked to action was necessary against any employees. remuneration for senior management have included implementation of the GSEP. This is in order to help The Code also details avenues for raising concerns and further embed responsible palm oil practices as part of whistleblowing procedures, encouraging employees GAR’s day-to-day operations and culture. to report any possible improprieties in confidence 16 GOL D EN AG R I-R E S OU RC ES LTD and without fear of retaliation. Since the launch of • GAR debuted on the Dow Jones Sustainability the updated Code in 2015, we have been conducting Indices (DJSI) (Asia-Pacific) in recognition of its training for all our employees as well as new hires. corporate sustainability leadership within its industry We require our suppliers to comply with the Supplier • GAR is included in latest SGX Sustainability Index Code of Conduct which obligates suppliers to comply including Sustainability Leaders Index with GAR’s policies including the GSEP. • Winner of Sustainable Business Awards Indonesia Our achievements in 2017 2017 in the category of Land Use, Biodiversity and • PT SMART Tbk, GAR’s subsidiary, received a Social Environment for the second year in a row Business Innovation Award 2017 in Plantation Category from Warta Ekonomi magazine, while • Winner of Asia’s Best Supply Chain Reporting in the its President Director, Mr. Jo Daud Dharsono was Asia Sustainability Reporting Awards awarded Green CEO 2017 in Plantation Category Su stainab ili t y Re po r t 17 201 7 How We Approach Responsible Palm Oil How We Approach Responsible Palm Oil We are focussing on three SDGs which we believe align (102-11, 102-12) best with our strengths as a company. These are also As an agribusiness, GAR understands the crucial areas where we see the most opportunities for further importance of careful and responsible stewardship of growth and development. These SDGs include UN SDG natural resources. As a company that provides jobs for 2 – Zero Hunger, SDG 12 – Responsible Consumption tens of thousands of people and which operates near and Production and SDG 15 – Life on Land. All these and around thousands of villages, we are also keenly are supported by local and global partnerships – the aware of the necessity of being a good corporate citizen goal of UN SDG 17. and neighbour. These tenets underpin our approach to achieving responsible palm oil production. As we continue to implement our initiatives and projects which help us achieve successful forest Since we adopted the first Forest Conservation Policy conservation and environmental management, we are in the palm oil industry in 2011, we have continued also proactively trying to transform our supply chain. to make strides in moving towards responsible palm Through our deepening engagement with our supply oil production and we seek to encourage the rest of chain initiated by our traceability exercises, we are the industry to adopt responsible practices through actively trying to influence and encourage our suppliers, engagement and dialogue. and by extension the rest of the industry, to adopt responsible practices (see section on “Marketplace and Our roadmap for achieving this is the GAR Social and Supply Chain”). Environmental Policy or the GSEP. Launched in 2015, the policy consolidates all our sustainability related policies Management Approach to Responsible in one document. It contains our commitments for Palm Oil (102-18, 102-19, 102-20, 102-21) our most material sustainability issues and our overall The Board and Senior Management are fully involved approach to ensuring their responsible management. in and supports GAR’s sustainability efforts and The GSEP embodies our belief that economic growth, commitments under the GSEP and have stated this social progress and environmental protection can go in the Board of Directors’ Statement. A Sustainability hand-in-hand. Committee (SC) which is chaired by Ms. Jesslyne Widjaja, Corporate Strategy and Business Development Director, We also keep up with emerging concerns and trends oversees all matters related to responsible palm oil. globally and locally and strive to incorporate these in The SC comprises the senior leadership team from the our approach to responsible production. One such upstream, downstream, and corporate business units, example is our alignment of our ongoing initiatives with as well as the Head of the Sustainability and Strategic the UN SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals). Stakeholder Engagement Department and other staff members from the department. It reports directly to Mr. Franky O. Widjaja, Chairman and CEO of GAR, and the Board, and meets regularly to oversee the development and implementation of the GSEP and the monitoring of performance across all our business operations. Aside from these meetings, urgent and developing issues are escalated to relevant SC members for their input and decisions. Over the years we have continued to invest additional resources with the aim of embedding responsible practices in our day-to-day operations. The Sustainability and Strategic Stakeholder Engagement Department has over 300 staff working in Jakarta and in the field. As detailed in the organisation charts, we employ specialists to oversee and handle key areas such as conflict resolution, HCS/HCV management, fire prevention, community consent (FPIC), grievance management and health and safety. The department also works with colleagues in Human Resources on labour issues to ensure free and fair labour practices in line with the GSEP. 18 GOL D EN AG R I-R E S OU RC ES LTD Our Journey towards Responsible Palm Oil 1997 January February 2010 February 2011 First Indonesian 2005 Zero GAR launches palm producer SMART development pioneering to establish Zero joins on peatland Forest Burning Policy RSPO regardless of Conservation depth Policy (FCP) April 2011 May 2011 November 2011 February 2012 GAR joins GAR GAR launches GAR and RSPO publishes Social and SMART first Community launch Yield Sustainability Engagement Improvement Report Policy (SCEP) Policy (YIP) March 2013 February May 2014 September GAR and SMART 2014 GAR 2014 implement GAR’s FCP launches GAR endorses HCS Forest extends to Sustainability New York Conservation downstream Dashboard Declaration Pilot operations on Forests March 2015 April 2015 September 2015 November 2015 GAR GAR and HCS GAR rolls GAR launches implements Approach out updated peat Participatory Steering Group Social and rehabilitation Mapping as publish HCS Environmental project in part of FPIC Approach Toolkit Policy (GSEP) PT AMNL November December 2015 February April 2016 2015 GAR completes 2016 GAR GAR launches 100% mapping GAR launches announces Community of supply chain Desa Siaga Api Traceability Conservation to mills to help villages to Plantation Partnerships (Traceability to stay fire-free (TTP) Plan the Mill) January 2017 April 2017 September 2017 December 2017 GAR expands Launch of GAR debuts on DJSI GAR-owned fire-free super highmills complete programme into yielding non100% TTP Desa Makmur GMO seeds Peduli Api Eka 1 & Eka 2 Su stainab ili t y Re po r t 19 201 7 How We Approach Responsible Palm Oil (102-18, 102-19, 102-20, 102-21) Our Sustainability and Strategic Stakeholder Department MD Sustainability and Strategic Stakeholder Engagement MD Support Specialist Sustainability National Sustainability Sustainability Policy and Implementation Stakeholders Compliance Head Engagement, Head Project Grievance Handling Management and Social Conflict Officer Resolution Head Sustainability Sustainability Sustainable Compliance Supply Chain Strategic Plantation and Sustainability Policy Landscape Certification Head Planning Head Head Head Sustainable Regional Occupational Supplier Palm Oil FPIC CSR Sustainability Health and Complier Certification Head Head Stakeholders Safety Head Head Head Engagement Specialist Sustainability Environmental Procedure Development Grievance Social Mill and Performance and Handling Baseline Refinery and Monitoring Grievance Improvement Head Head Head Head Handling Head Head Environmental Sustainability Traceability Baseline and Capacity Head Management Social Building Head Head Conflict Resolution Monitoring Head Sustainability 3rd-party Reporting Database and Landscape Verification and Reporting Head Head Remote Sensing Head Fire Prevention and Response Head 20 G OL D EN AG RI-RESOURCES S us ta i n ab i l i t y Rep o r t 21 LT D 2017 How We Approach Responsible Palm Oil Our Upstream Field Sustainability Implementation Organisation Structure Managing Director Operations CEO Vice President Agronomy Regional Controller Head of Upstream Sustainability Sustainability Policy and Implementation Compliance Division Head Field Sustainability Estate Implementation Manager Manager Field Field Social Sustainable Environmental Assistant Palm Oil Assistant Assistant To ensure proper comprehension and implementation Responsible handling of complaints and of the GSEP, we provide training for employees. In grievances (102-17) 2017, over 3,500 employees received GSEP training. In 2015, GAR established a Grievance Procedure to ensure that as a company, we are responsive to any grievances GSEP training for employees in 2017 raised by external parties which may involve our thirdparty suppliers. It helps us to address a wide range of Training trainers 2,064 concerns, including those related to our most material GSEP implementation evaluation 1,086 issues, and covers our worldwide operations. GSEP training at Head Office 47 During 2017, six grievances were raised with GAR and of New hires orientation 363 these we have closed two cases. We also resolved and closed two earlier grievances. GAR is actively reviewing and working towards a resolution with stakeholders on all open grievances. The full list and details of our grievances is updated regularly and can be viewed on the GAR Sustainability Dashboard. 22 GOL D EN AG R I-R E S OU RC ES LTD GAR Grievance Procedure Develop an approach for handling the specific Grievance. Identification If required, Prepare action Implement and monitor of Potential Initial commence Field plan to resolve the action plan until the Grievance Engagement Verification Grievance Grievance is resolved Grievance External Raiser1 Potential The Grievance Unit engages (NGO, Grievance with the Grievance Raiser. Communicate Media, reported to If a field verification is necessary, outcomes Stakeholders etc.) GAR, found and when relevant and to external by GAR or appropriate, the Grievance Raiser stakeholders Implement published will be invited to participate action plan and monitor in consultation Grievance with external Unit (GAR) Confirm the Record in parties until issue is a the (publicly Prepare the Grievance Grievance available) Grievance Memo is resolved using Grievance setting out the simple List & engage key details and Decision Tree with relevant recommendation parties Grievance Prepare Monitor Committee Decide Action Plan progress against (GAR & TFT) response to resolve action plan Refer for Enact Grievance immediate recommenand action dation communicate Grievance Assess Action with relevant Resolved Plan Implementation parties after agreed and Closed Progress Action Internal Target of on action Plan Discuss plan implemented Grievance Grievance warrants (GAR-owned Stakeholders and obtain extension unit or Third further Party Supplier) information Request verification No progress Verification Commence Prepare on action Team (GAR, Field Verification plan TFT & optional Verification Report third party) Suspension Committee If immediate If the action (GAR) action is plan is not required but agreed to not being taken or executed (e.g. stopping as intended, forest clearance), consider consider suspension/ suspension termination 1 week 2 weeks 4 weeks Agreed time period2 1 The Grievance Raiser may nominate a third party to act on their behalf. 2 Action plans will work to agreed timelines of no more than three months to reach resolution. However, where circumstances prevent resolution within that time – for example, where legal proceedings are involved – progress at three months will be reviewed to assess whether there is clear evidence of a resolution process being actively implemented. We also have a grievance mechanism in place for Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting stakeholders including employees to raise grievances (102-12, 103-3) involving our own operations as well as social conflict Under the GSEP, we are committed to monitoring, handling procedures. evaluating and reporting our performance. To help us continuously improve, we have engaged independent external parties to carry out verification studies and Su stainab ili t y Re po r t 23 201 7 How We Approach Responsible Palm Oil surveys. These include a study by Business for Social stock and improving agronomic practices to cope with Responsibility (BSR) on our labour practices. The the impact of climate change. Rainforest Alliance has also carried out a verification study on the implementation of the GSEP in 2017. We We are also committed to safeguarding consumer health have also engaged EY to work with us on our Carbon and our R&D department is reformulating processed Footprint Assessment Project, which will help us products to be completely transfat-free as well as establish and verify baseline measurements of GHG carrying out measures to reduce co-contaminants in emissions and formulate strategies for reduction. processed palm oil. These are just some of the external assessments that Partnerships for responsible palm oil are helping us monitor our progress and take the right All these endeavours require us to work closely steps to improve our responsible practices whether it and engage with multiple stakeholders. Partnership be in conservation, human rights, labour practices or (UN SDG 17) is the cornerstone of our approach to social and community engagement. Action plans based achieving our goals. We do this in recognition of our on these independent assessments of our performance limits as a private company and we seek to learn and have been formulated and are being implemented. gain valuable feedback from our stakeholders such as local communities, smallholder farmers, government, We maintain and regularly update our Sustainability CSOs, suppliers, the RSPO, our industry peers and Dashboard which is freely accessible by all stakeholders implementation partners. Our sustainability journey on our website without a separate login. We regularly would not be possible without constant engagement, report our progress on several key initiatives such as our dialogue and consultation with our key stakeholders. Traceability to Plantation (TTP) exercise, our progress in resolving and handling grievances, fire incidents and In several instances, we have worked with CSO wider sustainability efforts on the GAR website and stakeholders like Greenpeace to develop new Sustainability Dashboard as well as in reports such as the guidelines and standards such as the High Carbon Stock GAR Annual Report and the GAR Sustainability Report. Approach (HCSA) to address deforestation concerns. This approach is increasingly being adopted not only in Scientific approach to responsible palm oil our industry but also in other sectors such as forestry. Our approach to responsible palm oil production is underpinned by scientific research and development The GSEP was developed with feedback and input from and the use of technological advances. Our flagship key stakeholders including CSOs such as Greenpeace, research facility SMARTRI, conducts research to Rainforest Action Network (RAN), Forest Peoples develop groundbreaking improvements in yields and Programme (FPP) and our implementation partner, productivity sustainably – minimising impacts on the The Forest Trust (TFT). We also continue to improve environment and the people who work and live on our our Standard Operational Procedures for carrying plantations. With extreme weather phenomena such as out FPIC, handling grievances, conflict resolution and El Niño becoming more severe, SMARTRI also conducts participatory mapping, often with input from external research into developing more resilient non-GMO seed stakeholders such as CSOs. 24 GOL D EN AG R I-R E S OU RC ES LTD The Rainforest Alliance assessment of our GSEP implementation In 2016, GAR approached the Rainforest Alliance to conduct an objective evaluation of the implementation of the GSEP which was launched in 2015, and built on previous sustainability policies. Three concessions in West Kalimantan were picked as evaluation sites – PT. Kartika Prima Cipta (KPC), PT. Paramitra Internusa Pratama (PIP) and PT. Persada Graha Mandiri (PGM). The concessions were chosen because they are the areas where GAR has trialled and delivered the most work related to its GSEP since the policy was implemented. The evaluation was conducted using established, independent auditing procedures, including evidence submissions by GAR and other stakeholders, field visits and stakeholder consultations with affected communities, individuals and organisations. Key findings include: Across the 17 mills, 18 estates and 12 smallholders assessed, all faced challenges in fulfilling most of the principles set forth in the GSEP due to: • GAR has developed a series of Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) and concession managers are consistently working to implement them • GAR has halted forest clearance; is working with affected communities both inside and outside the concessions to control fires; carried out High Conservation Value (HCV) and High Carbon Stock (HCS) assessments; and conserved both HCVs and HCS in the three concessions • GAR has identified social conflicts and is using existing SOPs and related processes for achieving resolution. Continuous improvement in FPIC implementation is critical • GAR has created a functioning supply chain traceability approach The full report and evaluation details can be found here: https://www.rainforest-alliance.org/business/forestry/ verification/transparency/assurance-projects-assesment The GAR Action Plan can be found here: https://goldenagri.com.sg/sustainability-dashboard/files/file_docs/ 2kz4xgar_action_plan_on_rainforest_alliance_evaluation_of_gsep_implementation.pdf Su stainab ili t y Re po r t 25 201 7 Our Materiality Assessment (102-15, 102-46, 102-47) Defining our material sustainability topics In 2017, we conducted an in-depth materiality assessment GAR operates in a continuously changing sustainability across our entire value chain, including how stakeholder landscape. The principle of materiality is important as it perspectives are changing and how macro trends and helps us to identify and prioritise the sustainability topics events are impacting our business. This exercise, described and issues that shape our success as a business and that in detail below, built on our previous assessment in 2015. matter most to our stakeholders. The result of the assessment is a prioritised list of 19 sustainability issues presented in our materiality matrix. Our assessment of material issues informs our These are also described in detail with regards to the sustainability strategy and management approach. It also impact they have across our value chain in the table informs our reporting on sustainability to ensure that below. we are being transparent and responsive to stakeholder interests and concerns. To see how we are managing our The identified material issues were reviewed and most material issues please refer to the Targets and UN signed-off by the GAR Sustainability Committee, before SDGs table on page 2-7. being presented to the Board of Directors prior to the publication of this report. Our Materiality Matrix Fire and haze High Carbon Stock (HCS) forests and peatlands Rights of communities and indigenous peoples Biodiversity and Labour High Conservation Relations and Importance to external stakeholders Value (HCV) areas Human Rights Traceability and supply chain transformation Corporate Occupational Supplier inclusiveness and governance, ethics Health and Safety smallholder livelihoods and integrity and Employee wellbeing Community relations and empowerment Yield improvement Greenhouse Gas Use of fertilisers, (GHG) Emissions Women, diversity pesticides and and inclusion chemicals Climate Product quality change adaption and safety Water Talent retention, development Waste and training Moderate Significant Priority Current or potential impact on business Environmental Management Work Environment and Industrial Relations Governance Marketplace and Supply Chain Social and Community Engagement Issues that have grown in importance since our last materiality assessment Talent retention, development and training Women, diversity and inclusion Labour relations and Human rights Occupational Health and Safety and Employee wellbeing 26 GOL D EN AG R I-R E S OU RC ES LTD Matrix Key • Priority issues are the most material sustainability issues with high impact on society and the environment, and of high concern to stakeholders. These form the focus of GAR’s sustainability policy, strategic approach to responsible palm oil, and sustainability reporting. Reporting on priority issues aims to fully meet the requirements of the GRI Standards: Core Option. • Significant issues are of ongoing importance to GAR and typically of medium concern to stakeholders. They are actively managed by the business. Updates on management and performance in relation to these issues is included in external reporting as relevant, based on sustainability context and stakeholder interest. • Moderate issues are of lower relative importance to both GAR and external stakeholders. However, these issues are still part of GAR’s responsible business practices and are managed as part of the company’s sustainability agenda. These are reported as relevant, based on sustainability context and stakeholder interest. Understanding where in our value chain impacts (actual or potential) occur (103-1) In order to understand our material issues, our assessment looked at the actual or potential impacts in both GARowned and managed operations, as well as suppliers and third parties operating at different stages along the value chain. While we have less direct control over suppliers and third parties, we seek to influence and work with them to mitigate negative and enhance positive impacts. Value Chain Plantation Processing Distribution & consumption Description of Material Issues Fire and haze No burning in our operations, working with the community to prevent forest fires and responding to any fires that occur in order to minimise the harmful effects on the environment and people. High Carbon Stock (HCS) forests and peatlands Identifying, protecting and restoring HCS forests, as well as protecting and managing peatlands storing high levels of carbon. This issue is important at both GAR-owned/managed plantations and third-party estates, which we have a responsibility to influence. Biodiversity and High Conservation Value (HCV) areas Preventing deforestation or development of HCV areas with high biological, ecological, social or cultural values; to protect habitats and maintain biodiversity. This issue is important at both GAR-owned/ managed plantations and third-party estates, which we have a responsibility to influence. Labour relations and Human rights Promoting fair, ethical, and positive relations with our workforce, respecting human and labour rights, ensuring no child or forced labour in our operations and our supply chain. Rights of communities and indigenous peoples Respecting community rights through the Free, Prior and Informed Consent (FPIC) approach. Maintaining community dialogue and engagement, and promoting peaceful resolution of any conflicts. This issue is particularly important for our plantations. Su stainab ili t y Re po r t 27 201 7 Our Materiality Assessment Occupational Health and Safety and Employee wellbeing Fostering a safe and healthy work environment, preventing any work-related illness, injury and accidents, and promoting the wellbeing of workers across our operations and supply chain. Traceability and supply chain transformation Achieving traceability of palm oil products to the mill and to the plantation, and engaging with suppliers to ensure compliance with our policy to promote responsible and ethical practices. Corporate governance, ethics and integrity Conducting all business activities with integrity and in accordance with the highest ethical and governance standards, in line with the GAR Code of Conduct. Supplier inclusiveness and smallholder livelihoods Supporting the sustainable and inclusive development of smallholder farmers in our supply chain. Yield improvement Investing in research and development to improve palm oil yield and reduce pressure on opening new land at plantation level. Community relations and empowerment Supporting sustainable development and livelihoods in the communities where we operate by employing locals, implementing community programmes in education, healthcare, and building and providing public infrastructure, housing and facilities, etc. Women, diversity and inclusion Empowering women across the business and promoting a culture of diversity and inclusion in our workforce and operations. Product quality and safety Adherence to best practice product quality and safety standards, as well as safeguarding consumer health. Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions The measurement, monitoring and reduction of operational GHG emissions across our value chain. Climate change adaption Developing crops resilient to the effects of climate change (e.g. extreme weather events such as drought, flooding) and building community resilience, particularly in areas vulnerable to climate change. Use of fertilisers, pesticides and chemicals Minimising contamination and pollution from fertiliser, pesticide and chemical use, while maintaining soil fertility and high crop yield. This issue is important at both GAR-owned/managed plantations and third-party estates, which we have a responsibility to influence. Water Reducing water use, recycling and reusing water, management of effluents, and preventing water pollution across our operations. Talent retention, development and training Managing current and future talent needs through attraction, retention, training and development across our operations. Waste Managing our waste by reducing, reusing and recycling waste generated, as well as the safe handling and disposal of hazardous waste across our operations. Key (actual/potential impact): Significant Moderate Low 28 GOL D EN AG R I-R E S OU RC ES LTD Our 2017 materiality assessment process nine in-depth interviews were conducted with To ensure a best practice approach and objectivity, the a subset of these stakeholders (banks/lenders, assessment was supported by Corporate Citizenship – a customers, CSOs, specialist sustainability media) to global business consultancy specialising in sustainability. gather further qualitative information and context on The process was designed to meet the principle of their views. materiality as set out in the GRI Standards. It included an in-depth analysis of business impacts across our entire Following data collection and analysis, the prioritisation value chain and gathering a balance of internal and exercise resulted in two scores for each issue – one external perspectives to prioritise the issues. The threefor current or potential impact on the business and stage process is detailed below: one for importance to stakeholders. These were plotted on a draft matrix. 1. Issue identification We conducted a review of the existing material issues 3. Validation and sign-off and desk-based research into emerging sustainability The draft matrix, along with a management report trends, macro forces and competitor practices. We detailing the insights gathered through the process, also looked at requirements from various global was presented to senior management and the standards and frameworks including RSPO Principles sustainability teams for validation and approval and Criteria, the UN SDGs, sustainability ratings (such through two consultative workshops held at GAR’s as the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, FTSE4Good, offices in Singapore and Jakarta. SPOTT and Sustainalytics), questionnaires from financiers and customers, and the Sustainability Following the internal validation, the final materiality Accounting Standards Board’s (SASB) Materiality Map. matrix was presented to GAR’s Sustainability Committee We identified a long list of 177 sustainability issues. for sign off before presentation to the Board of Directors. This long list was then consolidated, combining 4. Outputs related issues and removing any issues deemed The results of the materiality assessment confirmed immaterial, through a working session with Corporate that there is strong alignment between our most Citizenship. The outcome was a shortlist of 19 issues material issues and those which are addressed to take forward to our stakeholders for engagement through the GSEP. It also highlighted some changes and prioritisation. in the importance of issues since 2015, including the increased emphasis stakeholders are placing on social 2. Stakeholder engagement and issue prioritisation issues relating to workers across our value chain. The A balance of internal and external perspectives was insights gathered, including any gaps in policy and gathered, through a mix of qualitative and quantitative procedure, has been conveyed to management teams methods, including surveys and interviews. along with recommendations for improvement. As such, this will inform the ongoing development of Current or potential impact on the business (X-axis) GAR’s overall sustainability strategy and management was determined by surveying internal stakeholders approach with regards to specific issues. from across different functions and at different levels. The survey received a total of 52 responses, The results of our materiality assessment have also ensuring a holistic view of sustainability at GAR was informed the development of this report, to ensure captured. Survey responses were supplemented with that we are being responsive to stakeholder interests a series of management interviews across a range of and concerns. We have focused the report on the business functions (including Sustainability, Corporate most material issues identified and tried to ensure that Communications, Finance, Commercial Products, there is full disclosure on these issues to meet external Consumer Products, Supply Chain, R&D, Investor expectations. Relations, Stakeholder Engagement) to gather additional qualitative and contextual information. Importance to stakeholders (Y-axis) was determined, by surveying external stakeholders, including business partners, certification bodies, CSOs, consumers, customers, governments/regulators, investors/lenders/ financial institutions, media, suppliers and palm associations. The survey was sent to over 300 stakeholders and received 79 responses. In addition, Su stainab ili t y Re po r t 29 201 7 Our Materiality Assessment Our Materiality Assessment Process Business 1. Issue Stakeholder Perspective identification Perspective 177 issues were 19 issues identified shortlisted 2. Stakeholder engagement and issue prioritisation 170 surveys sent to internal stakeholders; 300 52 responses received 9 internal 9 surveys sent to external stakeholders; interviews 79 responses external received interviews 3. Validation and sign-off 2 consultative Final materiality workshops matrix signedheld off by GAR Sustainability Committee materiality assessment confirmed strong alignment between internal and external stakeholders on our 4. Outputs most material issues Management Strategy Reporting Approach 30 GOL D EN AG R I-R E S OU RC ES LTD Engaging our Stakeholders Stakeholder engagement (102-13, 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44) We take a proactive approach to stakeholder engagement. Through a stakeholder mapping exercise, we have identified the stakeholder groups that are fundamental to the sustainability of our operations, and which have a significant interest in the impact of our material sustainability topics. We adopt a tailored approach to ensure regular engagement with each of these groups. We operate in a dynamic industry and our understanding of our most important stakeholders continuously evolves to reflect this. We constantly review the way we communicate with our stakeholders. In 2017, we reached out to hundreds of our stakeholders for feedback on our material issues. Our stakeholders responded positively and candidly to the assessment, and we have used their input to update our material issues. Through the exercise, we also gathered and noted additional feedback on GAR (see “Our materiality assessment”). Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Purpose of Engagement How We Engage Frequency Outcome Customers and • Better understand • Multi-stakeholder • Frequently • Improved reputation consumers and address concerns forums and industry • Better understanding such as environmental groups of GAR’s sustainability management, social/ • Presentations and • As progress community, labour meetings required • Partnerships in practices, smallholder • Field visits • Frequently community and development, progress • Consumer Focus conservation projects in certification, Group Discussion traceability and supply • Monthly e-update • Monthly, chain management • GAR website annually & • Communicate • GAR Sustainability frequently company policies and Dashboard actions to achieve • Annual Report responsible palm oil • Sustainability Report • Partner with • Social media customers in • Materiality • Every joint community/ assessment 2-3 years conservation projects Su stainab ili t y Re po r t 31 201 7 Engaging our Stakeholders Stakeholder Purpose of Engagement How We Engage Frequency Outcome Employees • Employee • Annual appraisals • Annually • Better understanding development and • Townhall meetings • Annually of company policies training and as • Improved awareness • Communicate required of company’s actions company’s overall • Internal campaigns • Ad hoc towards responsible policies and practices e.g. World palm oil including Code of Environment Day Conduct, GSEP • Trade union meetings • Communicate • GAR website • Frequently company’s actions • GAR Sustainability towards responsible Dashboard palm oil including • Social media and actions to prevent fire digital signage and haze • Celebration of major • Annually • Improve workplace festivals environment • HR training • Annual programme • Materiality • Every assessment 2-3 years Financial • Communicate and • Quarterly analyst • Quarterly • Improved reputation community address queries on briefings • Better credit profiling (investors, company performance • One-on-one • Ad hoc by banks banks, financial and responsible communications • Foundation for analysts) practices including • Field visits • Frequently good long-term environmental • Monthly e-update • Monthly, relationship and management, • GAR website annually & engagement social/community • GAR Sustainability frequently engagement, fire Dashboard prevention, supply • Annual Report chain management • Sustainability Report • Communicate • Social media company policies and • Materiality • Every 2-3 actions to achieve assessment years responsible palm oil Governments • Understand • One-on-one • Ad hoc • Collaboration and regulatory government policies, meetings in smallholder bodies regulations and • Field visits • Frequently development projects aspirations for the • Multi-stakeholder for e.g. Innovative palm oil sector forums and events Financing Scheme • Communicate • Monthly e-update • Community outreach company’s policies • GAR website • Monthly, programme on fire and actions towards • GAR Sustainability annually & prevention focus on responsible palm oil Dashboard frequently tackling fire and haze • Align with Government • Annual Report • Collaboration with of Indonesia • Sustainability Report Indonesia Estatepolicies on palm oil • Materiality • Every 2-3 Crop Fund for Palm sector productivity, assessment years Oil (BPDP Sawit) and smallholder other govenment development, fire and institutions on palm haze prevention oil supply chain development 32 GOL D EN AG R I-R E S OU RC ES LTD Stakeholder Purpose of Engagement How We Engage Frequency Outcome Industry bodies • Improve palm oil • HCV/HCS Working • Quarterly • Smallholder and trade sector and work groups improvement and associations towards responsible • HCSA Board meeting • Annually support palm oil in areas • Executive committee • Monthly • Guidelines on good such as HCS/ meetings practices for HCV, HCV management • Multi-stakeholder • Frequently peatlands, FPIC and and smallholder forums and events other responsible development • Materiality • Every 2-3 palm oil practices assessment years Local • Understand and • Participatory • See • New community communities address community mapping and schedule conservation concerns about palm participatory on GAR partnerships to oil development conservation website protect forests including ensuring approach and • Developed and FPIC community improved guidelines • Ensure palm oil brings development and capacity in areas benefits to local programmes such as mediation, community • Complaint • As conflict management • Engage community handling, grievance required and Participatory in dialogue about procedures and Mapping to facilitate conservation conflict resolution the successful partnerships and longmechanisms implementation of term fire and haze • Dialogue and • As the GSEP prevention consultation with required • Continued investment community groups in comprehensive and representatives range of community • Community • Annual programmes programmes programmes • Successful Desa • Outreach Makmur Peduli Api programmes to programme combat fire and haze Media • Communicate and • One-on-one • Frequently • Improved reputation address queries communications • Improved media about company • Field visits • Ad hoc awareness about performance • Briefings and company’s actions • Communicate and interviews towards responsible address queries • Articles and op-eds palm oil about company’s • Multi-stakeholder • Thought leadership responsible palm oil forums events through op-eds and practices including • GAR website articles environmental • GAR Sustainability management, Dashboard social/community • Monthly e-update • Monthly, engagement, fire • Annual Report annually & and haze prevention, • Sustainability Report frequently supply chain • Social media management, labour • Materiality • Every 2-3 practices assessments years Su stainab ili t y Re po r t 33 201 7 Engaging our Stakeholders Stakeholder Purpose of Engagement How We Engage Frequency Outcome Civil Society • Communicate and • Multi-stakeholder • Frequently • Feedback and input Organisations address queries forums and events for the development (CSOs) about company’s • One-on-one of GSEP responsible palm oil communications • Joint development of practices including • Monthly e-update • Monthly, HCS Approach environmental • GAR website annually & • Awareness of management, • GAR Sustainability frequently company’s actions social/community Dashboard towards responsible engagement, • Annual Report palm oil FPIC, fire and haze • Sustainability Report prevention, labour • Social media practices, supply chain • Materiality • Every 2-3 management assessment years Suppliers • Ensure they • Supplier Support • Frequently • Improved understand GSEP Team and dedicated engagement compliance e-helpline • 100% Traceability • Help them adopt • One-on-one to the Mill responsible communications • Collaboration practices including • Workshops and • Annually on carrying out environmental training sessions and as Traceability to the management, required Plantation by 2020 social/community • Smallholder engagement, fire • Site visits • As inclusion and haze prevention, • Questionnaires and scheduled • Best practices labour practices self-assessments according sharing in • Help them build to supplier responsible palm oil capacity support • Helping smallholders programme towards certification and as required • GAR website • Annually & • GAR Sustainability frequently Dashboard • Annual Report • Sustainability Report • Materiality • Every 2-3 assessment years Certification • Compliance with • Working groups • Quarterly • Active participation bodies: RSPO, Principles and Criteria • One-on-one • Ad hoc in RSPO Roundtable ISPO, ISCC • Sustainable policy meetings meetings to help development and • RSPO Roundtable • Biannually further responsible review meetings palm oil • RSPO ACOP • Annually • GAR is on the RSPO • ISCC Report • Annually Board of Governors • Materiality • Every 2-3 • GAR is in working assessment years groups on peatland; biodiversity; Principles and Criteria Task Force; and the Dispute Settlement Facility Advisory Group 34 GOL D EN AG R I-R E S OU RC ES LTD Marketplace and Supply Chain Full traceability Full traceability to mills: 427 to the Plantation: 3rd-party supplier mills; 44 GAR-owned mills Supplier support: Annual SMART GAR Supplier 100% TTP 39% of SEED Workshop; for GAR-owned mills GAR palm Support achieved & Leuser supply chain Workshop Helpline fully traceable in 2017 Target 100% 79 visits to 73 suppliers TTP 3rd-party since 2015 mills by 2020 Delivering UN SDGs: Our Palm Supply Chain (102-9, 103-1, 204-1) The bulk of our procurement comprises crude palm oil (CPO) and palm kernel (PK) for our downstream business in Indonesia. In 2017, these raw materials were sourced from 427 third-party mills and 441 GAR-owned mills in Indonesia. The feedstock for the mills or fresh fruit bunches (FFB) are in turn supplied by our own nucleus estates, third-party estates, thousands of individual farmers (plasma and independent), as well as brokers and agents who buy from farmers. Procurement of CPO and PK, and procurement of FFB, accounts for around 78 and nine percent respectively of our Indonesian subsidiaries’ procurement of products and services. As the palm supply chain represents our key supply chain, risks which are normally associated with the palm oil industry apply to our main supply chain. 1 Excluding two mills which have just been acquired or in operation at the end of 2017 Su stainab ili t y Re po r t 35 201 7 Marketplace and Supply Chain Palm Supply Chain GAR Estates FFB GAR Mill 100% TTP for GAR-owned mills GAR Plasma Cooking Oil Smallholders Crude Palm Oil (CPO) Palm 39% palm supply chain fully traceable Kernel Pharmaceutical Kernel Crushing Agents Plant Palm Kernel Oil Biodiesel (PKO) GAR Refinery Logistics Customers Independent Smallholders FFB 3rd-Party Specialty Fats Mill TTP in 2020 for 3rd-party suppliers Estates Crude Palm Oil (CPO) Processed Product Palm Kernel Agents 3rd-Party Kernel Crushing Plant Oleochemicals Palm Kernel Oil (PKO) Smallholders 36 G O LDEN AGRI-RES O URCE S S u s ta i n a b i l i t y Rep o r t 37 LTD 2017 Marketplace and Supply Chain Other suppliers (102-9, 204-1) Helping our supply chain achieve full Aside from our palm supply chain, we procure a number traceability (103-2) of other products and services to run our business. Of our Our experience in achieving TTP for our own mills will non-palm procurement, our most significant spend for help us assist our third-party suppliers implement TTP our upstream operations is on fertilisers sourced from 35 processes of their own and report TTP by end 2020. Indonesian companies, which accounted for 31 percent of procurement spend. Other procurement spend GAR is working with a network of partners to support categories include materials, spare parts and services; third-party suppliers establish tracing and verification fuel and tires; food; and tools and consumables. Over 60 processes. One such partner is Geotraceability (GeoT), percent of these products and services are sourced from which uses its software solutions to assist suppliers, local vendors and suppliers mostly based in and around including small and medium sized mills, in compiling our plantations and plants with the rest from national traceability information. GAR and GeoT have developed an suppliers. We support many small-sized businesses inclusive approach to improve supply chain transparency, and suppliers with 80 percent of our total vendors are which allows all suppliers to join regardless of their categorised as small-sized businesses2. current level of supplier knowledge. Breakdown of Procurement Spend We are also partnering with Koltiva which helps verify (non-palm supply chain) sustainably sourced commodities from independent smallholders with leading web and mobile applications. Fertiliser 31% As of end 2017, Koltiva Field Agents have registered 16 Others 23% palm oil brokers and agents, mapped and verified over Fuel & Tire 12% 9,000 hectares of plantation owned or managed by over 4,000 farmers. Through this process, farmers have Material, Spare parts & Services 11% also been provided with information to help improve Chemical 10% their production, farming practices and livelihood, Packaging 10% and support their access to international supply chain Food 2% markets. Tools & Consumables 1% TTP lays the foundation for supply chain Total 100% transformation (103-2, 103-3, 308-1, 308-2, 414-1, 414-2) TTP enables us to guarantee the origin of our raw The procurement of food such as rice, noodles and milk materials to our customers. Understanding where our raw is for our employees and forms part of their non-cash materials come from is just a first step. Beyond this, TTP benefits. In 2017, we spent IDR96.7 billion to procure over helps us minimise supply chain risks because it allows us 10,500 tonnes of food. to deepen knowledge, awareness, trust and engagement with our suppliers, while helping them improve their Sharing responsible practices and responsible practices. transforming our palm supply chain (103-1, 103-2) Full TTP for GAR-owned mills means that (aside from One of our main commitments under the GSEP is to bring our own nucleus estate and plasma smallholders) we our supply chain along on our journey towards responsible mapped and can now reach out to more than 70 dealers/ palm oil. We believe we can and need to help create a brokers who buy from 11,000 smallholders managing better industry overall as we continue improving our own over 40,000 hectares of plantations. As TTP progresses implementation of responsible palm oil practices. for our third-party supplier mills, we will be able to extend our engagement to more dealers and smallholders in the In 2017, we hit a significant milestone when we achieved industry. 100 percent Traceability to the Plantation (TTP) for all GAR-owned mills. This means 39 percent of our palm Our engagement and supplier support process is time and supply chain is now fully traceable. This achievement labour-intensive and includes site visits, special training builds on our mapping and engagement efforts which and workshops as well as specifically designed remedial began in 2014 when we extended our commitment to action plans where needed. We have continued with cover all our suppliers and achieved full Traceability to the our systematic programme of site visits to our suppliers Mill in 2015. in 2017. Since 2015, we have conducted 79 visits to 73 supplier mills; in 2017 alone, we carried out 48 visits to 41 suppliers (with some mills visited more than once for 2 Defined as vendors with contracts under IDR1 billion different compliance assessments). These visits help us 38 GOL D EN AG R I-R E S OU RC ES LTD gauge how well aligned they are with the responsible Reports on site visits to the suppliers in the Belawan practices spelled out in the GSEP. Refinery and Tarahan Refinery areas are published on our Sustainability Dashboard. The resulting analysis of our suppliers’ situations enables Traceability at GAR us to design appropriate support and intervention What do you hope to gain from the traceability strategies. Key findings from these visits include the process? need to tackle the lack of understanding of responsible practices and the need to build capacity to adopt those practices. Aside from scheduled visits, we also carry out ad hoc site visits as part of our grievance handling process when an issue is raised by an external stakeholder or discovered through our own issues monitoring. Our engagement is reported in our Grievance List and case studies, which highlight action plans for our suppliers, and are published on our website and Sustainability Dashboard. In 2017, six new grievances were raised and two resolved. We continue to work with all stakeholders to resolve open cases. “We hope that the Company will help us improve our sustainability practices – we are willing to learn A dedicated GAR Supplier Support Team is available to and adopt better practices. We understand that respond to queries from suppliers. The members of the this is very important for our future.” team have different backgrounds and expertise in areas Abdul Gafur, Palm Oil Farmer such environmental assurance, law and traceability and are a great resource for our suppliers as they seek to See interviews with Abdul and other palm oil farmers comply with the commitments laid out in the GSEP. at GAR’s blog: https://youtu.be/MbR7iyl3_Bw Su stainab ili t y Re po r t 39 201 7 Marketplace and Supply Chain (Excerpt from the Tarahan Refinery area supplier site visits report) Key Findings: Across the 17 mills, 18 estates and 12 smallholders assessed, all faced challenges in fulfilling most of the principles set forth in the GSEP due to: • Lack of understanding of sustainability as a strategic asset. Suppliers had yet to fully embrace sustainability as a key differentiator in the market place and link their organisation’s values to triple bottom line concerns: social, environmental and financial. • Absence of sustainability systems and policies. Whilst suppliers had developed some procedures related to sustainability, they were often developed merely to pursue compliance with regulation or other acceptable norms. • Limited structural organisational support. Lack of internal leadership to catalyse and integrate sustainability within their organisation has prevented suppliers from adopting a clear vision and necessary focus to embrace sustainability. To assist suppliers to comply with the GSEP, GAR in collaboration with suppliers, TFT and related stakeholders are collaborating in transformation programmes that support suppliers to adopt sustainability practices. They will also work together on monitoring and evaluations. GAR will lead broad and deep engagement initiatives to enable suppliers to systematise sustainability practices within their business management and operations. Broad engagement initiatives such as SMART SEED will target all suppliers in the supply shed, whilst deep engagement initiatives will target suppliers who have already been visited. Next steps: To assist suppliers to comply with the GSEP, GAR will be leading broad and deep engagement initiatives to enable suppliers to systematise sustainability practices within their business management and operations. Broad engagement such as SMART SEED will target all suppliers in the supply shed, whilst deep engagement initiatives will target suppliers who have already been visited. GAR will make available the following support mechanisms for suppliers: • SMART SEED held annually to provide a platform for suppliers to reflect on strategic sustainability issues and participate in technical training sessions that will support suppliers to improve their social and environmental performance towards compliance with the GSEP. • Create Toolkits and Templates on SMART website that can be replicated and integrated into suppliers’ own business processes related to legal compliance, peat management, HCV, HCS, environmental impact management, Occupational Health and Safety, Free Prior and Informed Consent (FPIC) and traceability. • SMART LEAF (Learning, Engagement and Action Forum) and SMART SPOT (Sustainable Palm Oil Training). GAR to conduct training and technical workshop to promote and facilitate learning for suppliers on topics related to legal compliance, ISPO, peat management, environmental impact management, HCV, HCS, social impact, CSR, sexual abuse and harassment, grievance, conflict management, Occupational Health and Safety, FPIC and traceability. • Collaboration for Transformation (CFT) with targeted suppliers to support sustainability practices and find solutions together. • GAR is improving supplier risk assessment especially in determining problems or issues in industrial relations and occupational safety and health. GAR will start this process in areas which supply the most CPO and PK and progress to other areas. To monitor and evaluate the progress of suppliers’ transformation journey, suppliers will be assessed annually through follow-up visits and supplier self-assessments. This approach was launched prior to the publication of this report and GAR will be collecting feedback from its suppliers. GAR will also roll out thematic surveys geared towards issues in which suppliers are most challenged. Thematic surveys will assist GAR to better understand how its interventions are supporting suppliers to integrate sustainability into their business management and improve their practices in the field. Success stories of suppliers’ transformation journeys will also be published by GAR to further inspire and create synergies within its supply base and accelerate collaborations in finding practical solutions. GAR hopes and expects that together with their suppliers, they will be able to progress towards implementing responsible palm oil practices at scale. 40 GOL D EN AG R I-R E S OU RC ES LTD All suppliers assessed carried significant actual or potential risks in their operations. We found that the environmental risks associated with our suppliers were mostly around the clearance of HCV, HCS and peat areas. Social impacts were predominantly related to human rights, including child labour, as well as community and land tenure disputes. As a result, we have been working with all of them to develop improvement plans going forward. We believe that we can best trigger a change in our supply chain through sustained engagement with our suppliers. Suppliers who are participating in the assessment process are generally receptive to our proposals for improvement – this is evident from the fact that we have not had to disengage from any of the suppliers that we have assessed. Nevertheless, we have the option of halting procurement from suppliers who do not comply with the GSEP and other GAR policies. Since 2015, GAR has stopped purchasing from over 130 suppliers who did not comply with GSEP, traceability or other procurement requirements such as product quality. Fostering responsible production amongst smallholders Smallholders are an essential part of our supply chain and crucial stakeholders in our sustainability journey as there are an estimated two million small farmers controlling over 44 percent of palm oil estates in Indonesia. Additionally, we organise annual SMART SEED (Social With the achievement of full TTP for GAR-owned mills, and Environmental Excellence Development) workshops we have increased our ability to share responsible for our suppliers. These workshops allow us to share practices with the thousands of smallholders in our best practices and facilitate exchanges with other key supply chain. stakeholders such as government agencies and NGOs. The themes for the workshop are based on feedback GAR has supported the plasma smallholder scheme and input from our suppliers and have included labour since 1990 and there are currently over 69,000 plasma practices, traceability and achieving Indonesian smallholders in our concessions. They supplied about Sustainable Palm Oil (ISPO) certification. The workshops 22 percent of our total intake of FFB in 2017. generate much interest amongst our suppliers and attract many active participants. In 2017, the workshop was At GAR, we have a policy of supporting all (100 percent) attended by 200 participants. of our plasma smallholders. While GAR does not own the plasma plantations, they are very closely integrated We also run other training as needed and in 2017, we held into our management system and we take the lead a workshop for our suppliers operating near the Leuser in promoting their success and productivity. In 2017, Ecosystem to heighten their awareness of the protected our smallholders achieved a CPO yield of around 4.6 status of Leuser, and how to stop sourcing palm oil from tonnes per hectare, which is among the highest in the growers that may be operating in protected areas. industry in Indonesia. In 2017, we assessed 19 suppliers for environmental Through their partnership with us, we provide our impacts and 39 suppliers for social impacts. These plasma smallholders with high-yielding seeds and good suppliers were chosen for assessment based on criteria quality fertilisers. We also ensure knowledge transfer such as reports of deforestation or reports of land or and capacity building through regular training on Good social disputes in the area, amongst other things. Agricultural Practices (GAP). Su stainab ili t y Re po r t 41 201 7 Marketplace and Supply Chain At the same time, we recognise the importance of In another partnership, GAR, Nestle and TFT are supporting independent small farmers. These independent collaborating on a project which seeks to empower small farmers with small plots generally achieve very low yields farmers and improve their resilience. Using interviews and have lower incomes as they do not use good quality and Participatory Mapping involving dealers, agents, seeds and lack knowledge of best agronomic practices. independent smallholders, their families and their workers, This also curtails their ability to fully adopt responsible the project seeks to understand the smallholders’ farming palm practices. systems, household economics, challenges and needs. To date, three villages are being mapped and nearly 60 Inefficient production is a concern because of its farmers have been involved in Land Tenure studies and negative impact on a farmer’s livelihood which can lead Participatory Mapping. to increased pressure to clear more forests for agriculture in the hopes of boosting earnings. We are also collaborating with BASF on Innovative Financing where BASF will provide the four-year stipend One of the ways in which we continue to tackle this is for farmers enrolled in the scheme. This collaboration will through our support of the Innovative Financing Scheme support two cooperatives and target nearly 400 hectares for independent smallholders. The programme aims to for replanting in Riau. encourage more independent smallholders to replant with better quality, higher-yielding seed by giving them Our efforts to help our supply chain, including access to financing and helping them sustain their smallholders, adopt more responsible production livelihoods during the four years it takes for the new practices supports the goals of sustainable consumption seedlings to mature. and production under UN SDG 12. This goal aims to increase net welfare gains from economic activities by Since the scheme began in 2014, GAR has helped reducing resource use, degradation and pollution along independent farmers in Riau and Jambi secure loans of the whole lifecycle, while increasing quality of life. approximately IDR167.5 billion from state-owned banks. As at end 2017, over 730 farmers are participating in the Promoting supplier compliance with GAR scheme. policies (102-17) The GSEP applies to all our suppliers and we ensure We also run other finance and support programmes for that this is clearly communicated to all suppliers upon independent smallholders. Through the Smallholders contracting with us. We have been sharing the GSEP Development Programme, GAR has provided technical through workshops and trainings for our palm supply assistance and long tenure interest-free credit to more chain, as our most critical suppliers. All palm suppliers than 3,800 independent farmers in East Kalimantan since can also reach out with questions on compliance to 2013 in an area covering over 7,700 hectares. They also the GAR Supplier Support Team (supplier.support@ have access to high-yielding seeds, fertiliser, herbicides sinarmas-agri.com). and heavy equipment rental, at below market rates. To date, we have disbursed more than IDR19 billion in Our Supplier Code of Conduct was launched in 2015. interest-free loans. As a key requirement of the Code, suppliers seeking to become GAR suppliers have to acknowledge that they are GAR is also partnering with customers on several aware of and understand the GSEP. A link to our Supplier projects aimed at helping the transformation of the Code of Conduct is included in all purchase orders. Our palm oil industry. In March 2017, GAR, Neste and SPKS existing suppliers have also submitted Codes of Conduct (Smallholders Association) agreed to work together on a to show they are aligned with our policies. project to identify and map up to 3,000 smallholders in 14 villages in Siak, Riau, a province where independent We operate a transparent and accountable system where smallholders manage up to 25 percent of total planted stakeholders can inform us of issues within our supply area. The project aims to help them achieve sustainable chain using our grievance process. This is documented on palm oil certification. It will also identify potential the GAR Sustainability Dashboard, allowing us to respond candidates for the Innovative Financing Scheme. GAR and in a timely and transparent manner. (See GAR Grievance its partners will also work with smallholders to address Procedure page 23). vulnerabilities that emerge from their assessments. Respecting human rights in our supply chain To date, over 740 farmers have been mapped in six (414-2) villages. While mapping continues in the rest of the As we continue to progress with our palm supply chain villages, we and our partners will help the smallholders mapping and develop deeper support for our key set up farmer cooperatives. suppliers, we have started initial steps to address salient 42 GOL D EN AG R I-R E S OU RC ES LTD labour and human rights issues within our supply chain. In Our Customers (102-2, 102-6) late 2017, the Danish Institute of Human Rights conducted The bulk of our palm oil is distributed through our an assessment of four supplier mills and one smallholder. customers, which include traders, distributors, We will publish more information on the assessment as wholesalers, retailers as well as other businesses in the that becomes available. food and manufacturing industries that use our oil as a raw material in the production of secondary goods. Supporting compliance with laws and Palm oil is an extremely versatile raw material used to regulations make many daily products ranging from cooking oil to GAR provides guidance and advice on invoicing, proper household cleaners – view the wide range of products documentation and tax compliance for our suppliers. on our website. We conduct training on Indonesian tax requirements We sell our products across the world, deriving the bulk and encourage suppliers and contractors to register for of our revenue from markets in Asia. Revenue based on tax when required. We assign employees to work with geographical location of customers is as follows: our local contractors and ensure that they prepare their invoices properly, avoiding the risk of non-compliance and ensuring that there are no delays in payment. Revenue by geographical location in 2017 We audit certain categories of suppliers, especially those supplying packaging and raw materials for our products, to ensure that they comply with food safety standards. 8% 13% 13% Any supplier that breaches Indonesian law, including those pertaining to health and safety, will have their contract terminated immediately. 19% Ensuring fair and ethical treatment of suppliers 32% 15% We are committed to dealing fairly and ethically with all our suppliers. We choose our suppliers based on legitimate, business-related criteria, not on personal relationships or interests. This includes criteria such as quality of products and services, cost, reliability and China India Indonesia experience, among others. We require that all potential Rest of Asia Europe Other markets suppliers meet the same basic legal and commercial requirements, complying with tax regulations and the law, and have a Certification of Competence for the type of business they are conducting. We deal directly with our industrial customers and we Unless otherwise agreed, our payment terms are within maintain regular communication with them, ensuring 30 days of receipt of a complete and proper invoice. we tailor our products to their requirements. Our When suppliers present invoices at our head office, responsibilities to these customers include fair pricing we check for completeness and accuracy, so that the and transparent processes, traceability, as well as efficient supplier can make the necessary corrections promptly distribution. and resubmit the documents. Our downstream business has implemented a “One-Day Service” to notify suppliers We aim to offer an extensive range of products that meet within 24 hours if their invoice is incomplete or inaccurate. the varying needs of our different customers. In recent years this has involved extending our product range into This demonstrates our commitment to pay our suppliers high-value areas such as palm-based oleochemicals, on time and their importance to our business. We which are used to manufacture soaps, detergents and understand that some of our small suppliers in rural areas other personal care products. face challenges in managing their cash flow. To help them, we grant cash advances and expedite payments on GAR is also proactively responding to the growing market a case-by-case basis. demand for traceable and certified sustainable palm oil. Su stainab ili t y Re po r t 43 201 7 Marketplace and Supply Chain Trading with our customers Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) We use standardised contracts for pricing and trading our Certification (103-2, 103-3) products, which are issued by trade associations such To date, over 259,000 hectares of plantations including as The Federation of Oils, Seeds and Fats Associations over 51,000 hectares of smallholder estates, 29 mills, Ltd (FOSFA) and The Palm Oil Refiners Association of nine kernel crushing plants, six refineries, seven bulking Malaysia (PORAM). These contracts set the terms of stations, and one oleochemicals plant have received trading, including how payment is made. When we trade RSPO certification. We have extended the time frame palm oil on the wholesale market, we use the crude palm for completion of RSPO certification until 2020 for oil price as the basis of our negotiations with brokers the remaining operations which include over 213,000 or customers. We offer the option of spot or forward hectares of plantations, and encompasses over 49,000 market prices. All buyers are assessed to ensure that they hectares of plasma estates and 16 mills. This extension are financially solvent and we require letters of credit reflects our conservative estimate for the time needed to be supplied when GAR is to handle the shipping of to acquire the HGU or Right to Cultivate and the liability palm oil. data as required recently by RSPO. Our RSPO certification progress can be viewed on our website. Delivering our products We handle the distribution of palm oil and palm oil In 2014, we also received certification for having met the products through a joint venture with the global RSPO-RED Requirements for compliance with the EU transportation business Stena Bulk AB. Golden-Agri Stena Renewable Energy Directive Requirements (RSPO-RED (GS) (formerly known as Golden Stena Weco) was formed scheme). The certification includes one mill and its supply in 2012, and is the only JV between a palm oil company base comprising nucleus and plasma plantations in Kijang, and a shipper in the sector, making it unique and offering Riau. GAR logistical advantages in the market. The RSPO-RED scheme is a voluntary add-on to the In the past few years, we have increased the size of RSPO standard and allows palm oil producers and our fleet and developed our logistics infrastructure processors under certain conditions to comply with by investing in warehousing, jetty and port facilities in requirements in the EU Directive 2009/28/ EC on the important strategic locations. promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources. This Directive specifies sustainability requirements for The JV has 25 vessels in total with ten under direct biofuels and bioliquids in the European Union. The ownership and seven on Time Charter. The majority of milestone marks an extension of our commitment to our own vessels are Ship Inspection Report Programme RSPO certification. With the RSPO-RED certification, (SIRE) and CDI-Marine approved. These two approvals we now offer an alternative certified palm oil for biofuel signify the vessels are in good condition, in compliance production. with shipping regulations and adhering to sustainable shipping practices. GAR continues to play an active role in the RSPO. In 2017, Mr. Agus Purnomo, GAR’s Managing Director of All time chartered vessels are vetted thoroughly and their Sustainability and Strategic Stakeholder Engagement was technical managers audited by GS. All GS vessels are also elected to the RSPO Board of Governors. He is also the issued guidelines and best practices on energy efficiency Chair of Indonesian Growers Caucus (IGC) representing and conservation. The JV is also looking into expanding Indonesian Palm Oil Members within RSPO. GAR also the inspection and vetting of all their shipments to actively participates in the Dispute Settlement Facility secure safe transportation of palm oil cargoes in line with Advisory Group, the Biodiversity and HCV Working Group, minimising its environmental footprint. Innovation Lab, and other RSPO working groups and task forces. Providing sustainable choices through certification (102-12) International Sustainability and Carbon Our Indonesian operations were early adopters of Certification (ISCC) certification of sustainably produced palm oil – SMART GAR maintains ISCC certification, a global leading became a member of the RSPO in 2005 shortly after certification which aims to ensure environmentally, socially RSPO was founded. and economically sustainable production and use of all kinds of biomass in global supply chains. ISCC is based on the Industry certification is part of GAR’s ongoing commitment implementation of the highest sustainability requirements to adopt best practices and standards in responsible in ecological sustainability, social sustainability, compliance production while allowing us to meet growing demand with laws and international treaties, monitoring of GHG for certified sustainable palm oil. emissions and good management practices. 44 GOL D EN AG R I-R E S OU RC ES LTD To date, over 291,000 hectares of plantations including consistent tax payments. We welcome their efforts to smallholder plantations of over 57,700 hectares, 30 ensure a fair and transparent market for palm oil products mills, two kernel crushing plants, five refineries and 14 in the country and we believe that this will create bulking stations have received ISCC certification. The opportunities for GAR’s trusted brands. audit was conducted by GUTcert, the German partner of AFNOR Group DQS-UL CFS GmBH, Intertek Certification GmbH, SGS Germany GmbH and Mutu Certification International. All biomass intended for biofuels in destinations like Europe are ISCC certified, ensuring that our products meet the highest responsible palm oil standards in the international market. Indonesian Sustainable Palm Oil (ISPO) GAR also supports the ISPO Scheme developed by the Indonesian Ministry of Agriculture to improve the competitiveness of Indonesian palm oil in world In China, we sell palm oil-based and soybean-based markets and to meet Indonesia’s commitment to reduce products and offer a range of cooking oils, noodles and greenhouse gases and focus on environmental issues. other food products. We look to optimise our oil refineries and soybean crushing facilities in the country on a To date, over 205,700 hectares of plantations and 32 mills continuous basis to meet evolving consumer demand. have received ISPO certification. In November 2017, we entered into a conditional Developing a biofuel market for palm oil agreement to divest our subsidiary, Sinarmas Natural In the second quarter of 2017, our second biodiesel Resources Foodstuff Technology (Tianjin) Co., Ltd. plant near Jakarta commenced operations with an that owns and operates oilseeds crushing and refining annual capacity of 300,000 tonnes. Soon after, this facilities in Tianjin. The transaction was completed in April plant participated in the biodiesel allocation from the 2018. This initiative is part of GAR’s strategy of refocusing government. This adds to our other biodiesel plant in its business model for its China’s oilseed division. South Kalimantan of similar capacity. We are extending our network with logistic partners to aim for non-Public Service We have also entered India, the second largest edible oil Obligation (PSO) biodiesel buyers in order to increase the market after China, through the ownership of a destination utilisation of our biodiesel plants. Our further expansion processing facility. This asset enables us to participate will be subject to the growth of the biodiesel industry in in high-growth branded cooking oil and specialty fat Indonesia, which depends on the biodiesel policy and industries in the country. mandate realisation, especially for the non-PSO portion. We are expanding the reach of our branded consumer Our Consumers (102-2, 102-6) products across new markets in the Philippines, Africa Aside from distributing palm oil to industrial customers, we and South America. also sell edible oil and food products directly to the end consumer in large markets like Indonesia, China and India. Ensuring consumer safety, wellbeing and product quality (416-1) Indonesia is the second largest market where we sell Our consumers rely on GAR brands for safe and high palm oil-based products that are widely used by both quality products that they can trust. We use international consumers and commercial customers. These include standards to ensure the quality of our products, bar codes cooking oil brands like Filma and Kunci Mas and margarine for traceability, and we systematically record expiry dates and shortening products for the baking industry marketed and batch data. under the Filma, Palmboom and Goodfry brands. All six palm oil refineries in Indonesia are accredited with Traditionally, most palm oil-based cooking oil has been ISO 9001 and ISO 22000 certification, which recognises that sold as unbranded and unpacked cooking oil in Indonesia. they adhere to strict international food safety standards. However, the Government of Indonesia favours phasing The Marunda Refinery also has FSSC 22000 food safety out the purchasing of unbranded and unpacked cooking certification. The six facilities also have OHSAS 18001, oil, placing greater importance on consumer brands, and ISO 14001, Halal and Kosher certification. In addition, the ensuring strict hygiene levels, stable prices and more refineries in Lampung and Belawan have FDA accreditation Su stainab ili t y Re po r t 45 201 7 Marketplace and Supply Chain and we have GMP+B2 certification for lauric products at Consumer engagement three plants: Belawan, Lampung and Lubuk Gaung. We encourage feedback from our consumers to help ensure that our products are meeting their evolving We are also committed to rolling out the Hazards Analysis needs. Our toll-free customer care line in Indonesia and Critical Control Point or HACCP food safety system handles feedback and any complaints regarding product across our operations. quality and promotions. Few complaints are received each year, and none are considered health threatening. We are carrying out research aimed at addressing health concerns about trans fatty acids and co-contaminants We use digital and social media platforms such as like 3-MCPD in processed palm oil. This is detailed in the Facebook and Twitter to engage our consumers section on R&D on page 67. through our Filma Club and www.sukamasak.com. Our Marunda rRefinery also hosts a Filma Factory Visit Vitamin A deficiency is a significant public health concern programme, which enables consumers to see the in Indonesia, especially amongst women and children. To production of our branded cooking oils first-hand. address this the Indonesian Ministry of Industry requires all local cooking oil producers to fortify their products with a We also conduct regular activities to build a stronger brand minimum 40 International Units (IU) of Vitamin A per litre. and relationships with consumers. In 2017, we conducted 12 grand baking demos in 12 key cities, attended by more GAR meets this requirement in all our products distributed than 1,000 customers and potential customers. We also in Indonesia and we have also taken further steps to organised baking classes to reach an even larger target enhance our impact on consumer health. Besides market in more than 35 cities. Vitamin A, our Filma Margarine is also fortified with vitamins B1, B2 and B3. 46 GOL D EN AG R I-R E S OU RC ES LTD Work Environment and Industrial Relations Including 69,100 plasma smallholders 173,700 jobs in Indonesia Our People (102-7, 102-8) smallholders. In addition, we hire more fixed-term The palm oil industry is a powerful job generator workers during peak harvest seasons in the second especially in rural areas, helping to lift incomes and half of the year. The flexibility of seasonal agricultural living standards of farming communities. We create work is preferred by some workers as this gives them employment for about 173,700 people in Indonesia time to attend to other responsibilities such as tending including 51,000 permanent employees, 53,600 their own crops, child care and other income-earning fixed-term employees and 69,100 plasma scheme businesses. Employee profile by contract in Indonesia 2015 2016 2017 Male Female Male Female Male Female Permanent 43,151 6,235 40,660 5,640 44,382 6,600 Fixed-term 32,447 26,024 30,400 25,400 28,196 25,452 Employee profile by type in Indonesia 2016 2017 Male Female Male Female Full-time 58,020 11,740 64,300 17,167 Part-time 13,040 19,300 8,278 14,885 New hires and turnover (401-1) 2016 2017 Male Female Male Female New hires 773 257 2,646 1,014 New hire rate 1.9% 4.6% 5.96% 15.36% Turnover 5,247 1,117 3,387 669 Turnover rate 12.9% 19.8% 7.63% 10.14% Recognising, respecting and strengthening Where legal frameworks are not yet in place we defer workers’ rights (103-1) to the International Labour Organisation’s Declaration We believe in fair, equal and respectful treatment for on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. all our employees. Through the GSEP, we have also reinforced our commitment to ensuring that the rights Our commitment to fair labour practices is also of all people working in our operations are respected emphasised in our Code of Conduct and employment according to local, national and ratified international practices. We have an equal opportunities policy on laws. We adhere to all Indonesian labour laws covering employment, banning discrimination based on race, issues such as freedom of association for our employees, national origin, religion, disability, gender, sexual decent pay and working hours, non-discrimination and orientation, union membership and political affiliation. the complete elimination of child and forced labour. Su stainab ili t y Re po r t 47 201 7 Work Environment and Industrial Relations Employees enter into employment freely. We do not Diversity and Gender equality (103-1, 103-2, 406-1) require our employees to deposit identity papers or We believe in promoting gender equality in the workplace. money. Some employees join through pre-employment However, the manual nature of agricultural work means training or education programmes paid for by the that certain jobs continue to be more suited to male Company, whereby they agree to work for the Company rather than female employees. Male workers perform upon completion of their training programme. Upon heavier physical tasks such as harvesting FFB (which can graduation, they are assigned to different estates or mills weigh between 2327 kg) and carrying them to trucks for throughout Indonesia and earn an income without any transport to the mills; women generally work on weeding deduction in their salary. These conditions are thoroughly and collecting loose fruits that have fallen on the ground. explained to potential candidates before they decide to join the programme. Traditional rural employment patterns also mean that many women prefer to take on part-time jobs, as it gives Paying fair wages and employee benefits (103-2, them the flexibility and time for other responsibilities such 401-2) as tending to the household; childcare; family gardens; All employees of GAR receive a wage that is equal to and other income-earning businesses. or above the minimum wage set for their respective province, in addition to a range of additional benefits. We have zero tolerance for sexual harassment and we conduct extensive training for all estate and mill workers Minimum wages in Indonesia are set by provincial and to ensure this is understood. Gender committees with district authorities, by taking into account the local prices representatives from labour unions and management of goods and services and the amount therefore required have been set up to promote female participation and for living. advancement in the workplace. These committees also handle sexual harassment complaints. When a case of Average daily wages in IDR harassment is reported either formally or informally, the relevant committee investigates the situation to determine 2015 2016 2017 whether further sanctions or law enforcement actions Full-time workers 81,300 91,421 95,7561 are needed. During the investigation, the committee also Part-time workers 77,250 87,449 96,205 provides assistance and support to the victim. In 2017, no cases of harassment or abuse were reported. Minimum wage set by 75,900 85,775 95,065 local government Full-time workers on our plantations earned approximately IDR95,756 per day in wages in 2017, excluding incentives and non-cash benefits. Through incentives, our employees have the opportunity to earn progressively higher incomes depending on skill level and productivity. In terms of benefits, full-time workers receive free healthcare for themselves and their family, company housing, water, electricity and free education for their children from kindergarten to junior high. GAR also provides its full-time workers with basic necessities such as rice. In 2017, GAR procured over 10,500 tonnes of food for its workers. Our part-time workers receive free medical services at our polyclinics and their children have access to education at our estate schools. 1 Full-time employees receive lower cash wages as they have other non-cash benefits which part-time employees do not receive. 48 GOL D EN AG R I-R E S OU RC ES LTD Diversity of GAR workforce (103-3, 405-1) Freedom of association and trade union membership (103-2, 103-3, 102-41, 407-1) Gender Permanent Fixed-term Freedom of association is mandated by Indonesian Law Male 87% 53% and Regulation No. 21/2000 on Trade/Labour Unions Female 13% 47% and is in line with International Labour Organization Convention No. 98 on the freedom of organisation and Total 100% 100% collective bargaining. We seek to maintain peaceful and productive industrial Age Group Permanent Fixed-term relations through open dialogue, fair labour practices, <30 21% 36% and respectful communication in the workplace. Each of 30 – 50 73% 61% our units has union representatives, elected by members, >50 6% 3% who meet with local management representatives regularly in bipartite forums, to discuss and resolve issues. Total 100% 100% In 2017, there were 187 labour unions representing 48,370 non-management employees (95 percent) across our plantations in Indonesia. Female representation in workforce Percentage Female share of total workforce 44 Creating a Safe and Healthy Workplace (103-1, Females in management positions 17.1 103-2, 103-3) (as % of total management workforce) With thousands of people working for us, we take our Females in junior management positions 17 responsibility in providing a safe and healthy workplace very seriously and our Occupational Health and Safety Females in top management positions 12 management is aimed at minimising the risk of workplace accidents, fatalities and other negative health impacts. Diversity of GAR Board of Directors Our updated Health and Safety policy promotes OHS Gender Percentage through: Male 100 • Creating awareness on health and safety management Female 0 amongst our staff and related stakeholders Age Group Percentage • Ensuring compliance with government regulations and related guidelines <30 0 30 – 50 0 • Adopting health and safety practices as part of GAR’s >50 100 operating procedures • Identifying and managing operational risks to prevent Prohibiting child labour (102-2, 408-1) and reduce work-related accidents or illness The minimum age for employment in GAR in any capacity is 18 years. We aim to prevent all forms of child • Provision of personal protective equipment to all labour, and we rigorously enforce these principles at workers in line with regulations and best practices all our plantations, mills and other places of work. Our recruitment officers check identification cards against • Regular monitoring and evaluation to continually the prospective employee’s schooling records, such as improve our OHS performance their school diploma, to ensure that we do not employ children. We also provide schools and day care centres We currently have around 270 OHS experts within our for our workers’ children to ensure that parents have workforce and conduct periodic training for all employees somewhere safe to send their children and do not feel in accordance with national regulations. In 2017, more than the need to take their children to work with them. 530 of our employees received OHS training conducted and certified by the Indonesian Ministry of Manpower. We are also engaging our supply chain on our stand against child labour, and this is part of our efforts to Each of our units has an OHS Supervisory Committee, help our supply chain comply with the GSEP and adopt which promotes cooperation between management and responsible practices. employees on OHS and complies with Law No. 1 of 1970 on Occupational Safety. On average, the committees Su stainab ili t y Re po r t 49 201 7 Work Environment and Industrial Relations for our plantations and mills have 40 members, with 60 In 2017, we enlarged the scope of work-related percent worker representation. accidents from Lost Time Injuries to include all first aid and medical treatments and restricted work accidents. Additionally, our Indonesian operations under SMART is certified under the SMK3 (Sistem Manajemen Keselamatan Upstream Lost Time Injuries dan Kesehatan Kerja) OHS management system, in recognition of good OHS management and implementation. 2016 2017 Fifteen mills and one estate have been reviewed and certified Frequency Rate 4.67 9.97 under SMK3. These certifications are valid for three years Severity Rate 269.96 303.12 and a fresh audit is carried out prior to renewal. Fatalities (103-3, 403-2) Downstream Lost Time Injuries We regret to report that there were work-related accidents 2016 2017 resulting in six fatalities involving our employees during 2017. These accidents included three road and vehicular Frequency Rate 0.88 4.81 accidents, two incidents of drowning during floods and a Severity Rate 357.11 20.46 fall into a pit. There were no contractor fatalities in 2017. Emergency response equipment Fatalities Every GAR plantation and mill has an Emergency Response Team on location, which is fully equipped with 2015 2016 2017 the following emergency response equipment: 7 5* 6 * Including one contractor fatality • Fire sprinkler/flapper • Shovel We note that the trend of work-related accidents and • Fire extinguishers fatalities requires our urgent attention. To address this, • Portable tank with fire hose and nozzle we have investigated each accident thoroughly and • Water tanks implemented various action plans to safeguard against • First Aid Kit future occurrences which included reinforcement of • Alarm and fire hydrant in the mill road safety training and identification; mapping of and • Personal equipment for the team including clothes, prohibiting entry into flood-prone areas; increasing ongloves, head lamp, helmet and fireproof shoes the-job safety training; and implementing other safety • Radio and megaphone for communication features. We have also reinforced the targets of zero • Several estates also have watch towers, fire trucks and accidents and fatalities in the Key Performance Indictors ambulances (KPIs) for all levels of management. Our Emergency Response Teams conduct regular We assisted the bereaved families by providing the training sessions to ensure that workers are fully prepared appropriate financial assistance and support, including to respond to any emergencies. We have currently trained helping them to submit Indonesian Health, Accident around 10,000 Emergency Response personnel who are Insurance and Pension Fund (JAMSOSTEK) claims and stationed across our plantations. covering funeral costs. Occupational Health and Safety Training Monitoring the frequency and severity of The Company periodically conducts both in-house and accidents (103-3, 403-2) external training programmes for the entire workforce. Reducing the Frequency Rate (FR) and Severity Rate (SR) In 2017, employees attended a number of such trainings of accidents at our sites is a key objective of our OHS including Accident Investigation Training, OHS Expert programme. FR refers to the number of accidents in Training and Contractor Safety Management System one million hours of work, while the SR is the number of Training (CSMS). workdays lost in one million hours of work within the year. Such indicators help us track the effectiveness of measures Through training and certification programmes by taken to improve OHS in our operations and plantations. external parties, relevant employees were certified as: All units send in monthly reports which details number • Auditors of OHS Management System of employees, working days, absentee/non-effective • Boiler operators days, overtime, number of accidents, and lost workdays. • Electricians These are then analysed and the FR and SR are recorded. • Heavy equipment operators 50 GOL D EN AG R I-R E S OU RC ES LTD • OHS (Hygiene Perusahaan dan Kesehatan Kerja or to practice. All our estates have polyclinics where workers Hyperkes certified) doctors and paramedics can get free healthcare. We have over 150 clinics and • OHS experts more than 300 medical personnel providing medical • Pest management officers (restricted pesticides) services for our workers. • Welders • Fire brigade The medical care that our facilities provide includes preemployment medical check-ups for new recruits, and special medical check-ups for workers who are exposed to potential health and safety hazards. The medical Employee safety at GAR check-up programme is part of our effort to prevent and “Even one incident is one too many. I want to treat work-related illnesses through early detection. minimise the risks further, even eliminate them altogether. To reinforce a culture of safety, I regularly Providing training and developing our people organise training and knowledge-sharing sessions (103-2, 103-3, 404-1, 404-3, 412-2) for employees on various aspects of occupational GAR sees training and development as an investment that health and safety. Our workers undergo BehaviourBased Safety training when they join the company, delivers benefits to both employees and the employer. and undergo refresher sessions periodically.” Average hours of employee training in 2017 Eka Syamsiah Hidayah Nasution, Category Hours Environment, Staff 25 Health, Fire & Safety Middle Management 28 Inspector, 26 years old, Jakarta Senior Management 15 Read more about Average hours of training in 2017 by gender Eka’s important Male 24 work on GAR’s blog: https://goldenagri. Female 65 com.sg/creatingsafer-healthierWe spent USD4.41 million in 2017 on training and workplace/ development in our Indonesian operations. We deliver training both formally and informally, with the formal training curriculum taught at six regional training centres across Indonesia. Security guards (103-2, 410-1) The safety of our workers and their families is of utmost Our training and development programmes have two importance, particularly in isolated rural areas. We main objectives: equipping employees with the skills and employ security guards for our operations in Indonesia capabilities they need to excel in their roles at GAR, and to ensure that the plantations and surrounding ensuring that all employees embrace our corporate values. communities are secure. Our security guards are required to undergo a 21-day comprehensive training Our learning and development department works closely programme by the Bhakti Manunggal Karya Centre of with our business leaders to identify training needs and Education and Training (BMK). Upon completion, they develop high quality training materials and programmes receive a certificate from the Indonesian National Police. to meet those needs. The programme covers human rights standards as well as professional ethics. Training is compulsory for management employees at every level starting from the Basic Management Our security guards do not carry firearms but are Development Programme for new hires to the Supervisory equipped with standard defensive security tools such Management Development programme, Middle as batons and handcuffs. Management Development Programme and Executive Development Programme. The Individual Development Healthcare and Wellbeing Plan and Staff Development Discussion provided by We are committed to providing our entire workforce Talent Centre are trainings that are offered regularly for with access to healthcare, including in remote rural areas all employees, with public training also available to those where there is less incentive for healthcare professionals requiring additional external training. Su stainab ili t y Re po r t 51 201 7 Work Environment and Industrial Relations To nurture our workforce, we seek to identify high Overall the study found that GAR has a good set of performing candidates for leadership development and policies at the Group level, as well as management provide them with relevant training to help them progress systems and structures in place at the plantation level to in their careers. We are guided by ISO 10015 (Quality help ensure workers’ welfare and wellbeing, and those Management – Guidelines for Training), for which we of their families, are respected. There were some areas received certification in 2013. All GAR employees undergo identified by BSR, where greater consistency between a career development and Key Performance Indicator policy and implementation on the ground was highlighted (KPI) review at least once a year. for improvement. Further to this, the assessment covered several specific topics in detail, such as working conditions Monitoring and Continuous Improvement and terms of employment; non-discrimination; workers (103-3, 409-1, 412-1) organisation; grievance mechanisms; protection of In order to ensure that we are continuously improving, workforce; and living conditions. we engaged Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) to conduct an assessment of labour management systems The executive summary of the assessment can be and practices in PT Tapian Nadenggan, Central Kalimantan, found at: https://goldenagri.com.sg/wp-content/ Indonesia. The assessment which was published in 2017, uploads/2017/06/BSR-GAR-Labour-Assessmentaimed to highlight areas and provide recommendations Executive-Summary-2017.pdf on how GAR’s current management systems and tools could be strengthened or improved to help ensure Based on this, GAR has designed an action plan to address good implementation of the GSEP, Code of Conduct issues that have been identified in the assessment. and other relevant policies, as well as gradual fulfilment of international stakeholder expectations pertaining to labour-related issues in the palm oil industry. 52 GOL D EN AG R I-R E S OU RC ES LTD Social and Community Engagement Providing public infrastructure: roads, bridges, places of worship, community halls Free >USD1.5 mil >230 schools bus services for school for scholarships children >2,050 teachers >35,000 students Donation of books, learning materials 31 330 medical personnel treat and facilities to Rumah Pintar >860 patients >4,000 (Smart Houses) daily recipients for community training >150 clinics Child health, vaccination and nutrition for Free medical & dental for Mother and child health >3,300 >3,900 education for beneficiaries >1,900 beneficiaries patients 100% plantations have social and community development programmes Planting Aid 38,000 beneficial plants: >7,500 Sale of flood, fire and medicinal plants >230,000 and fruit storm victims litres of branded trees cooking oil at below >1,400 market prices in Visits and donations impoverished areas to elderly and orphans Su stainab ili t y Re po r t 53 201 7 Social and Community Engagement Palm oil benefits local rural communities Respecting human rights and Free, Prior and (103-1, 103-2, 413-1) Informed Consent (FPIC) (103-2, 103-3, 411-1, 413-1) The palm oil industry has helped to advance socioFPIC is a central tenet of the GSEP and part of our economic development in tropical developing countries commitment to upholding human and community rights. like Indonesia and Malaysia, and plays a key role in We implement FPIC in all our plantations. Respecting FPIC improving the lives of communities particularly those means we ensure that decision-making by indigenous living in remote, rural areas. We aim to ensure that this peoples and local communities regarding the presence of development is inclusive and sustainable. our operations is done without pressure and intimidation (free), performed before an activity that has impact on the As one of the largest palm oil companies in Indonesia, we surrounding communities is carried out (prior), and with have created thousands of jobs in rural and remote areas. sufficient knowledge about the activity and its impact We have also helped provide crucial public infrastructure on the surrounding communities (informed), so they such as roads, bridges, community halls and places may express agreement or disagreement to such activity of worship. This has helped advance the aims of SDGs (consent). amongst local communities by tackling poverty and reducing inequalities through boosting incomes as well For land acquisition, the implementation of this policy as their overall standards of living. includes: We recognise that the establishment of plantations • Participatory Mapping and Land Tenure Study of all creates changes for local communities and indigenous indigenous peoples and local community lands prior people. As stated in the GSEP, we are committed to to negotiation respecting human rights and fulfilling Free, Prior and Informed Consent (FPIC) requirements before any • Social Impact Assessments carried out using operations begin . GAR is also committed to improving its participatory methods, the results of which will be processes and procedures with regards to respecting the publicly available and actively shared with relevant customary rights of local and indigenous communities. stakeholders In addition to FPIC, 100 percent of our plantations have social community engagement and development plans. • Engaged and open negotiation processes Collaboration and cooperation with the community is also • Documented agreements signed by and shared with key to the success of other aspects of responsible palm all relevant parties oil. We engage local communities in forest conservation, and take an inclusive and collaborative approach to The approach aims to protect community rights to addressing our sustainability challenges through our keep their forests and agricultural lands, and to ensure community conservation partnerships. This is detailed in that food security is never compromised by land being the section on “Environmental Management”. converted for plantations. We support the Food and Agriculture Organisation’s Voluntary Guidelines on the While ensuring that the development of our industry is Responsible Governance of Tenure which promotes aligned with the interests of local communities, we also secure tenure rights and equitable access to land, try to multiply the positive socio-economic impacts of fisheries and forests as a means of eradicating hunger our operations by promoting entrepreneur development and poverty, supporting sustainable development and and micro-enterprises in local communities. protecting the environment. In 2017, we commissioned the Rainforest Alliance to carry Under our FPIC Standard Operational Procedures (SOP) out a verification of our GSEP implementation in three we are required to follow a process of socialisation, concessions in West Kalimantan where the widest range when granted a location permit (Ijin Lokasi) for a new of GSEP implementation activities are being carried out. plantation.1 The socialisation process involves informing This includes a consideration of how we are implementing communities of the licenses, government and company social and community engagement activities including policies regarding land compensation, development FPIC. The results are detailed in the section “How We plans, land valuation approach, process of verifying land Approach Responsible Palm Oil”. ownership and requirement for proof of ownership, and procedures for land measurements and compensation. 1 GAR has voluntarily stopped all new nucleus estate development since November 2014 54 GOL D EN AG R I-R E S OU RC ES LTD After the socialisation, we seek to ensure that all communities have understood and acknowledged what Addressing Community Concerns in the company has communicated, explained and offered PT Kartika Prima Cipta (PT KPC), West during the process. When the necessary due diligence Kalimantan is completed, compensation will be made to those who GAR has continued to make progress on resolving have accepted the offer. Members of local government the concerns of the community in PT KPC which document and witness any land transfers that take place. involve FPIC issues. As part of our efforts to ensure that FPIC is implemented In 2017, GAR continued to progress with plasma properly, we have continued with FPIC remediation in development in line with the wishes and aspirations our concessions in West Kalimantan following feedback of the local community in PT KPC. We aim to that initial FPIC requirements were not fully met. This complete planting of the plasma area by the second process has been carried out with local CSO, LINKS, quarter of 2018. implementation partner TFT and Ekologika consultants involving fresh consultations with local communities and In addition, we have signed MOUs signifying the Participatory Mapping to ensure that the community’s completion of FPIC remediation process in four land rights are fully respected. Amongst other things, this villages. mapping verified that areas which had previously been identified as conservation HCS forests via satellite imagery, See latest updates on RSPO website: were mixed gardens being used by the community and http://www.rspo.org/members/complaints/statusplanted with rubber and other cash crops. We have of-complaints/view/75 adjusted our conservation maps accordingly. In 2017, there were no incidents of FPIC violations or violations of the rights of indigenous peoples. Empowering communities GAR aims to empower communities and multiply the Responsible conflict resolution positive impacts of the palm oil business through a Our policies and practices are designed to minimise the range of education, healthcare, social and economic likelihood of any conflicts arising from our operations. programmes. However, when these conflicts do arise, we are committed to working towards a responsible resolution. Aside from government agencies and local communities, we work with the Eka Tjipta Foundation (a non-profit We have worked with relevant stakeholders to put social organisation founded by the family of Eka Tjipta in place a balanced, accountable, mutually agreed Widjaja in 2006) and the Tzu Chi Foundation in Indonesia and documented conflict resolution system that is (affiliated with the non-denominational global Tzu Chi accessible to smallholders, indigenous peoples, rural organisation established in Taiwan) on some of these communities and other parties potentially affected by programmes. our operations. Ensuring access to education to healthcare Our conflict management system maps all conflicts for local communities related to our operations, and develops action plans to Educational initiatives are a key element of our community address them. It incorporates transparent monitoring programmes as we believe that this is a powerful enabler, and reporting, the option for local community and helping to break the cycle of poverty in rural areas. We customary groups to access independent legal and have always strived to provide children living in our technical advice, the ability for complainants to choose concessions with access to quality education. individuals or groups to support them or act as observers, as well as the option of a third party mediator. We In line with the nine years of compulsory education categorically reject the use of violence in any dispute. required by the Government of Indonesia, we ensure that each estate has educational facilities ranging from In recent years, we have closed several long-running kindergarten to sixth grade. Additionally, we make sure social conflicts following intense consultation with the that every region has a junior high school for the children local communities, local governments and with the help of our employees and some local communities. Currently of external parties such as the RSPO and local CSOs. The GAR supports over 230 schools with over 2,000 teachers, case histories on the GAR website detail our efforts in for more than 35,000 students across our concessions. finding collaborative and consultative ways to resolve We also donated books and educational materials to over disputes with local communities. 4,000 students. Su stainab ili t y Re po r t 55 201 7 Social and Community Engagement All children of the workers living on our estates receive We actively help promote small and micro enterprises free education from kindergarten to junior high school. that help increase income for the community. One such We provide free school bus services so that children programme is our goat breeding programme in eight are able to get to school daily. In addition, we provide villages around PT Ivo Mas Tunggal in Riau. scholarships for students to attend schools near the plantations and run internship programmes for students The company has donated 160 goats to the villages to at schools that specialise in agriculture. date. Local communities are able to earn extra income through the sale of milk and meat. As the villagers breed We have also constructed over 30 Rumah Pintar or Smart more goats, these will then be given to a Farmers Group Houses since 2011. These serve as community resource in another village to grow and expand the scheme. and training centres. Each Rumah Pintar has a library and play room and is equipped with computers. There Providing Infrastructure and Community is a particular focus on early childhood education and Facilities educational programmes for women at the Rumah Pintar. GAR seeks to meet the needs of our employees and the people living near our operations by: building and In 2017, we also provided over USD$1.5 million in maintaining public infrastructure including roads, bridges, scholarships for higher education at Indonesian and community hall (for cultural activities) and places of international universities and institutes. worship such as mosques and churches; providing the facilities and know-how to run cooperatives that We help improve the wellbeing of local communities ensure basic necessities are available at affordable by providing access to healthcare in remote and rural prices; construction and rehabilitation of well-built areas. We currently mobilise 330 medical personnel accommodation and health, education and sporting at over 150 clinics which serves on average over 860 facilities; and providing financial help for communities to patients daily. We also provided free medical and dental celebrate festive and religious events. services to over 3,900 patients. With our special focus on mother and child health, we also focus on health Our Employees in the Community education for over 3,300 beneficiaries as well as provide We involve and mobilise our staff for various causes. child vaccination and nutrition programmes for over For example, we urge employees and tenants at our 1,900 beneficiaries. head office in Jakarta and our operation units in Central Kalimantan, South Kalimantan, East Kalimantan, Lampung, We also helped over 7,500 flood, fire and storm victims in Riau and West Kalimantan to participate in regular blood 2017 through distribution of food aid and basic necessities. donation drives for the Indonesian Red Cross. More than 3,300 blood donors comprising employees and members Promoting Small and Micro Enterprises of local community participated in 2017. We also Our operations and plantations play an important role as encourage our employees to contribute funds regularly an economic driver and multiplier and have helped in the to the Tzu Chi Foundation. A dedicated team oversees the development of various businesses in remote areas of distribution and responsible use of these donations. Indonesia. 56 GOL D EN AG R I-R E S OU RC ES LTD Environmental Management Integrated Ecological Farming: increase community income, improve food selfsufficiency & support conservation goals 72,000ha Protectionconservation area (HCV/HCS) production Launch of partnerships: super high-yielding 13villages non-GMO clonal seeds; Forest conservation in community can potentially 100 helps store large conservation produce partnerships to amounts of carbon; may also help protect wild-born orangutans >10 tonnes/ maintain fresh water resources >7,000 ha rehabilitated & released since 2011 ha/year CPO >1,000 ha 17 villages riparian zone in Desa Makmur rehabilitated Peduli Api in 2017 programme to reduce fires 10,000 Zero Burning Policy: nearly Zero Emergency Response personnel to prevent & suppress fires fire incidents in 2017 No paraquat Methane capture >250 facilities reduce 100% Reduced tonnes 40-55% of plastic packaging; CPO production GHG emissions on site waste recycled – fuel & fertiliser 13% reduction from 2016 Delivering UN SDGs: Su stainab ili t y Re po r t 57 201 7 Environmental Management Continuing innovative community Following the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding conservation partnerships (103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 304-1) (MoU), we work with the villages and the local authorities Our most recent materiality assessment indicates that to get the agreement recognised as part of Village stakeholders continue to view forest conservation as Regulation, to ensure that the MoU has official standing well as fire and haze as material issues. At GAR we have and recognition. been focussing intensively on these areas for many years and we believe that with our combination of innovative In tandem with these efforts, we have initiated development community partnerships and collaboration, we are starting programmes for the local communities which participate to see progress in practical and effective conservation. Our in the conservation partnership. Integrated Ecological initiatives in forest protection, biodiversity conservation Farming projects have been launched in 11 villages in as well as our efforts to minimise land degradation West Kalimantan and Central Kalimantan. These aim to contribute to the goals of UN SDG 15 – Life on Land. help the local community achieve food self-sufficiency, earn extra income as well as raise awareness about Defining conservation areas on paper is only the first step; alternative farming methods without the use of fire. ensuring they are properly protected on the ground requires a workable model of collaboration and partnership with Each participating family can save up to IDR300,000 local communities and other key stakeholders such as local per month through planting and harvesting their own government. Without this, areas set aside for conservation vegetables. In addition, they receive about IDR500,000 per remain prone to encroachment by parties who frequently month from selling the surplus produce to surrounding regard the area as unoccupied land. villages. We have been working on conservation partnerships since We have also used this model of community partnership 2015, when we began collaborating with local communities in our efforts to rehabilitate 2,600 hectares of degraded to formally map their villages through Participatory peatland in the PT Agro Lestari Mandiri (AMNL) concession Mapping. We help the villages map out critical areas such as in West Kalimantan. This project was launched at the end customary boundaries and land necessary for food security. of 2015. To date, we have progressed with replanting over This map is then lodged with and formally recognised by 100 hectares of buffer zone as well as the rewetting of the the authorities, serving amongst other things to clarify entire peat area. We are also working with the Tanjungpura land tenure rights and enabling villages to gain access to University in Pontianak on a peat management study which government development funds for the first time. focusses on peat mapping and hydrology of the area. The mapping lays the foundation for further dialogue on conservation through our Participatory Conservation Long-term Fire Prevention (103-2, 103-3, 304-3) Planning process. Our intensive consultative approach We remain vigilant on fire prevention and in 2017 as in takes into account local community concerns, needs 2016, we had virtually zero fires in our area (less than 0.01% and aspirations including food security requirements and of total area affected by fires)1, due to strict adherence to continued ability to earn a decent living and maintain our Zero Burning Policy. We continue to publish weekly stable quality of life. reports on fire in or around our areas on our Sustainability Dashboard. We have rolled out mapping in over 80 villages across our concessions to date, and secured agreement with local Meanwhile, we continued our long-term community communities in 13 villages to set aside over 7,700 hectares collaboration on fire prevention with 17 local villages of High Carbon Stock (HCS) forests for conservation. This in 2017, through the Desa Makmur Peduli Api (DMPA) is in addition to the 72,000 hectares of conservation area programme in Ketapang, Kalimantan and Jambi, Sumatra. in our concessions (approximately the size of Singapore), The DMPA programme has generally helped to reduce consisting of HCS forests and HCV. hotspots and firespots since it was launched in 2016 as seen in the table below. Desa Makmur Peduli Api (DMPA) programme All DMPA Villages Jambi Ketapang Hotspots Firespots Hotspots Firespots Hotspots Firespots 2017 13 9 1 2 12 7 2016 25 7 2 2 23 5 2015 423 271 210 113 213 158 1 The majority of fires were started by external parties preparing land for farming 58 GOL D EN AG R I-R E S OU RC ES LTD Aside from training and equipping local community Summary of endangered species (IUCN Red List) (304-4) members to suppress fires rapidly, we also focus on educating the younger generation to effect long-term Birds Near threatened 15 change in the community. We work with schools to Least concern 61 spread knowledge and awareness about the dangers of Vulnerable 4 forest fires and the importance of forest conservation, Critically endangered 2 in the hopes that this will eventually trigger communal behaviourial changes, particularly with regards to not Mammals Data deficient 1 using fire to clear land. Near threatened 4 In 2018, we extended the DMPA programme to five Least concern 9 more villages in Indragiri, Riau and 10 villages in Central Vulnerable 9 Kalimantan. Endangered 6 In addition to working with the community, all of our Critically endangered 1 estates have fire-fighting equipment and Emergency Reptiles Least concern 5 Response Teams trained in fire-fighting. Vulnerable 2 Protecting Rare and Endangered Species (103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 304-2, 304-4) Flora Least concern 11 Operating in Indonesia places us in or near areas of rich Vulnerable 12 and varied biodiversity and we are committed towards Endangered 4 preserving and protecting this biodiversity. This is Critically endangered 16 achieved through our identification and protection of HCV areas backed up by our Zero Tolerance Policy towards hunting, injuring, possessing and killing of rare Riparian Buffer Zones (304-3, 304-4) and endangered wildlife. Our management of HCV areas also involves the rehabilitation of riparian zones that have previously been We continuously educate our employees, local cleared or planted. These riparian buffer zones have communities and related stakeholders on the particular ecological importance, providing specific importance of protecting rare and endangered species. wildlife habitats and playing a key role in water systems. Protection of orangutans is a special focus for GAR. Since GAR is implementing a riparian rehabilitation programme 2011, we have partnered with Orangutan Foundation in its 18 concessions and in 2017, we rehabilitated over International (OFI) to rehabilitate and release wild-born, 1,400 hectares of riparian zone. formerly captive primates. Our partnership has resulted in the release of 100 orangutans into their natural habitat Breakthrough in yield improvement (103-1, 103-2, in Seruyan Forest in Central Kalimantan, Indonesia. 103-3) Our focus on environmental conservation is In addition, more than 1,000 staff have been trained in complemented by our belief that R&D can deliver orangutan conservation. They are mainly involved in sustainable agricultural goals. One such goal is yield field operations in Kalimantan, with some overseeing improvement which has multiple benefits. Through our biodiversity and conservation efforts. GAR also improving yields, we can help raise the incomes of maintains 1,400 hectares of HCV area in Sungai Rungau, smallholders and their standards of living. It can also help Central Kalimantan as an orangutan sanctuary. reduce the pressure to open up more land for agriculture. Through our HCV assessment, we have identified the rare Following years of research SMARTRI and SMART and endangered species within our concessions and the Biotechnology Centre officially launched two new nonsurrounding landscape. Their habitats are classified as GMO, extremely high-yielding planting materials in 2017. HCV areas to be conserved. For our full list of threatened Eka 1 and Eka 2 are potentially capable of yielding more species under Indonesia’s National Law of Protected than 10 tonnes/hectare/year of CPO, making them the Species (Indonesian Government Regulation No. 7 of 1999) highest-yielding plant materials in the industry. Currently, or on the IUCN Red List, please see the Sustainability the national average yield in Indonesia is 3.5 tonnes. These Dashboard. clonal seeds will be gradually rolled out throughout our plantations in replanting programmes starting in 2022. Su stainab ili t y Re po r t 59 201 7 Environmental Management These R&D efforts support the goals of UN SDG 2 which GHG emissions at the mill comes from Palm Oil Mill aims to promote sustainable agriculture and improve Effluent (POME), and the usage of diesel as fuel and for agricultural productivity. power production. GHG emissions from the plantation come from the usage of fertilisers, diesel and land use Reducing GHG emissions (103-1, 103-2, 305-4) change. We have commissioned EY to review and verify Successful conservation of HCS forests is one of the ways how we calculate our carbon footprint, identify viable in which we retain large stores of carbon and help avoid opportunities to reduce emissions and set short, medium GHG emissions. and long-term reduction targets for the business. In addition, we have also carried out a baseline study of We used the ISCC Renewable Energy Directive 2009/28/ our Scope 1 GHG emissions including measurements EC as the basis for calculating our GHG emissions. of carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide in our The data was compiled from 30 mills that have ISCC mills and plantations, and are in the midst of designing certification. an emission reduction strategy. The main sources of Carbon Footprint Assessment Project Sumatra Region: Verify the calculation of GHG emissions and assess abatement Completed opportunities Kalimantan Region: Verify the calculation of GHG emissions and assess abatement Completed opportunities Verify the calculation of GHG emissions, assess abatement opportunities, develop In progress, expected to emissions baseline and set short, medium and long-term reduction targets be completed by 2018 Verified GHG Emissions for Kalimantan in 20162 Sungai Rungau Mill Hanau Mill PT. Binasawit Abadipratama PT. Tapian Nadenggan Verified POME Verified POME GHG emissions GHG emissions emissions based emissions based from on ISCC from on ISCC plantation default plantation default Product Unit and mill value Total and mill value Total Crude Palm Oil (CPO) kg CO2eq/t-CPO 359 436.25 795.25 363 436.25 799.25 Palm Kernel (PK) kg CO2eq/t-PK 266 321.36 587.36 283 327.09 610.09 Palm Kernel Oil (PKO) kg CO2eq/t-PKO NA 427 728.25 1,155.25 2 These calculations are part of a limited assessment and are representative of the GHG emissions in our Kalimantan operations. Verified GHG Emissions for North Sumatra Region in 2015 Verified GHG Emissions from emissions Palm Oil Mill from plantation Effluent (POME) Total for North Product Unit and mill based on ISCC Sumatra Crude Palm Oil (CPO) kg-CO2eq/t-CPO 416.00 432.53 848.53 Palm Kernel (PK) kg-CO2eq/t-PK 315.00 327.29 642.29 60 GOL D EN AG R I-R E S OU RC ES LTD Verified GHG Emissions for Riau Region in 2015 Verified GHG Emissions from emissions Palm Oil Mill from plantation Effluent (POME) Product Unit and mill based on ISCC Total for Riau Crude Palm Oil (CPO) kg-CO2eq/t-CPO 475 432.68 907.68 Palm Kernel (PK) kg-CO2eq/t-PK 360 319.72 679.72 Palm Kernel Oil (PKO) kg-CO2eq/t-PKO 550 741.75 1,291.75 Meanwhile, we continued to reduce GHG emissions in Managing our water footprint (103-1, 103-2, our operations through our facilities to capture methane 303-1) gas at a number of mills in Central Kalimantan, Jambi Water is a vital resource for our operations and the and Riau. The captured methane gas is then used as an communities in our supply chain. We recognise that alternative energy source, generating electricity for our water availability is becoming an increasingly important palm oil mills. These facilities can reduce between 40-55 issue in the face of climate change and we are looking at percent of operational emissions on site. ways to improve our water footprint. We strive to meet all our water needs through surface GHG Emission reduction via methane capture (305-5) water that is processed to meet the quality standards required for the production process and use ground water only in very limited quantities in locations where no surface water is available. We continue to improve 800 our water efficiency by recycling and reusing where GHG Emission appropriate. 600 reduction is about 48.8% 765.66 Water consumption (m3 per tonne of CPO produced) 400 kgCO­2e/dry ton CPO 391.77 Year 2015 2016 2017 200 kgCO­2e/dry ton CPO Water consumption 3.12 3.39 3.39 0 Average GHG Average GHG Upstream water withdrawal by source (measured by without MC with MC flowmeters): Water withdrawal for mill production process Ground water 279,646 m3 Emission reduction in 2017 from methane capture Rivers (stored at reservoir) 8,573,557 m3 facilities Water withdrawal for other purposes: No. Biogas Plant ER(tCO­2eq) domestic/laboratory/office use 1 Sungai Rungau Biogas Plant (SRUF) 89,737.0 Ground water 167,960 m3 2 Semilar Biogas Plant (SMLF) 96,792.6 Rivers (stored at reservoir) 3,778,577 m3 3 Rama – Rama Biogas Plant (RRMF) 70,985.7 Total water withdrawal 12,799,740 m3 4 Perdana Biogas Plant (PRDF) 101,001.2 5 Pelakar Biogas Plant (PLKF) 23,733.8 6 Libo Biogas Plant (LIBF) 48,910.3 Total 431,160.6 Su stainab ili t y Re po r t 61 201 7 Environmental Management Downstream water withdrawal by source (measured Upstream waste management in 2017 by flowmeters) (303-3) Total Total Ground water 1,652,315 m3 Quantity Quantity Type of Produced Recycled Reused Sea water 906,631 m3 Waste (tonnes or m3) (tonnes or m3) as Water provided specifically for 51,082 m3 Fiber 1,296,027 1,296,027 Fuel Industrial Area by government or Shell 596,172 596,172 Fuel private company *EFB 2,141,151 2,141,151 Organic Water provided by public utility 426,462 m3 fertiliser company *POME 5,373,270 5,373,270 Organic Water from reservoir; water 134,250 m3 fertiliser recycled from Waste Water Treatment Plant (WWTP); and rain * EFB 100 percent applied fresh or after composting with effluent, as water organic fertiliser. Condensate (water from the steam 16,349 m3 * POME produced by boilers in the mill or 100 percent is applied in the field after traditional anaerobic and aerobic treatment to render the chemical and physical refinery) characteristics compliant with national regulations. A specific application permit has been obtained for each location, with close Total water withdrawal 3,187,089 m3 monitoring of environmental impact as requested by the authorities. Total water recycled and reused 182,426 m3 Percentage of water recycled and 6.2 Downstream waste management in 2017 reused Total Total Quantity Quantity We also take steps to minimise any risk of pollution Type of Produced Recycled Method of Waste (tonnes) (tonnes) disposal of surface and ground water and we follow strict land management practices that are designed to reduce Domestic 2,329 0.243 Municipal these risks. These include not applying herbicides or collection chemicals near and around riparian areas; restricting Hazardous: 80,684 0 Collected for the application of treated liquid waste (POME) which is FABA, SBE, disposal by used as fertiliser to 50 metres from riparian areas; and sludge etc. authorised planting vetiver grass to minimise soil erosion at riparian third parties areas. Our efforts to successfully conserve forests also contributes towards maintaining and preserving fresh In addition, our Downstream R&D has also made a water resources in light of research that shows strong considerable impact on reducing packaging and making links between forest cover and the health and availability the transport of our products more environmentally of water resources. friendly. We have done this by reducing the material thickness or weight of the packaging material to Waste recycling and reuse (103-1, 103-2, 306-2) maximise space when loading containers. This has led to Under our Zero Waste Policy we aim to reuse, recover lower costs, lower energy consumption and reduction of and recycle. Since 2015, we have achieved 100 percent carbon emissions. recycling of waste from the CPO production process in our upstream operations. In 2017, we saved 256 tonnes of packaging which equals a further 13 percent of total packaging reduction The waste includes solid and liquid waste. Solid waste compared to 2016. consists of empty fruit bunches (EFB) of oil palm, fibre and shells. Liquid waste or Palm Oil Mill Effluent (POME) Soil fertility and pest management (103-2) is generated from the processing of FFB to CPO. We use GAR implements best agricultural management practices to both types of waste as organic fertiliser and fuel. maintain and enhance soil fertility through a comprehensive mineral nutrition management plan. We aim to minimise the Our downstream waste is disposed of through municipal quantity of fertiliser applied whilst maximising yields. This landfills or incinerators. Hazardous waste is collected for reduces the pressure to open more land and minimises the proper disposal by authorised third-parties. risk of soil degradation through oil palm cultivation. 3 This figure only reflects what is being recycled by our own plants – currently only one plant is recycling the waste. The rest of recyclable waste is sent to third parties for recycling. 62 GOL D EN AG R I-R E S OU RC ES LTD We have Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) which specify that the use of fertilisers should be tailored to the texture of the soil and its capacity for retaining nutrients; that fertilisers should not be applied during periods of heavy rain; and that there should always be an appropriate interval between applications. We also recycle palm fronds and other organic products to increase the fixing capacity of soils. We follow an Integrated Pest Management (IPM) approach which combines cultural, mechanical, biological and chemical means to control pests while minimising economic, public health and environmental risks. Natural solutions and biological controls are our preferred method for controlling pests across all our plantations, including beneficial plants that attract parasitoids to control pests, pathogens or bacteria, and natural predators. We supplement this approach using handpicking and mechanical traps. Examples of this include barn owls which are bred on our estates to control the rat population; leaf-eating caterpillars are controlled through diversity of flora and encouraging beneficial plants; and pheromones are used to control rhinoceros beetles. Monitoring and minimising the use of • Species and active ingredient selectivity: active pesticides (103-2, 103-3) ingredients are selected depending on the types of We aim to minimise pesticide use throughout all growth weed to be controlled – SMARTRI is always testing phases of the oil palms. We only use chemical fungicides new types of active ingredients as well as new in our nurseries, and only deploy chemical insecticides conditions of application in order to choose the most and rodenticides to control outbreaks of infestation efficient and least environmentally impacting product when biological controls have failed. In such cases, these products are used carefully and in compliance with Since 2016, GAR has stopped using paraquat. In national laws. Most of the products we use are chemical addition, pesticides that are categorised as World Health herbicides for weed control and management. Organization Class 1A or 1B, or that are listed by the Stockholm or Rotterdam Conventions are not used, GAR manages the undergrowth in oil palm plantations except in specific situations identified in national best to maintain a high level of weed diversity while keeping practice guidelines, such as during an extreme pest good access to the oil palms in order to ensure a high infestation. quality harvesting. Only woody plants and noxious weeds are removed regularly at our plantations. Pesticides and herbicides used in GAR’s plantations (kg or litre/tonnes of CPO produced) We apply herbicides according to the following strict guidelines: Type 2015 2016 2017 Acaricides <0.001 <0.001 <0.001 • Temporal selectivity: applying at specific times and Fungicides* 0.001 0.015 0.025 reducing the number of applications to between one Herbicides 0.418 0.433 0.484 and three per year, depending on the type of herbicide including Paraquat 0.082 0 0 • Spatial selectivity: spraying only the circle of the oil Insecticides 0.012 0.035 0.034 palms and harvesting path, or about 20 percent of the Rodenticides 0.006 0.008 0.007 soil surface Total 0.437 0.491 0.551 * Used only in nurseries Su stainab ili t y Re po r t 63 201 7 Environmental Management GAR is committed to continuously reducing herbicides Mengenai Dampak Lingkungan) documents submitted to used. But actual usage depends on factors which are not the Government of Indonesia. under our control such as: Assessment of the environmental parameters is • the level and distribution of rainfall which differs every conducted by SMARTRI, our ISO 9001:2008 and ISO year and that have a direct impact on the growth and 17025 accredited internal laboratory, as well as external development of weeds laboratories referred by the Indonesian authorities. • the availability of new molecules in the Indonesian Our regular internal monitoring and assessments are market also guides decisions in our operations. guided by the ISO 14001:2004 Environment Management Since 2010, SMARTRI has tested 15 new molecules, Systems and ISO 9001:2008 Quality Management including 10 active ingredients of herbicides and five Systems. surfactants In 2017, there were no violations of environmental In parallel to minimising the use of chemical pesticides, regulations, and GAR did not incur any fines or penalties. GAR is promoting the use of biopesticides, to enhance the health condition of the soils and the palm trees. PROPER Achievement Since 2007, GAR has participated in the Indonesian Biopesticide use Ministry of Environment’s national public environmental Type of biopesticides 2015 2016 2017 reporting initiative known as the Programme for Pollution Control, Evaluation and Rating (PROPER). The Bacillus thuringiensis 1,760 2,527 385 programme uses a colour-coded rating to assess water Cordyceps 7,966 156 1 and air pollution control, hazardous waste management Mycorhyza 189,851 281,282 238,548 and environmental impact. PROPER also considers Trichoderma 303,199 131,148 206,266 other indicators including the impact of a company’s community development programmes; progress of Virus 0 0 1 biodiversity conservation efforts; efficiency of water Total 502,776 415,113 445,201 management; and innovations in emissions reduction, waste management and energy efficiency. Monitoring environmental impact (103-3, 307-1) We manage and regularly monitor every aspect of In 2017, 24 of our mills passed the PROPER assessment our operations in order to minimise adverse impacts with Blue rating and six mills achieving Green rating. Four on the natural environment. The monitoring is in of our downstream facilities have also achieved Blue accordance with the Environment Management Plan rating. (Rencana Pengelolaan Lingkungan) and the Environment Monitoring Plan (Rencana Pemantauan Lingkungan), as To ensure that we are aligned with PROPER requirements, set out in the Environmental Impact Assessment (Analisa internal audits and training are carried out in our mills. PROPER rating system Gold For businesses/activities that have successfully displayed environmental management effort and achieved excellent results Green For businesses/activities that have displayed environmental management effort and achieved results better than those required by regulation Blue For businesses/activities that have displayed environmental management effort, and have achieved the minimum standard required by regulation Red For businesses/activities that have displayed environmental management effort, but have achieved only parts of the minimum standard required by regulation Black For businesses/activities that do not display significant environmental management effort 64 GOL D EN AG R I-R E S OU RC ES LTD R&D for responsible palm oil Eliminating SMARTRI & Cambridge University research riparian trans fats from NO our edible products trans fats restoration Delivering UN SDGs: At GAR, we believe that harnessing technological Measuring Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions advances and R&D is a key component in helping us (103-2) achieve responsible palm oil production. In 2017, GHG emissions in palm oil agriculture comes mainly we allocated more than USD12 million for R&D. Our from land use change and methane emissions during the R&D activities contribute to the goal of Responsible treatment of POME. Aside from this, nitrogen fertiliser Consumption and Production – UN SDG 12 – as we applications can also contribute to emissions of nitrous pursue objectives including sustainable management oxide (N2O) especially if applied incorrectly. and efficient use of natural resources, and reducing waste generation. In line with our commitment to continuously reduce our GHG footprint, GAR, through SMARTRI, has started SMART Research Institute (SMARTRI) (103-2, 103-3) a research programme into this issue. The programme SMART Research Institute (SMARTRI) in Libo, Riau includes: is our flagship research facility with more than 80 researchers and scientists focusing on improving 1. Quantifying N2O emissions practices in agronomy, breeding, crop protection all of 2. Determining the factors which can have a potential which contribute to sustainable palm oil production. impact on the level of these emissions SMARTRI’s research also explores areas such as climate 3. Testing new products and field practices to reduce change mitigation. these emissions R&D conducted by SMARTRI contributed to the SMARTRI has found that N2O emissions factors (EF) development of our high-yielding Dami Mas seeds were significantly affected by the level of soil moisture. which have also been developed to be disease-resistant. Regardless of the levels of urea applied, EF was lowest SMARTRI also worked on and developed two new super when the moisture of soil was low. The losses of N2O high-yielding clonal seeds – Eka 1 and Eka 2 – which have ranged from 0.37 to 3.72 kg N2O/ha. the potential to produce over 10 tonnes per hectare per year of CPO. This will help the goal of UN SDG 2 which An initial experiment using urea fertiliser coated with aspires to provide nutritious food for all and generate urease and a nitrification inhibitor showed a good potential decent incomes, while supporting people-centred rural to mitigate N2O losses by up to 64 percent. The results development and protecting the environment. were shared with the industry at the 2018 International Conference on Oil Palm and the Environment (ICOPE). In tandem with boosting agricultural productivity, SMARTRI also works on various R&D projects designed to promote environmental sustainability, preserve biodiversity and combat climate change, thus supporting the goals of UN SDG 15. Su stainab ili t y Re po r t 65 201 7 R&D for responsible palm oil New collaboration between SMARTRI and Results will provide specific recommendations of the Cambridge University on the restoration of most appropriate options for restoring riparian margins in riparian functions established oil palm, and an evidence base for management The Riparian Ecosystem Restoration in Tropical Agriculture to improve sustainability in tropical agricultural landscapes. (RERTA) project is a new long-term experiment testing The project will enhance the understanding of links strategies for riparian restoration in oil palm landscapes. between the environment, biodiversity and ecosystem The project is a collaboration between SMARTRI and the processes in complex tropical ecosystems. University of Cambridge and has been acknowledged by RSPO. Training for smallholders Aside from R&D activities, SMARTRI runs regular training This project will test four different restoration strategies programmes for smallholders. in long-term field experiments in Indonesian oil palm plantations. Data will be collected on biodiversity, In 2017, more than 600 farmers in Riau and East Kalimantan ecosystem processes, socio-economic factors and crop took part in training programmes by SMARTRI, focusing yield before, during and after riparian restoration. Results mainly on integrated pest management and fertiliser from the work will inform sustainable management management. Beneficial plants are given to the farmers options and directly test links between biodiversity, at the end of the training session, to be planted in their ecosystem functioning and productivity in a complex field to contribute to the biological control of herbivories. tropical ecosystem. In addition, SMARTRI staff also visit smallholder farms The project will establish replicated riparian restoration when requested to help solve pest outbreak issues or treatments across mature oil palm plantations, owned nutrient deficiency cases. and managed by GAR in Riau Province. Prior to replanting: 1) No restoration, replanting to mature oil palm to river margin river margin in all plots 2) No restoration, maintenance of 50m mature palm buffer 3) Enrichment planting in 50m buffer, clearance of mature oil palm to river margin River Oil palm 4) Enrichment planting and Forest tree maintenance of mature oil palm Sample locations in 50m buffer Schematic diagram of the experimental set-up. Each treatment will be replicated three times on rivers over 5m wide. The current replanting strategy in these estates is restoration treatment 2, so this will form the matrix in which other treatments are embedded 66 GOL D EN AG R I-R E S OU RC ES LTD ICOPE 2018: “Embracing Sustainable Palm Oil: Solutions for Local Production and Global Change” The International Conference on Oil Palm and Environment (ICOPE) is a biennial conference focusing on the development of sustainable palm oil. ICOPE is a collaboration between Sinar Mas Agribusiness and Food, World Wildlife Fund (WWF) Indonesia, and CIRAD France. More than 400 participants from more than 30 countries attended the 2018 conference, including academics, scientists, government officials, financial bodies, palm oil sector businesses and non-governmental organisations with a combined purpose – to minimise the environmental impact of palm oil production whilst maximising its value to society. ICOPE is the only international conference dedicated to oil palm and the environment. The 2018 conference aimed to find solutions that contribute to global change while improving palm oil farmers’ livelihoods. R&D to safeguard consumer health (416-1) We are focusing on minimising occurrence of 3-MCPD Aside from SMARTRI, we have also set up a Downstream precursors. Our business is tackling the issue holistically, R&D centre to develop a variety of quality edible food for example by minimising free fatty acids (FFA) in products using palm oil. CPO. Throughout 2017, R&D continued to optimise identification methods for 3-MCPD and GE, in order to A major focus of the Downstream R&D Centre is release safe and healthy edible oil. safeguarding the health of consumers using processed palm oil. This includes addressing consumer concerns about trans-fatty acids, which are generated through a process called hydrogenation. Our Downstream R&D has been reformulating many of our processed products to eliminate all trans-fatty acids, without compromising on quality for the consumer or technical manufacturer. This continued to be a priority throughout 2017 and into 2018. We are also actively working to reduce certain cocontaminants found in processed palm oil. These cocontaminants include 2-monochloropropane-1, 3-diol and 3-monochloropropane-1, 2-diol (3-MCPD) and Glycidol/Glycidyl esters (GE), which are formed during food production and preparation at high temperatures. During refining of palm oil, they can occur during the deodorisation step. This processing step aims to remove unwanted taste and odour to meet customer quality and safety specifications. In 2016, the European Food Standards Authority (EFSA) issued a report warning about the health consequences of co-contaminants such as 3-MCPD and from 2018, has revised acceptable 3-MCPD and GE levels. Su stainab ili t y Re po r t 67 201 7 68 GOL D EN AG R I-R E S OU RC ES LTD GRI Standards Index General standard disclosures (102-55) performance and impacts. Our GRI Index has been checked We report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s by our external consultants, Corporate Citizenship. (GRI) Standards Sustainability Reporting Guidelines at the Core level. The GRI Standards framework sets out the Corporate Citizenship confirms that in their view, this report principles and standard disclosures that organisations can has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: use to report their economic, environmental, and social Core option, as set out in the GRI Standards Guidelines. Standard Disclosure Page reference/ Disclosure Number Reasons for omissions General Disclosures ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 102-1 Name of the organisation 1 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 11-12, 43, 45 102-3 Location of headquarters 12 102-4 Location of operations 11-14 102-5 Ownership and legal form 12 102-6 Markets served 11, 43, 45 102-7 Scale of the organisation 14-15, 47 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 47 102-9 Supply chain 35-38 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain 2, 15 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 18 102-12 External initiatives 18, 23, 44, 74 102-13 Membership of associations 31-33 STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 8-10 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 2-10, 14, 26-28 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour 16, AR 2017(1) 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 16, 22, 42 GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure 16, 18, 20-22 102-19 Delegating authority 18, 20-22 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 18, 20-22 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics 18, 20-22 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 16 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 16 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body AR 2017 (35) 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 16 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance AR 2017 (36) 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 16 102-35 Remuneration policies 16, AR 2017 (37) 102-36 Process for determining remuneration AR 2017 (37-40) 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration AR 2017 (37-40) Su stainab ili t y Re po r t 69 201 7 GRI Standards Index Standard Disclosure Page reference/ Disclosure Number Reasons for omissions General Disclosures STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 31-34 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 49 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 31-34 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 31-34 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 31-34 REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 1 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 1, 26 102-47 List of material topics 26-28 102-48 Restatements of information 1 102-49 Changes in reporting 1 102-50 Reporting period 1 102-51 Date of most recent report 1 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Back cover 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 1 102-55 GRI content index 69-73 102-56 External assurance 1 MATERIAL ISSUES ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT FIRE AND HAZE 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 27-28, 58 103-2 The management approach and its components 58-59 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2, 58-59 HIGH CARBON STOCK (HCS) FORESTS AND PEATLANDS 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 27-28, 58 103-2 The management approach and its components 58 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2, 58 BIODIVERSITY AND HIGH CONSERVATION (HCV) AREAS 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 27-28, 59 103-2 The management approach and its components 59 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2, 58-59 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and 58 areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity 59 304-3 Habitats protected or restored 58-59 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas 59 affected by operations 70 GOL D EN AG R I-R E S OU RC ES LTD Standard Disclosure Page reference/ Disclosure Number Reasons for omissions MATERIAL ISSUES ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 27-28, 60 103-2 The management approach and its components 60-61, 65 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 6, 64 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Information not available. GAR has been carrying out a baseline assessment of emissions, see pages 60-61 for details. 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 60-61 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 61 CLIMATE CHANGE ADAPTATION 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 27-28 103-2 The management approach and its components 65 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 7 USE OF FERTILISERS, PESTICIDES AND CHEMICALS 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 27-28 103-2 The management approach and its components 62-63 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 6, 63 WATER 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 27-28, 61 103-2 The management approach and its components 61-62 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 6, 64 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 61-62 303-3 Water recycled and reused 62 WASTE 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 27-28 103-2 The management approach and its components 62 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 6, 64 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 62 MARKETPLACE AND SUPPLY CHAIN TRACEABILITY AND SUPPLY CHAIN TRANSFORMATION 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 27-28, 35-38 103-2 The management approach and its components 38-41 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 4, 38-41 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 38-41 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 38-41 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 38-41 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 38-41 SUPPLIER INCLUSIVENESS AND SMALLHOLDER LIVELIHOODS 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 27-28 103-2 The management approach and its components 35, 38 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 4 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 35, 38 Su stainab ili t y Re po r t 71 201 7 GRI Standards Index Standard Disclosure Page reference/ Disclosure Number Reasons for omissions MATERIAL ISSUES WORK ENVIRONMENT AND INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS YIELD IMPROVEMENT 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 27-28, 59-60 103-2 The management approach and its components 59-60 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 5, 59-60 PRODUCT QUALITY AND SAFETY 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 27-28 103-2 The management approach and its components 67 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 5, 50 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories 45, 67 LABOUR RELATIONS AND HUMAN RIGHTS 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 27-28, 47 103-2 The management approach and its components 47-49 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 3, 52 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 48 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents 49 of child labour 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced 52 or compulsory labour 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures 51 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews 52 or impact assessments 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 51 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY AND EMPLOYEE WELLBEING 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 27-28, 49 103-2 The management approach and its components 49-50 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 3 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, 49-50. GAR does not lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities track incidents by gender as the company treats all workplace related accidents and injuries with the same rigor regardless of gender. We do not currently track the rate of occupational diseases but will endeavour to do so in the future. WOMEN, DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION 103-2 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 26-27, 48 103-2 The management approach and its components 48-49 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 6, 49 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 48 72 GOL D EN AG R I-R E S OU RC ES LTD Standard Disclosure Page reference/ Disclosure Number Reasons for omissions MATERIAL ISSUES WORK ENVIRONMENT AND INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS TALENT RENTENTION, DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 27-28 103-2 The management approach and its components 47-49, 51-52 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 3 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 47 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or 48 part-time employees 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 51 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development 52 reviews SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT RIGHTS OF COMMUNITIES AND INDIGENOUS PEOPLE 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 27-28 103-2 The management approach and its components 54-55 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 3, 54 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples 54-55 COMMUNITY RELATIONS AND EMPOWERMENT 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 27-28 103-2 The management approach and its components 54-55 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 6 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and 54 development programs GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 16, 27-28 103-2 The management approach and its components 16-17 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 5, 16 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 16 NON-MATERIAL ISSUES 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 64 415-1 Political contributions 16 Su stainab ili t y Re po r t 73 201 7 United Nations Global Compact COP United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) (102-12) Progressively, we take appropriate actions in line with the The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is a call principles as fundamental guidelines for the sustainable to companies everywhere to align their operations and development of our business. We continue to support strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the UNGC by incorporating the ten principles in the way we do areas of human rights, labour, environment and antibusiness, which helps make us a better corporate citizen. corruption, and to take action in support of UN goals and issues embodied in the Sustainable Development Goals. As an active participant of the UNGC, this report also serves GAR, through its subsidiary SMART has subscribed to as our Communication on Progress Report (COP) to the the UNGC principles since 2006. In 2018, GAR became UNGC. In our opinion, we meet the requirements for the a signatory of the UNGC signifying our continuing Global Compact Active reporting level. Please refer to the commitment. UNGC reference table below for our implementation of the ten principles of UNGC. Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Page 3, 24, proclaimed human rights; and 52, 54-55 Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Page 3, 24, recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 41, 47-52 Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental Page 4-7, 18, challenges; 19, 24, 40-41, 57-64, 65-66 Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including Page 5, extortion and bribery. 16-17 Our sustainability efforts also support these specific UN SDGs: 74 G OLDEN AG RI-R ESO U RC ES LTD Su stainab ili t y Re po r t 75 201 7 Glossary of Acronyms ACOP – Annual Communication on Progress IPM – Integrated Pest Management AMNL – PT Agro Lestari Mandiri ISCC – International Sustainability and AR – GAR Annual Report Carbon Certification BSR – Business for Social Responsibilty ISPO – Indonesian Sustainable Palm Oil CFA – Carbon Footprint Assessment PM – Participatory Mapping CPO – Crude Palm Oil PCP – Participatory Conservation Planning CSO – Civil Society Organisation PK – Palm Kernel CSR – Corporate Social Responsibility PT – Perseroan Terbatas EFB – Empty Fruit Bunch (Limited Liability Company) FCP – Forest Conservation Policy POME – Palm Oil Mill Effluent FFB – Fresh Fruit Bunch RA – Rainforest Alliance FPP – Forest Peoples Programme RSPO – Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil FPIC – Free, Prior and Informed Consent SDG – Sustainable Development Goal GAR – Golden Agri-Resources Ltd SOP – Standard Operational Procedure GHG – Greenhouse Gas SMART – PT SMART Tbk GRI – Global Reporting Initiative SMARTRI – SMART Research Institute GSEP – GAR Social and Environmental Policy TTP – Traceability to Plantation HCV – High Conservation Value UNGC – United Nations Global Compact HCS – High Carbon Stock HGU – Hak Guna Usaha (Right to Cultivate) 76 GOL D EN AG R I-R E S OU RC ES LTD Feedback and Contact (102-53) We see our Sustainability Report as part of our continuous engagement with our stakeholders and would welcome your feedback. Please contact our Head of Sustainability Communications, Lim Shu Ling at shuling.lim@goldenagri.com.sg If you prefer, our mailing address is: golden agri-resources ltd c/o 108 Pasir Panjang Road, #06-00 Golden Agri Plaza, Singapore 118535 golden agri-resources ltd c/o 108 Pasir Panjang Road #06-00 Golden Agri Plaza Singapore 118535 www.goldenagri.com.sg golden-agri-resources-ltd @sinarmas_agri Sinar Mas Agribusiness and Food This sustainability report has been printed on environmentally friendly paper.
