CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 1 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Disclaimer: available at the time of preparation. Thus, unforeseeable events could We took the utmost care in the collection and preparation of the data lead to deviations from the projections and expectations expressed in such provided in this report. Nevertheless, the document may contain errors. Any statements. For us, it is a matter of course that gender-neutral terms such as statements regarding future developments or expectations expressed in this “customer” or “employee” refer to both women and men, and they are used report are assumptions that were made based on the data and information in order to improve the readability of this report. 2 CONTENTS 4 PREFACE 5 GENERAL INFORMATION AND REPORTING BOUNDARIES 6 BAWAG GROUP AT A GLANCE 9 CSR STRATEGY 12 RESPONSIBLE ACTION 14 DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS 15 CUSTOMER ORIENTATION 20 STAFF DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING 26 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 29 CIVIC ENGAGEMENT AND PERSONAL COMMITMENT 32 SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAM 33 APPENDIX 36 GRI INDEX 42 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT 44 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 3 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 PREFACE Ladies and Gentlemen, The regular publication of a sustainability report is part of Empowerment Principles (WEP) are an integral part of this our continuous efforts to further strengthen sustainable CSR Report. action and thinking within BAWAG Group. With this in mind, I am pleased to present you our Corporate Social BAWAG P.S.K. already joined the UN Global Compact in Responsibility (CSR) Report 2017. This is the first report 2009 and the WEP in 2015, and has been committed to since the Austrian Sustainability and Diversity Improvement complying with the principles of these initiatives ever since. Act (Nachhaltigkeitsund Diversitätsverbesserungsgesetz) This membership has now been extended to BAWAG went into effect and the first report at the BAWAG Group Group. With over 12,500 participants, the UN Global Comlevel following our successful IPO at the end of October pact is the world’s largest network for corporate social 2017, which represents an important milestone in the responsibility. 130-year history of our company. I would like to take the opportunity to thank everyone For BAWAG Group, it is important to live up to our whose commitment to sustainable and responsible corporate social responsibility. It is crucial for companies to business practices allowed BAWAG Group to live up to its find the right balance between economic, ecological and social responsibilities and further increase the awareness of social objectives. Examples such as the “New Chance” these responsibilities in 2017. I count on your continued current account, the continuation of the Volunteer Days, support in the future. measures in the course of the Women’s Promotion Program, initiatives focusing on education and social issues, and the crowdfunding platform (www.crowdfunding.at) help to improve BAWAG Group’s perception in the general public. The GRI Index according to the Global Reporting Initiative and our annual progress reports (Communication on Anas Abuzaakouk Progress, COP) as required by our membership in the CEO and Chairman of the Managing Board of UN Global Compact and the UN Global Compact Women’s BAWAG Group AG 4 GENERAL INFORMATION AND REPORTING BOUNDARIES GENERAL INFORMATION AND REPORTING BOUNDARIES GENERAL INFORMATION The Austrian Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act Global Compact progress reports (from page 44) and is (Nachhaltigkeitsund Diversitätsverbesserungsgesetz; only released in an online version available at NaDiVeG) implements EU Directive 2014/95/EU and https://www.bawaggroup.com/csr. expands and specifies the reporting obligation for nonfinancial information (environmental, social and employee This CSR Report describes new developments that have issues, respect for human rights and anti-corruption) in the occurred and the progress that has been made in the area management report starting in financial year 2017. BAWAG of sustainability in 2017, and is tied to the CSR Report Group makes use of the statutory option provided for in 2016. The reporting period for the data and indicators is Section 267a Para 6 UGB to produce a separate the years 2015–2017. consolidated non-financial report in accordance with Section 267a UGB. The CSR reports from recent years, the annual reports, the corporate governance reports and Südwestbank’s As in the prior year, the CSR Report 2017 reports report on non-financial information for the financial year according to the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative 2017 can be used as supplemental sources of information (GRI G4), includes the GRI Index (from page 36) and UN about BAWAG Group’s CSR activities. REPORTING BOUNDARIES The CSR Report 2017 generally pertains to BAWAG Group 7 December 2017 – will prepare a separate report on as a whole with the following limitations: non-financial information for the 2017 financial year and will be included for the first time in the separate  Deviations in the presentation of specific indicators and consolidated non-financial report of BAWAG Group tables are explicitly stated. pursuant to Section 267a UGB for the financial year  The German Südwestbank – which became part of 2018. BAWAG Group when the acquisition was closed on 5 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 BAWAG GROUP AT A GLANCE BAWAG Group AG, the holding company for BAWAG P.S.K. In order to continue along its successful growth path, headquartered in Vienna, operates one of the largest and BAWAG Group takes advantage of opportunities for best capitalized banks in Austria with over 2.5 million acquisitions on an ongoing basis. The success of its customers and has a rich history going back more than inorganic growth in the DACH region is marked by five 130 years. BAWAG P.S.K. provides its financial products acquisitions over the past two years (start:bausparkasse, and services under a omni-channel strategy, combining a IMMO-BANK, PayLife, Südwestbank, Deutscher Ring centrally managed branch network with convenient digital Bausparkasse). offerings. The IPO of BAWAG Group AG at the end of October 2017 In Austria, BAWAG P.S.K. benefits from a well-recognized was an important milestone in the company’s 130-year national brand and is an important provider in the direct history and underlines our strong performance and banking market with easybank as well as its own online prospects for the future. and mobile platforms. It provides retail customers, SMEs, and corporate customers across the country with a wide The current shareholder structure can be viewed at range of savings, payment, loan, leasing and investment https://www.bawaggroup.com/shareholder-structure. products as well as building society and insurance solutions. BAWAG Group focuses on six business segments1): BAWAG P.S.K. Retail, easygroup, Südwestbank, DACH Corporates BAWAG Group’s Austria-focused strategy is supplemented & Public Sector, International Business and Treasury by its international presence in selected Western markets, Services & Markets. Delivering simple, transparent and particularly in the DACH region. In addition, BAWAG Group best-in-class products and services that meet our plans to use easygroup as a platform for the cross-border customers’ needs is our consistent strategy across all expansion of its retail business in Western Europe, business units. especially in the DACH region. STRATEGY Growth in our core markets Efficiency is the key to winning Our aim is to grow our customer base and business in our Cost efficiency across all businesses and functions is core markets, namely Austria, Germany and developed critical to succeed in a more complex world with increased markets with a focus on the DACH region. competition, higher regulatory requirements and new market entrants from outside the financial services industry. Making our customers’ lives easier We offer our customers the best experience and Safe and secure convenience when banking through our various digital and physical channels to build and maintain successful A strong capital position, stable deposits and a low risk long-term customer relationships. profile are fundamental cornerstones for the execution of our strategy. 6 1) More detailed information about the individual business segments can be found in the Consolidated Annual Report 2017. BAWAG GROUP AT A GLANCE 2017 – A SUCCESSFUL FINANCIAL YEAR FOR BAWAG GROUP BAWAG Group achieved a profit before tax of EUR 517 prior-year acquisitions and continued focus on efficiency. million, up 12% compared to 2016. The increase was The cost-income ratio was 41.6% in 2017 (adjusted for mainly driven by higher operating income and reflects the effects related to the initiation of a long-term incentive continued business transformation, positive impacts of program). Key figures at a glance in EUR million 2015 2016 2017 Core revenues 908.2 925.1 1,008.2 Profit before tax 418.5 460.7 517.3 Net profit 394.4 473.4 466.6 Return on equity (@12% CET1) 14.4% 16.5% 15.3% Return on tangible equity (@12% CET1) 16.3% 18.9% 17.9% Cost-income ratio 48.4% 44.8% 41.6% Risk costs / loans and receivables 0.17% 0.15% 0.18% Total assets 35,708 39,761 46,071 Customer loans and receivables 24,713 28,498 30,804 Customer deposits and own issues 24,928 30,930 35,885 IFRS equity 2,956 3,123 3,609 Risk-weighted assets 17,454 19,044 21,491 Common Equity Tier 1 ratio (fully loaded) 12.3% 13.6% 13.5% NPL ratio 1.9% 1.7% 2.0% Ratings Numerous awards received In November 2016, BAWAG P.S.K. was rated by Fitch for The Banker, an international industry magazine for banks the first time. The long-term issuer rating and the published by the Financial Times, selected BAWAG Group standalone rating were both set at A-. In February 2017, as “Bank of the Year in Austria” for the third year in a row Fitch additionally assigned senior unsecured and after honoring the company in 2015 and 2016. This subordinated debt ratings of Aand BBB+, respectively. distinguished award underlines BAWAG Group’s successful strategic transformation in recent years. In April 2017, Moody’s again announced several rating upgrades for BAWAG P.S.K. The long-term senior Mid-2017, BAWAG P.S.K. received the newly created unsecured debt, issuer and deposit ratings were all raised “Digitale Helden Zukunftspreis 2016” (Digital Heroes by one notch to A2. At the same time, the standalone rating Future Award 2016) from Microsoft Austria in the (baseline credit assessment) as well as the subordinate “Services” category. Microsoft’s jury decision emphasized debt rating were also upgraded by one notch to baa1 and the fact that BAWAG P.S.K. has taken on a leading role in Baa2, respectively. the digitalization of Austria and is a pioneer in the use of customer data. BAWAG P.S.K. was the first Austrian bank to BAWAG P.S.K. has also been assigned sustainability ratings receive approval from the regulatory authorities to transition by major European agencies, including SUSTAINALYTICS to the cloud, which will allow it to offer its customers an (average) and oekom research (not prime). This is improved, innovative customer experience in the future. important because investors are increasingly considering ecological and social aspects in their investment decisions. BAWAG P.S.K. was named the best recruiter in its industry We strive to continuously improve our existing sustainability and awarded the title “Best Recruiter 2016/17” for the ratings. sixth time in total (see page 24 for additional details). 7 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Four first-place rankings for easybank rate underlines the tremendous satisfaction of our customers. easybank was selected as the best Austrian direct bank in 2017 by DerBörsianer in a three-pillar scoring model (peer For the fourth time in succession, easybank was the overall group, key performance indicators, editors). A total of 140 winner in the “Direktbanken Österreich 2017” (Austrian financial institutions from five sectors were analyzed, Direct Banks 2017) study conducted by the Society for including 54 banks. The scoring and data analysis were Consumer Studies (ÖGVS). easybank outperformed ten performed by the business and tax consultant BDO Austria. competitors and fulfilled the defined criteria at a rate of 86.3%. The direct banking offerings in Austria were The annual customer satisfaction survey of Finanzevaluated in the four categories of conditions, transparency Marketing Verband Österreich (FMVÖ), also known as the and convenience, product offering and customer service. “Recommender Award”, asked 8,000 people about whether or not they would recommend Austria’s banks, easybank was named the winner of the Chamber of insurance companies, and building societies. easybank Labour’s salary account comparison for the eleventh time took first place in the category of direct, special and private in a row in 2017. The test included 40 current accounts banks for the seventh time in a row in 2017 and also that include a credit card but not insurance coverage from achieved the highest Net Promoter Score of all banks and 20 banks in Vienna. insurance companies at 52%. This high recommendation 8 CSR STRATEGY CSR STRATEGY CSR ORGANIZATION AT BAWAG GROUP At BAWAG Group, corporate social responsibility is manManagement & Regulatory Compliance; IT; Cost aged on an interdisciplinary basis under the responsibility Optimization, Strategic Sourcing & Real Estate; Marketing & of the Managing Board by the CSR Committee, which is Products; Austrian Corporates & Public Sector and Investor made up of the following division heads: Human ReRelations & Communications. sources; Legal and Corporate Office; Non-Financial Risk MATERIALITY ANALYSIS AND SELECTION OF CONTENT FOR THE REPORT The content of the CSR Report was prepared in accordance The results of this materiality analysis process, which was with the requirements of the Austrian Sustainability and reassessed internally to consider subsidiaries, will be Diversity Improvement Act and the guidelines of the Global evaluated in 2018 (see CSR Outlook, page 11). They Reporting Initiative (version G4, Core “In Accordance” comprise six focuses of action (please refer to the GRI option, including the Financial Services Sector Disclosures) Index on page 36), which together with the ten principles of and in line with the principles of materiality, transparency the UN Global Compact form the basis for the CSR mission and comparability. statement, the CSR strategy, the measures of the sustainability program derived from this and the content In 2013, BAWAG P.S.K. defined which sustainability topics presented in the CSR Report. and aspects are relevant for the Bank in a multi-stage process. First, external stakeholders (customers, Austrian Federal Economic Chamber, Chamber of Labour, Focuses of action sustainability rating agencies, sustainability and environmental protection NGOs, etc.) were asked to share 1. Responsible action their perspectives. The requirements of the GRI Sector 2. Dialogue with stakeholders Disclosures for financial services providers and the 3. Customer orientation assessments of sustainability rating agencies were also taken 4. Staff development and training into account and subsequently supplemented with internal 5. Environmental protection points of emphasis that were developed during a workshop 6. Civic engagement and personal commitment held by the members of the CSR Committee, who assessed the individual results for their relevant area of responsibility and their employees. 9 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 CSR MISSION STATEMENT With its six focuses of action, the CSR mission statement strategy and the underlying measures of the sustainability forms the overarching structure of BAWAG Group’s CSR program. Focuses of action CSR topics For BAWAG Group, CSR means Responsible action Fairness and respect … acting in accordance with the ethical values of our for the rights of present Code of Conduct and the ten principles of the UN and future generations Global Compact. … acting in accordance with the seven UN Global Compact Women’s Empowerment Principles. … raising awareness for the 17 Sustainable Development Goals of the UN Global Compact as a framework for sustainable action. … providing the basis for responsible action within BAWAG Group by creating policies and guidelines. Dialogue with stakeholders Strengthening … facing the expectations and requirements placed on us relationships with with respect, an open ear and a willingness to engage stakeholders in dialogue. … pursuing an open, transparent information policy internally and externally. Customer orientation Appropriate products … supporting society in urban and rural areas. and services for every … providing omni-channel access to banking services for life circumstance and as many people as possible by actively combating every stage of life social exclusion, based on a strong local presence, easy-to-understand financial products and barrier-free products and services. … being a reliable partner for the business community. Staff development and training Appreciation and … offering employees a healthy work environment in advancement of employees which they can advance their careers, appreciating in every stage of life employees and encouraging their potential and their personal commitment for the good of society. Environmental protection Reducing our … keeping the environmental impact of products, services environmental impact so as and day-to-day operations as low as possible and not to endanger the basis reporting about our progress on a regular basis. of life for future generations Civic engagement and personal Charity activities and … promoting the civic engagement of our employees, commitment volunteer work encouraging civic engagement among our customers and supporting their efforts in this area. 10 CSR STRATEGY CSR OUTLOOK Over the past few years, BAWAG Group has transformed multi-stage materiality analysis process described in the itself into a modern, innovative, efficient and highly section entitled “Materiality analysis and selection of successful banking group through the consistent strategic content for the report” (see page 9) and the measures realignment of its business model. The IPO at the end of derived from this process in 2018, taking Südwestbank into October 2017 was an important milestone in the 130-year account. The Code of Conduct, which is a binding history of our company, underlines our strong performance guideline for the responsible action of all employees, will in recent years and represents a turning point for us from also be revised in 2018. During this process, BAWAG private to public ownership. Group will also examine its contributions to achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Due to the fundamental changes in recent years driven by organic and inorganic growth, we plan to evaluate the 11 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 RESPONSIBLE ACTION For BAWAG Group, responsible action means acting in among other things, and making a contribution to achieving accordance with the ethical values of our Code of Conduct, the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and the seven have numerous policies and guidelines based on these UN Global Compact Women’s Empowerment Principles, principles that ensure responsible action by our employees. COMPLIANCE Effective compliance and risk management is a decisive such as penalties, fines and restrictions on business activity aspect of a bank’s success. In addition to the conventional for BAWAG Group. Individual employees involved in such risk types, the management of non-financial risks is violations could face fines or incarceration as well as becoming increasingly important. We responded to this disciplinary actions as defined in the employment laws, development by establishing a Non-Financial Risk including dismissal. Therefore, all employees of BAWAG Management & Regulatory Compliance division in 2016. Group are strictly prohibited from accepting or making The compliance officer and the anti-money-laundering offers of bribery or making or permitting payments for the officer head up this division together with the goal of purposes of bribery or other forms of corruption. BAWAG implementing a uniform, company-wide management Group expects its employees to act with transparency and approach for non-financial risk and compliance. The integrity in all business activities in order to prevent the Group-wide compliance and non-financial risk unpermitted acceptance of benefits or the appearance of management not only ensures that laws, requirements and questionable conduct on the part of employees or third standards are abided by, but also provides comprehensive parties with whom it does business. protection for investors, customers, employees and the company itself. Along with the management of operational All newly hired employees learn about the gift policy in the risk, the key responsibilities are preventing money course of their orientation training. In addition, all laundering, combating terrorist financing, monitoring employees – especially those who work in confidentiality compliance with sanctions, fraud prevention, data areas – receive regular anti-corruption training as part of a protection, information security, securities compliance and compliance e-learning course that includes competence the prevention of insider trading, market abuse and checks. conflicts of interest. In addition to all relevant laws such as the Securities Supervision Act, all employees are also Corruption risk is monitored at all of BAWAG Group’s bound by a Code of Conduct that also contains guidelines business locations. for business conduct and customer service, for how conflicts of interest are to be handled and for preventing market abuse and money laundering. A detailed antiParticipation in Transparency International corruption guideline governs the acceptance and awarding of gifts and keeps employees and management abreast of BAWAG P.S.K. has been a member of the Austrian chapter the anti-corruption regulations in place. The risk of violating of Transparency International (TI-AC) since 2012. This nonanti-corruption regulations in day-to-day business dealings profit organization seeks to increase general awareness of has risen significantly, also due to the amendment of the the need to combat corruption and increase transparency Austrian Anti-Corruption Act (Antikorruptionsgesetz). in Austria, and it works to facilitate the implementation of Violations of legal regulations and internal rules of conduct relevant measures and reforms. can lead to reputational risks and severe consequences 12 RESPONSIBLE ACTION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND GROUP-WIDE GUIDELINES Corporate Governance Code of Conduct In 2006, BAWAG P.S.K. made a voluntary commitment to The Code of Conduct serves as the foundation and the apply the Austrian Code of Corporate Governance. The Bank basic binding guideline for the conduct and actions of our has published an annual Corporate Governance Report since employees and is the framework for numerous policies at 2009. Following its listing on the stock exchange in 2017, BAWAG Group together with international initiatives such as BAWAG Group AG declared its commitment to comply with the UN Global Compact. In addition, the rules of conduct the rules of the Code. Through this voluntary self-regulatory defined in the Code of Conduct supplement the applicable measure, BAWAG Group aims to further strengthen the legal requirements such as the Austrian Banking Act confidence of customers, employees and the public. (Bankwesengesetz) and data protection regulations as well as a number of detailed internal guidelines. Important The Consolidated Corporate Governance Report for the now Group-wide guidelines include the following: listed BAWAG Group AG is being published for the first time for the 2017 financial year and is available at  Anti-Fraud Policy https://www.bawaggroup.com/corporate-governance-reports.  Anti-Corruption and Gift Policy  Complaint Management Policy  Conflict of Interest Policy Guidelines and policies  Corporate Procurement Policy  Corporate Travel Policy Human Rights Matrix  Credit Policies  Entertainment Policy BAWAG Group is primarily exposed to the risk of human  Fit & Proper Policy rights violations indirectly in the area of financing and  Information Policy investments. We rely on the Human Rights Matrix and  Internal Control System Policy internal guidelines to identify and prevent these risks. Such  M&A and Integration Policy a Human Rights Matrix was already created at BAWAG  Non Disclosure Agreement Policy P.S.K. back in 2007. Together with “Human Rights  OpRisk Policy Consulting Vienna”, a list of BAWAG P.S.K.’s points of  Outsourcing Policy contact with all of its stakeholders related to human rights  Policy for New Employees obligations was set up and used to create a matrix which  Product Implementation Process Policy also details the current and target status with regard to  Recruitment Policy respecting human rights.  Security Policy  Social Media Policy BAWAG Group’s goal is to be conscious of human rights at  Supplier Code of Conduct all times and to do everything possible to consider them in  Third Party Management Policy every aspect of its daily operations. Basic principles and measures have been and continue to be taken into  UN Global Compact Principles consideration in a variety of ways, for example through our  UN Women’s Empowerment Principles participation in the UN Global Compact, the Code of Conduct and basic guidelines. The Human Rights Matrix  COBIT 4.0 Framework will be taken into account in the evaluation process in 2018  ISAE3402/SSAE16 for the Outsourcing of IT Processes (see page 11). 13 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS It is particularly important to BAWAG Group to face the consumer protection and consulting organizations, expectations and requirements placed on it by internal and analysts, NGOs (including CSR organizations), sponsoring external stakeholders with respect and an open ear and to partners, suppliers, the media and press, non-customers, engage in dialogue with its various stakeholders. Internal policymakers, the general public and competitors. These stakeholders such as employees and the Works Council are stakeholders will once again be included in the evaluation treated equally to external stakeholders such as customers, of the materiality analysis (see pages 9 and 11) planned for product partners, shareholders, regulatory authorities, 2018. IN DIALOGUE WITH CUSTOMERS With more than 2.5 million customers, engaging in dialogue cornerstones of customer communication. Along with as equals is among the basic requirements for BAWAG the employees who work in customer service, the Group’s day-to-day operations. Providing comprehensive, Complaint Desk and social networks serve as essential accompanying advice over the entire life cycle is one of the communication hubs. INFORMATION ON CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Customer satisfaction is a top priority Overall customer satisfaction 2017 BAWAG P.S.K. invites its customers to provide feedback Customer satisfaction remains at a high level. According to after consultations. This verifies the high level of customer a study of multiple banks conducted by Integral Marktund satisfaction. In 2017, 92% of customers gave their Meinungsforschung, three fourths of our retail customers consultation a rating of 1 or 2 (on a scale of 1 to 5, with 1 are very satisfied or satisfied with BAWAG P.S.K. Among being the best). easybank’s customers, an impressive 96% are very satisfied or satisfied. For details about the “Recommender Award” received by easybank from the Finanz-Marketing Verband Österreich (FMVÖ), please refer to the information on page 8. 14 CUSTOMER ORIENTATION CUSTOMER ORIENTATION BAWAG Group strives to provide access to banking services In the coming quarters, we will continue to work towards the for as many people as possible by actively combating social execution of our long-term strategy and develop further on an exclusion based on a strong local presence, the expansion ongoing basis. Our products and tailored advisory services are of its digital offerings and easy-to-understand and barrieraimed at supporting our customers in all of their financial free financial products and services as well as to be a matters. Our goal is to achieve the highest possible level of reliable partner for the business community. customer satisfaction in all of our distribution channels. We are well under way to creating a digitally integrated platform that encompasses all our distribution channels. RESPONSIBLE CUSTOMER SERVICE The responsible treatment of customers is stipulated in the financial concept for the customer on the basis of all Code of Conduct, put into execution in additional guidelines available information about him/her. This includes the basic and supported through various measures and actions. In financial security of the customer and his/her family – here this regard, the Code of Conduct defines the following we recommend a callable reserve in the amount of roughly principles: The customers’ needs are the primary focus for two monthly salaries. In addition, the achievement of the BAWAG Group. Competent, friendly and reputable customer’s goals and wishes is covered in a second step. employees ascertain the financial circumstances and needs of our customers so that they can offer them the The utilization of overdraft facilities on the part of our right products and services. This means that we only offer customers is monitored on an ongoing basis. If we see products and services that are in line with our core brand that a customer is approaching the upper limit of his/her values – easy to understand, fair, emotionally appealing, overdraft facility and remains at that level over a longer everywhere and anytime; do everything possible to provide period of time, we proactively contact the customer and services in the best interest of our customers and to make offer him/her an alternative to overdrawing the account. customers adequately aware of risks and strive to prevent This not only enables customers to save debit interest, but potential conflicts of interest between BAWAG Group and also gives them the possibility to reduce their debt in a its customers. clear and structured manner. In order to counteract longterm credit risk for customers, we offer special insurance Once a year, our advisors conduct a comprehensive packages for illness and unemployment when customers discussion with their customers about all their financial take out a loan. matters (including monitoring). The focus is on the overall LENDING GUIDELINES When it comes to the sustainable development of business, these guidelines explicitly require the frontand back-office lending guidelines play a key role along with responsible units to ensure that loan applications comply with all product development. For example, the lending guidelines applicable laws, which naturally include human rights and for the retail and small business segment define so-called environmental regulations, and bank policies and that unpermitted industries, such as gaming and gambling these transactions do not give rise to any reputational risk. companies or companies in the sex industry. In addition, 15 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 PRODUCT IMPLEMENTATION PROCESS The Product Implementation Process Policy plays a key In addition, we conduct comprehensive surveys among our role in the development of new markets, products and customers before significant changes are implemented. services and in the case of significant changes to existing Our employees are also gradually familiarized with changes markets, products and services. All risks must be taken through pilot phases and comprehensive training measures into consideration during product development, including in order to ensure that the implementation of products is as credit risk, strategic risk, compliance risk and operational smooth as possible. risk. The involvement of various divisions is intended to ensure that potential risks are identified and prevented or mitigated in a timely manner. SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Sustainable investment funds this socially minded service of BAWAG P.S.K., which is designed for people who otherwise would be excluded from The total volume of assets managed by Amundi Austria, electronic payment transactions. Neither the account BAWAG P.S.K.’s asset management partner, in socially number nor the bank routing code contain any indications responsible investments (SRI funds) amounted to that it is a non-credit account. This prevents customers from EUR 1.2 billion at year-end 2017. Investments in being directly or indirectly stigmatized when executing their sustainable investment products – in the two retail funds financial transactions. The “basic payment account” for “Amundi Öko Sozial Stock” and “Amundi Öko Sozial Rent” consumers was introduced in 2016, but BAWAG P.S.K. – have increased 2018 and totaled EUR 113 million and offers the “New Chance” current account to over 35,000 EUR 230 million, respectively, as of 31 December 2017. customers in addition to this standardized, EU-wide account. Both funds are certified with the EUROSIF Transparency Logo for SRI funds and were awarded the Austrian Eco-label for Sustainable Financial Products in 2016. The certification with Temporary assistance for unemployment after bankruptcies the Austrian Eco-label was extended in 2017 after all of the relevant criteria were met. A total of around EUR 1 billion is BAWAG P.S.K. has provided interest-free temporary invested in a further four special mandates, one of which is assistance to customers affected by corporate bankruptcies also certified with the Austrian Eco-label for Sustainable of their employers in several cases. Financial Products. Barrier-free services Lending and environment People with impairments often face major obstacles when BAWAG P.S.K. also offers environmentally relevant added conducting their day-to-day banking transactions. The user value in housing financing. When taking out a mortgage interface for the self-service devices in the branches is loan, borrowers are reimbursed for a portion of the costs of being completely revamped with a focus on barrier-free the energy performance certificate amounting to EUR 250. features in a step-by-step process that will be completed in spring 2018. Along with a modern and more intuitive design, a barrier-free mode will be implemented. The “New Chance” current account barrier-free mode features a high-contrast display as well as larger fonts and icons, and does not use animations. The use of the “New Chance” current account has been steadily growing for years, which confirms the necessity of 16 CUSTOMER ORIENTATION BAWAG P.S.K. is also a project partner in the “bank4all” This eliminates the printing, paper, filing and shipping initiative, which was launched in 2014. The implemented required for roughly 200,000 PIN requests per year. website helps blind and visually impaired people to find banking machines all over Austria that are easier to use because they are equipped with new software easybank WWF MasterCard (www.bank4all.at). From 2014 to 2017, easybank offered the WWF MasterCard in cooperation with the WWF. Each year, EUR Electronic PIN delivery 20 of the card fee was donated to the WWF for the benefit of conservation projects around the world. The donation The secure delivery of customers’ debit card PIN to was tax deductible. In this way, the WWF and easybank their electronic mailbox was gradually rolled out starting in customers helped to protect endangered species. February 2017 (eBanking) and April 2017 (mobile app). SUSTAINABLE CUSTOMER RELATIONS AND PROJECTS BAWAG P.S.K. as a partner for non-profit organizations ES GEHT! The topic of social issues once again had a special place in The conventional sponsoring concept was transformed into BAWAG P.S.K.’s activities in 2017, as it has long been the a modern mobilization concept, thus putting an end to the main bank for many charitable organizations in Austria. age-old practice of providing funds in exchange for a logo Some 150 non-profit and non-governmental organizations placement and a line thanking the sponsors for their kind are long-standing customers. Throughout the branch support. Instead, BAWAG P.S.K. has been taking a different network it is possible to do cash transfers for NGOs with approach since 2014: ES GEHT! With the ES GEHT! reduced fees. A reduced fee of EUR 0.55 per cash transfer initiative launched in 2014, BAWAG P.S.K. started a has been charged for years. movement that promotes individual initiatives, brings people and communities together and encourages everyone to work together to do good things. BAWAG P.S.K. supports Reliable partner for Austria’s business community submitted projects with expertise, contacts and communication concepts through the online platform Many companies, municipalities and public sector entities www.es-geht.at and the colleagues at our branches. also place their trust in BAWAG P.S.K. The Bank often supports municipalities with the building and expansion of The support provided by the initiative focuses on local infrastructure such as nurseries, schools or care fundamental topics such as work, living space, education, institutions. health, culture and technology. As part of the ES GEHT! initiative, BAWAG P.S.K. was the first bank in Austria to give We also focus on initiatives in the social housing segment. the topic of crowdfunding a professional presence with its Customers frequently realize sustainable residential crowdfunding platform (www.crowdfunding.at), which development projects (passive buildings, low-energy helps projects being realized by individuals or private properties). organizations to obtain financial support. Since 2014, 29 projects have been financed through the platform. We live up to our environmental responsibility on an Crowdfunding is an alternative, modern form of financing in ongoing basis. Projects that pose a risk of causing which many smaller contributions from individual people are environmental damage are rejected or scrutinized. collected in order to finance an idea worth supporting. In For example, we require appropriate environmental this way, the initiative has helped to raise more than EUR assessments for the financing of gas stations or landfills. 300,000 (EUR 40,000 thereof in 2017) from the community for the community since its launch, money that has gone directly towards the realization of the various projects. 17 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 “Lerncafés” of Caritas Vienna Customer loyalty program DANKESCHÖN The learning cafés operated by Caritas Vienna are aimed at As part of the customer loyalty program DANKESCHÖN, ensuring that young people with educational disadvantages account holders of a new account box can use their are afforded equal opportunities when it comes to collected points as donations for the benefit of various participating in education and training systems. To this end, projects. In this way, they support projects with a local and particularly the learning café at Hebbelplatz 5 in Vienna’s social background in collaboration with the ES GEHT! tenth district offers assistance on all five weekdays. This platform. offering is not only geared towards students at compulsory schools, but also towards 15to 20-year-olds. The comprehensive range of services includes targeted group Business continuity planning programs focusing on specific topics, computer workshops, specific language and personal development courses and Providing customers with optimal service is the top priority advice on non-educational matters including referrals to for BAWAG Group. This includes ensuring that service can relevant specialists (legal and social counseling, youth be maintained without interruption in the event of an welfare services, etc.). Non-standard students who newly emergency. With this in mind, BAWAG Group has planned enter the school system during the year and thus complete ahead and put together a special team responsible for the school year without a report card receive special business continuity management. The fundamental assistance for learning the basic cultural skills (reading, principle is that the critical business processes must be writing and arithmetic) in order to enable them to move up resumed within six hours after the onset of an emergency to the next grade level. and must continue to run without any major problems. To this end, numerous tests together with partner companies were successfully completed in 2017. COLLABORATION WITH PARTNERS WHO ACT SUSTAINABLY The provision of simple, transparent and best-in-class  https://www.generali.at/privatkunden/ueberproducts and services as well as sustainable action are uns/nachhaltigkeit-csr/ also key factors for our cooperation partners.  https://www.generali.com/our-responsibilities Our partnership with the fund company Amundi, which has In the segment of building society savings and loan placed strong emphasis on environmental, social and agreements, BAWAG P.S.K. works with its subsidiary governance criteria in its investment decisions for years, start:bausparkasse as well as Bausparkasse Wüstenrot to gives our customers access to a wide range of top-class offer its customers savings and loan agreements as a lowinvestment products. risk savings option and affordable financing opportunity for buying an apartment, fulfilling the dream of owning a home  http://about.amundi.com/A-committedand renovating existing living space. In addition to player/Developing-responsible-finance obtaining building financing, customers can also invest for education or retirement needs. BAWAG P.S.K. Versicherung offers attractive, secure solutions in the areas of retirement savings, hedging and  https://www.wuestenrot.at/de/ueber-uns/konzern.html investment for BAWAG P.S.K. customers. BAWAG P.S.K. Versicherung is a subsidiary of Generali Group and is A long-term sales agreement with Allianz Vorsorgekasse therefore subject to the group’s economic, social and allows BAWAG P.S.K. to offer solutions for company environmental guidelines. pension schemes to corporate customers. The Austrian Society for Environment and Technology (ÖGUT) reviews  https://www.bawagpsk-versicherung.at/ueberthe investment concept of Allianz Vorsorgekasse on an uns/nachhaltigkeit-soziale-verantwortung/ annual basis and evaluates its investments according to 18 CUSTOMER ORIENTATION ethical and ecological criteria. In addition, the company easy green energy is a subsidiary of easybank that was receives awards for sustainable investment every year. founded in 2015. The company currently supplies electricity and natural gas to roughly 70,000 customers  https://www.allianzvk.at/warum-allianz/nachhaltigkeit.html throughout Austria and regularly receives awards for the quality of its products and services. It has been offering easy green energy electricity certified with the Austrian Eco-label since launch and in 2017 received the “Best Electricity Provider 2017” The Austrian power utility easy green energy was named award from the Society for Consumer Studies (ÖGVS). the best provider in the VKI initiative “Energiekosten-Stop” (Stop Energy Costs) for the second year in a row in 2017. 19 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 STAFF DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING For BAWAG Group, it is important to offer its employees a treatment or workplace stress are analyzed and appropriate healthy work environment in which they can advance their measures are put into place. Discrimination or unequal careers as well as to appreciate its employees and treatment based on gender, religion or other reasons could encourage their potential and personal commitment for the represent a reputational risk for BAWAG Group. This could good of society and the environment. Risks that arise for also impact our attractiveness as an employer. Measures employees in connection with their daily work, unequal are taken to prevent this. Development of the number of employees Headcount 2015 2016 2017 Number of employees as of 31 December 2,992 2,758 3,520 Gender distribution in % 2015 2016 2017 Women 54% 54% 57% Men 46% 46% 43% Share of women in management positions 27% 28% 27% Additional indicators pertaining to employees can be found in the GRI Index starting on page 36 as well as in the Appendix starting on page 33. WOMEN’S ADVANCEMENT With the women’s promotion program introduced in 2012 As part of the women’s promotion program, female and as a signatory to the UN Global Compact Women’s employees once again had the opportunity to take part in Empowerment Principles (WEP), BAWAG P.S.K. has taken specific seminars and workshops such as “Self-Marketing another important step towards ensuring equality between for Women” and “Discovering, Strengthening and Applying women and men. The program focuses on fostering Leadership Potential.” awareness of the importance of equality of opportunity – combined with clearly defined goals: BAWAG P.S.K. Women’s Initiative  Financial equality between women and men for equal performance The goal of the BAWAG P.S.K. Women’s Initiative is to  Increasing the number of women in leadership and advance the equality of women at the Bank and facilitate expert positions the exchange of experiences and knowledge as well as  Promoting a better balance between career and family networking inside and outside the company. for women and men With the events and activities described below, the BAWAG The women’s promotion plan was revised and renegotiated P.S.K. Women’s Initiative makes a significant contribution to in 2017. A dashboard with indicators regarding women’s raising awareness for numerous issues related to equality. advancement was created in order to raise awareness. 20 STAFF DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING BAWAG P.S.K. Women Mentoring Program division and a representative of the BAWAG P.S.K. Women’s Initiative. With this award, BAWAG P.S.K. honored The fourth round of the program, in which external top Edeltraud Hanappi-Egger for her tireless and long-standing managers from the business community serve as mentors, efforts in the area of gender and diversity in organizations. was continued. In April, the mentees and mentors attended a presentation in the “Ganymed fe male” event series The prize is awarded to women who set an outstanding together with the BAWAG P.S.K. Women’s Initiative, along example for other women on the basis of their with other activities. In May, a networking evening was held achievements and commitment, especially in the areas of: on the topic of “The Language of Power: How to Utilize Results-Oriented and Relationship-Oriented Language for  science, journalism and art Your Success” with Christine Bauer-Jelinek, a distinguished  social commitment psychotherapist, business coach and best-selling author.  intercultural understanding  promoting equality of opportunity between women and The fifth run of the BAWAG P.S.K. Women Mentoring men, and Program started at the end of 2017. Fifteen female  creating awareness for the role of women in the mentees were once again provided with managers from professional world BAWAG P.S.K. to serve as experienced mentors. During the one-year mentoring program, the participants take part in networking events, workshops and various business talks. Underrepresented gender in the Supervisory Board and The goal is to support the female mentees (59 women Managing Board have taken part since the program was started) in their management or expert positions and to prepare them for In 2013, the Nomination Committee set a target ratio for the next step in their careers. the underrepresented gender in the Supervisory Board and Managing Board. The strategy for achieving this target was further developed and fleshed out over the course of 2017 Fe-male Future Day together with the BAWAG P.S.K. Women’s Initiative and Human Resources. Points of emphasis include the The BAWAG P.S.K. Women’s Initiative once again hosted advancement of women through the women’s promotion the Fe-male Future Day in October 2017. Birgit Fenderl of program, an external mentoring program for female the Austrian Broadcasting Corporation (ORF) moderated a managers and experts with mentors from various industries podium discussion on the topic of “Fe-male Equality in (BAWAG P.S.K. Women MentoringBusiness) and genderCompanies.” The participants included the recipient of the specific seminars for the further development of women. 2017 BAWAG P.S.K. Women’s Prize, Edeltraud HanappiWomen were appointed to the executive boards (managing Egger, rector of the Vienna University of Economics and board and supervisory board) of the subsidiaries to a Business; Klaus Schierhackl, CEO of ASFINAG and Isolde greater degree in 2017. Seer, a representative of the BAWAG P.S.K. Women’s Initiative and an HR Business Partner. Career and family BAWAG P.S.K. Women’s Prize In 2013, BAWAG P.S.K. committed to promoting a good balance between family and career under the framework of As part of Fe-male Future Day, BAWAG P.S.K. awarded a structured audit process and was awarded a certificate as the fifth BAWAG P.S.K. Women’s Prize for outstanding a family-friendly company, which was valid for three years. achievements and exceptional dedication on the part of In the course of the reauditing in 2016, the certificate was women for society. The EUR 3,000 prize was presented to successfully approved. Various measures are planned over Edeltraud Hanappi-Egger by Tamara Kapeller, head of the the next two years to strengthen our status as a familyNon-Financial Risk Management & Regulatory Compliance friendly company. 21 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Information events for expectant parents Flexibility in the workplace Again in 2017, Human Resources and the BAWAG P.S.K. The majority of the organizational units offer variable Works Council provided information about the coordination working hours within a set of defined operating hours. of parental leave during the regular event series for Telework agreements are facilitated to the extent possible expectant mothers and fathers. Twice a year, these events based on operational needs and require employees to provide helpful information to facilitate a smooth return to come into the office at least one day a week. Various time the company. models can be agreed on an individual basis, and it is possible to arrange either reduced daily working hours or an accumulated number of hours spread out over several Welcome back event days per week. There are also partial retirement models, educational and medical care leave, and part-time medical Human Resources and the BAWAG P.S.K. Works Council care models that allow employees to optimally balance their have been organizing the welcome back event since 2009. private and personal needs with work. Since 2014, all Employees returning from parental leave are invited to fathers have received two so-called daddy days, which are inform themselves about news and developments at two days of special leave following the birth of a child in BAWAG P.S.K. and have the opportunity to participate in a addition to the two days of special leave stipulated by the dialogue with internal managers and experts. The event collective bargaining agreement. This means that fathers provides a sound basis for a successful return to the have a total of four days to care for their child and their company. partner. TRAINING AND EDUCATION General information about employee training the central administrative units (incl. subsidiaries) completed an average of 1.2 days (women 1.2 / men 1.1), Our training program supports employees in mastering the employees in sales 4.4 days (women 3.8 / men 5.8) and various everyday challenges they face in the banking managers 4.3 days (women 3.4 / men 4.8). business. It ensures that they have the necessary specialized knowledge and is also designed to help employees learn how to cope with various burdens Apprentice training resulting from time pressure and stress, for example. To this end, we offer specialized training courses, workshops BAWAG P.S.K. has been successfully training apprentices in project management, stress management, time for years and has received numerous awards, for example management and self-reliance as well as a wide range of IT, the “Beste Lehrbetriebe – Fit for Future” state prize. English and first aid courses. The e-learning offering was Providing young people with goals and prospects for the expanded to include additional self-directed learning future is a task that was once again taken very seriously in programs and tutorials. The methods used in this context 2017. With its qualified banker apprenticeship program, the include blended learning on the basis of mixed courses Bank provides high-quality training aimed at enabling the with online and on-site elements as well as social learning, apprentices to be hired as qualified customer advisors at the in which participants learn with and from one another. In end of their apprenticeship. Each year, young women and 2017, a total of 10,079 seminar days (lasting eight hours men complete their apprenticeships with tremendous each) were completed. Each employee in the central success. In addition to the comprehensive training program, administrative units (including subsidiaries) completed an the Bank supports and encourages young people to average of 1.9 days (women 1.8 / men 2.1) of training and complete an apprenticeship in combination with attaining a education, employees in sales 5.4 days (women 5.2 / men secondary school leaving certificate, thus earning a second 5.7) and managers 4.7 days (women 4.8 / men 4.7). In qualification in addition to their vocational training. 2016, 8,043 seminar days were completed: employees in 22 STAFF DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING Sales Academy “TOP-TEAM Vertrieb”, the basic leadership program for potential branch managers in sales, ensures the The new sales training program (the “Sales Academy”) development of future managers from within the Bank. combines three essential elements: specialized knowledge as The participants are all promising young employees with the basis for success, sales in the form of motivating training leadership potential who have been nominated as part of courses in sales methods and the development of managers. the Sales Talent Management succession planning process. At the start of the program, a new telephone training method They go through a challenging program of technical and was successfully introduced in which trainers provide personal development training to prepare them to manage a coaching for specific questions by telephone. branch. The training course is concluded with an exam conducted by an examination board. Talent development; succession and career planning The goal of the Sales Talent Management process is to define the training needs in retail sales, find high-potential The process for the identification and development of employees for defined positions, derive individual measures potential successors for key functions that was launched in and thus be able to carry out targeted training and 2014 was continued in 2017 and has been established as succession planning. a standard process. At a meeting of the Managing Board, high-potential employees were discussed in a structured manner and approaches for dealing with succession risks Management development were coordinated. This ensures that vacant positions can be quickly filled from the company’s own ranks (highThe training of managers at BAWAG P.S.K. encompasses a potential employees), thus enabling seamless business wide range of offerings with a clear focus on management, operations. goal accountability and employee development. In 2012, Human Resources agreed to continuously work For example, the development of managers in retail sales is towards the equality of women and men in the women’s based on a regular employee survey and a potential promotion plan. It was agreed that at least 50% of the assessment which is supervised by external experts and participants in the various talent programs would be aimed at identifying a manager’s personal strengths and women in order to take women’s advancement into development areas. The Bank offers a modular training account to an appropriate extent on an ongoing basis. program that is tailored based on the results of this assessment and strengthens the skills needed for day-toThe seventh iteration of the “Start & Move” graduate day management tasks on a selective basis. The program program started in September 2017. This one-year focuses on a high level of practice-oriented learning, the program provides support for trainees who join the Bank. targeted development of leadership skills, sharpening The diverse range of offerings ensures that the graduates managers’ self-reflection skills and employee guidance and get off to a good start at BAWAG P.S.K. and provides them development. with the opportunity to network within the Bank. Nine of the 16 participants are women. In 2017, the “LEAD neue Führungskräfte” manager training program was once again completed in the central The sixth run of the “forTalents” development program for administrative divisions. The program provides support and high-potential employees in the central administrative units guidance for new managers in the performance of their started in October 2017. Like in the first runs of this new function during the first year, with an emphasis on program, participants were supported in their development guided peer advice and learning from one another. The and groomed for new management and expert positions. 19th group successfully completed the program at yearTen of the 20 participants in the current group are women, end 2017. Six of the 13 participants were women. and 45 of the 90 total participants thus far have been women, 22 of whom meanwhile have management responsibilities. 23 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Experienced managers and managerial teams were once Thus, HR ONE serves as a performance management and again supported in individual (management) coaching learning platform and provides support as a tracking tool sessions and targeted change management measures. for the Sales Talent Management process, for example. As a virtual learning portal, HR ONE also provides self-directed The “After Work Führungskräfte Forum” was continued in learning programs, competence checks and tutorials. 2017 – a series of network events with keynote speeches for all the Bank’s executives to familiarize them with new tendencies of leadership and to provide a platform for Awards exchanging experiences. BAWAG P.S.K. was named the best recruiter in its industry and awarded as “Best Recruiter 2016/17” for the sixth time MbO process (Management by Objectives) in total. In the annual analysis of over 500 Austrian companies performed by the communication agency GPK, The MbO process is an important management and the Bank showed once again that it competes at the front leadership tool at BAWAG P.S.K. Managers conduct the of the pack in the “war for talent” among banks. A total of associated MbO reviews with their employees twice a year 133 criteria were evaluated in the categories career in order to set new goals for the coming year and define homepage, social media, mobile recruiting, online job development measures. advertisements, online job exchanges, transparency, usability in the application process as well as response to The supportive software HR ONE helps managers and the contact quality with applicants. employees to enter their goals online and to evaluate them. WORKPLACE HEALTH PROMOTION – OCCUPATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY SERVICES One of the cornerstones of our workplace health promotion Occupational psychology services activities is the range of services offered by the company physician’s offices, which includes the following: Since 2010, BAWAG P.S.K. has offered its employees support and counseling in the area of occupational  Occupational health examinations and assessments psychology as part of its workplace health promotion  Treatment of acute illnesses activities. Employees have utilized these offerings in the  Vaccination campaigns form of focus campaigns for stress management as well as  First aid measures in the course of individual counseling sessions.  Free annual checkups  Massage therapist at the locations of the company physician’s offices Evaluation of psychological stress factors in the workplace The services offered also focus on preventative measures The prevention of work-related psychological stress factors in order to recognize health risks that can be caused by remained a top priority and was expanded to include new work-related factors at an early stage and take appropriate areas. The results of the standardized online survey were countermeasures. This pertains not only to physical analyzed by our external occupational psychologists from ailments such as posture problems, but also to the occupational health service “Arbeitsmedizinischer psychological problems caused by stress or excess strain. Dienst” (AMD) and reported to the division heads. The survey results were discussed and possible solutions and improvements were developed with employees at the subsequent workshops, which were moderated by occupational psychologists. The division heads are responsible for the implementation of the measures 24 STAFF DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING that were developed. Follow-up workshops were initiated The first “BAWAG P.S.K. Health Day” was held in November in 2017. 2017. It showcased the Bank’s wide range of workplace health promotion offerings and was well received. Additional health benefits Workshop “Fit & focused in the workplace” In addition to the basic occupational health services, the Workplace Health Promotion Initiative offered to cover the With this workshop series organized in cooperation with the costs for having a comprehensive preventive medical exam. occupational health service “Arbeitsmedizinischer Dienst”, The exam is performed at the company physician’s offices BAWAG P.S.K. supports the initiative to keep employees fit and was extended due to the high demand. and healthy. ADDITIONAL EMPLOYER SERVICES Along with the workplace health promotion benefits, including support for families, lunch specials, bonuses for BAWAG P.S.K. also provides a wide range of other benefits, service anniversaries and the company daycare center. Additional employer services1) in EUR thousand 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Travel allowances 306 306 Pension fund contributions 6,640 6,578 Anniversary bonuses 2,272 2,444 Financial assistance 671 987 (particularly for weddings / births / deaths / Vienna Employment Promotion Fund) Accident insurance 38 44 Allowance for supplemental health insurance 172 157 Cafeteria (food / personnel / vouchers) 954 876 Company physician and health programs 112 118 Company daycare center 271 230 Employee events (particularly Christmas vouchers / Christmas dinner / excursions) 839 363 Funding provided to the Works Council 311 327 (immunization campaigns, holiday lodging, sports club, etc.) Total 12,586 12,430 1) This table reflects services for BAWAG P.S.K. employees only. 25 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION At BAWAG Group, environmental protection means keeping environmental impact of the office operations and travel the environmental impact of our products, services and dayactivities appear to be relatively low, a wide range of to-day operations as low as possible. The global climate measures are taken to keep these effects as low as possible. change and the measures taken to counteract it can have a massive impact on individual sectors of the economy. In Due to fundamental changes – particularly the acquisitions particular, the associated risks for BAWAG Group must be that have been completed such as the purchase of considered in the area of financing and investments, as this start:bausparkasse and the accelerated growth in the is where BAWAG Group’s business activities have the DACH region – the indicators cannot be compared directly greatest environmental impact. Although the direct with those for the previous years. 26 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Key environmental figures Unit 2015 2016 2017 Paper Paper use A4 pages 32,615,500 31,200,500 32,450,000 Account statement envelopes Pieces 7,818,448 7,862,000 6,670,433 Electricity Buchengasse/Quellenstraße kWh 6,564,480 6,119,480 5,966,880 Georg-Coch-Platz kWh 3,472,800 3,427,320 3,260,320 Am Tabor kWh 2,739,020 2,385,420 2,356,720 Branches kWh 6,605,862 6,069,413 5,781,643 Total power consumption kWh 19,382,162 18,001,633 17,365,563 Heating for central locations (district heat) Buchengasse/Quellenstraße kWh 3,228,566 2,843,999 3,169,681 Georg-Coch-Platz kWh 2,816,175 2,840,692 3,380,602 Am Tabor kWh 252,874 254,601 297,580 Total heating for central locations kWh 6,297,615 5,939,292 6,847,863 Heating for branches Gas kWh 2,186,733 1,948,458 2,195,801 District heating kWh 664,137 533,094 564,099 Heating for branches kWh 2,850,870 2,481,552 2,759,900 Vehicle fleet / Mobility Gasoline fleet km 53,890 37,480 227,561 Diesel fleet km 1,125,915 518,055 3,080,021 Kilometers traveled by air km 1,811,958 1,765,375 3,000,856 CO2 emissions1) Scope 1 – direct emissions Vehicle fleet t CO2-e 214 113 696 Heating (gas) t CO2-e 525 468 527 Subtotal Scope 1 t CO2-e 739 580 1,223 Scope 2 – indirect emissions Electricity t CO2-e 5,427 5,040 5,244 District heat t CO2-e 1,330 1,165 1,416 Subtotal Scope 2 t CO2-e 6,757 6,205 6,660 Scope 3 – other emissions Travels by air t CO2-e 519 697 1,200 Subtotal Scope 3 t CO2-e 519 697 1,200 Total CO2 emissions (scope 1 – 3) t CO2-e 8,014 7,482 9,083 Waste Waste paper t 518 345 490 General waste t 182 174 175 Water Buchengasse/Quellenstraße m3 11,678 9,970 9,653 Georg-Coch-Platz (municipal water supply) m3 3,959 3,433 3,796 Georg-Coch-Platz (well) m3 9,555 10,951 10,540 Am Tabor m3 670 536 657 Total water consumption m3 25,862 24,890 24,646 1) Paper: 2017 incl. start:bausparkasse; Vehicle fleet: gasoline 2017 incl. easyleasing, diesel 2017 incl. easyleasing and start:bausparkasse; location Marxergasse – PayLife: no data included – lump-sum rent incl. electricity, heating, office supplies as well as facility & dispatch services. 27 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIVITIES Reduction of paper consumption the EU Ecolabel was used. The paper consumption is reported in pages due to different paper qualities. In 2018, The efforts made in the previous years to increasingly this reporting will be changed to tons. transition customers to the electronic delivery of account statements and TAN lists were continued in 2017. This led CO2 neutral delivery initiative to a more than 15% reduction of account statement envelopes, for example. The slight increase in the In 2017, Österreichische Post AG again delivered all consumption of office paper in 2017 can be attributed BAWAG P.S.K. postal items (letters, advertising materials primarily to the completed acquisitions such as and packages) CO2 neutral. start:bausparkasse. Only office paper that is certified with OUTLOOK THE ICON VIENNA – the new BAWAG Group headquarters environmentally friendly infrastructure that reduces operating costs, THE ICON VIENNA will provide us with Over the past few years, BAWAG Group has transformed office space that offers state-of-the-art comfort and energy itself into a modern, innovative, efficient and highly efficiency as well as an inspiring and effective work successful banking group through the consistent strategic environment for our employees. Because the building is realignment of its business model. By moving into a part of Quartier Belvedere, it features infrastructure that building that is part of the stand-out construction project gives the location the highest level of working quality and “THE ICON VIENNA” in 2018/2019 – the project developer quality of life – including optimal transport connections as plans to attain Leadership in Energy and Environmental well as local shopping, service and recreational facilities – Design (LEED) certification for this green building – BAWAG and will contribute to ensuring a good work-life balance for Group will benefit from a future-oriented headquarters in our employees. line with its successful business strategy. With 28 CIVIC ENGAGEMENT AND PERSONAL COMMITMENT CIVIC ENGAGEMENT AND PERSONAL COMMITMENT Civic engagement is an essential part of BAWAG Group’s  SOS Mitmensch: Benefit auction for contemporary art in public relations. With the activities performed in this area, BAWAG P.S.K.’s historic main banking hall. we also live up to our social responsibility by being a good corporate citizen. For example, BAWAG P.S.K.’s initiatives,  In autumn 2017, BAWAG P.S.K. once again hosted the including ES GEHT! (www.es-geht.at), also show that it is ICEP benefit auction to support ICEP’s entrepreneurship possible to combine the financial needs of its customers promotion activities in Central America and East Africa. with civic engagement. The focus on education, arts and social issues as well as our crowdfunding platform  Mobile medical care for seriously ill children with (www.crowdfunding.at) help to improve the Bank’s MOMO: Children with serious diseases are taken care of general profile. at home, where they feel most comfortable. In the security of their families, Vienna’s mobile “Kinderhospiz BAWAG P.S.K. sees itself as being an equal partner who MOMO” accompanies seriously ill children, both actively participates in shaping partnerships and projects. medically and psychosocially. We aim to establish long-term collaborations to jointly implement sustainable projects.  Make-A-Wish Foundation: The association realizes the wishes of seriously ill children. The “magic of a wish” Numerous sponsoring partnerships were continued with and its fulfillment support the children’s recovery. The social and charity organizations in 2017. For example, the goal is more than just to put a smile on the children’s EUR 3,000 “MITTEN IM LEBEN” prize for services in the faces – the children should believe in the seemingly social sphere and outstanding humanitarian efforts was impossible and their own inner strength. Make-A-Wish awarded to the “ich bin aktiv” association, which provides gives the sick children joy, new courage and strength to assistance to people with disabilities. The association was overcome difficult times. founded in order to offer young people with special needs alternatives and supplementary services in various areas.  A project supported by the ES GEHT! Initiative: Its focus topics are inclusion in the areas of living/working “Lebenshilfe Oberösterreich” operates facilities for and recreation, primarily in the form of chaperone services people with intellectual disabilities, including a partially for planned recreation activities (including in the arts and supervised group home in Linz. The sanitary facilities education). are outdated and not barrier-free, so a renovation is urgently needed. It is important to meet the residents’ A few of the social and educational projects that were individual needs, and barrier-free infrastructure is a top supported or presented with awards in 2017 are priority. highlighted below:  easybank employees made donations to DEBRA Austria,  Licht ins Dunkel: Donation to support the emergency which provides assistance for children suffering from assistance fund and selected projects. epidermolysis bullosa. The donation amount was more than doubled by the company’s management.  Caritas: Support for the initiative “Für eine Zukunft ohne Hunger” (For a Future without Hunger) – Caritas  The employees of easybank donated necessary items provides assistance where it is needed most. such as blankets, sleeping bags and non-perishable food to the “Gruft” homeless shelter. 29 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 PERSONAL COMMITMENT OF EMPLOYEES Volunteer Days Österreich & Partner” and are thus part of a movement that now encompasses 35 social markets throughout Austria. Every BAWAG P.S.K. employee has the opportunity to spend up to two working days per year volunteering for non-profit organizations and projects without having to use BAWAG P.S.K. bikes to work any of his or her paid vacation time. Established in 2011, this initiative promotes and rewards the personal As in the past several years, the initiative “Österreich radelt commitment of our employees and highlights the value of zur Arbeit” (Austria Bikes to Work) was actively supported volunteer work. by our employees in 2017. In 2017, BAWAG P.S.K.’s trainees supported SOMA. Donated items (food and sanitary products) are offered at Blood drive the SOMA social markets organized by “Wiener Hilfswerk”. Anyone who resides in Vienna and has a maximum In spring and in autumn 2017, blood drives were once monthly net income that is below the poverty line according again held at BAWAG P.S.K.’s headquarters. As in previous to Statistics Austria is eligible to shop at the markets. The years, many employees participated in the blood drive. social markets are a member of the association “SOMA 30 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 7 March 2018 Anas Abuzaakouk David O’Leary Chief Executive Officer Member of the Managing Board Enver Sirucic Andrew Wise Member of the Managing Board Member of the Managing Board Stefan Barth Sat Shah Member of the Managing Board Member of the Managing Board 31 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAM CSR strategy Goal: Strengthening the CSR activities Time horizon Improvement in the rankings of sustainability rating agencies Ongoing Responsible action Goal: Fairness and respect for the rights of present and future generations Time horizon Compliance with guidelines and policies, i.e. the Code of Conduct Ongoing Raising awareness for the seven UN Global Compact Women’s Empowerment Principles Ongoing Raising awareness for the 17 Sustainable Development Goals of the UN Global Compact Ongoing Group-wide excellent non-financial risk management Ongoing Dialogue with stakeholders Goal: Strengthening relationships with stakeholders Time horizon Improving communication with stakeholders through events and discussion groups Ongoing Customer orientation Goal: Appropriate products and services for every life circumstance and every stage of life Time horizon Continuing with the “New Chance” current account and offering sustainable investments Ongoing Consideration of sustainability criteria in the product development process Ongoing Staff development and training Goal: Appreciation and advancement of employees in every stage of life Time horizon Increasing the ratio of women in management positions by implementing the Women’s Promotion Plan Ongoing Raise awareness for and establish the paternity leave, “daddy month” and the special vacation Ongoing for new daddies Environmental protection Goal: Reducing our environmental impact so as not to endanger the basis of life for future Time horizon generations Further increasing the energy efficiency of the headquarters Ongoing Increasing energy efficiency in the branches through advanced analysis of consumption data Ongoing collected, identifying energy savings potential and developing recommendations for improvements Civic engagement and personal commitment Goal: Charity activities and volunteer work Time horizon Screening, selection and communication of suitable projects Ongoing Encouraging employees to make use of volunteer days by promoting past social activities and Ongoing evaluating the activities performed in the past Raising awareness of the need for lasting civic engagement and sustainability in day-to-day Ongoing operations 32 APPENDIX APPENDIX1) Table1: Composition of workforce / governance bodies by age group and gender Age group 31.12.2017 <30 30–50 >50 Total Managing Board 6 6 Division managers / senior 20 8 28 managers Regional marketing managers Men / sales managers / 57 14 71 department managers Branch managers / group 10 108 28 146 managers / team managers Non-management functions 152 492 601 1,245 Total (men) 162 683 651 1,496 Managing Board Division managers / senior 1 1 managers Regional marketing managers Women / sales managers / 1 24 3 28 department managers Branch managers / group 7 44 14 65 managers / team managers Non-management functions 372 956 602 1,930 Total (women) 380 1,025 619 2,024 Total 542 1,708 1,270 3,520 Age group 31.12.2016 <30 30–50 >50 Total Managing Board 5 5 Division managers / senior 18 5 23 managers Regional marketing managers Men / sales managers / 51 10 61 department managers Branch managers / group 12 100 27 139 managers / team managers Non-management functions 128 373 533 1,034 Total (men) 140 547 575 1,262 Managing Board Division managers / senior 3 1 4 managers Regional marketing managers Women / sales managers / 3 16 3 22 department managers Branch managers / group 2 42 17 61 managers / team managers Non-management functions 221 694 494 1,409 Total (women) 226 755 515 1,496 Total 366 1,302 1,090 2,758 1) The figures in the appendix presented for 31.12.2016 relate to BAWAG P.S.K. 33 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Supervisory Board 9 12 thereof men 6 9 thereof women 3 3 Table 2: Workforce by nationality 31.12.2017 Austria Other Managing Board 1 5 Division managers / senior managers 20 9 Regional marketing managers / sales managers / department managers 95 4 Branch managers / group managers / team managers 202 9 Non-management functions 3,007 168 Total 3,325 195 31.12.2016 Austria Other Managing Board 5 Division managers / senior managers 20 7 Regional marketing managers / sales managers / department managers 78 5 Branch managers / group managers / team managers 196 4 Non-management functions 2,331 112 Total 2,625 133 Table 3: Workforce by province 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Vienna 2,740 1,973 Styria 138 192 Lower Austria 32 147 Upper Austria 185 122 Carinthia 124 97 Salzburg 74 74 Tyrol 99 67 Burgenland 69 37 Vorarlberg 26 33 Abroad 33 16 Total 3,520 2,758 34 APPENDIX Table 4: Employees leaving 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 By region Vienna 346 197 Other 77 98 By age group <30 104 56 30–50 200 135 >50 119 104 By gender Women 201 143 Men 222 152 Table 5: New hires 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 By region Vienna 379 110 Other 22 11 By age group <30 204 80 30–50 174 37 >50 23 4 By gender Women 252 59 Men 149 62 35 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 GRI INDEX The present GRI Index was prepared in accordance with specific indicators for financial services. All data refer to the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative, version the year 2017 or 31 December 2017, unless otherwise 4.0, and the Core “In Accordance” option and also stated contains disclosures specified by the set of industryGENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES G4 code Content according to G4 (Core) Reference/Comments Strategy and analysis 1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker p. 4 Organizational profile 3 Name of the organization p. 6 4 Primary brands, products, and services p. 6 5 Location of the organization’s headquarters p. 6, 6 Countries where the organization operates p. 6, https://www.bawaggroup.com/financial-results 7 Nature of ownership and legal form p. 6 8 Markets https://www.bawaggroup.com/financial-results 9 Scale of the organization p. 7, https://www.bawaggroup.com/financial-results p. 20; No material portion of the organization’s activities is performed by employees who are legally classified as freelancers or by persons who are not 10 Figures and information regarding total workforce employees or staff bound by instructions, including the employees and staff bound by instructions of contract partners. Employees covered by collective bargaining 100% of the employees are covered by collective 11 agreements bargaining agreements. 12 Supply chain p. 6, p. 18–19 Significant changes in the organization’s size, 13 p. 6 structure, or ownership 14 Precautionary principle p. 12–13 15 External agreements, principles, or initiatives p. 12–13 Transparency International (Austrian Chapter), UN 16 Memberships Global Compact, UN Global Compact WEP Identified material aspects and boundaries 17 Description of the reporting boundaries p. 5 Process for defining the report content and the aspect 18 p. 9 boundaries 19 Identified material aspects and topics p. 9 Aspect boundary for each material aspect within the The aspect boundaries for the individual aspects are 20 organization described in the corresponding sections. Aspect boundary for each material aspect outside the The aspect boundaries for the individual aspects are 21 organization described in the corresponding sections. Restatement of information provided in previous 22 p. 5 reports 23 Changes in the scope and aspect boundaries p. 5 Stakeholder engagement List of stakeholder groups engaged by the 24 p. 9, p. 14 organization 36 GRI INDEX G4 code Content according to G4 (Core) Reference/Comments 25 Selection of stakeholder groups p. 9, p. 14 26 Approach to stakeholder engagement p. 9, p. 14 27 Key topics and concerns of stakeholder groups p. 9, p. 14 Report profile 28 Reporting period p. 5 29 Publication of most recent previous report July 2017 30 Reporting cycle Annual 31 Points of contact p. 46 32 GRI Index p. 36 External assurance for the report or for report 33 p. 42–43 contents Governance https://www.bawaggroup.com/corporate-governance34 Governance structure of the organization reports Ethics and integrity 56 Corporate values, principles, and codes of conduct p. 13 37 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Economic indicators (Focuses of action: responsible action, dialogue with stakeholders, customer orientation) Identified material aspects G4 indicators (Core) Reference/Comments DMA Economic performance p. 7 Economic Direct economic value generated and performance EC1 p. 7 distributed Policies with specific environmental and DMA social components applied to business p. 12–13 lines Processes for monitoring clients’ implementation of and compliance with DMA p. 12–13 environmental and social requirements included in agreements or transactions Process(es) for improving staff competency Product portfolio to implement the environmental and social DMA p. 12–14 policies and procedures as applied to business lines Interactions with clients/investees/business DMA partners regarding environmental and p. 9, p. 11, p. 12–14 social risks and opportunities FS7 Products with a significant social benefit p. 16–18 Products with a significant environmental FS8 p. 16 benefit Active ownership approach / sustainable DMA p. 16 asset management Active ownership Percentage of assets managed according FS11 p. 16 to sustainability criteria 38 GRI INDEX Environmental indicators (Focus of action: environmental protection Identified material aspects G4 indicators (Core) Reference/Comments DMA Material p. 27–28 Material EN1 Consumption of paper p. 27–28 DMA Energy p. 26 Energy consumption within the EN3 p. 27 Energy organization (Scope 1 and 2) Energy consumption outside of the EN4 p. 27 organization (Scope 3) DMA Emissions p. 26 Direct greenhouse gas emissions EN15 p. 27 (Scope 1) Indirect energy-related greenhouse Emissions EN16 p. 27 gas emissions (Scope 2) All other indirect greenhouse gas EN17 emissions generated outside of the p. 27 organization (Scope 3) Social indicators Identified material aspects G4 indicators (Core) Reference/Comments Labor practices and decent work (Focus of action: staff development and training) DMA Employment p. 20–25 Employment LA1 New employee hires and employee turnover p. 35 LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees p. 25 DMA Occupational health and safety p. 24–25 Currently, only the number of accidents Injuries, occupational diseases, lost days, reported to AUVA is disclosed – we strive to LA6 Occupational health absenteeism and fatalities report this indicator in compliance with the and safety requirements in 2018. Number of accidents reported to AUVA (Austrian Workers’ Compensation Board) and BVA (Austrian Social Insurance Authority for Civil and Public Servants): 19 in 2015, 15 in 2016 and 11 in 2017 (3 workplace accidents and 8 commuting accidents). DMA Training and education p. 22–24 LA9 Number of training hours p. 22 Training and education Feedback for employees regarding their LA11 p. 24 performance and career development DMA Diversity and equal opportunity p. 20–21 Diversity and Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees according to p. 20; please refer to table 1 in the appendix; equal opportunity LA12 gender, age group, and minority group figures are reported in absolute numbers membership Human rights (Focus of action: responsible action) Investment DMA Investments p. 12–13 39 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Identified material aspects G4 indicators (Core) Reference/Comments The Code of Conduct defines fundamental standards for respecting human rights. The Code of Conduct is mandatory for Inclusion of humans rights aspects in HR1 all business activities, i.e. also for the significant investment agreements conclusion of contracts. Currently, no other human rights clauses are included in investment agreements/contracts. DMA Non-discrimination p. 12–13 There were two complaints related to discrimination (lending decision and update Non-discrimination Incidents of discrimination and of customer data). In the first case we HR3 corrective actions taken reached a settlement, in the second case the Equal Treatment Commission found that no discrimination had occurred. Society (Focuses of action: responsible action, dialogue with stakeholders, civic engagement and personal commitment) Initiatives to improve access to financial Local communities FS14 p. 15–17 services for disadvantaged people DMA Anti-corruption p. 12–13 p. 12–13 Assessment of operations for risks related The business units were examined for risks SO3 to corruption related to corruption within the scope of money laundering examinations Since 2010, BAWAG P.S.K. has had a gift policy covering the acceptance and giving of gifts and invitations. This policy is regularly Anti-corruption checked and adapted if necessary. The policy is presented to all new hires Communication and training on antiduring their Welcome Days. In addition, all SO4 corruption employees, especially those working in a confidentiality area, must successfully complete training courses on the prevention of money laundering. BAWAG P.S.K. has been a member of Transparency International (Austrian Chapter) since 2012. SO5 Incidents of corruption and actions taken No incidents of corruption identified in 2017 DMA Anti-competitive behavior p. 12–13 Anti-competitive Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, behavior SO7 No incidents in the reporting period anti-trust, and monopoly practices DMA Compliance with legal regulations p. 12–13 In April 2017, the Austrian Financial Market Authority imposed administrative penalties Compliance pertaining to the Austrian Consumer Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with SO8 Payment Account Act (Verbraucherlegal regulations zahlungskontogesetz). These administrative penalties were appealed in June 2017. The penalties are not yet enforceable. Product responsibility (Focus of action: customer orientation) DMA Product and service labeling p. 15–17 Product and service Incidents of non-compliance with obligations labeling PR4 concerning product and service information No incidents in the reporting period and labeling 40 GRI INDEX Identified material aspects G4 indicators (Core) Reference/Comments Results of surveys measuring customer PR5 p. 14 satisfaction DMA Customer privacy p. 11–12, p. 15 There was one complaint to the Austrian Customer privacy Complaints regarding breaches of customer Data Protection Authority. The proceedings PR8 privacy and losses of customer data were closed as the bank had already changed its settlement processes. 41 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT We have performed an independent assurance including independence requirements, and to plan and engagement in connection with the consolidated perform the engagement to enable us to express a non-financial report 2017 (the “NFI-report”) of conclusion with limited assurance, taking into account materiality. BAWAG Group AG, An independent assurance engagement with the purpose (“the Company“). of expressing a conclusion with limited assurance is substantially less in scope than an independent assurance engagement with the purpose of expressing a conclusion Management’s responsibility with reasonable assurance, thus providing reduced assurance. The Company's management is responsible for the proper preparation of the NFI-report in accordance with the The procedures selected depend on the auditor's judgment reporting criteria. The Company applies the legal and included the following procedures in particular: requirements of the Austrian Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act (§267a UGB) and the sustainability  Inquiries of personnel on corporate level, which are reporting guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI responsible for the materiality analysis, in order to gain G4, Option “Core”) as reporting criteria. The NFI-report is a an understanding of the processes for determining separate report published under the title “Corporate Social material sustainability topics and respective reporting Responsibility Report 2017“. boundaries of the Company; The responsibility of the legal representatives of the  Risk assessment, including a media analysis on relevant company includes the selection and application of information concerning the sustainability performance of reasonable methods for sustainability reporting as well as the Company in the reporting period; the use of assumptions and estimates for individual sustainability disclosures that are reasonable under the  Evaluation of the design and implementation of the circumstances. Furthermore, the responsibility includes the systems and processes for the collection, processing design, implementation and maintenance of systems and and control of the disclosures on environmental, socialprocesses relevant for the preparation of the sustainability and employees matters, respect for human rights and reporting in a way that is free of – intended or unintended – anti-corruption and bribery, including the consolidation material misstatements. of the data;  Inquiries of personnel on corporate level responsible for Auditors‘ responsibility providing and consolidating and for carrying out internal control procedures concerning the disclosures on Our responsibility is to state whether, based on our concepts, risks, due diligence processes, results and procedures performed, anything has come to our attention performance indicators; that causes us to believe that the NFI-report of the Company is not in accordance with the legal requirements  Inspection of selected internal and external documents of the Austrian Sustainability and Diversity Improvement in order to determine whether qualitative and Act (§267a UGB) and the sustainability reporting guidelines quantitative information is supported by sufficient of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI G4, Option “Core”) evidence and presented in an accurate and balanced in all material respects. manner; Our engagement was conducted in conformity with  -Analytical evaluation of the data and trend explanations Austrian Standards for independent assurance of quantitative disclosures, submitted by all sites for engagements (KFS/PG 13) and in accordance with the consolidation at corporate level; International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000) applicable to such engagements. These standards  Evaluation of the consistency of the for the Company require us to comply with our professional requirements applicable requirements of the Austrian Sustainability 42 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT and Diversity Improvement Act (§ 267a UGB) and the Conclusion guidelines GRI G4 (Option “Core”) with disclosures and indicators in the report; Based on the procedures performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the NFI-report  Evaluation of the overall presentation of the disclosures. of the Company is not in accordance with the legal requirements of the Austrian Sustainability and Diversity The procedures that we performed do not constitute an Improvement Act (§267a UGB) and the sustainability audit or a review. Our engagement did not focus on reporting guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI revealing and clarifying of illegal acts such as fraud, nor did G4, Option “Core”) in all material respects. it focus on assessing the efficiency of management. Furthermore, it is not part of our engagement to review future-related disclosures and statements from external information sources and expert opinions. Vienna, 7 March 2018 This assurance report is issued based on the assurance agreement concluded with the Company. Our responsibility and liability towards the Company and any third party is KPMG Advisory GmbH subject to paragraph 8 of the General Conditions of Contract for the Public Accounting Professions. The Peter Ertl respective latest version of the AAB is accessible at Austrian Chartered Accountant http://www.kpmg.at/aab. 43 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, BAWAG Group is BAWAG Group is committed to complying with the seven committed to complying with its ten principles, which focus WEP. The CSR Report 2017 is also an annual Communication on labor standards, human rights, environmental protection on Progress (COP). Examples are provided of how each and anti-corruption, and as a signatory to the UN Global principle has been and is being implemented at BAWAG Compact Women’s Empowerment Principles in 2015, Group. THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT AND EXAMPLES OF THEIR IMPLEMENTATION AT BAWAG GROUP The ten principles Examples of their implementation Principle 1: Businesses should support and 12–13p. respect the protection of internationally General/Principles/Guidelines: Code of Conduct, Human Rights Matrix proclaimed human rights (COP 1) Principle 2: Businesses should make sure p. 12–13 that they are not complicit in human rights General/Principles/Guidelines: Code of Conduct, Supplier Code of Conduct, abuses (COP 2) Human Rights Matrix General/Principles/Guidelines: Freedom of association and the authorization Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the of labor unions are protected by law in Austria. All employees are covered by freedom of association and the effective collective bargaining agreements. There is an ongoing exchange of recognition of the right to collective information between management and the Works Council, and new works bargaining (COP 3) council agreements are concluded on a regular basis. p. 12–13 General/Principles/Guidelines: Supplier Code of Conduct; about 90% of our Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the suppliers are located in Austria. Before new contracts are concluded, elimination of all forms of forced and customers are subjected to media screening to look for possible violations. compulsory labor (COP 4) The topics of freedom of negotiation, compulsory labor, working hours and wages are covered in the Code of Conduct for Suppliers under item 3 “Respect for the basic rights, health and safety of employees.” Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the p. 12–13 effective abolition of child labor (COP 5) General/Principles/Guidelines: Supplier Code of Conduct p. 11–13, p. 20 Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the General/Principles/Guidelines: Code of Conduct, Recruiting Policies elimination of discrimination in respect of Measures/Results 2017: Continuation of the Women’s Promotion Plan employment and occupation (COP 6) aimed at promoting the equality of women and men at BAWAG Group. Principle 7: Businesses should support a p. 10, 26–28 precautionary approach to environmental challenges (COP 7) Principle 8: Businesses should undertake p. 26–28 initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility (COP 8) p. 26–28 Principle 9: Businesses should encourage The photovoltaic system on the facade of the building on the development and diffusion of environBuchengasse/Quellenstraße has been in operation since 2012. In addition, mentally friendly technologies (COP 9) energy efficiency is promoted in the area of IT infrastructure. 44 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) p. 12–13 General/Principles/Guidelines: Code of Conduct, Anti-Corruption and Gift Principle 10: Businesses should work Acceptance Guidelines, Conflict of Interest Policy. The division Nonagainst corruption in all its forms, including Financial Risk Management & Regulatory Compliance monitors compliance extortion and bribery (COP 10) with the rules and regulations. All new hires must successfully complete training courses on the prevention of money laundering. THE SEVEN UN GLOBAL COMPACT WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT PRINCIPLES AND EXAMPLES OF THEIR IMPLEMENTATION AT BAWAG GROUP The seven principles Examples of their implementation p. 20–23 Defined target ratio for the underrepresented gender in the Managing Board Principle 1: Establish high-level corporate and Supervisory Board, Women’s Promotion Program, Women’s Mentoring leadership for gender equality Program, flexible working time models, point of emphasis in management development programs Principle 2: Treat all women and men fairly p. 12–13, p. 20 at work – respect and support human rights Human Rights Matrix, Recruiting Policies, Women’s Promotion Program and nondiscrimination For further indicators, see: G4-LA1, G4-LA12 p. 21–22 Career and Family Audit, information events for expectant parents, welcome Principle 3: Ensure the health, safety, and back events for parents returning from parental leave, company daycare well-being of all women and men workers centers at two locations For further indicators, see: G4-HR3, G4-LA6 p. 20–21 Principle 4: Promote education, training, Women’s Promotion Plan, Women’s Mentoring Program, specific seminars and professional development for women focusing on the further development of women For further indicators, see: G4-LA9, G4-LA11 Principle 5: Implement enterprise p. 21 development, supply chain, and marketing Women’s Prize practices that empower women Principle 6: Promote equality through p. 20–21 community initiatives and advocacy Women’s Prize, Fe-male Future Day, Women’s Initiative Principle 7: Measure and publicly report on Report on measures, objectives and achievements in the annual CSR Report progress to achieve gender equality and the Communication on Progress (COP). 45 BAWAG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Get in touch with BAWAG Group: http://www.bawagpsk.com Complaint Desk BAWAG P.S.K.: Tel. +43(0)5 99 05 – 905 E-mail: beschwerdemanagement@bawagpsk.com http://www.easybank.at Complaint Desk easybank: Tel. +43 (0)5 70 05 – 534 E-mail: beschwerdemanagement@easybank.at https://www.start-bausparkasse.at Complaint Desk start:bausparkasse: Tel. +43 (0)1 313 80 – 0 E-mail: beschwerdemanagement@start-bausparkasse.at OWNER AND PUBLISHER BAWAG Group AG Wiesingerstraße 4, A-1010 Vienna, Austria Companies Registry number: 269842b EU VAT number: ATU72252867 Telephone: +43 (0)5 99 05-0 Internet: www.bawaggroup.com Investor Relations: investor.relations@bawaggroup.com Media: communications@bawaggroup.com Typesetting: In-house using firesys 46 IMPRESSUM www.bawaggroup.com 47
