Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Contents Year in brief. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Governance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49 Group President’s review. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Board of Directors’ report. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49 Key figures 2017. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 Corporate governance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55 Highlights. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 Board of Directors. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58 Group Management Team. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59 This is Fazer. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 Operating environment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 Financial information. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60 Strategy. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 Fazer Group’s consolidated statement Mission and vision. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 of comprehensive income. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61 Fazer creates value. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 Fazer Group’s consolidated balance sheet. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62 Our brands. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 Fazer Group’s consolidated statement of cash flows. . . . . . 63 Five-year summary. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64 Our businesses. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17 Fazer Bakery. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 Fazer Confectionery. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 Fazer Food Services. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22 Fazer Lifestyle Foods. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24 Fazer Retail . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26 Corporate responsibility. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28 Corporate responsibility highlights. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29 Our approach and programme. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 Running business . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34 For health and well-being. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37 People matter. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39 Fair value chain. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42 Part of the environment. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45 2 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Year in brief Year in brief 2017 was a year of major developments for us. We created a new vision, mission and strategy to become a modern sustainable food company with a joint direction. We began successfully implementing our new strategy by, for instance, establishing a new business area, engaging in start-up and research co-operation and refreshing our offering. Fazer Confectionery increased its comparable net sales clearly in 2017, although competition was tough, particularly in chocolate. Fazer Bakery also improved its net sales and implemented value creation actions. Fazer Food Services maintained a strong position in the Nordic countries despite increasing competition, with marginal net sales growth. Our new business area, Fazer Lifestyle Foods, got off to a good start with the acquisition of renowned product brands, Yosa and Froosh. We also decided to establish the Fazer Retail business unit at the start of 2018 to drive value in our direct-to-consumer business. We provided meaningful food experiences to millions. We continued to strengthen our brands and to develop new, innovative products to complement our offering. Guided by our strategy, we took a big step forward on our journey to become the Fazer of the future. 3 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Year in brief Group President’s review Delivering a strong result and transforming into a modern sustainable food company In 2017, Fazer continued to improve its performance: our net sales and operating profit increased from the previous year. Moving forward, our focus will be on implementing our strategy and transforming into a modern sustainable food company with a joint direction. We live in a world that is changing at an ever-increasing pace. The continuous transformation challenges the food industry to actively search for new solutions to answer emerging market and consumer needs. Like the world around us, Fazer is also continuously transforming. We want to co-create new products and services together with our partners to provide the latest and most satisfying food experiences for people. The key word here is collaboration. We want to promote socially significant and sustainable innovations, collaboratively with our partners in an ecosystem. One example of this is that we have joined forces with Nokia and Nightingale Health to study the effect of people’s diets on the productivity of their work, their cognitive performance and the quality of their lives. This research project brings together three companies from different fields biotech, digital health and food and aims for a greater impact through collaboration. In June, we presented our strategy for 2018-2022 as well as our new mission and vision. Fazer’s new mission is Food with a purpose. Creating food with a purpose means that we add a little extra joy, well-being, inspiration, passion and love to everything we do. Our vision is to spark joy and well-being through meaningful food experiences. In our strategy for the coming years, we focus on value creation through portfolio choices, growth, continued operational excellence and structural improvements. This has certainly been a good start for our growth path. In March, we established a new business area, Fazer Lifestyle Foods (FLF), with a focus on non-dairy grain products, plant based meals and on-the-go food and drinks, and we acquired Bioferme, a Finnish company specialised in fermented oat products. In November, we acquired the leading Nordic smoothie brand Froosh. We also formed a new Business Unit, Fazer Retail, which will strengthen our direct-to-consumer business. In 2017 the economies in many of Fazer’s key markets took a turn to the better: the Finnish, Norwegian and Russian economies strengthened, and the Swedish economy continued on its growth path. However, competition is fierce and 4 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Year in brief holding on to and developing our market shares requires hard work. Despite this, sales developed positively for Fazer in 2017. Finland celebrated its 100th anniversary in 2017, and Fazer’s Finland 100 programme was awarded as the most fruitful partnership of the year. In Sweden, Fazer Food Services was ranked as the top restaurant chain of the year. Our bakery operations in Russia continue to show exemplary LTAF figures. In Lithuania, Fazer is growing in a tough market situation, where the overall bread market is continuously declining. We opened a new production facility in Kaunas, Lithuania. Fazer Food Services entered the public sector in Norway as we opened our first public contract in 2017. For the second time in a row, Fazer Food Services Denmark was one of three finalists in the competition “Best canteen of the year”, which proves our high level of gastronomy. Fazer Bakery’s health and well-being offering is attracting positive attention, and the demand for artisanal bread continues strong. In November, the launch of the first-of-its-kind Fazer Cricket Bread in Finland gained great interest and huge worldwide publicity. In Fazer Confectionery, all our commercial units are performing well. At Fazer Food Services, a brand renewal was started, and it will continue in 2018 with the refreshing of the Amica brand and building of the new Fazer Food & Co restaurant brand. Since it opened in autumn 2016, the Fazer Experience visitor centre has been steadily growing in popularity. The centre drew over 180,000 visitors in 2017. I am delighted that Fazer is a destination that interests people, and that many visitors keep returning. Every interaction promotes continuous development, sparks dialogue and deepens our understanding of customer needs. Sustainability is an integrated part of Fazer’s business and we take pride in supporting the development of a sustainable lifestyle. We are committed to the principles of the UN Global Compact and we take actions to support the Sustainable Development Goals. None of the above would have happened without the daily work of our great employees, and I greatly value their efforts. Together, we will develop the company and continue its success. In closing, I’d like to thank all our stakeholders for accompanying us on Fazer’s journey in 2017 and for all the hard work and support. Christoph Vitzthum President & CEO 5 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Year in brief Key figures 2017 NET SALES, M€ 1,800 1,695.7 1,647.7 1,576.1 1,603.5 1,603.1 1,641.6 Fazer Group's net sales 2017 1,600 1,400 1,641.6 M€ 1,200 1,000 800 600 400 200 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016 2017 FAS IFRS OPERATING PROFIT, M€ Fazer Group's 100 90.1 92.1 operating profit 2017 80 92.1M€ 60 52.7 49.0 43.3 44.3 40 20 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016 2017 FAS IFRS NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES AT THE END OF 2017 Finland 6,972 Fazer Group's employees 2017 Sweden 3,280 Russia 2,990 15,478 Denmark 1,018 Norway 490 Latvia 317 Lithuania 272 Estonia 138 Japan 1 6 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Year in brief Highlights A year of renewal and innovation In line with our new strategy, we updated Fazer’s vision and mission to guide us on the journey to become a modern sustainable food company with a joint direction. A new business area, Fazer Lifestyle Foods, was established, with a focus on non-dairy products, plantbased meals, breakfast products and on-the-go snacking. The new business area’s offering was strengthened with the acquisitions of Yosa oat products and Froosh smoothies businesses. The Fazer Mills business unit is part of the new business area. We combined the offerings of Fazer Cafés and Fazer Bakery Shops into a new business unit to strengthen the development of our direct-to-consumers business. Fazer Retail as a new organisation started in the beginning of 2018. Fazer was recognised as the Brand Builder of the Year by the Finnish Association of Advertisers, and Karl Fazer Milk Chocolate voted as Finland’s most valued brand. Fazer was also named the Best in Social Media in Finland and the Nordics in the Digital Leaders 2018 study. We published our Sustainable Grain Farming Principles, with the goal to reduce the eutrophication of waters and maintain the cultivability of soil in the long term. More than 180,000 people visited the Fazer Experience Visitor Centre during 2017. Fazer Belly Friendly Rye took the first prize in the international NutraIngredients Awards 2017. Our Fazer Cricket Bread, launched in November 2017, received worldwide attention and piqued the interest of curious consumers. We organised Fazer Foodathon to find new solutions in plant-based food. 7 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 This is Fazer This is Fazer Fazer is all about meaningful food experiences Fazer is transforming into a modern sustainable food company with a joint direction. We combine a strong heritage with bold innovations to offer superior tastes and memorable experiences. We are guided by our High Performance Culture based on our core values: customer focus, quality excellence and team spirit. We build on that foundation by developing a sustainable product and service offering and business portfolio to answer the needs of customers and consumers, today and tomorrow. Fazer is an international family-owned company offering quality bakery, confectionery, biscuit and grain products, plant-based meals and non-dairy products as well as food and café services. We operate in eight countries and export to around 40 countries. In 2017, Fazer Group had net sales of 1.6 billion euros and 15,478 employees. Corporate responsibility and respect for people and the planet are an integral part of all our operations. 8 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 This is Fazer Operating environment As we work to provide meaningful food experiences to customers, we are affected in many ways by the market environment in which we operate as well as by the general economic situation in our operating countries. Our business environment and consumer lifestyles are changing at an increasingly rapid pace, and food players need to take action. Businesses around the globe are affected by population growth, aging and extended work life, tightening regulation and urbanisation, among other things. These phenomena need to be acknowledged and addressed to ensure success in today’s business world. The global economy is showing continuing positive momentum. With solid GDP growth in all our operating countries, consumer outlooks are developing well. However, competition is fierce and holding on to and developing our market shares requires hard work. Economic development: positive outlook in all main markets The Finnish economy saw clear growth, with an estimated GDP increase of +3.1% in 2017. Unemployment decreased slightly in 2017 and is expected to continue decreasing in 2018. Inflation increased to +0.8% in 2017. The Russian economy is recovering, which decreases the risks to the Finnish economy. Russia saw a positive step with GDP growth at 1.8% in 2017. The economic sanctions imposed on Russia by the EU were extended to July 2018, and Russia’s food import ban stands until the end of 2018. The rouble has continued to fluctuate in response to oil price changes, but it has stabilised somewhat in 2017. Inflation has continued to decrease, ending up at 2.5% at the end of December 2017. The Swedish market is expected to remain strong and the economy is looking up with a GDP growth of approximately 3% in 2017. However, expectations for the coming years are somewhat lower. Inflation is on the rise but still quite moderate at around 2% in December 2017. Currency fluctuations impact profitability The Russian rouble was stronger than the year before. The Norwegian krona remained quite stable and the Swedish krona weakened from 2016. These changes had an impact on our result. Weaker currencies may also weigh down local profits due to higher costs for materials purchased in foreign currencies. The weakening of currencies may also create pressure on sales prices: Fazer Confectionery Russia and Sweden purchase their confectionery products from Finland and are therefore vulnerable to currency fluctuations, which are reflected on their costs. 9 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 This is Fazer Pound sterling, which is the main currency for cocoa purchases, has weakened against the euro ever since the Brexit vote in 2016. This development has lowered our raw material costs somewhat but not significantly as pound currency rates were fixed pre-Brexit for a long period to bring stability into pricing. Market development: tight competition and strong demand for sustainable and health-enhancing products The health and well-being trend continues strong, which is reflected in the success of the health-enhancing products of our bakery offering. However, the bakery market as a whole is stagnating or declining slightly in all our markets. In Finland, the competition in chocolate tablets was tough and our market share declined slightly. The biscuit market, on the other hand, developed in a positive direction. The food service market is also seeing tightening competition, especially in the University sector in Finland. Sales of new contracts take time, but the sales pipeline is showing improvement, giving 2018 a promising start. Customer demand for non-dairy and plant-based products continued to grow in 2017, providing a good operating environment for Fazer Lifestyle Foods. Product development in this market is speedy and new products are introduced by competitors as well. Retailers are expanding their selections and open to introducing new products in this category. Wheat and rye markets declined in Finland but remained stable in Sweden. The popularity of oats continues, with great promise in the oats derivatives market in particular. The demand for organic oats exceeded our supply capacity and raised considerably the price of organic oats. The cold summer and rainy autumn may impact grain availability and prices negatively. The café sector was under pressure from tightening competition particularly in the Helsinki area. In corporate responsibility, active dialogue is sought by consumers, with the anticipation on companies to take a stand on societal issues. We have seen steady development in our reputation in all markets. Read more about our corporate responsibility work on page 28. 10 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 This is Fazer Strategy Fazer of the future: a modern sustainable food company We have defined a new strategy for 2018–2022 in order to transform into the Fazer of the future. Our focus for the coming years is on value creation through portfolio choices, growth, continued operational excellence and structural improvements. We will continue to develop our business and product portfolios, based on deep customer insight and research. Close co-operation with the scientific community allows us to examine new solutions to enhance the well-being of people. A new business area, Fazer Lifestyle Foods, was established in 2017 to answer the needs of consumers interested in health, well-being and sustainability. In the beginning of 2018, our bakery shop business and Fazer Cafés were combined into a new business unit, Fazer Retail, to strengthen our direct-to-consumers retail business. We intend to grow beyond the Nordic countries and to introduce our offering to new customers by 2022. We believe that meaningful brand experiences in growing categories are the key to reaching a wider customer base in Europe and beyond. As we transform into Fazer of the future, we embrace digitalisation and explore its applications to enhance our performance and support our safety culture. A transformed Fazer with joint strategic direction Our ambition is to reach an annual net sales growth of 6-8 per cent and a Group EBITDA level of at least 12 per cent. We will be a modern, sustainable food company with a joint strategic direction. We aim to strengthen our consumer focus and establish ourselves as an innovative trend setter. Our target is to be in the top 2 in our categories in selected Northern European markets. To reach our strategic targets, we build on our broad offering of high-quality products and services, the dedication and expertise of our personnel, high performance culture and our distinguished brands. Our work is supported by wellfunctioning production facilities, a wide distribution network and close customer relations. 11 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 This is Fazer We will continue to develop our business and product portfolios, with an enhanced focus on clear growth areas. We must also ensure that our organisational structure supports our ambition and accountability. We will continue to systematically develop our capabilities to meet the needs of the future. Focused growth areas to provide major value increase The ongoing development of the new Fazer Lifestyle Foods business area will continue, with organic growth complemented with potential acquisitions. We plan to grow our confectionery offering in the Nordics. Chocolate will be the key category in this development, and it will also lead the way to international markets. We will strengthen our direct retail offering to consumers in bakery shops, cafés and online. Growth is also sought in the public food service sector, with increased outsourcing and new capabilities as key drivers. Geographically, our ambition is to grow in the Nordics but also beyond to wider Northern European markets, and to selected markets outside Europe. Our ambition is to become a leading modern, sustainable food company in Northern Europe. Following our joint direction, we will target a strong retail presence in several markets in Europe and beyond, and grow faster outside Finland. Fazer values guide everything we do Our values are a foundation for everything we do. They define the way we interact with each other and our stakeholders. They form a core around which our strategy, mission and vision are built, and help us choose the best ways to reach our goals. Customer Focus When we create new food experiences, define our business goals or develop our sustainability work, we always keep the customer in focus. We strive to exceed our customers’ expectations. We place great importance on consumer insight as we strive to provide meaningful food experiences to customers with varying needs and tastes. Quality Excellence From artisanal bread to smoothies and from chocolate tablets to lunch salads, we demand the highest quality from our products. We strive to provide superior products and service experiences across our entire offering. We show responsibility in everything we do. Team Spirit We are one team, one Fazer. We respect each other and work together to bring our customers the best possible food experiences. We support each other to achieve our common goals. Our High Performance Culture is built around our values and we are in the process of taking it to the next level. We ensure everyone at Fazer understands their role in creating our success. We motivate by consistent and inspiring leadership and communication. We emphasise accountability for our performance and encourage personal development. We want everyone at Fazer to take pride in their work. 12 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 This is Fazer Mission and vision We spark joy and Food with well-being through a purpose meaningful food experiences New mission and vision guide us towards the future Like the world around us, we as a company are continually transforming. That’s simply what the world’s greatest brands do. In order to ensure sustainable growth today and tomorrow, we have renewed our mission and vision. People today pursue authentic experiences tailored to fit their personal desires and schedules. As digitalisation creates new possibilities, people expect more from customer experience than before. A growing concern for personal wellbeing as well as that of the planet guides consumer choices. Yet there is always room for some indulgence. This is the world of our new mission and vision. We have shifted our focus; Fazer stands for more than products and services. We create experiences to remember. We want to be present in the everyday lives and special moments of our customers. Through our offering, we want to invoke emotions and create strong and lasting impressions. Our mission: Food with a purpose We add a little extra joy, well-being, inspiration, passion and love to everything we do. We want to enrich people’s lives with our offering. • We create healthy and easy-to-eat products for people to enjoy any time, any place • We offer wholesome, tasty and environmentally conscious solutions to guests of our restaurants and cafés • We seek new solutions to bring convenience into the hectic lives of busy people • In all we do, we respect our environment Our mission supports our strategic goals and opens up new opportunities to grow. It explains the reason for our being – our purpose in this world. Our vision: We spark joy and well-being through meaningful food experiences We want to delight, surprise and excite by infusing pleasure, enjoyment and well-being into people’s lives. We want to do good for the people and the planet. 13 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 This is Fazer When someone has a moment to enjoy a Fazer experience, we want them to taste and feel the love – to feel the care and passion we put into every product and service. Our vision sets a clear direction towards the future and describes our bigger ambition. We will realise this vision by • searching and developing new plant-based foods • co-creating new products and services with partners • crafting premium foods to bring enjoyment • developing new channels to serve consumers • growing beyond the Nordics Our brands are our strength, and we will continue to strengthen them further to ensure that we are globally competitive. We will develop a captivating customer journey that provides superior experiences at every touch point. 14 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 This is Fazer Fazer creates value Fazer creates value for customers, consumers, society at large and owners. The value creation graph illustrates how we turn resources into tangible outputs and shows our wider impact on nature, people and the economy. Fazer stands for an innovative offering that enables sustainable lifestyles. We work firmly to further reduce environmental impacts and waste as well as to discover advanced ways to improve overall resource efficiency. Fazer’s value creation is a result of mutually beneficial collaboration and co-creation with a great variety of stakeholders, experts and local communities. Our value creation is also linked with changes in business environment, megatrends, risks, opportunities and governance. For a more comprehensive understanding of our performance and the value we create, please also see other sections of our annual reporting. Creating value at Fazer RESOURCES – STRONG BASE FOR VALUE CREATION NATURAL OPERATIONAL INTELLECTUAL • Food raw materials • Operations in eight countries • The most valued brands in Finland; strong brands in • Water • Production assets our other key markets • Clean air • Broad distribution network and own channels • Reputation • Energy (2017: 507,819 MWh) • Expanding own retail • Share of renewable electricity (2017: 88%) FINANCIAL • Wood for packaging fibre HUMAN • Strong balance sheet • Regulating and supporting ecosystem services • Competence, passion and dedication of employees • Healthy profitability and cash flow • Significant debt capacity SOCIAL • Deep customer relationships • Collaboration and co-creation with stakeholders HOW WE PRODUCE VALUE Value creation through portfolio choices, MISSION growth, continued operational excellence Food with a purpose and structural improvements. VISION NATURE We spark joy and well-being through meaningful • Resource efficiency in own production food experiences • Sustainable sourcing and co-operation in value chain • Offering driving sustainable choices OPERATIONAL SOCIAL • Implementation of Fazer’s strategy HUMAN • Continuous development of fair sourcing • Development of product, service and business portfolio • Implementing High Performance Culture with strong accountability • Partnerships and sponsoring supporting local communities • Rigorous performance management and result orientation • Consistent and inspiring leadership INTELLECTUAL FINANCIAL • Ability to work (2017: LTAF 11.3) • Trend-setting innovations and R&D • Cash flow and funding enabling investments and acquisitions • Consumer first mindset • New product and service concepts and development of offering • Profitable business aligned with strategy • Organisational agility • Building international concepts and brands • Organic growth supported by acquisitions OUTPUT PRODUCTS AND SERVICES HUMAN OPERATIONAL • Bakery, confectionery, biscuit and grain products, plant-based meals • Direct and indirect employment • Improved competitive position and non-dairy products • Employee motivation and engagement (2017: People Power • Food and café services index 74) FINANCIAL • High performance culture • Economic value distribution (2017: personnel 561 M€, NATURE society 23 M€, owners 38 M€, financiers 3 M€ and • Impactful value chain initiatives: cocoa, palm oil, soy, fish SOCIAL business development 58 M€) • Waste and by-products: recycled 83%, energy recovery 14%, landfill 3% • Impactful development and innovation projects with stakeholders • Profitable growth with improved cash flow and • Reduction of food waste • Economic value to society in form of taxes (see Financial) debt capacity • Emissions INTELLECTUAL • Increasingly international core brands IMPACT NATURE HUMAN FINANCIAL • More sustainable farming, enhanced biodiversity, lower amount of • Desirable, high-quality and meaningful brand experiences for In addition to the economic value distributed chemicals, preventing eutrophication consumers that make purpose based choices • To universities and research institutes: co-operation • Lowering environmental impact on water, land, air and combatting • Enhanced well-being and support climate change • More opportunities for sustainable lifestyles • To suppliers and service providers (in 2017: purchased • Increasing consumption of plant-based food • More opportunities for suppliers and local communities, 913 M€ worth of goods and services from • More efficient and sustainable utilisation and circulation of renewable improvement of livelihoods 10,058 suppliers) and non-renewable materials • Safe working environment • To owners: increased shareholder value • More opportunities to work and develop SOCIAL • Increased opportunities and means to support sustainable development more widely in society • Employer's contributions (2017: 116 M€) • Taxes collected (2017: 170 M€) OUR AMBITION IS TO TRANSFORM INTO A LEADING MODERN, SUSTAINABLE FOOD COMPANY. 15 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 This is Fazer Our brands Our ambition is to grow throughout Northern Europe and selectively beyond it with desirable, meaningful brand experiences in growing categories. We invest in the development and renewal of our brands based on deep consumer insight and research. Reflecting our mission, vision and strategy, our brand portfolio is built around consumers and their needs. Our brands have clear roles and serve a wide variety of consumer needs and motives. The approach of using multiple brands enables a flexible way of working with differentiated brand positioning across different markets. Our brand value chains are managed in a responsible way and we encourage consumers to consume more wisely. Consumers that appreciate honesty, purity and great taste, living a contemporary lifestyle with an open mind, are the ones who will find their perfect match in the Fazer portfolio of brands. These people value brands and high quality. Our key channels for reaching consumers are retail, restaurants, bakery shops, cafés and online, where we always strive to encourage people to express themselves through our brands and to share and recommend. We want to win over new people and, at the same time, maintain and improve our connection with existing customers. We will evolve with our consumers while staying true to our values and who we are. We are 15,000 brand ambassadors, each creating brand experiences every day. Understanding human behaviour is of high importance when we want to inspire people to enjoy the moment. People today require tailored brand experiences for all the senses. We create meaningful brand experiences for consumers who make purpose-based choices. Our way of utilising data helps us reach the people who crave for our brands. Our ambition is to increase our understanding through both data and dialogue. With over 70 brands in our brand portfolio, people are sure to find the brand with the perfect fit to their needs. The revolutionary Fazer Cricket bread for food pioneers, a heart-shaped box of Fazer Geisha chocolate for a loved one, a brain-friendly lunch with colleagues at a Fazer Food & Co restaurant, a family breakfast to remember at Gateau or a Froosh smoothie to drink on the go – we create meaningful brand experiences for everyone to enjoy. 16 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Our businesses Our businesses Fazer is devoted to creating meaningful food experiences, in everyday life as well as in moments of celebration. We are present in people’s lives through our products and services: breads, pastries and cakes from Fazer Bakery; chocolates, sweets and biscuits from Fazer Confectionery; nutritious lunches from Fazer Food Services; wholesome snacks, smoothies and breakfast foods from Fazer Lifestyle Foods; freshly baked bread, special coffees and sweet and savoury pastries, offered directly to consumers from our cafés and bakery shops in Fazer Retail. 17 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Our businesses Fazer Bakery Product innovations and operational efficiency go hand in hand Fazer Bakery crafts bread and sweet bakery products for retail and other customers. We are the market leader in Finland and Russia, and in the top 3 in pre-packed bread in all our home markets – Finland, Sweden, Russia and the Baltic countries. In Russia, we also lead the market in frozen bakery products. We export bakery products to 12 countries, with a focus on novelties, such as Root Vegetable bread, and Nordic rye bread. We are continuously developing our product portfolio with innovative products that enhance well-being, and our artisanal bread offering in our shop-in-shops has won the hearts of customers. The market is polarised, with demand for premium artisanal quality as well as low-priced bread sold in retail. Health and well-being products such as bellyfriendly breads continue their success as well. The snacking trend is apparent in the bakery business as consumers look for convenient products to enjoy on the go. Performance in 2017 The net sales of the bakery business increased somewhat in 2017. We were able to successfully implement value creation actions despite the challenging market situation. In Finland, overall performance was very good. This was mainly due to the strong portfolio consisting of a good product mix and successful novelties, and improved operational efficiency. In addition, the shop-in-shop business continued its success. Sweden, on the other hand, suffered from the market decline and the competition from private labels. Russia carried out successful product launches and operational improvements. The Baltic countries improved their product portfolio with successful new product launches and price positioning. The bakery market as a whole declined slightly in all markets during 2017. The share of private label sales increased. The health trend continued and supported the sales of our well-being offering, and the popularity of artisanal bread remained strong. 18 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Our businesses NET SALES – FAZER BAKERY, M€ 800 703 700 648 592 577 577 587 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016 2017 FAS IFRS Fazer of the Future We will continue to renew the bread category by introducing interesting, consumer-oriented novelties to the market, especially for health-conscious people. We have set ambitious growth and profitability targets and will develop our operational and commercial capabilities in order to reach them. We will improve our overall efficiency to enhance value creation. This we will do by looking into and optimising each function, e.g. manufacturing and logistics. We will continue to execute our Perfect Store initiative, in which we develop the retail shopping path together with our customers, to build category leadership and point-of-sales excellence. New capabilities in, among other things, sales and marketing will help us reach our targets. 19 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Our businesses Fazer Confectionery Headed for international growth Fazer Confectionery creates taste experiences for everyday indulgence as well as for special occasions. Our high-quality chocolates, sweets and biscuits are renowned and cherished by customers. In Finland, Fazer leads the confectionery market. Fazer Confectionery and its iconic chocolates are heading towards international expansion. We are currently present in more than 40 countries around the world through our products and services. We aim to expand to new markets while strengthening our position and competitiveness in the existing ones. Performance in 2017 2017 was an excellent year for Fazer Confectionery, as our overall performance reached an all-time record. Nearly all commercial units exceeded their targets and improved their figures from the previous year. Competition in chocolate tablets was tough, but we were able to defend our core market in Finland. The confectionery market volume increased during 2017, and the biscuit market saw some growth as well, with Domino, Jaffa and Fasupala performing above expectations. Our market share grew in Sweden. In 2017, comparable net sales of the confectionery business area, taking into account the excise tax that was still in force in 2016 but abolished in the beginning of 2017, increased clearly from the previous year. NET SALES – FAZER CONFECTIONERY, M€ 400 338 329 328 337 337 331 300 200 100 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016 2017 FAS IFRS 20 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Our businesses Fazer of the Future Confectionery is one of the growth areas in our strategy, and we expect organic growth both in the Nordic countries and beyond. Chocolate will be the main driver for the international expansion. We will also seek opportunities for acquisitions to support growth. Supply chain performance saw clear improvement in 2017, and we will continue to optimise it in a sustainable way. We will further develop our operational excellence and cost management through an increased focus on sales and operations planning. Core capabilities in sales, marketing and R&D will be improved further. In addition to strengthening our chocolate business, spearheaded by Karl Fazer chocolate tablets, we will continue to develop our entire portfolio and create snacking solutions to answer consumer needs. 21 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Our businesses Fazer Food Services Growth through existing markets Fazer Food Services stands for food with a purpose. As the leading food service company in the Nordic countries, we serve delicious and nutritionally balanced meals to hundreds of thousands of people every day. We strive to make a difference in the lives of our customers as well as to the entire planet. The demand for healthy and flexitarian options is growing as the well-being and sustainability trends continue. Our offering includes high-quality plant-based meals and we encourage our customers to increase their consumption of greens. However, we respect our customers’ right to make individual choices, and offer them opportunities for indulgence as well. Performance in 2017 In 2017, our net sales increased somewhat, and we maintained a strong position in the Nordic countries despite increasing competition especially in the public sector. Our focus has been growth in the public sector, and we signed our first public contract in Norway. A brand renewal was started, and it will continue in 2018 with the refreshing of the Amica brand and continued building of the new Fazer Food & Co restaurant brand. NET SALES – FAZER FOOD SERVICES, M€ 700 588 601 601 608 564 573 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016 2017 FAS IFRS 22 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Our businesses Fazer of the Future The ambition for Fazer Food Services is to continue to grow profitably. We currently have 1,200 restaurants in Finland, Sweden, Norway and Denmark. We aim for growth in each country, and across multiple sectors. We will strengthen our focus on strategic sales and develop our operating models to support us in reaching our ambition. We will expand our capabilities by recruiting new talent and developing our line management. The public sector will continue to be an important growth area, and the outsourcing rate of food services is expected to grow in the sector. We aim to be the first choice of public decision-makers. We will continue to promote the consumption of vegetables and plant-based foods to promote the well-being of restaurant guests and mitigate the environmental impacts of food production. 23 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Our businesses Fazer Lifestyle Foods Well-being and sustainability in focus The health and well-being megatrend is strong. People are increasingly interested in their well-being and are willing to improve it through nutritional choices as well as exercise. They are looking for sustainable alternatives to meat and dairy, and at the same time, they seek meal choices that are not tied to time and place. Fazer Lifestyle Foods concentrates on products that answer the needs of today’s health-conscious consumer. Fazer Lifestyle Foods’ products are for contemporary and conscious consumers who want inspiration, convenience and well-being in their daily lives. Its offering consists of plant-based foods, non-dairy products and snacks. Established in March 2017 with the acquisition of oat expert Bioferme and its popular brand Yosa, Fazer Lifestyle Foods is one of the major growth areas within our business portfolio. The smoothie brand Froosh, acquired in late 2017, serves as a platform for Fazer Lifestyle Foods’ offering of healthy fruit-based products. In addition to its strong position in the Nordics, Froosh exports e.g. to the Baltics, Germany, France and Ireland. In addition to its traditional milling products, Fazer Mills, which is a part of Fazer Lifestyle Foods, produces oat-based breakfast products like porridge, muesli and cereals. It also produces oat derivatives such as beta-glucan and oat protein for the food industry as well as oat oil and oat fibre for the cosmetic and pharmaceutical industries. Performance in 2017 Net sales of the Fazer Lifestyle Foods business area reached 99 million euros during its first year of operation. This includes the sales of Bioferme for some 9 months, sales of Froosh for less than two months and sales of Fazer Mills for the full year. Bioferme’s pro forma (12 months) net sales grew in 2017 by 29 per cent. The breakfast products of Fazer Mills complement Fazer Lifestyle Foods’ offering, and our healthy oat products are of special interest to well-being oriented customers. Oats continued to sell well in 2017, with organic oat sold out already in the spring. The Swedish mill performed above expectations, but the traditional milling business did not reach its targets in Finland. 24 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Our businesses During 2017, Fazer Lifestyle Foods’ offering was further developed to answer consumers’ desires. Concept and brand work are still ongoing for some new product categories, and product development continues. NET SALES – FAZER LIFESTYLE FOODS, M€ *) 99 100 77 77 80 70 60 60 60 40 20 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016 2017 FAS IFRS *) The figures for 2013 to 2016 only include Fazer Mills. Fazer of the Future The ambition for Fazer Lifestyle Foods is strong growth and international expansion. We aim to complement organic development with acquisitions. We will build an innovative, consumer insight driven offering in the non-dairy, plant-based meals, breakfasts and on-the-go food categories. We will create a world-class branded offering based on sharp consumer insights and innovation, representing outstanding taste. 25 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Our businesses Fazer Retail New business unit caters directly to consumers Fazer Retail was established as a separate business unit at the start of 2018 to strengthen our direct-to-consumer business. The new business unit combines the Gateau bakery shops in Finland and Sweden and Fazer Cafés in Finland. Fazer Retail offers high-quality artisanal bread, sweet and savoury delicacies, chocolates and hot and cold beverages to café and bakery shop customers. Performance in 2017 Fazer Bakery Shops were part of the Fazer Bakery business area until December 2017. Artisanal bread continued to attract consumers, but Fazer Bakery Shops’ result suffered in Sweden with increased social costs and start-up costs in Gothenburg. Five new bakery shops were opened. Fazer Cafés’ net sales remained on the same level as in the previous year. New cafés were opened at Sanomatalo in Helsinki and Ainoa in Tapiola, Espoo. Consumer satisfaction improved from the already high level of the previous year. The 2017 pro-forma net sales of Fazer Retail increased clearly from the previous year. NET SALES – FAZER RETAIL, M€ 57 58 60 56 49 50 47 47 40 30 20 10 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016 2017 FAS IFRS 26 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Our businesses Fazer of the Future Our premium Fazer Café and Gateau bakery shop chains seek further efficiency improvement, which will build the foundation for further growth. We will streamline and modularise our concept to enable profitable growth. We will strive towards this goal by highlighting innovations, developing our offering, streamlining processes and improving day-to-day management of our cafés and shops. We have a strong service culture that we will continue to develop. Digitalisation will support the development process by, for example, expanding online engagement and examining e-commerce possibilities. 27 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility We monitor our economic, social and environmental impact and develop our business in a sustainable manner. Fazer is a renowned food company. It is also a part of society, and of people’s everyday lives. We co-operate with various stakeholders in environmental activities, research projects and social initiatives, creating value for shareholders, employees, suppliers, customers and the society. We accomplished much with our responsibility work in 2017 and have ambitious targets for the years ahead. As we move forward with our new strategy to build the Fazer of the future, we will continue to ensure that sustainability has an important role in everything we do. 28 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility highlights We achieved much in 2017 with our work on responsible sourcing, sustainable farming and the well-being of our people and the environment. 100% responsibly produced cocoa: 86% certified and 100% RSPO Sustainable 14% from direct certified palm oil Grain Farming programmes Principles Development of Reputation sustainable food Anti-harassment improved on all innovations guideline main markets 88% renewable electricity in our Improved results 97% of waste industrial sites: in the People recycled or 100% renewable Power Survey directed to electricity in energy recovery Finland, Sweden and Latvia 29 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Corporate responsibility Our corporate responsibility approach ER S A ND C A KE HO L D OMM G ST UN G IN I T IE GA S EN For health and well-being Choices based on knowledge and personal preferences bring balance and well-being. Enjoy Fazer your way. E O FF O N S I BL ER Running E SP IN People business R G matter We bring People make prosperity to Fazer happen. the company Responsibility vision Fair play with and society. everybody NIC FAZER FOR working with us. RESPONSIBLE TASTE MU SENSATIONS AN DH COM UMA TRANSPARENT N RIGH TS Part of the Fair value N environment chain CA IO AT LP We rely on the resources We operate responsibly RI D NC AN nature gives us. We use and create fair business IPL O them responsibly. opportunities throughout ES PR AC I TI the chain we are part of. H VE ET DI AL OG UE We observe sustainable practices in our use of resources and throughout our supply chain. We treat our personnel, suppliers, customers and environment with respect. As our new mission states, Fazer is all about food with a purpose. We create meaningful food experiences that nourish, delight and support the well-being of people while respecting the planet. Food is a major factor in social, economic and environmental development, and we contribute to that development through our corporate responsibility work. At Fazer, corporate responsibility is part of all our operations. It is ingrained in our corporate culture and business development. It is observed in the value chain. Securing long-term business development is at the core of our corporate responsibility strategy. In 2017, we created a new company strategy. We now work towards further alignment and integration of corporate responsibility into the new strategy. We will also keep developing our CR programme further through prioritisation of initiatives, target-setting and supporting our businesses in its implementation. Effective use of resources is not only environmentally important; it impacts costs and profitability as well. By supporting the well-being of our personnel, we aim to get energetic and motivated employees who perform better. Close attention to the responsible management of the supply chain ensures the availability of high-quality raw materials in the future. Simply put, corporate responsibility is good for business. 30 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility management The roles and responsibilities of our corporate responsibility team, network and leadership forum have been clearly defined, with our Board of Directors and the Group Management Team holding the highest authority on matters relating to corporate responsibility. Corporate responsibility work at Fazer is guided by our Corporate Responsibility Policy, Human Rights Policy, QEHS Policy, governance practice, operating principles and ethical principles, which are based on the ten international principles of the UN Global Compact. Fazer Group signed the UN Global Compact initiative in 2012. Managing corporate responsibility BOARD OF DIRECTORS Corporate Corporate Approves ethical principles Responsibility Responsibility Leadership Forum Network GROUP MANAGEMENT TEAM Approves policies and objectives Ensures alignment within Ensures corporate Group President: ultimate responsibility the Group; defines responsibility alignment Group’s EVP, Communications and Group-level strategies, within Fazer Group Branding: responsible for corporate policies, guidelines, targets Ensures the effective use responsibility and positions of resources Assesses, monitors and Shares the knowledge, develops corporate HEAD OF FUNCTION know-how and market responsibility topics within views in different Approves instructions the Group countries and businesses Ensures the agreed BUSINESS AREAS AND BUSINESS UNITS actions are implemented Implement corporate responsibility Escalates and prepares programme, strategic outlines, and set issues to the right decision targets and objectives forums Set corporate responsibility focus areas Follow instructions, practices and operating models CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY TEAM Develops corporate responsibility vision, strategy and programme, and supports its implementation 31 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Corporate responsibility Stakeholder engagement By maintaining an active dialogue with all stakeholders – from customers to shareholders, employees and suppliers – we have established strong relationships based on transparency and trust. Stakeholder feedback helps us to identify local and global trends as well as to keep up with regulatory and political changes. We, in turn, share information actively and participate in, for instance, the public discussion on nutrition and health. We have identified our most important stakeholder groups and outlined several engagement methods. STAKEHOLDER CHANNEL OF DIALOGUE Customer service, surveys, restaurant and café materials, websites, social media, Consumers packaging, visits Meetings and cooperation, newsletters, customer feedback systems, customer Customers events, websites, social media Regular contact, meetings and events, Annual Review, tertiary reports, Shareholders website, extranet Performance Management Process, continuous communication between managers and employees, induction, training, occupational health and Employees safety management system, personnel events, personnel surveys, Fazer’s whistleblowing service, intranet and other internal channels, theme days Meetings, contracts, supplier requirements, supplier assessments, follow-up Suppliers actions, partnerships, research, continuous collaboration between sourcing managers and suppliers Memberships, partnerships, joint projects and initiatives, websites, social media, NGOs and local communities questionnaires Partnerships, joint R&D projects, knowledge sharing, donations, thesis and job Universities and research institutes opportunities for students, lectures, excursions Healthcare professionals Knowledge sharing, events, lectures Media Media releases and events, interviews, websites, social media, visits Authorities and governments Regular contact, meetings, memberships, seminars, work groups Start-ups Opportunities and support through pilots and hackathons 32 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Corporate responsibility Our CR programme Our corporate responsibility vision, strategy and programme are based on the Group’s business strategy and supported by a deep understanding of evolving customer and market demands. Our corporate responsibility programme is structured around five strategic focus areas, which guide our operations: • Running business • For health and well-being • People matter • Fair value chain • Part of the environment HO LD ER S A ND C G STAKE OMM UN G IN I T IE GA S EN TRANSPARENCY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT NUTRITION PORTIONING TASTE SENSATIONS PROFITABLE SAFETY BUSINESS For health and well-being AND GROWTH Choices based on knowledge EQUALITY and personal preferences bring NEW balance and well-being. Enjoy OPPORTUNITIES Fazer your way. EMPLOYEE WELL-BEING Running business People matter STAKEHOLDER VALUE DEVELOPMENT We bring People make Fazer prosperity to the happen. Fair play with company and everybody working NIC society. with us. LEADERSHIP BRAND VALUE RESPONSIBLE OFFERING MU AN FAIR DH COM CONTINUITY TREATMENT UMA TRANSPARENT N RIGH Part of the environment Fair value chain ENERGY SUPPLIER TS We rely on the resources We operate responsibly EFFICIENCY and create fair business COOPERATION nature gives us. We use them responsibly. opportunities throughout WASTE the chain we are part of. RAW N CA MATERIALS IO AT RAW MATERIAL LP ORIGIN RI D LOSS NC AN IPL O WATER USE TRACEABILITY ES PR AC I TI H VE SUSTAINABLE FARMING QUALITY ET DI AL OG AWARENESS FOOD SAFETY UE 33 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Corporate responsibility Running business By securing the continuity of our business, we can provide high-quality products and services sustainably. We create value for our stakeholders and for society. Consumer trends are changing and interest in sustainability has been increasing. We at Fazer need to 2018 and onwards take into account these evolving trends but, at the same • Securing the long-term continuity of the business time, understand other drivers behind sustainability • Understanding the global risks and mitigating as well as our impact on the environment and society. their impacts We want to maintain a focus on developing sustainable • Continuing active stakeholder dialogue solutions. • Identifying new business opportunities that support sustainable development • Continuing the work with Human Rights: Focus and goals development of the grievance and remediation • Securing profitability and growth processes • Identifying new business opportunities and savings • Identifying cost saving possibilities via corporate potential via corporate responsibility responsibility work • Managing issues which affect Fazer’s reputation • Deepening our understanding of the UN SDGs • Following our ethical principles in all businesses and of our contribution towards their realisation • Securing and increasing brand value • Bringing added value to stakeholders Performance in 2017 The United Nations’ Agenda 2030 and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were one of the key sustainability topics of the year 2017. We see food as a solution, contributing to many of the SDGs. We continued to develop a deeper understanding of the goals and their targets, as well as their connection to our business. We identified SDG 9 as the most relevant to our Running business sustainability area: 34 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Corporate responsibility We have engaged in active stakeholder dialogue on the topic, as it is of great interest to many of our stakeholder groups. We have had positive feedback on our approach to the SDGs and will continue to examine ways to contribute to them. We continued to take part in stakeholder discussions on other topics related to corporate responsibility, as well, for instance by organising a stakeholder workshop with WWF Finland and by participating in the EAT network, which examines the links between climate, health and sustainability. We have seen increased interest in collaboration projects, as it becomes more and more evident that no single party can solve sustainability challenges alone. There is a growing need for public-private partnerships and co-operation on many levels, and we actively seek new ways of cooperation to contribute to the global goals. Fazer’s reputation improved in all main markets. We will continue to closely monitor the development of our reputation across our operating countries and beyond, as we prepare to expand internationally. Fazer’s whistleblowing service is an important tool for fostering high business ethics and maintaining customer and public trust in our business. During 2017, sixteen compliance cases were reported via the Fazer Way Helpline directly to Group Compliance and to HR. The cases concerned mainly harassment and conflict of interests. The cases having sufficient ground have been investigated internally and the necessary measures have been taken. Two investigations are ongoing. Fazer of the Future We will update our corporate responsibility vision, strategy and programme in order to align our CR work with our business strategy, including the new mission and vision. This will be a significant undertaking in which we aim to create an even stronger connection between corporate responsibility and sustainable development and our group strategy. We will strive to increase our understanding of local customers and their needs in new markets as we prepare to expand geographically. Entering new markets widens our stakeholder groups and adds new expectations, requirements and focus areas. DIVISION OF ECONOMIC VALUE, M€ TAXES BORNE AND EMPLOYER'S CONTRIBUTIONS, M€ *) Personnel 561.2 Income taxes 20.7 Society 22.6 Taxes on proper ty 1.2 Owners 37.9 Employer's contributions 115.8 Financiers 2.6 Other taxes 0.4 Business development 57.8 *) Insurance taxes and energy taxes not included. EQUITY AND RETURN ON EQUITY TAXES COLLECTED, M€ 600 556.9 529.7 557.3 30 Payroll taxes 106.4 511.3 494.8 500 472.8 25 VAT, net 57.4 400 20 Other taxes 6.5 14.1 13.3 300 15 200 7.6 10 5.4 4.8 100 3.5 5 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016 2017 Equity, FAS, M€ Equity, IFRS, M€ Return on equity (ROE), % 35 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Corporate responsibility We will set a strong focus on the integration of our new business areas and acquired businesses as they join our sustainability work. We will create a specific corporate responsibility programme for Fazer Lifestyle Foods to address the sustainability issues most relevant for the business. The UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) guide us in our human rights work. We will continue to carry out human rights impact assessments of our operations in accordance with the principles. We will examine new ways to co-operate with our stakeholder groups in all areas of corporate responsibility. Sustainability risks Sustainability risks are evaluated and managed as part of Fazer Group’s risk management process, described in the Corporate Governance section. As a food company, we rely on a variety of agricultural commodities. Recognised risks for food production include the effects of climate change on the availability, price and quality of raw material as well as water-related risks. Changing consumer trends relating to health are considered both a risk and an opportunity. All quality, environmental, health and safety risks related to our operations are evaluated as part of Fazer’s production site and restaurant level risk evaluation. How we mitigate risks and capture opportunities related to them is reported on the following pages covering our work in the different strategic corporate responsibility areas. Anti-corruption Fazer Group is committed to preventing the occurrence of bribery in all its businesses. Fazer has made a risk assessment of its operations and monitors risks in all its countries of operation. Fazer Group’s Anti-bribery programme consists of risk assessment, an anti-bribery policy, face-to-face training of targeted employees, eLearning, registration duties, counterparty risk assessments, targeted internal audits, a hotline and reacting to shortcomings. Economic value generated and distributed, M€ 2017 2016 Economic value generated: Customers (net sales, other operating income, financial income, sales of assets) 1,657 1,613 Suppliers Direct purchases -586 -561 Indirect purchases -327 -307 Operative investments -62 -86 Added value 682 659 Economic value distributed: Personnel (salaries, wages and other indirect employee costs) -561 -550 Society (taxes and donations) -23 -43 Owners (dividends) -38 -19 Financiers (interest and other financial expenses) -3 -3 Economic value retained in business 58 44 36 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Corporate responsibility For health and well-being The well-being of our customers is very important to us, and we strive to promote a healthy, balanced relationship with food. As we state in our new vision, we spark joy and wellbeing through meaningful food experiences. We offer 2018 and onwards a large variety of products and services for different • Continuing health-related research, both occasions. We provide scientifically valid information to proprietary and in co-operation with partners support people in making informed dietary choices. • Continuing the Fazer Brainhow programme • Launching new innovative plant-based products • Continuing promoting #moregreens in Fazer Focus and goals Food Services • Developing a responsible offering • Continuing portfolio development • Transparently communicating with stakeholders about topics related to health and well-being • Participating in studies on food, health and sustainability • Exploring and developing brain-friendly foods through the Fazer Brainhow programme • Increasing the use of plant-based foods Performance in 2017 Our focus in 2017 was on the development of products that support well-being and sustainability. Fazer Lifestyle Foods was established in the spring of 2017 to further boost Fazer’s response to emerging consumer needs within the areas of health, well-being and sustainable lifestyles. Fazer Lifestyle Foods focuses on non-dairy grain products, plantbased meals and on-the-go snacking. It includes new acquisitions: Bioferme, an expert in fermented oat products, and the leading Nordic smoothie brand Froosh. In addition to Bioferme and Froosh, Fazer Lifestyle Foods comprises Fazer Mills and its Fazer Alku and Frebaco branded breakfast products such as porridges, cereals and mueslis. We were the first company in the world to introduce insect bread to grocery stores, and our Cricket bread gained worldwide attention. In Finland, we also launched a healthy Seed bread and Lempikaura snacking biscuits that contain root vegetables. In Russia and in the Baltics, we introduced tasty Fazer Root Vegetable breads that include vegetables, and healthy novelties in the Fazer Health Energy product range and under the Hlebny Dom brand in Russia. The very 37 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Corporate responsibility first product launches of Fazer Brainhow took place in Russia and in the Baltics. Our low-FODMAP belly-friendly rye bread won the first prize at the international NutraIngredients awards. We engaged in research in many operating countries and with many research partners. Our Fazer Brainhow programme took an important step forward with co-operation with Nokia and Nightingale Health. The Fazer Brainhow programme seeks to find ways in which food can support cognitive functions. The aim of the collaboration is to gain a holistic view of the impacts of a diet designed to enhance cognitive capacity. The programme also explored the effects of cocoa flavanols on senior citizens’ cognitive performance. In our statement titled Fazer for balanced offering, we have listed 11 actions to tackle the challenge of obesity. The actions include, for instance, packaging and portion sizes, product information and product development. We believe that a balanced diet based on knowledge and personal tastes brings well-being. We want to provide both nutritional information – by, for instance, informing customers of the energy content of portions – and an offering that respects individual choice. We continued our work to increase the share of vegetables in meals. Nudging, in which restaurant guests are gently encouraged to choose more greens through buffet design and the presentation of dishes, was continued in Fazer Food Services’ restaurants. In 2017, the share of vegetables was 37.9%. We launched the new Wicked Rabbit vegetarian food concept, which aims to encourage a change in attitudes towards vegetarian food. The Fazer Foodathon event was organised to find new plant-based food solutions and to highlight food as a solution in stakeholder dialogue. The winner of the foodathon was a vegan egg that can be used in cooking and baking. The United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were among the most discussed corporate responsibility topics in 2017. SDG 3 and SDG 12 were recognised as the most relevant to our For health and wellbeing CR area: In addition, SDG 9 encourages innovation, which is an intrinsic part of our work to support health and well-being. We will continue to examine the ways in which we can contribute to the SDGs with our corporate responsibility agenda. Fazer of the Future We will continue our Fazer Brainhow programme and increase its visibility. Through research and co-operation we strive to improve people’s quality of life and find ways to support the cognitive functioning and overall well-being of people. Fazer Lifestyle Foods will continue creating a product portfolio with strong, innovative and international concepts and brands for the health-conscious consumer. Fazer Food Services’ successful #moregreens actions will continue in 2018, and nudging will continue as a key initiative. We will continue to train our chefs and develop vegetarian recipes. Portion control, supported by packaging sizes and information, will continue to be developed to combat obesity. We will continue to develop our offering across business areas to support well-being. 38 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Corporate responsibility People matter We want to provide motivating and meaningful work in a safe and respectful work environment. We continuously develop our personnel and leadership. Our devoted personnel is our greatest asset. We work together and continuously develop our capabilities to 2018 and onwards ensure that our business is profitable and sustainable. We • Implementing HR Vision 2022 cultivate an atmosphere of respect and work according • Growing internal entrepreneurship and agility to a high performance culture in which everyone knows • Continuing to develop role exchange and job their role and responsibility. rotation • Continuing anti-harassment work Focus and goals • Providing all employees an equal working community, motivating and meaningful work and a safe working environment • Encouraging employees to seek and sustain work-life balance • Supporting the well-being of employees • Developing a diversified working community as a strength and success factor • Developing leadership capabilities at all levels • Ensuring a work environment in which people are treated with dignity, decency and respect. We do not tolerate harassment of any kind. Performance in 2017 We continued to work with the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The SDG we identified as most closely associated with the People matter sustainability area is SDG8: 39 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Corporate responsibility This goal was seen to be very much in line with our own responsibility targets. We will continue to assess the ways in which we can contribute to reaching this goal. In 2017, harassment was addressed to a great extent in media and the society at large, and this discussion prompted us to create a new Anti-harassment Guideline. We respect the value, privacy and rights of every individual. We do not tolerate discrimination, threats, harassment or insulting behaviour. We also revised our whistleblowing system to allow third parties to contact us in case of grievance. We began the creation of a novel learning culture. A new digitalisation training was piloted in Finland and will be expanded in 2018. Planning of the renewal of Fazer Academy, to take place in 2018, began. The Trainee programme continued and produced good results, with trainees contributing to our business after a very short time. We also continued our 125 Opportunities for Working Life programme, which began in 2016, in co-operation with the Helsinki Deaconess Institute and the Finnish Centre for Economic Development, Transport and the Environment. It offers working opportunities for people with difficulty in finding employment, such as people with reduced functional ability or immigrants. In Russia, we continued our co-operation with the SOS Children’s Village in Pushkin by offering employment to young people from the village. The village alumni get a chance to get their first work experience in an international company. We took further the implementation of role exchange and job rotation – a new practice that gives us an opportunity for professional development. This practice provides learning possibilities, new responsibilities and a chance to grow in the organisation. Role exchange can also be applied to support diversity work. EMPLOYEES BY AGE, % EMPLOYEES BY GENDER 100 Women 58% 90 Men 42% 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 FI SE RU DK NO EE LV LT Total Under 20 31–40 yrs 51–60 yrs 21–30 yrs 41–50 yrs Over 60 OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY OBSERVATIONS FREQUENCY OF OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS (LTAF) Number of accidents per one million working hours 15,000 20 12,1543) 18 15.3 15.0 12,000 16 14 12.5 12.1 11.3 9,000 7,698 3) 12 7,305 2) 10 6,000 5,285 1) 8 6 3,000 4 2 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 1) Figure includes Fazer Confectioner y and Fazer Baker y 2) Figure includes Fazer Confectioner y, Fazer Baker y and Fazer Food Ser vices Finland 3) Figure includes Fazer Confectioner y, Fazer Baker y, Fazer Food Ser vices Finland, Fazer Mills Finland and Fazer Cafés 40 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Corporate responsibility During 2017, we finalised our HR Vision 2022. It will guide us forward in the years to come and support us in implementing our new strategy. It will also facilitate our transformation towards a leading, sustainable North European food company, while ensuring the well-being of the personnel. Furthermore, we stepped up the implementation of our safety culture by beginning the tracking of also minor accidents and near misses, increasing safety communication and conducting more than 40 safety reviews, among other things. We conducted again the People Power Survey to find out how our employees experience their work. At Group level, the overall results improved from the previous survey. The most positive changes occurred within the companylevel themes, including employer image and leadership culture. All five indexes measured – Commitment, Leadership, Performance, Engagement and the People Power index – were clearly above the general European norm. Fazer of the Future We will begin to implement our HR Vision 2022. We will focus on employee experience, internal entrepreneurship and agility. We will develop an extended talent ecosystem that encompasses not only our own talent but that of cooperation partners and stakeholders as well. We will develop our capabilities in human resource information systems (HRIS) and analytics, and implement business HR training to improve our strategic capabilities in HR. We will recruit new key talent to support our strategic growth plans. We will strengthen our Group-level leadership capabilities as well as those in the management of organisational changes. Occupational health and well-being at work will continue to be a priority focus area as well. We will continue to systematically improve work safety at every location to provide a safe working environment for all employees. We will continue our anti-harassment work by, among other things, creating an obligatory training package addressing the matter. Number of employees per country 31 Dec. 2017 2017 Finland 6,972 Sweden 3,280 Russia 2,990 Denmark 1,018 Norway 490 Latvia 317 Lithuania 272 Estonia 138 Japan 1 Frequency of occupational accidents (LTAF) Number of accidents per one million working hours 2017 2016 Fazer Bakery 5.4 5.5 Fazer Confectionery 10.5 13.7 Fazer Food Services 18.8 19.5 Total in Group 11.3 12.1 41 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Corporate responsibility Fair value chain We work to ensure that our raw materials, such as cocoa and grain, are produced responsibly from a social and environmental point of view. High-quality products can only be made with high-quality ingredients. We work with thousands of suppliers, and 2018 and onwards part of our corporate responsibility is to ensure that they • Continuing to use 100% responsibly produced operate sustainably, as well. We respect human, labour cocoa and land rights and want our suppliers to receive fair • Continuing the implementation of the sustainable compensation for their work. grain farming principles so that by 2025 all flour in Finland and Sweden fulfil their requirements • Increasing the share of responsible soy to 100% Focus and goals by 2020 • Constantly improving the level of responsibility and • Using 100% RSPO segregated or mass balance strengthening cooperation in the value chain certified palm oil by 2020 in all operating • Improving traceability in the value chain and securing countries food quality and safety • Continuing to follow the WWF seafood guides • Controlling and mitigating responsibility risks related to • Continuing the use of seasonal and second grade the raw material base fruit and vegetables in our restaurants to reduce food waste in the value chain • Further developing sustainability in fruit value chains Performance in 2017 In the beginning of 2017, we achieved one of our most important goals: 100% of our cocoa was responsibly produced. We source cocoa through UTZ, Rainforest Alliance and Fairtrade Cocoa Programme as well as through our own direct programmes. The relationship of certifications and direct programmes is one that has sparked lively discussion among our stakeholders. We see the combination of the two sourcing methods as the best option for several reasons. Only approximately 20% of the world’s cocoa farmers work in co-operation with certification organisations, which means that the supply of certified cocoa is insufficient to cover the needs of chocolate producers. Direct programmes are 42 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Corporate responsibility needed to complement certified cocoa. In addition, we need to ensure that all cocoa farmers have the possibility to produce cocoa sustainably. With direct programmes, we are also able to constantly monitor, for instance, whether child labour is used, as we train local people for this task. This is more efficient than occasional inspections. Our direct programme in Ecuador was audited in 2017 and development actions were planned based on the results. Our direct programmes address social as well as environmental aspects of cocoa farming and support the farming communities. They have encouraged women especially to participate in training and improve their standards of living with their learnings. The cost of implementing direct programmes is higher than that of purchasing certified cocoa, but we see this as a necessary investment towards a reliable supply in the future. We became a member of the Roundtable for Responsible Soy (RTRS) and published our commitment to 100% certified soy by 2020. All the soy used directly or indirectly in the value chain will meet the requirements set by the RTRS or ProTerra. We purchased RTRS credits to cover all our indirect soy consumption in Sweden for 2017. We also became members of the Swedish and Finnish soy commitments. The share of certified soy for the Group was 54%. We reviewed our palm oil commitment. We use 100% RSPO certified palm oil, sourced through three supply chain options: segregated, mass balance and book and claim. Our aim is to increase the share of segregated palm oil, but this has, however, proved challenging. Our target in 2017 was to use 100% segregated palm oil in Fazer Confectionery, but we did not quite reach it as 92% of the palm oil used was segregated, with mass balance and book and claim certified oil making up the difference. One of the reasons for not achieving the target was that segregated palm oil could not be sourced in the fractions we needed. This we will be able to solve in 2018 for the majority of remaining products. We developed in 2017 a sourcing process for the prioritising of raw materials with high risks related to human rights, water and land use. For most prioritised high risk raw materials or those we use in large volumes, we have already developed Group-level commitments. RESPONSIBLE COCOA STATUS RESPONSIBLE PALM OIL STATUS Cocoa purchased according to RSPO certified palm oil (incl. all Fazer's cocoa programme 100% RSPO supply chain options) 100% Certified 86% Segregated 36% Direct farmer programmes 14% Mass Balance 3% Book & Claim / GreenPalm certificates 61% FAZER’S PALM OIL USE BY BUSINESS AREA Fazer Bakery 68% Fazer Confectionery 30% Fazer Food Services 2% 43 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Corporate responsibility We engaged in active discussion on animal welfare with our suppliers, non-governmental organisations and other stakeholders. We, and our clients, place great importance on animal welfare in food production, and will continue our stakeholder dialogue on the matter. Fazer Food Services in Sweden and Denmark strive to increase the share of organic produce in their offering. The targeted share in Sweden, 19%, was reached. In Denmark, the share of organic produce is 40%. We continue to use the WWF seafood guides as the basis of our fish sourcing and only use green or yellow listed fish. Fazer Cafés reached its goal in 2017 and is now serving only certified coffee. Reducing food waste is one of our sustainability priorities, and it is also a way to enhance the efficiency of our value chain. Together with our suppliers we have been able to take advantage of second grade vegetables, which do not look perfect but are just as tasty and completely usable. Second grade vegetables are now used in all Fazer Food Services’ business units. Food safety is essential to our business and cannot be compromised. In 2017 we adopted a Group documentation management system and carried out food fraud awareness training and vulnerability assessments. New allergen guidelines were created by an internal work group and food safety professionals were trained. We work with United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and have identified the following as the most relevant to the Fair value chain area of our corporate responsibility work: Fazer of the Future We will continue the systematic work to ensure food safety and quality throughout the supply chain. We will constantly improve the sustainability of our sourcing. We will work with the identified raw materials – grain, cocoa, palm oil, soy and fish – and also focus on new ones based on our risk evaluation. We will continue to reduce food waste and apply seasonality to improve the efficiency and sustainability of our supply chain. For 2018 we have defined a common seasonal calendar for Fazer Food Services that will be taken into use in all countries. We will continue to work towards our palm oil commitment and develop our soy purchasing. Responsible Fish Status % Green list fish (Finland and Sweden, incl. certified fish) 69 Green list fish Finland 64 Certified fish Sweden 78 44 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Corporate responsibility Part of the environment We strive to minimise our environmental impact by improving energy efficiency, supporting sustainable water use and farming, and preventing waste. Our mission is Food with a purpose. It refers to the joy we want to bring with our products and services, but 2018 and onwards also to our goal of offering our customers sustainably • Reducing Fazer’s energy consumption per produced food. We want to promote the well-being of produced tonne with 20% from the 2011 level the planet as well as that of its inhabitants. by 2020 • Implementing a packaging vision by examining alternatives for more sustainable packaging Focus and goals • Reducing CO2 emissions from bakery transports • Reducing climate impact and increasing energy through shared deliveries with other companies efficiency • Continuing implementation of our No • Preventing waste and loss of raw materials Deforestation Commitment • Managing and using water resources responsibly • Implementing Fazer Grain Vision • Supporting sustainable farming and preventing loss of biodiversity • Raising environmental awareness Performance in 2017 We reviewed our energy long term plan and targets in 2017. In 2017, our energy consumption was 0.85 MWh/ production tonne, and renewable energy made up 88% of our total energy consumption. In 2017, energy consumption per produced tonne decreased slightly. Despite the significant changes caused by business acquisitions to Fazer’s environmental footprint, we are committed to reducing Fazer’s energy consumption per produced tonne with 20% by 2020. The electricity used at all our sites in Finland, Sweden and Latvia is 100% renewable. We continued to develop our Water Stewardship Plan, and joined a “Water and Food” cluster group facilitated by SIWI Swedish Water House in Sweden. The aim was to better understand and address our water risks in both production and raw material sourcing. The purpose is to identify and mitigate our impact on water in the value chain, identify main risks, and establish a plan of action. We looked into waste water quality at production facilities and created a waste water road map for 3 industrial sites (Neva, Smolenskaya and Zvezdny in Russia) to improve waste water quality and share best practices. In 2017, our water consumption decreased slightly. 45 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Corporate responsibility We renewed our Baltic Sea Commitment for 2018–2022. In it, we commit to developing our production, ways of working and offering in a way that contributes to the promotion of the ecological balance of the Baltic Sea. The commitment involves actions and targets concerning circular economy, sustainable grain farming, water stewardship plan and offering development. We published our Sustainable Grain Farming Principles, which we have developed in co-operation with farmers. We continue to cultivate a strong dialogue with the farming community to implement the principles and to improve the sustainability of farming. Studies are conducted to monitor how the fulfilment of the principles is developing. We continue to promote the use of vegetables, as their impact on the climate is smaller than that of meat. In Sweden, we started using a Carbon calculator tool in a few restaurants to plan our menus and calculate the carbon footprint of individual dishes. We shared this information with our customers to support them in making sustainable choices. We organised Fazer Foodathon to find innovative plant-based food products and introduced the Wicked Rabbit vegetarian food concept. We joined a Sustainable Food Chain initiative “Hållbar Livsmedelkedja” in Sweden to work towards a more sustainable food chain together with key stakeholders and WWF Sweden. Fazer Group joined the Climate Leadership Council (CLC), which challenges companies and society to act on climate change. In Fazer Bakery Finland we developed a packaging vision 2018–2020. According to this vision, we will consider environmentally friendlier packaging materials when revising product packaging or designing packaging for new products. In Sweden we also started looking at ways to use recycled and sustainably produced packaging material. During autumn 2017 we started an in-depth analysis of how we can fulfil this target looking at the whole value chain. The plan is yet to be finalised, but we already managed to reduce plastic packaging materials by 65 tonnes between May 2016 and May 2017. We continued our work to reduce waste and raw material loss. We increased awareness of the issue with a Groupwide workshop, specified instructions for shop personnel, applied a Consumer App in Gateau bakery shops in Sweden to sell products with a high discount near closing time and donated surplus products to charities. In Fazer Food Services we organised waste reduction campaigns, which resulted in food waste reduction in restaurants in Sweden, Denmark and Norway. In Finland we changed the measurement method in 2017, which makes comparison with the previous year difficult. More food waste reduction actions are planned in order to reach our target. Due to the changes in our industrial footprint, waste and by-products and raw material consumption per produced tonne increased. However, the comparable figures show the declining trend also in these areas. The total number of environmental incidents during 2017 was 14. The incidents were related to starts of fires, flour sprays, spills and leakages. All incidents were categorised as minor. TOTAL AMOUNT OF WASTE/PRODUCED QUANTITY ENERGY CONSUMPTION/PRODUCED QUANTITY tonnes/tonne MWh/tonne 0.16 0.15 1.0 0.93 0.93 0.90 0.86 0.85 0.14 0.9 0.8 0.12 0.7 0.10 0.6 0.08 0.08 0.08 0.07 0.5 0.06 0.06 0.4 0.3 0.04 0.2 0.02 0.1 0.00 0.0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 46 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Corporate responsibility We continue to work with United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We identified the following goals as the most material to our environmental sustainability work: Fazer of the Future We will continue the work to reduce our energy consumption per produced tonne and strive to further increase the share of renewables by following the market development of renewable energy in Russia. We will continue systematic work to reduce raw material loss and waste in all our businesses. Our focus on water issues will be even stronger in 2018. We will begin implementation of the Fazer Water Stewardship Plan. The availability of fresh water, raw material production in potentially water-sensitive areas and waste water management are among topics that we intend to address. Through the Fazer Sustainable Grain Farming Principles we will continue our work to reduce the eutrophication of the Baltic Sea. Sustainable packaging is an important focus area for the coming years. We aim for holistic sustainable packaging solutions throughout the value chain. We will continue to develop new plant-based products in Fazer Lifestyle Foods and to promote the use of vegetables in Fazer Food Services. WASTE TREATMENT Recycled 83% Recycled as energy 14% Landfill waste 3% Environmental indicators 2017 2016 Amount of production (tonnes) 595,110 589,001 Energy consumption (MWh) 507,819 504,384 Energy consumption/produced quantity (MWh/tonne) 0.85 0.86 Usage of water (m³) 875,117 884,977 Usage of water/produced amount (m³/tonne) 1.47 1.50 Used raw materials (tonne) 567,019 481,683 Used raw materials/produced quantity (tonnes/tonne) 0.95 0.82 Total amount of waste/produced quantity (tonnes/tonne) 0.15 0.08 Total amount of waste (tonnes), of which 86,991 48,650 Recycled (%) 83% 66% Recycled as energy (%) 14% 26% Landfill waste (%) 3% 8% The environmental indicators cover the operations of Fazer´s bakeries, confectionery factories and mills. 47 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Corporate responsibility Management system certificates at Fazer QEHS Standards Food safety standards Ethical trade ISO ISO ISO OHSAS FSSC ISO 9001 14001 50001 18001 22000 22000 BRC IFS AIB SMETA 4-pillar Fazer Confectionery Vantaa X X X X X Lappeenranta X X X X X Karkkila X X X X X Vantaa Biscuit X X X X X Fazer Bakery Finland Vantaa X Lahti X Lahti (Crisp) X X Lappeenranta X Oulu X Fazer Bakery Sweden Eskilstuna X X X Stockholm X X Lidköping X X X X X Lund X X X Lövånger X X X Umeå X X X Fazer Bakery Russia Smolenskaja X X X X Murinski X X X X Neva X X X X Zvezdny X X X X Fazer Bakery Baltics Ogre X X Kaunas Fazer Food Services Restaurants Finland X X Restaurants Sweden X X Restaurants Denmark Restaurants Norway Tallinn kitchen X Fazer Lifestyle Foods Bioferme X Fazer Mills Lahti X X X Fazer Mills Lidköping X X X ISO 9001 Quality ISO 14001 Environment ISO 50001 Energy Management OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety FSSC 22000 Food Safety ISO 22000 Quality and Food Safety BRC Food Safety IFS Food Safety AIB Food Safety SMETA 4-pillar Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit 48 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Governance Governance Board of Directors’ report Fazer continued to improve its performance and to implement its strategy in 2017. The Group’s net sales and operating profit increased from the previous year. In March 2017, a change was made to the company’s operating structure by forming a new business area, Fazer Lifestyle Foods, which focuses on non-dairy grain products, plantbased meals and on-the-go food and drinks. In relation to the newly established business area, two acquisitions were made in 2017 – the acquisition of Bioferme, a Finnish company specialised in fermented oat products, and the acquisition of the leading Nordic smoothie brand Froosh. In addition, Fazer Mills was included in the Fazer Lifestyle Foods business area. Focus on efficiency improvements continued with initiatives in several fields. Work safety and the development of a safety culture remained an important theme in 2017 with positive results. In 2017, Fazer started to apply the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in its consolidated accounts. Also, comparative figures for 2016 were restated in accordance with IFRS. The parent company’s figures continued to be based on Finnish Accounting Standards (FAS). Markets, business environment and sales In 2017, the economies in many of Fazer’s key markets took a turn to the better: the Finnish, Norwegian and Russian economies strengthened, and the Swedish economy continued on its growth path. The biggest foreign currency impact on Fazer came from the rouble, which strengthened 11% against the euro on average, and supported Fazer´s financial performance in 2017. 49 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Governance The bakery market as a whole slightly declined in the main markets during 2017, and the share of private label sales increased. Despite the challenging market situation, Fazer Bakery was able to increase its sales to 614.4 M€ (2016: 602.4) and successfully implement value creation actions to improve its operational efficiency and profitability. The health trend continued and supported the sales of the well-being offering, and the popularity of artisanal bread remained strong. In Finland, good performance was backed up by the strong portfolio with a good product mix and successful novelties. In addition, the shop-in-shop business continued its success. Sweden, on the other hand, suffered from the market decline and the competition from private labels. Successful product launches and operational improvements were carried out in Russia. The Baltic bakery operations improved their product portfolio with successful new product launches and price positioning. Artisanal bread continued to attract consumers, and bakery shops’ sales increased. 2017 was an excellent year for Fazer Confectionery: comparable net sales increased to 331.2 M€ (313.4, excluding the excise tax of 24.0 M€) supported by successful product launches, novelties and campaigns. The confectionery market volume increased, and the biscuit market saw some growth as well with Domino, Jaffa and Fasupala performing above expectations. In Finland, competition in chocolate tablets was tough, but Fazer was able to defend this core market. The Karl Fazer brand was voted the most valued brand in Finland. Fazer Confectionery’s market share grew in Sweden. Fazer Food Services has around 1,200 restaurants in Finland, Sweden, Norway and Denmark serving specific sectors within three clusters – Business, Concession and Public. In 2017, Fazer Food Services maintained a strong market position, despite increasing competition especially in the public sector. Net sales reached 607.7 M€ (600.7). The impact of the net portfolio change was slightly negative, but comparable sales improved especially in Finland. Client satisfaction (NPS) increased during 2017. A brand renewal was started, and it will continue in 2018 with the refreshing of the Amica brand and building of the new Fazer Food & Co restaurant brand. Fazer Lifestyle Foods is a new business area established in March 2017 with the acquisition of the oat expert Bioferme and its popular Yosa brand. Fazer Lifestyle Foods’ offering consists of plant-based foods and drinks, non-dairy products, and snacks. The smoothie brand Froosh, acquired in November, serves as a platform for Fazer Lifestyle Foods’ offering of healthy and sustainable fruit-based products. In addition to its strong position in the Nordics, Froosh exports to several European countries. Fazer Mills, which is a part of Fazer Lifestyle Foods, produces oat-based breakfast products, for instance porridge, muesli and cereals, in addition to the traditional milling products. It also produces oat derivatives such as beta-glucan and oat protein for the food industry, as well as oat oil and oat fibre for the cosmetic and pharmaceutical industries. Net sales of the new business area reached 99.4 M€ during its first year of operation. This includes the sales of Fazer Mills and post-acquisition sales of Bioferme and Froosh. NET SALES, M€ NET SALES BY COUNTRY 1,800 1,695.7 1,647.7 Finland 48% 1,576.1 1,603.5 1,603.1 1,641.6 1,600 Sweden 25% 1,400 1,200 Russia 12% 1,000 Denmark 6% 800 Norway 4% 600 Estonia 1% 400 Latvia 1% 200 0 Lithuania 1% 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016 Others 2% FAS IFRS 50 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Governance In 2017, Fazer Cafés’ net sales remained on the same level as previous year and stood at 21.9 M€ (22.0), despite continuously tightening competition. Two new cafés were opened, one in Sanomatalo in Helsinki and one in Ainoa in Tapiola, Espoo. Fazer Cafés’ customer satisfaction improved from the already high level of the previous year. The Fazer Experience visitor centre, opened in 2016 when Fazer celebrated its 125th anniversary, was visited in 2017 by more than 187,000 people who also gave high customer satisfaction ratings. Financial results Fazer’s reported net sales increased by 2% from previous year and reached 1,641.6 M€ (1,603.1). Excluding the excise tax abolished from the beginning of 2017 from 2016 figures, the comparable net sales were up almost 4%. The strengthened foreign exchange rates increased the net sales by 14.4 M€ and the acquired and sold businesses by 25.8 M€ (net). The Group’s operating profit improved to 92.1 M€ (90.1). Operating profit included 3.5 M€ (0.6) one-time restructuring costs and write-offs (net). Profit for the financial period was 72.1 M€ (70.5). Fazer Bakery and Fazer Confectionery improved the profit most. Cash flow and financial position The Group’s financial position remained strong. Interest-bearing net debt totalled 79.0 M€ (57.3). The Group’s equity ratio improved to 55.1% (54.2%). Cash flow from operating activities was 149.6 M€ (146.6) and gross investments amounted to 108.0 M€ (104.6). The most important investments included the acquisition of Bioferme and Froosh together with investments in new production equipment and upgrades to existing machinery in the bakery and confectionery operations. OPERATING PROFIT, M€ CAPITAL EMPLOYED AND PROFITABILITY 100 90.1 92.1 800 40 686.6 676.6 698.4 700 35 80 569.0 600 546.3 551.5 30 60 52.7 500 25 49.0 43.3 44.3 400 20 40 14.0 13.6 300 15 10.2 7.3 7.1 8.2 200 10 20 100 5 0 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016 2017 FAS IFRS Capital employed, FAS, M€ Capital employed, IFRS, M€ Return on investment (ROI), % Key figures 2017 2016 Net sales, M€ 1,641.6 1,603.1 Operating profit, M€ 92.1 90.1 − share of net sales, % 5.6 5.6 Return on equity, % 13.3 14.1 Equity ratio, % 55.1 54.2 Gearing, % 14.2 10.8 Personnel Number of employees, 31.12. 15,478 15,533 Number of employees, avg. FTE 13,198 13,287 Wages and salaries, M€ 433.3 422.2 NB. 2015 (FAS) comparison information is excluded from the key figure tables due to IFRS incomparability. 51 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Governance Personnel At year-end, Fazer had 15,478 employees (15,533). Out of these, 68 (143) were employed by the parent company. Strategy implementation In addition to the creation of the new business area, Fazer Lifestyle Foods, and the related acquisitions and business development, Fazer executed several initiatives to implement its strategy. These include value creation initiatives in the other business areas and Group functions as well as planning and developing means for growth and geographical expansion. Quality, occupational health & safety and environment In 2017, Fazer continued to manage and improve quality, occupational health & safety and environmental (QEHS) responsibility both via internal programmes and through 3rd party certifications for its management systems. The new QEHS policy was communicated broadly and common QEHS actions were rolled out across Fazer’s operations. New ways of communication and leadership activities were implemented to improve occupational health and safety. Management safety walks, safety reviews, safety commitments and other safety actions began to be part of the daily operations. Accident frequency reduced by 6% from 2016. Fazer continued to improve its quality and food safety management in many ways. For example, new digital QEHS solutions were taken into use, the programme to certify all production sites against a global food safety system was continued, and allergen management was developed. Fazer’s environmental management was also improved: waste and by-product recycling as well as energy management certification were developed and, in Finland, Fazer Confectionery, Fazer Bakery and Fazer Mills joined the new national energy efficiency agreement with targets till 2025. Corporate responsibility In 2017, Fazer progressed in its systematic work towards its corporate responsibility targets. The highlights include reaching the target of 100% responsible cocoa, defining a target of 100% sustainable grain by 2025 for Finland and Sweden, promoting an increase in the share of vegetables in the restaurant offering, keeping Fazer’s reputation on an excellent level in its main markets, continuing work on Human Rights, and starting the development of a Water Stewardship Plan. Risk management Fazer regularly evaluates and analyses the Group’s strategic, operative and financial risks within the framework of its risk management policy and takes action to mitigate these risks. In 2017, no major risks were realised. INTEREST-BEARING NET DEBT, M€ GEARING, % 79.0 14.2 80 15 70 10.8 57.3 12 60 50 9 6.0 40 33.3 6 30 20 3 -4.0 -3.7 -3.6 10 -20.7 -17.3 -17.6 0 0 -3 -10 -20 -6 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016 2017 FAS IFRS FAS IFRS 52 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Governance Research and development The execution of the Fazer Brainhow programme, which focuses on the connection between food and cognitive performance, continued in 2017. Two new clinical trials were started. The FlaSeCo study focuses on the effect of cocoa flavanols on elderly people’s cognitive performance and health biomarkers. The study is conducted collaboratively with Gery (Society for Gerontological Nutrition in Finland). Another clinical study called BRAVE is conducted in cooperation with Nokia Technologies and Nightingale Health. The BRAVE study investigates the effects of brain-friendly food on cognitive functions, physiology and blood biomarkers. The results from both studies will be ready in 2018. Technology development for belly-friendly food solutions continued. In 2017, the focus was on the development of a proprietary improver for belly-friendly bakery products. Also cooperation with University of Helsinki and Aalto University continued with five ongoing master’s or diploma works. Research and development costs amounted to 9.9 M€ (9.0). Changes in Group legal structure The changes in the Group legal structure are disclosed in the Note 25 to financial statements. Shares and share capital At the end of 2017, the parent company had 3,958,763 preference shares and 2,365,200 ordinary shares. Preference shares carry a preferential right of at least 6% of the share’s nominal amount, ahead of ordinary shares, for the annual dividend from the company’s distributable profit. At the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting, each ordinary share is entitled to ten votes and each preference share carries one vote. Administration and auditors At the Shareholders’ Meeting on 30 March 2017, the following Board members were re-elected: Berndt Brunow (Chairman), Anders Dreijer (Vice Chairman), Klaus Cawén, Ketil Eriksen, Jan Fazer, Leif Hagelstam, Johan Linder, Cecilia Marlow and Juhani Mäkinen. Chartered Accountants PricewaterhouseCoopers were chosen as auditors, with Chartered Accountant Martin Grandell as auditor-in-charge. Outlook for 2018 The GDP growth in most of Fazer’s main markets is expected to remain close to the same level as in 2017. The competitive environment is, however, expected to continue as tough for all Fazer’s businesses. GROSS INVESTMENTS, M€ CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES, M€ 120 108.0 160 146.6 149.6 104.6 104.6 140 130.4 100 120.9 115.3 110.7 79.7 120 80 61.7 100 58.9 60 80 60 40 40 20 20 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016 2017 FAS IFRS FAS IFRS 53 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Governance Fazer will focus on creating profitable growth in order to reach the long-term sales and profitability targets aligned with its strategy to create value. In addition to relentlessly driving the organic growth within the established businesses and product categories, active M&A work will continue to explore inorganic opportunities to further strengthen growth and internationalisation. Fazer’s net sales are expected to grow in 2018, subject to the development of key non-euro denominated currencies. Fazer will also continue to work on strengthening its competitiveness. This work is driven by the established value creation programmes and by continuously developing the company’s organisational and structural efficiency. Events after the reporting period Fazer Retail was established as a separate business unit at the start of 2018 to strengthen Fazer’s direct-to-consumer business. The new business unit combines the Gateau bakery shops in Finland and Sweden together with Fazer Cafés in Finland. Fazer Retail offers high-quality artisanal bread, sweet and savoury delicacies, chocolates and hot and cold beverages to café and bakery shop customers. Proposal for distribution of profit The parent company’s distributable funds amount to 643,230,795.57 euros of which 41,511,658.90 euros represents profit for the financial year. The Board of Directors proposes to the Shareholders’ Meeting that distributable funds should be appropriated as follows: to pay a dividend of 9.60 euros per share, i.e. a total of 60,710,044.80 € to leave in profit brought forward 582,520,750.77 € 643,230,795.57 € The proposed dividend does not pose any risk to the company’s financial standing. Vantaa, Finland, 8 March 2018 Oy Karl Fazer Ab Board of Directors EQUITY AND RETURN ON EQUITY EQUITY RATIO, % 600 556.9 557.3 30 70 529.7 62.5 511.3 494.8 58.0 472.8 56.3 57.1 500 25 60 54.2 55.1 50 400 20 14.1 40 300 13.3 15 30 200 7.6 10 5.4 20 4.8 100 3.5 5 10 0 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016 2017 Equity, FAS, M€ FAS IFRS Equity, IFRS, M€ Return on equity (ROE), % 54 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Governance Corporate governance The Corporate Governance of Oy Karl Fazer Ab (Fazer) and its subsidiaries follows the rules and regulations defined by the Articles of Association and the Finnish legislation and the corporate governance principles, which are based on the Finnish Companies Act and, to some extent, the recommendations for listed companies in Finland. Shareholders’ Meeting Shareholders at the Shareholders’ Meeting hold the highest power of decision in Fazer Group. The Annual Shareholders’ Meeting is held at the latest in June in Helsinki or Vantaa. The Shareholders’ Meeting addresses issues it is responsible for according to the current legislation and Fazer’s Articles of Association, such as approving the Group’s Financial Statements, deciding on dividend distribution, appointing the Board of Directors and auditors and their compensation. According to the Articles of Association, notices of meetings for Shareholders’ Meetings are posted at the latest 14 days before each Shareholders’ Meeting. Board of Directors The Owners’ Council, appointed by shareholders, convenes the Nomination Committee, which is responsible for preparing propositions regarding the composition of the Board of Directors and compensations of Board members. The Nomination Committee consists of one Owners’ Council representative, the Chairman of the Board of Directors and one independent Board member. The composition and duties of the Board of Directors According to Fazer’s Articles of Association, the Board of Directors consists of no less than five and no more than ten members who are elected annually at the Shareholders’ Meeting. The Board of Directors has general jurisdiction in all issues that are not required of other institutions under the Finnish Companies Act and the Group’s Articles of Association. Under the terms of the Finnish Companies Act, the Board of Directors is responsible for ensuring that the Group’s administration and operations are managed appropriately. The Board of Directors is responsible for ensuring that accounting and financial control are managed appropriately. Other tasks of the Board of Directors include e.g. approving the Group’s values, strategy and annual business plans. The Board of Directors decides on acquisitions and strategic investments and monitors the financial performance and position of the Group. The Board of Directors appoints the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and decides on the salaries and compensation of the Group’s senior management. In addition, the Board of Directors assesses its own performance and cooperation with the management. The Board of Directors comprises Berndt Brunow (chairman), Klaus Cawén, Anders Dreijer, Ketil Eriksen, Jan Fazer, Leif Hagelstam, Johan Linder, Cecilia Marlow and Juhani Mäkinen. Meeting practices The Board of Directors holds at least eight meetings a year. The Annual Financial Statements are approved in March at the latest and the interim reports during each four-month period. As a rule, the Group’s strategy is approved in June. The business plans for the year and bonus programmes for senior management are approved at the first meeting of the year. Additional meetings can be convened, if necessary, by the Chairman of the Board, the CEO or a member of the Board. Chairman of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors appoints a chairman from amongst its members, who is responsible for managing the activities of the Board, convening the Board and preparing Board meetings together with the CEO. The Chairman works closely and actively with the CEO, and should be well informed on significant issues affecting the company and its stakeholders. The Chairman and the CEO of the Group are responsible for ensuring that the members of the 55 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Governance Board are informed about matters concerning the Company and that notices of meetings, agendas and all relevant documents are delivered to the members of the Board well in advance of meetings. The Chairman and the CEO of the Group are also responsible for maintaining contact with the Family Council. Committees of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors makes decisions about appointing committees and their members. Committees are responsible for preparing issues coming up for decision at Board of Directors’ meetings. Fazer’s Board of Directors has appointed an Audit Committee and an HR Committee. The tasks of the Audit Committee are to take in-depth interest in audits, to control internal auditing, financial reporting and risk management and the company’s financial situation and to participate in interim audits. The HR Committee is to prepare issues related to employment and rewarding the CEO and the Group’s senior management, monitor the total compensation of the management and incentive programmes of the personnel and to evaluate the management’s work including reviewing of the annual employee satisfaction survey results. The Audit Committee comprises Jan Fazer (chairman), Anders Dreijer, Juhani Mäkinen and Ketil Eriksen. The Committee held four meetings during the financial period and, apart from ordinary issues, it dealt with questions related to e.g. IFRS implementation, information security and development of non-core assets. The HR Committee comprises Berndt Brunow (chairman), Klaus Cawén, Leif Hagelstam and Johan Linder. The Committee has met twice during the financial period and prepared issues for the Board related to, for example, the Fazer people strategy, leadership development, and incentive programmes of the personnel. CEO and Deputy CEO Fazer’s Board of Directors appoints and dismisses, if needed, the CEO, who is also the Group President. Under the requirements of the Finnish Companies Act, the CEO is responsible for the day-to-day administration of the company, in line with the instructions of the Board of Directors, and for ensuring that the company’s accounting is carried out in accordance with legal requirements and that the company’s financial management is handled appropriately. The CEO reports to the Board of Directors and informs the Board of Fazer’s operating environment, e.g. customers, competition and market situation and Fazer’s financial position and development. The CEO is supported by the Group Management Team and the Deputy CEO, who is nominated by the Board of Directors when needed. Christoph Vitzthum is the current CEO and President whereas Jouni Grönroos is the Deputy CEO. Group Management Team The Group Management Team consists of the CEO of the Group, who acts as Chairman, the Managing Directors of the Business Areas and Heads of certain Group functions. The duties of the Group Management Team are to support the CEO in his/her tasks and to draft propositions to the Board. The Group Management Team also e.g. coordinates operations across the Group and secures efficient operations on Group level. The current Group Management Team comprises Christoph Vitzthum (CEO & President, chairman), Andreas Berggren (MD Fazer Food Services Business Area), Marko Bergholm (acting MD Fazer Confectionery Business Area), Brendan Harris (MD Fazer Lifestyle Foods Business Area ), Petri Kujala (MD Fazer Bakery Business Area), Jouni Grönroos (CFO & Deputy CEO), Sebastian Jägerhorn (EVP Legal), Ulrika Romantschuk (EVP Communications & Branding), Lara Saulo (EVP Transformation) and Mika Videman (EVP HR). Risk management Risk management is an important part of the management system of Fazer Group. The Board of Directors approves the risk management policy of Fazer Group and monitors its compliance. Risk management’s task is to support the implementation of the Group’s strategy and business targets, secure the recognition of risks affecting the company’s business, assess, monitor and anticipate threats and opportunities affecting business and secure the continuity of operations. The management of Business Areas, Business Units and Group functions is responsible for the identification and evaluation of the risks of their respective areas and for mitigating these risks as part of their operative activities. Financial risks are administered by Group Finance. The Group’s Chief Financial Officer is responsible for the management and development as well as reporting of risk management to Board and Audit Committee and also for supporting Business Areas, Business Units and Group functions in risk management. 56 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Governance Internal audit Internal audit evaluates the efficiency and suitability of different operations and monitors the functioning of internal control. It is to make sure that financial and operative reporting is reliable and that the approved operating principles and given instructions are complied with. Internal audit drafts an annual audit plan, the results of which are regularly reported to the Group Management, auditors and the Audit Committee. Internal Audit reports to the Audit Committee. Auditors The Group’s auditors are appointed by the Shareholders’ Meeting for a term of one year. The auditors are responsible for auditing the Group’s accounts, financial statements and administration. The details of these duties are contained in the relevant legislation and regulations covering good auditing practices. The auditors participate in the Annual Meeting of the Board of Directors devoted to consideration of the Group’s Financial Statements and to meetings of the Audit Committee. Ethical principles of Fazer Group Fazer’s ethical principles are based on international principles drawn up by the UN Global Compact, which aims to promote corporate sustainable development and good corporate citizenship. The ethical principles of Fazer Group are based on Fazer’s common values and they guide Fazer’s employees in treating customers, cooperation partners and work colleagues in an equal and fair way. Through the ethical principles, Fazer as an employer is committed to providing all its employees in every country with modern and safe working conditions, and to looking after the employees’ health, occupational well-being and work satisfaction, as well as treating every employee in an equal manner. 57 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Governance Board of Directors Berndt Brunow Anders Dreijer Klaus Cawén b. 1950 b. 1953 b. 1957 Master of Economic Sciences Master of Science (Technology) Master of Laws Chairman of the Board of Vice Chairman of the Board of Member of the Board of Directors of Directors of Oy Karl Fazer Ab 2009– Directors of Oy Karl Fazer Ab 1994– Oy Karl Fazer Ab 2002– Chairman of the HR Committee Member of the Audit Committee Member of the HR Committee Ketil Eriksen Jan Fazer Leif Hagelstam b. 1963 b. 1975 b. 1955 Bachelor of Science (Economics) Member of the Board of Directors Engineer Member of the Board of Directors of Oy Karl Fazer Ab 2012– Member of the Board of Directors of Oy Karl Fazer Ab 2009– Chairman of the Audit Committee of Oy Karl Fazer Ab 1996– Member of the Audit Committee Member of the HR Committee Johan Linder Cecilia Marlow Juhani Mäkinen b. 1959 b. 1960 b. 1956 Master of Laws Master of Business Administration Master of Laws, lagman Member of the Board of Directors Member of the Board of Directors Member of the Board of Directors of Oy Karl Fazer Ab 2000– of Oy Karl Fazer Ab 2016– of Oy Karl Fazer Ab 2006– Member of the HR Committee Member of the Audit Committee 58 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Governance Group Management Team Christoph Vitzthum Jouni Grönroos Andreas Berggren b. 1969 b. 1965 b. 1966 Master of Economic Sciences Master of Economic Sciences Master of Sciences (Business President and CEO, Fazer Group CFO and Deputy CEO, Fazer Group and Economics) Managing Director, Fazer Food Services and Executive Vice President, Fazer Group Marko Bergholm Brendan Harris Sebastian Jägerhorn b. 1970 b. 1962 b. 1969 Bachelor of Science (Business Master of Business Administration, B.A. Master of Laws and Economics) in Politics, Philosophy and Economics Master of Economic Sciences Acting Managing Director, Fazer Managing Director, Fazer Lifestyle Foods Legal and Executive Vice President, Confectionery and Executive Vice President, Fazer Group Fazer Group Petri Kujala Ulrika Romantschuk Lara Saulo b. 1962 b. 1966 b.1972 Bachelor of Economic Sciences Bachelor of Political Science Master of Economic Sciences Managing Director, Fazer Bakery and Communications & Branding and Transformation and Executive Vice Executive Vice President, Fazer Group Executive Vice President, President, Fazer Group Fazer Group Mika Videman b. 1967 Master of Science (Technology) Human Resources and Executive Vice President, Fazer Group 59 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Financial information Financial information Fazer adopts International Financial Reporting Standards Fazer wants to provide meaningful and relevant information in a transparent way. To this end, we have decided to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), and will report our financial statements in accordance with them from this report on. Fazer has until now reported according to the Finnish Accounting Standards (FAS). IFRS is the most commonly used set of accounting standards, contributing to the comparability of reported figures. It also facilitates the integration of acquired companies. It is a good foundation for common accounting principles for an international group such as Fazer. Fazer’s first consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS The consolidated financial statements in the year 2017 are Fazer’s first consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS and the following exemptions for the first-time adoption have been applied: IFRS 3 (Business Combinations) standard has not been applied to acquisitions of subsidiaries which have occurred before 1 January 2016, cumulative translation differences for all foreign operations are deemed to be zero at 1 January 2016, IFRS 16 (Leases) has not been applied to operating leases with a remaining lease term of less than 12 months as at January 2016, the Group has used a single discount rate to leases at first-time adoption, assets of finance leases are measured to the amount equal to liability. Fazer has early adopted IFRS 9 (Financial instrument), IFRS 15 (Revenue from contracts with customers) and IFRS 16 (Leases) standards. More detailed information about Fazer’s accounting principles and transition to IFRS is available in Fazer Group’s official financial statements and note 4 to them. 60 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Financial information Fazer Group’s consolidated statement of comprehensive income M€ 2017 2016 Revenue 1,641.6 1,603.1 Other operating income 6.3 8.2 Change in finished goods & work in progress 3.7 -2.4 Materials and services -600.8 -572.0 Employee benefit expenses -551.1 -540.0 Depreciation, amortization and impairment -81.7 -74.4 Other operating expenses -326.3 -332.7 Total expenses -1,556.1 -1,521.5 Share of profit of associate 0.3 0.2 Operating profit 92.1 90.1 Finance income and expenses Finance income 20.3 22.2 Finance expenses -22.9 -23.0 Total finance income and expenses -2.6 -0.8 Profit before income tax 89.5 89.3 Income tax -17.3 -18.7 Profit for the year 72.1 70.5 Profit is attributable to Owners of the parent 63.4 62.0 Non-controlling interests 8.8 8.5 Other comprehensive income Items that may be classified to profit or loss Changes in fair value of cash flow hedges 2.7 -2.7 Exchange rate differences on translation of foreign operations -9.0 6.3 Income tax relating to these items -0.5 0.6 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Changes in fair value of equity investments through other comprehensive income 0.2 3.6 Remeasurement of post-employment pension obligations 0.3 -0.4 Income tax relating to these items -0.1 -0.6 Other comprehensive income, net of tax -6.5 6.8 Total comprehensive income for the period 65.7 77.3 Total comprehensive income for the period attributable to: Owners of the parent 58.9 66.4 Non-controlling interests 6.8 11.0 Key impacts of the adoption of IFRS on Fazer’s income statement According to IFRS standards the goodwill and trademarks with indefinite useful life are not amortised. According to IFRS acquisition costs are reported in the income statement in other operating expenses. Off-balance sheet intangible items identified at the time of acquisition, such as customer contracts, trademarks and technology, are allocated to intangible assets in balance sheet. Depreciations of these asset items are reported in the income statement in depreciations and amortizations. Equivalent changes of deferred tax liability related to depreciatons are reported in the income taxes. According to Finnish accounting standards (FAS) all lease agreements are treated as other lease agreements. Under the IFRS the lease expenses are removed from other operating expenses and replaced by depreciations on right-of-use assets and by interest expenses on the lease liability. According to IFRS standards financial assets are classified in three categories; assets valued at amortised cost, at fair value through profit or loss or at fair value through other comprehensive income. Consequently, the company has transferred investments in bonds, previously classified as cash and cash equivalents, and shareholdings in listed companies, previously classified as investments, to assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. The company applies hedge accounting on foreign exchange hedging transactions. According to IFRS standards the fair value of the component in a derivative instrument which is designated as hedge is reported through other comprehensive income to the extent that the hedging relationship is effective. The company has applied hedge accounting also in FAS reporting. 61 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Financial information Fazer Group’s consolidated balance sheet M€ 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 ASSETS Non-current assets Goodwill 160.6 129.6 Intangible assets 51.2 32.1 Property, plant and equipment 431.8 427.7 Investments accounted for using the equity method 1.1 1.0 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 3.1 3.2 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 8.4 Other receivables 2.0 2.0 Deferred tax assets 1.0 0.3 Total non-current assets 650.9 604.4 Current assets Inventories 90.3 82.5 Trade and other receivables 206.0 198.5 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 21.8 21.7 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 4.9 Current income tax receivables 4.0 3.4 Cash and cash equivalents 40.3 62.9 Total current assets 362.4 373.9 TOTAL ASSETS 1,013.3 978.3 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Share capital 126.5 126.5 Other reserves -0.2 0.1 Retained earnings 372.7 351.5 Total equity attributable to the owners of the parent 499.0 478.1 Non-controlling interest 58.3 51.7 Total equity 557.3 529.7 Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities and borrowings 54.7 53.8 Deferred tax liabilities 21.5 22.7 Defined employee benefit liability 4.4 5.0 Provisions 2.0 2.2 Other liabilities 9.6 5.6 Total non-current liabilities 92.2 89.3 Current liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities and borrowings 86.5 93.0 Trade and other payables 268.9 260.7 Provisions 1.6 1.1 Current income tax liabilities 6.8 4.5 Total current liabilities 363.8 359.3 Total liabilities 456.0 448.6 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1,013.3 978.3 Key impacts of the adoption of IFRS on Fazer’s balance sheet According to IFRS standards the goodwill and trademarks with indefinite useful life are not amortised. The goodwill and trademarks are tested for impairment on a yearly basis. Under the IFRS assets and liabilities are valued at fair value at the time of acquisition. At the time of acquisition identified off-balance sheet intangible items, such as customer contracts, trademarks and technology, are allocated to intangible assets in balance sheet. These allocations are depreciated at economical useful lifetime. Equivalent deferred tax liability is reported from these allocations and fair value adjustments. According to FAS all lease agreements are treated as other lease agreements. When applying IFRS 16 standard almost all leasing agreements are included in the balance sheet. An asset corresponding to the right-of-use asset, and a finance liability corresponding to the lease payments are reported in the balance sheet. Part of lease agreements include a commitment to restore the premises to their original condition. With reference to these rental agreements, restoration provision is booked. As a result of change in classification of financial assets, investments in interest funds previously classified to cash and cash equivalents have been transferred to assets measured at fair value through profit or loss and investments in bonds previously classified to cash and cash equivalents have been transferred to assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. Shareholdings in listed companies are measured at acquisition cost or lower value of this according to FAS, whereas according to IFRS these are reported as assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. The company applies hedge accounting on foreign exchange hedging transactions. According to IFRS standards the fair value of the component in a derivative instrument which is designated as hedge is reported through other comprehensive income. 62 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Financial information Fazer Group’s consolidated statement of cash flows M€ 2017 2016 Cash flows from operating activities 171.3 159.6 Interest received 20.4 24.4 Interest paid -23.2 -22.9 Dividends received 0.3 0.4 Income taxes paid -19.2 -14.9 Net cash flows from operating activities 149.6 146.6 Cash flows from investing activities Acquisition of subsidiary, net of cash acquired -45.6 -18.5 Payments for tangible and intangible assets -62.4 -83.6 Payments for financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income -2.6 Proceeds from financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 8.4 Proceeds from sale of fixed assets 0.6 3.4 Net cash flows from investing activities -98.9 -101.2 Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from borrowings 60.0 4.1 Repayment of borrowings -74.5 -9.5 Finance lease payments -25.4 -25.7 Dividends paid -37.9 -19.0 Net cash flows from financing activities -77.8 -50.0 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents -27.1 -4.6 Cash and cash equivalents at January 1 89.5 94.0 Translation difference -0.4 -0.1 Cash and cash equivalents at December 31 62.1 89.5 Non-cash financing and investing activities 0.0 Cash generated from operations M€ 2017 2016 Profit before income tax 89.5 89.3 Adjustment for Depreciation and amortisation 80.4 76.2 Write-off of assets 1.3 0.1 Reversal of asset write-offs -1.9 Net gain / loss on sale of non-current assets 1.0 -1.9 Gain on derecognition of contingent consideration payable -0.3 -0.2 Dividend income and interest classified as investing cash flows 0.0 -0.1 Finance costs net 2.6 1.0 Change in operating assets and liabilities Increase (-) / decrease (+) in trade debtors and bills of exchange -1.1 -2.6 Increase (-) / decrease (+) in inventories -5.3 2.3 Increase (-) / decrease (+) in other operating assets -5.6 -1.1 Increase (+) / decrease (-) in trade creditors 7.5 -2.0 Increase (+) / decrease (-) in other operating liabilities -1.5 1.0 Increase in other provisions 2.8 -0.2 Cash generated from operations 171.3 159.6 Key impacts of the adoption of IFRS on Fazer’s cash flows According to IFRS operating cash flows are higher as cash payments for the principal portion of the lease liability are classified within financing activities. The part of the payments that reflects interest is still presented as operating cash flows. 63 Fazer Group’s Annual Review 2017 Financial information Five-year summary IFRS FAS 2017 2016 2016 2015 2014 2013 Income statement Net sales, M€ 1,641.6 1,603.1 1,603.5 1,576.1 1,647.7 1,695.7 Net sales outside Finland, % 52.1% 50.6% 50.6% 51.4% 52.6% 53.1% Operating profit, M€ 92.1 90.1 52.7 44.3 43.3 49.0 Operating margin, % 5.6% 5.6% 3.3% 2.8% 2.6% 2.9% Profit before taxation, M€ 89.5 89.3 54.9 41.4 36.6 48.6 % of net sales 5.5% 5.6% 3.4% 2.6% 2.2% 2.9% Profit for the financial year, M€ 72.1 70.5 36.6 23.7 21.0 26.2 Attributable to owners of the parent 63.4 62.0 29.4 19.4 16.5 23.9 Attributable to non-controlling interests 8.8 8.5 7.3 4.4 4.5 2.3 Balance sheet Non-current assets, M€ 650.9 604.4 497.3 472.0 506.8 589.7 Inventories, M€ 90.3 82.5 79.3 78.7 73.4 78.4 Other current assets, M€ 272.1 291.4 291.3 290.2 239.3 294.1 Equity attributable to the owners of the parent, M€ 499.0 478.1 443.2 430.9 472.2 505.9 Non-controlling interest, M€ 58.3 51.7 51.5 41.9 39.2 51.0 Liabilities, M€ 456.0 448.6 373.1 368.1 308.2 405.4 Balance sheet total, M€ 1,013.3 978.3 867.9 840.9 819.6 962.3 Key figures Gross investments, M€ 108.0 104.6 104.6 61.7 58.9 79.7 Depreciations and impairments, M€ 81.7 74.3 51.0 52.3 61.0 62.2 Amortization of goodwill and impairments, M€ 0.0 0.1 35.2 35.1 36.4 34.3 Interest-bearing net debt, M€ 79.0 57.3 -17.6 -17.3 -20.7 33.3 Gearing, % 14.2% 10.8% -3.6% -3.7% -4.0% 6.0% Return on investment, % (ROI) 13.6% 14.0% 10.2% 8.2% 7.1% 7.3% Return on equity, % (ROE) 13.3% 14.1% 7.6% 4.8% 3.5% 5.4% Equity ratio, % 55.1% 54.2% 57.1% 56.3% 62.5% 58.0% Personnel (FTE) 13,198 13,287 13,287 13,416 13,803 13,762 Profit before taxation + Financial charges ROI = x 100 Balance sheet total Non-interest bearing liabilities (average) Profit before taxation Taxes ROE = x 100 Equity (average) Equity Equity ratio = x 100 Balance sheet total Advance payments received Interest-bearing net debt Gearing = x 100 Equity 64
