Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254 of 30th December 2016 2017 Sustainability Report Joint Stock Company Head Office and General Management: Piazza Vittorio Veneto 8, Bergamo (Italy) Operating offices: Bergamo, Piazza Vittorio Veneto 8; Brescia, Via Cefalonia 74 Member of the Interbank Deposit Protection Fund and the National Guarantee Fund Tax Code, VAT No. and Bergamo Company Registration No. 03053920165 ABI (Italian Banking Association) 3111.2 Register of Banks No. 5678 Register of banking groups No. 3111.2 Parent of the Unione di Banche Italiane Banking Group Share capital as at 31st December 2017: EURO 2,843,177,160.24 fully paid up www.ubibanca.it Contents Profile 3 Dimension 4 Activities and markets served 8 Key changes taking place during the year 10 Commitments on sustainability 10 Strategy 13 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 15 Material aspects 15 Contribution to UN Sustainable Development Goals 20 Creation of value 22 Economic value generated and distributed 22 Integrity in corporate conduct 26 Compliance 27 Corruption, money laundering and usury 28 Anti-competitive behaviour 29 Human rights 29 Corporate governance and risk management 33 Corporate governance 33 Remuneration and incentives 34 Governance of sustainability 34 Risk management 36 Respect for the customer 37 Health and safety 38 Protection 38 Commitment to the local economy 42 Local presence 43 Indirect economic impacts 43 Enhancement and well-being of personnel 50 Employment and turnover 50 Benefits and work-life balance 53 Occupational health and safety 56 Professional development 62 Training and education 64 Dialogue with trade unions 67 Freedom of association and collective bargaining 67 Management of industrial relations 68 Equal opportunities and non-discrimination 69 Diversity and equal opportunity 69 Non-discrimination 71 Commitment to the community 72 Dialogue with local institutions 73 Measures taken for social initiatives 73 Financial education 81 Access to financial services 83 Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Contents Pg.1 Socially responsible investments 84 Commitment to the environment 87 Materials used 87 Energy consumption 88 Emissions 91 Waste 93 Products and services with specific environmental benefit 95 Appendix: calculation methodology 97 Methodological note 101 Approval of the document 101 Reporting scope and content 101 Reporting frequency 102 Contact for questions in connection with the document 102 Summary of GRI indicators 103 Assurance 107 Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Contents Pg.2 Group profile [GRI 102-1 102-3] Unione di Banche Italiane S.p.A. (UBI Banca in abbreviated form) is the parent bank of the UBI Banca Group and was formed on 1st April 2007 following the merger of Banca Lombarda e Piemontese into Banche Popolari Unite, with the consequent integration of the two groups of the same name. Formed in 2007 as a “popular” co-operative bank, UBI Banca acquired its current legal form as an ordinary joint-stock company following a resolution of an Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting held on 10th October 2015 in accordance with Law No. 33 of 24th March 2015. The registered office of the Bank is in Bergamo and its operating headquarters are in Bergamo and Brescia. As laid down in the Articles of Association, shareholders’ meetings are held alternately in the city or province of Bergamo and in the city or province of Brescia, while the Supervisory Board and the Management Board meet alternately in the city of Bergamo and in the city of Brescia and generally once a year in the city of Milan. [GRI 102-4 FS13] The Group operates primarily in Italy and has Distribution of branches by size of branches in all regions (except for Sicily) with municipality served 1,838 branches, 106 units destined for corporate clients and 82 private banking units in 89 provinces and 1,225 municipalities. The Up to 5,000 21.2% inhabitants net increase in the number of branches, 24.0% From 5,001 to 15,000 which at the end of 2016 came to 1,524, is inhabintants attributable to the integration of the former From 15,001 to Nuova Banca Marche Group, the former 10.3% 50,000 inhabitants From 50,001 to Banca Etruria Group, and Nuova Cassa di 100,000 inhabitants Risparmio di Chieti, net of rationalization 23.9% Over 100,000 efforts during the process of migration to UBI. 20.6% inhabitants Physical proximity is still a characteristic of the Group's local presence and integration in the communities, even in the context of a gradual rationalisation and optimization of the distribution network as customers rely increasing on digital services. While most of the Group's branches are located in more developed, affluent areas in Central and Northern Italy, the Group’s presence is also significant in less developed regions 1 (252 branches accounting for 13.7% of the total) as well as small rural centres and mountain areas (24% of the branches are located in municipalities with populations of less than 5,000, while it is the only banking option present in 197 municipalities). In addition to the Group’s conventional physical channels, it continues its efforts to upgrade its instruments and applications in support of direct channels:  self-service channels (more than 2,500 Bancomat ATMs, ATM E PO S 2017 2016 317 of which are equipped to POS 101,587 73,670 receive payments with ATM 2,523 2,112 banknotes and cheques and of which: evolved 1 317 309 more than 101,000 POS terminals); 1 ATM equipped to receive payments with banknotes and cheques  banking by Internet 1 Basilicata, Calabria, Campania and Apulia—regions that receive contributions from the European Union under the Program for Competitiveness and Work. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Profile Pg.3 (approximately 1.8 million customers, representing an increase of approximately 12.5% on 2016);  telephone assistance (approximately 2,290,000 business contacts and a further 104,000 “chats” per year);  remote selling platforms (current accounts, internet banking, debit and prepaid cards, loans, and non-life insurance). The Group is present abroad with a limited number of branches in other European countries, while in countries outside of Europe, the Group only has representative offices in areas of greater interest in terms of international expansion projects for small and medium-sized Italian companies and a minority stake in an asset management company in China. 2. International presence Munich Luxembourg UBI Banca Branch (1) Krakow •UBI Trustee SA UBI Factor Branch Shanghai • UBI Management Co SA Zhong Ou Asset Management Company Co. Ltd* Antibes, Menton, Nice UBI Banca Branches Madrid  UBI Banca Branch (1)    Shanghai  Representative Office       New York Hong Kong Representative Office Representative Office Mumbai São Paulo Representative Office Representative Office  Casablanca Dubai Representative Office Vienna Moscow Representative Office Business Consultant Representative Office (1) On 28th April 2016 UBI Banca signed a contract for the sale of 100% of the share capital of UBI Banca International S.A. to EFG International AG. Upon completion of the transaction, Madrid and Munich branches became UBI Banca branches. (2) Joint-venture in which UBI Banca holds 25% of the total share. Overall, the Group is present in 14 Countries, six of which are member countries of the European Union (Spain, France, Luxembourg, Germany, Austria and Poland) and eight of which are outside of Europe (U.S., Brazil, Morocco, Russia, United Arab Emirates, India, Hong Kong and China). Of these countries, only the United Arab Emirates, in which the group has a representative office in Dubai, has yet to meet international tax standards as it is on the Economic and Financial Affairs Council of the European Union (ECOFIN) list of noncooperative jurisdictions for tax purposes. Dimension [GRI 102-5 102-7:9] At the end of 2017, UBI Banca was Italy's number three banking group in terms of market cap, number four for funding, number five for lending and had the fourth largest number of branches. For information on the Group's economic dimension, see Reports and Accounts 20173. 2 Reports and Accounts 2017, Consolidated management report Distribution Structure and Positioning. 3 Reports and Accounts 2017, Key figures and performance indicators. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Profile Pg.4 SO CIAL DIMEN SIO N 2017 2016 Personnel1 21,465 17,598 of which: employees 2 21,423 17,571 permanent 99.3% 99.5% Customers (thousands) 4,541 3,866 of which private individuals 89.0% 89.5% Shareholders 3 145,700 150,085 Suppliers 12,765 11,288 of which strateg ic and/or reg ular on the approved list 1,033 876 1 The figure includes the associate workers at the end of the year. 2 Recognised on the payroll. 3 The information on the Group's shareholders is the latest available to the company . EN VIRO N MEN TAL DIMEN SIO N 2017 2016 1 Total floor area of offices and branches (sq.m.) 1,268 970 2 Energy consumption (Gj) 701,561 528,742 2 CO 2 Emissions (tons) 17,751 10,670 Paper consumption (tons) 3 2,408 2,377 Waste products (tons) 2,081 1,493 1 Floor area on which environmental data are calculated 2 This does not include energy consumption outside the organisation and the consequent emissions. The figure for 2016 has been restated following an update of the method used to calculate it. 3 This does not include paper consumption 2017 of Banca Tirrenica and Banca Federico del Vecchio. Shareholders and capital 4 On 10th October 2015, in compliance with the law, a Shareholders’ Meeting resolved to transform UBI Banca into an ordinary joint stock company. With effect from 12th October 2015, when the resolution was filed with the Bergamo Company Register, UBI Banca became an “S.p.A.” (ordinary joint stock company). The former “registered shareholders” have now become ordinary shareholders. There is only one class of ordinary shares, each of which grants the bearer the right to vote in a shareholders’ meeting. Shareholders Geographical distribution of 98.4% shareholders 68.6% 18.7% 7.7% 4.2% 0.5% 1.0% 0.1% 0.8% Private Institutional Non financial Social Lombardy Rest of the Central South Abroad individuals investors companies organisations North No. shareholders No. shareholders 4 The information on the Group's shareholders is the latest available to the company. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Profile Pg.5 Shareholding More than 60% of the shareholders are small-scale investors (owning less than 1,000 shares each). In terms of capital, according to the results of the latest study on the 64.8% composition of the shareholding completed in August 2017, shares held by institutional 29.6% investors identified by name (including foundations) accounted for approximately 52% of the share capital. Institutional 4.6% 1.1% investors other than foundations primarily Up to 1,000 From 1,001 to From 10,001 to More than operate in the medium and long-term horizon, shares 10,000 shares 50,000 shares 50,000 shares in the following areas: Index (26.8%), Value No. shareholders (23.5%), Growth (19.3%), GARP (8.4%), Hedge Funds (8%) and other (14%). Geographical distribution of share Geographical distribution of share capital held by institutional capital investors 6.5% 13.4% Italy 39.5% 36.2% North America Continental Europe 63.8% 20.5% (excl. Italy) Great Britain and Ireland Rest of the world Data at 31/08 20.1% Italy Abroad The share is traded by 22 brokerage firms, 17 of which are international. It is listed with 100 of the key international stock indices 5 and with leading ethical and sustainability indices at the national and international levels.6. Presence in ethical and sustainability indexes and ratings ECPI EMU Ethical FTSE4Good Equity Index Series Euro Ethical Index, Italian Index, Euro CSR Index, Italian Banks Index Sustainable Index (rating EE) (rating A++) ESI Excellence Rating Europe Outperformer Personnel The Group’s work force is comprised 99.8% of normal employees, almost all of whom have permanent contracts. During the year, an average of 42 associate workers (45.2% women) 5 Data as at 29/01/2018. Source: Internal data and Bloomberg. 6 http://www.ubibanca.it/pagine/Ratings-and-Ethical-Indexes-EN.aspx Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Profile Pg.6 were appointed, almost all of whom were students under internship arrangements with their respective universities. EMPL O Y EES B Y EMPL O Y MEN T 2017 2016 CO N TRACT To tal W o men To tale W o men Permanent 21,063 42.2% 17,478 39.0% On temporary contracts 150 51.3% 93 52.7% Apprentices 210 52.9% Placement TO TAL 2 1 ,4 2 3 4 2 .3 % 1 7 ,5 7 1 3 9 .1 % Full time 18,564 34.5% 15,384 31.48% Part time 2,859 93.1% 2,187 92.7% EMPL O Y EES B Y EMPL O Y MEN T 2017 2016 CO N TRACT AN D REGIO N To tal Perman en t To tale Perman en t North 13,815 99.0% 13,430 99.5% Center 5,483 99.9% 1,779 99.9% South and islands 2,066 99.9% 2,238 99.8% Abroad 59 98.3% 124 87.1% TO TAL 2 1 ,4 2 3 9 9 .3 % 1 7 ,5 7 1 9 9 .5 % With different residence province 4,240 98.4% 3,582 99.0% ASSO CIATE W O RKERS B Y 2017 2016 EMPL O Y MEN T CO N TRACT To tal W o men To tale W o men Personnel leasing Other contracts (e.g. internship/agency) 42 27 37.0% TO TAL 42 4 5 .2 % 27 3 7 .0 % 2017 2016 GRO UP W O RKF O RCE To tal W o men To tale W o men Total employees and associate workers 21,465 42.4% 17,598 38.6% Suppliers The Group operates almost exclusively with suppliers in Italy and 98% of purchases are from local suppliers, which are defined as suppliers resident in Italy. When possible and advisable, owing to the type of goods and services acquired, suppliers present near the operational locations are used. Geographical distribution of Purchases by type of good or suppliers and purchases service IT systems 26.4% Property management 27.9% 60.1% Other expenses 49.6% Professional services 34.7% 27.8% 20.9% Security 2.2% 2.9% 4.1% Miscellaneous 1.7% 2.3% 14.3% services 4.8% North Center South and islands Abroad Advertising 11.3% 9.1% Non classified No. suppliers Purchases category Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Profile Pg.7 The Purchasing Department of UBI Sistemi e Servizi manages the purchasing cycle for Group companies in compliance with the provisions of the Group Spending Regulations. These regulations, which apply to all Group companies, govern the roles and responsibilities of those involved in managing budgets and incurring expenses with the separation of roles between those requesting supplies and authorising payments, those that sign contracts and handle negotiations with suppliers and those keeping the accounts and paying the invoices. During 2017, the new UBI.S supplier portal was launched, with which the Group's regular and occasional suppliers of goods and services exceeding €30,000 can register.7 Each supplier must declare its adherence to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and indicate whether they have qualifications such as quality certifications (ISO 9001 or equivalent), Social Accountability certifications (SA8000 or equivalent), Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS 18001), environmental management certificate (ISO 14001 or equivalent), Eco Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) registration, and registration in the Environmental Management Register. At the end of 2017, 1,033 suppliers were listed in the Register (an increase of 18% compared with 2016, as a result of 173 newly-registered suppliers and 16 that were removed from the Register)8. For each category of goods, the Register lists the preferred suppliers with input from the offices requesting the supplies and the Purchasing Department. Each supplier is given a global score, 50 percent of which reflects the input score (which in turn is determined 60% by economic and capital soundness from external databases and 40% from having certifications and overall turnover); the remaining 50% of the score is obtained through periodic performance assessments (which in turn are determined 60% by fiscal responsibility assessment data and 40% percent by competitiveness assessments conducted by the Purchasing Department). The Group’s Code of Ethics has a specific section on relations with suppliers which must be oriented towards mutual satisfaction and be based on the observance of the principles of transparency, fairness, loyalty, integrity and competition9. Contractual conditions and payment terms are aligned on an ongoing basis with the legislation in force and with market conditions on the basis of periodic monitoring. Specific contractual clauses are included for recurrent, strategic, high-operational-risk and financially substantial supplies. Standard contractual clauses empower UBI Sistemi e Servizi to verify or have verified by its agents that the supply of goods or the provision of services is carried out, in compliance with the applicable legislation and regulations. Such clauses also provide for the supplier to undertake to facilitate the implementation of these verification powers, by providing UBI Sistemi e Servizi with all the information required, including the documentation needed to carry out appropriate controls. Activities and markets served [GRI 102-2 102-6 FS6] The Group primarily provides retail banking and financial services for households, businesses, non-profit organisations, and local institutions. The majority of the balance sheet assets (72.5%) are comprised of loans to customers, only 15.90 percent of which is comprised of 7 The portal enables each supplier intending to register to view and accept the “Rules on the use of the supplier portal of Unione di Banche Italiane Group”, the information on “Personal data protection pursuant to Article 13 of Legislative Decree No. 196 of 30/06/2003” and the information on the “Code of Ethics and Model 231”. 8 The data of the New Banks’ suppliers are not included, as they are not yet uploaded to the Register at the date. 9 Code of Ethics, par. 6.5 Relations with suppliers. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Profile Pg.8 financial assets (almost entirely government and central bank securities, hedging derivatives and shares in UCITS).10 At the end of 2017, the Group had more than 4.5 million customers. In keeping with the composition of the Italian population, 3.7% of private individual customers are nationals who have emigrated from non-European countries. CUSTO MER PRO F IL E 20171 2016 Number of customers (thousands) 4,541 3,866 Retail Market 97.7% 97.8% of which: Mass 78.6% 78.6% Affluent 12.6% 12.0% Small Business (POE e PMI) 8.1% 6.4% Enti e istituzionali 0.8% 0.7% Corporate Market 0.6% 0.7% Private banking market 1.0% 1.5% Private individuals 89.0% 89.5% Businessess 8.7% 8.3% Authorities and Institutions 1.8% 1.7% Other 0.5% 0.5% North 55.6% 66.0% South and Island 22.0% 23.4% Center 22.4% 10.6% 1 Data as at 30/11/2017. Geographical distribution of lending Loans to businesses by company and funding1 size 37.8% 71.0% 34.5% 35.9% 33.0% 59.5% 29.6%29.3% 27.3% 20.0% 13.2% 9.0% North Center South and Islands Funding Lending SME Corporate CIB 1 The figures relate to the bank perimeter (included New Banks). Funding includes current account deposits, saving deposits and certificates of deposit. The figures relate to June 2017. dec-17 dec-16 The geographic distribution of funding and lending shows a preponderance of Northern Italy, and more specifically Lombardy, as the group's main market. 11. The distribution of lending is consistent with the Group's mission to support local economies: more than half of the Group's business involves production companies in a wide range of economic sectors, and primarily manufacturing, property, trade, and construction activities. The Group's customers are predominantly small and medium-sized enterprises, which in total account for 3/4 of the lending to businesses. The distribution network is based on seven Macro Geographical areas (MATs) and includes the Bank's online banking and product company brands. IT activities and other support functions are managed by UBI Sistemi e Servizi, while training and professional and managerial development activities are carried out by UBI Academy. 10 Reports and Accounts 2017, Consolidated Management Report Financial Activities. 11 Reports and Accounts 2017, Consolidated Management ReportThe distribution network and market positioning Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Profile Pg.9 Key changes taking place during the year [GRI 102-10] The key changes taking place during the year have involved the group's configuration and dimension. In addition to completing the integration of the network banks into the parent company,12 two substantial operations, as described below, were carried out. As part of the Group’s programme to refocus on its core business, the contract for the sale of 100% of the share capital in UBI Banca International S.A., with headquarters in Luxembourg, to EFG International A.G., an international player specialising in asset management and private banking services, with headquarters in Zurich, was completed. The perimeter of the sale included approximately €0.9 billion of direct funding and approximately €3 billion of indirect funding, consisting mainly of assets under custody. The sale was executed on 1 st November 2017 against valuable consideration substantially in line with the net assets of UBI International, and had no impact on the UBI Banca Group’s capital ratios. On 10th May 2017, UBI Banca executed the acquisition from the National Resolution Fund, for the price of €1, of 100% of the share capital in Nuova Banca delle Marche, Nuova Banca dell'Etruria e del Lazio and Nuova Cassa di Risparmio di Chieti (the “Target Bridge Institutions”, hereinafter referred to as the ”New Banks”) under a purchase and sale agreement of 18th January 2017 with the Bank of Italy as manager of and on behalf of the National Resolution Fund (the Seller ). With this transaction, in return for the acceptance of low and contractually limited risk, the UBI Group increased its overall market share in terms of both lending and direct funding and consolidated it marked coverage of the geographic areas in which it was only partially or not present, with a positive impact on ordinary profitability. Altogether, the Group acquired a over 900,000 customers, 547 branches and 5,000 employees13 and in connection with the operation it carried out and increase in its share capital of €400 million, to maintain a level of capitalization consistent with the value prior to the acquisition (a fully-loaded CET1 ratio of over 11%)14. Commitments to sustainability [GRI 102-12:13] UBI Banca has adopted governance procedures mechanisms as provided under the Corporate Governance Code for Listed Companies, issued in 1999 by the Corporate Governance Committee of the Italian Stock Exchange and updated in July 2015, 15 and continues with the commitment made by the former BPU Banca which signed up to the ten universal principles of the Global Compact promoting human rights, protection of labour and the environment and the fight against corruption. In the commercial framework the Group complies with the European Code on Home Loans signed by the European consumer and banking associations and with the principles of the Voluntary Advertising Code of the Istituto di Autodisciplina Pubblicitaria (Italy’s advertising standards authority), the first edition of which dates back to 1966. In 2014 it adhered voluntarily to the Italian Responsible Payments Code promoted by Assolombarda (Lombard employers’ association), making a commitment to comply with terms and conditions agreed for the payment of suppliers and more generally to spread a culture of efficient, punctual and rapid payment practices. To date, contracts with suppliers provide a maximum payment deferral of 90 days from the invoice date (0.13% of the total volume of purchases). The average payment period in 2017 was 29.7 days. UBI Banca is also a member of associations in the sector and organizations that support initiatives to carry out projects to promote and disseminate best corporate accountability and sustainability practice: 12 Reports and Accounts 2017, Consolidated Management ReportSignificant events taking place in 2017. 13 Reports and Accounts 2017, Consolidated Management ReportSignificant events taking place in 2017. 14 Reports and Accounts 2017, Consolidated Management ReportEquity and capital adequacy 15 Report on corporate governance and the ownership structure of UBI Banca SpA. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Profile Pg.10  Associazione Bancaria Italiana (ABI – Italian Banking Association), where UBI banca is a participant in ABI Energia – ABI Lab Competence Centre for energy efficiency in the banking sector and in various working groups including the Working Group on Financial and Social Inclusion and Bank-Migrant Relationships, the Consumer Bank Working Group, which also deals with issues of access to banks, and the newly formed Working Group on Banking Activities, Environment and Climate Change.  Associazione Italiana degli Analisti e Consulenti Finanziari (AIAF – Italian association of financial analysts and advisors), whose aims are to develop the profession of financial analyst and advisor, to oversee professional qualification to the highest standards and to promote the study and culture of financial analysis in order to contribute to the transparency and efficiency of markets (UBI Banca is a supporting member);  Fondazione per l’Educazione Finanziaria e al Risparmio (FEDUF), (foundation for financial education and savings), which promotes financial education in the broader sense of education for knowledgeable and active economic citizenship through the development and spread of financial and economic knowledge among young people and in schools above all;  International Capital Market Association (ICMA), whose mission is to promote resilient and well-functioning debt capital markets, a necessary condition for economic growth;  Associazione Italiana Responsabili Antiriciclaggio (AIRA Italian association of anti-money laundering managers), whose aim is to combine the demands to bring people together, share experiences and reflect on the issues in order to develop a culture of legality to the benefit of stakeholders on the financial intermediation and insurance market.  CSR Manager Network Italia, a centre for the promotion and experimentation of sustainability, which helps to spread a culture of sustainability through the development of expertise and active participation in national and international debates;  Human Foundation, a nonprofit organisation which promotes collaboration between companies, government organisations, social enterprises, foundations, institutional investors, economic operators and the world of finance in order to generate and implement innovative solutions to social problems. UBI Banca is a “Gold Ambassador” member and makes a scholarship grant available for participation in the Executive Master in Social Entrepreneurship (Mhuse);  Social Value Italia, an association which promotes the development in Italy of a culture and the practice of social impact assessment as well as the use of methods to measure it (UBI Banca is a founding member together with the Human Foundation and it is represented on the Management Board);  Social Impact Agenda for Italy, an association which is continuing the work of the Italian Advisory Board of the Social Impact Investment Task Force (SIIT), promoted in 2013 during the British presidency of the G8 in order to bring social impact investments to the forefront in the agendas of member countries. The purpose of the association is to reinforce the ecosystem of social impact investments in Italy in order to encourage the growth of social enterprises (UBI Banca is a founding member together with the Human Foundation and it is represented on the Management Board); Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Profile Pg.11  Sodalitas Foundation, whose mission is to contribute to the development of the third sector and the growth of a corporate social responsibility culture (UBI Banca supports the Sodalitas Social Innovation award and with Sodalitas it implements its own voluntary corporate programme entitled Donate one day;  Valore D (D value), the first association of companies that promotes diversity and female talent and leadership for the growth of companies and the country, through the promotion of inclusive and balanced leadership and governance models and models of social innovation and sustainability in order to orient personal study programmes for young women and overcome gender stereotypes in the family and at work.;  Triulza Foundation (located in Cascina Triulza, in the civil society Pavilion at EXPO Milan 2015), whose mission is to be a special centre for representing the needs and proposals of organisations in civil society in order to encourage the active involvement of citizens and to guarantee acceptance and inclusion (UBI Banca is a founding member). Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Profile Pg.12 Strategy [GRI 102-14] Banking activity plays a fundamental role in everyday life by providing support for households and enterprises in making complex financial decisions in a constantly-changing environment characterised by changes with unprecedented speed, intensity, and scope. The digital revolution is leading to profound changes in the approach to banking. The availability of data and advanced information technology provide new opportunities to understand clients' requirements, and to propose “bespoke products and services. The regulatory environment promotes ongoing improvements through new rules, guidelines, and standards for the industry within a banking system that is becoming increasingly integrated at the European level. Climate change has had a powerful influence on global economic systems and on decisions made by households, not always leading to reactions that we might expect in the scientific, political, ethical and social areas. Against this backdrop, UBI intends to create the vision of a bank that is distinguished by quality: sound, reliable, efficient, and convenient; a bank that makes life easier for people and that supports the local economy, finding new solutions to meet the demands of customers, the local community, and investors, to improve relations with staff and suppliers, while putting regulatory compliance and respect for people and the environment first. Accordingly, UBI Banca intends to contribute to the promotion of the universal principles of the Global Compact, to which it is a signatory, and to the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) outlined in the United Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The macroeconomic scenario is showing important signs of structural reinforcement in the key indicators, and has opened the way for 2018 to be a year of significant expansion in the Italian economy, according to all of the major research and forecasting institutions, although still falling short of the average for the euro area. Potential risk factors are nonetheless present in connection with the growth slowdown in emerging economies, potential deterioration in the international geopolitical scene, and pressure on the financial markets reacting to monetary policy trends, more specifically with reference to the European Central Bank's decisions on Quantitative Easing policy. UBI Group looks to a future with strengthened corporate governance as a result of important activities carried out during the past two years, more specifically with reference to (i) the 10 th October 2016 conversion into an ordinary joint stock company (formerly the largest “popular” co-operative bank in Italy) to ensure corporate stability and focus as much as possible on routine management activities; (ii) adoption of a unified operating structure, a “Single Bank”, following its successful integration, earlier than programmed, of the local banks, with the benefits of cost savings and a more uniform service model. Under the 2016/2017-2020 Business Plan, a strategy of sustainable growth was defined, aiming to meet demand for sound credit and to manage clients' wealth responsibly in compliance with the principle of Fare Banca per bene (to bank fairly and well). This principle summarises the objective of creating sustainable value for all stakeholders over time, combining simplicity, quality and innovation to make products, services and excellent relations available to clients, contributing to the well-being of the community with support for social and cultural initiatives and cultivating individuals' talents, passion, and commitment. The Business Plan provides the following key initiatives: (i) development of the distribution system with a multichannel approach; (ii) execution of a strategy for the targeted commercial segment; (iii) confirmation of the quality of loans granted and adequate coverage of nonperforming loans; (iv) rationalization of the cost base; (v) maintaining a sound financial and capital balance; and (vi) implementation of initiatives consistent with the logic of optimising risk-adjusted profitability. The merger of the new banks acquired from the National Resolution Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Strategy Pg.13 Fund during the first half of 2017 continues along the lines established under the Single Bank project to serve customers in accordance with UBI Group’s highest standards: the merger process was completed for Banca Adriatica e Carilo, Banca Tirrenica and Banca Federico Del Vecchio and is planned in February 2018 for Banca Teatina. The main objectives of the plan are:  support to the real economy through increased financing, including new grants to support enterprises operating in the third sector;  growth in the financial wealth intermediated of customers, promoting increased saving, including in the less affluent sectors;  creation of value for shareholders and staff with growth in net profits;  enhanced capital soundness with ratios consistently exceeding regulatory requirements;  contribution to the public sector through growth in taxes deriving from higher projected profit levels;  contribution to the local communities by maintaining a significant level of contributions through donations and sponsorships in support of numerous social, cultural, recreational, athletic, social and health care, and assistance projects for grassroots entities, organizations, and institutions;  investments in the growth and well-being of staff members through professional training and development programs and benefits in connection with the corporate welfare system. The sustainability of the objectives of the Business Plan is inextricably linked to the business model and its strengths, which can be summarized in terms of: (i) consolidated relationships with customers driven by the ongoing quest for their satisfaction as a prerequisite for maintaining a lasting, mutually satisfactory relationship; (ii) sound capital and liquidity positions making it possible to lay solid groundwork for the development of the Group and to support the real economy in compliance with the regulatory requirements; (iii) sound, prudent assessment of financing to promote development initiatives that are not only economically sustainable, but that are also sustainable from the social and environmental standpoints; (iv) competent management of customers' financial wealth through tailor-made solutions reflecting the life cycle and macroeconomic and financial environment; (v) efficient cost management, enabling resources to be allocated to projects that optimise their use. As a bank, we are interested in topics of sustainability, directly as a business and indirectly through the approach our customers use in making financing and investment decisions. For example, the valuation of credit facilities in the Project Finance sector, more specifically with reference to health, mobility and services (water and gas systems), takes into account a broad range of economic and financial parameters, as well as the essential considerations of understanding environmental impacts in terms of the use of energy resources and the emission of pollutants into the atmosphere. In servicing households' financing requirements, we pay close attention to the sustainability of finance charges over time, in keeping with the principles of responsible lending, which benefits the Bank as well as the customers. At the sector level, we participate in financing benefits for customers who are victims of usury practices to enhance social inclusion and to give persons in difficulty better access to banking services. In terms of household savings management, we carefully assess factors of risk and return, customers' knowledge of financial instruments and investment horizons while promoting anti-corruption activities and the verification of provenance. Moreover, the Group’s commitment to support local communities is well represented in terms of banking, financial, and savings management services to the third sector, as well as in terms of partnerships to execute projects. Last, as a business operating with more than 20,000 staff and 1,500 points of sale, the Group has devoted much attention to human rights, by promoting diversity, gender equality, dialogue between management and labour and protecting health and safety in the workplace in compliance with international conventions and regulations. We ask our suppliers to operate in accordance with UBI's Code of Ethics, in order to work together in compliance with the same principles that underpin the Group's activities. At the environmental level, the use of renewable energy sources has been consolidated to achieve a sustainable energy supply in the long term. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Strategy Pg.14 In summary, the Group's social responsibility model represents the Bank's system of relations with all internal and external drivers that influence (or that will influence) the business model. Implementation of the model is ensured through a meticulous strategic planning activity designed to guide the Bank towards its objectives of achieving sustainable earnings in the medium and long-terms; a corporate governance system entailing rules and processes in which roles and responsibilities are clearly defined, and a framework of risk management and internal supervision to anticipate and address the key risks involved in banking activity. Key impacts, risks and opportunities [GRI 102-15 201-2] During 2017, UBI Banca updated its reporting on sustainability topics relevant in creation of value for the Group (material topics). In keeping with the definition of materiality under the GRI Standards adopted with reference to the drafting of this document, material topics “reflect a reporting organization’s significant economic, environmental and social impacts; or that substantively influences the assessments and decisions of stakeholders.” Topics to be subject to materiality assessment were identified with reference to external documentary sources (references for the GRI Standards, sustainability reporting by other banking groups and investor questionnaires from SRI and ESG rating agencies) as well as internal sources (Business Plan, communications and statements from senior management and results from stakeholder engagement activities). Risks potentially affecting the Group's activities were concurrently mapped with reference to a market benchmark and publications by international institutions (World Economic Forum, Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures and Carbon Disclosure Project). Risks were identified to reflect external factors in connection with key current global economic, social, environmental and geopolitical trends and internal factors in connection with corporate processes. The topics and risks identified with this approach were subject to an assessment of UBI Banca's front-line structure, leading to the definition of a materiality matrix indicating the strategic priorities, used as a basis to formulate policies and objectives that also reflect risks and opportunities potentially having significant impacts on the Group’s activities. As the topics in connection with human rights and responsible supply chain management cut across the identified strategic priorities, they are addressed in accordance with the many different issues involved Material topics [GRI 102-46:47] UBI Banca is a leading financial intermediary on the national scene. In this capacity, it maintains a dialogue and operates in a social, economic, and environmental context, in the presence of numerous stakeholders, reflecting the strategic priorities in reference to the material sustainability topics (including those listed in Legislative Decree No. 254/2016). In achieving these strategic priorities, UBI Banca considers the risks generated and sustained that theoretically may arise in the relative context, for which adequate regulatory and organizational provisions are made. Accordingly, the table below provides a list of material topics identified by UBI Banca, the potential risks generated or sustained in the context in which the Bank operates that is typical for a national primary financial intermediary, and the measures taken to address them. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Strategy Pg.15 Regulatory and Potential important risks organisational risk identified for financial mitigation controls in Topic Boundary intermediaries place at UBI Banca CREATION OF VALUE The Bank's primary objective is the Groups, shareholders, Unfavourable perceptions of Overall structure of the creation of value, to ensure, through staff, suppliers, local consumers, investors, and corporate governance appropriate levels of profitability, and regional units of other stakeholders regarding model. remuneration for shareholders and government and UBI's sustainability, impacting staff, and to maintain the capital community. business development as a Model of strategic strength required to support credit result of low ratings, planning and risk activities. inadequate strategies to management framework. optimise the brand and make it The creation of value benefits all stand out against its stakeholders, directly or through the competitors, inadequate indirect impact of grassroots communication and activities and the communities involvement in topics of involved. sustainability and/or inconsistencies between statements and actions. Inadequate forward-looking assessments of changes in the regulatory environment, consumer preferences, or market conditions, impacting UBI's activities and those of its customers. Loss of commercial opportunities in connection with the development of new products and services, segments of the customer base, and economic sectors of environmental or social interest. INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE CONDUCT Respect for the rules and Group, community. Inadequate staff training and Model 231/2001. fundamental human rights and awareness programmes, promoting compliance with such internal supervision systems, Policies for management of rules by the Group’s partners, as an mechanisms for identifying non-compliance risk and essential condition for the violations and protecting organizational audit and functioning of the company and its whistle blowers, potentially compliance units. constituent systems and leading to violations of the Internal rules of procedure organizations. standards and codes of selfagainst money laundering, regulation (with particular financing of terrorism, and As a business, meeting objectives by reference to ethical, correctly addressing competitors usury. environmental, and social and maintaining proper relations aspects of management) and Policies and guidelines for with government and the market involvement in illegal practices critical sectors. regulation authorities. and activities, or in ethical, As a bank, contributing to environmental, or social preventing and fighting corruption, controversies. money laundering and usury. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Strategy Pg.16 Regulatory and Potential important risks organisational risk identified for financial mitigation controls in Topic Boundary intermediaries place at UBI Banca CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT Corporate governance systems and Group, partners, staff Gaps in the composition of the Criteria for appointment of effective and efficient and community. governing bodies, in processes members and composition organizational bases for the pursuit of communication with of the management and of strategic objectives, with management and stakeholders supervision bodies. particular reference to composition and in delegating authority in (including gender balance), the area of sustainability. Self-assessment process remuneration and valuation of Inadequate consideration of and induction programme. services of governing bodies. scenario variables, Internal risk management sustainability priorities, and and control system. Adequacy of the sustainability stakeholders' expectations in governance structure and processes, strategic planning, decisionwith particular reference to the making and operational integration of stakeholders' processes. expectations and environmental and social issues of importance in the Performance measurement and long-term strategy. incentive systems inconsistent with the implementation of Efficacy of the internal control and sustainability strategies and risk management systems so that objectives. the impacts generated or sustained by business activity can be managed Inadequate identification and from the environmental and social management of environmental standpoints. and social risks with significant impacts on the Group's activities. RESPECT FOR THE CUSTOMER Development of mutually Group, customers, Failing to comply with Policies and guidelines satisfactory customer relations and community. regulations, agreements, relating to commercial loyalty, not only by providing standards, and codes of selfpractices and product excellent products and services regulation in the areas of development. meeting their demands delivered transparency and business with transparent information, as practices, inadequate Customer satisfaction well as respect for persons, their information on products, monitoring system. interests, security, and privacy. services and data protection, with repercussions on levels of customer satisfaction and with the risk of sustaining operational losses and reputational damages. COMMITMENT TO THE LOCAL ECONOMY Support for the real economy, Group, customers, Structural unemployment or Strategic guidelines and responsibly selecting credit to local suppliers, community. underemployment, increased business plan. households and enterprises for the inequalities and levels of development of consumption and poverty against a backdrop of Product development investment. crisis in the welfare systems, policies. with damping effects on the Dedicated organisational Support for households and local economy and enterprises, including those units. repercussions on the Group's experiencing cyclical difficulties and activity levels and profitability. contributing to the development of infrastructures and services of public interest. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Strategy Pg.17 Regulatory and Potential important risks organisational risk identified for financial mitigation controls in Topic Boundary intermediaries place at UBI Banca ENHANCEMENT AND WELL-BEING OF PERSONNEL Creation of high-quality jobs, Group, employees, Inability to attract talent and Contractual instruments attracting higher levels of talent and community. inadequate management, and management supporting ongoing professional communication and training processes. development. activities, adversely affecting human resource development Remuneration and Providing every worker with the in the Group, and its capacity incentives policies. best position through opportunities to achieve the established to achieve their own goals, levels of Model 231/2001 and strategic objectives. occupational health and welfare, to reconcile private and professional life and occupational Inadequate assessment and safety management health and safety. management of occupational system. health and safety risks, with potential operating losses and reputational repercussions. DIALOGUE WITH TRADE UNIONS Guaranteeing effective freedom of Group, staff. Inadequate trade union Specialised process and association and collective relations resulting in tensions dedicated organisational bargaining. and/or unrest, with potential structure. repercussions on UBI’s Managing relations with trade union reputation, its strategic organisations to find mutuallyperformance and corporate beneficial solutions to create value objectives. for both the company and staff. EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES AND NON-DISCRIMINATION Managing diversity, and more Group, staff. Inadequate diversity Personnel management specifically gender, reflecting management, with particular processes with dedicated ethical requirements of nonreference to gender diversity, organisational units. discrimination and ensuring equal having potential repercussions opportunities for staff in support of on UBI’s reputation and its Remuneration and human and professional strategic performance and incentive policies. achievement. corporate objectives. In an increasingly competitive, constantly-changing market, requirements must also be met for growth in the Group's human resources with the best resources available on the labour market. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Strategy Pg.18 Regulatory and Potential important risks organisational risk identified for financial mitigation controls in Topic Boundary intermediaries place at UBI Banca COMMITMENT TO THE COMMUNITY Ability to grasp opportunities in Customers, Structural unemployment or Guidelines for grants social development to take community. underemployment, increased drawing from articles of appropriate commercial actions inequality and poverty levels in association-related profits with goods and services to support a context of crisis in the and sponsorship economic inclusion of welfare systems, with adverse management process. disadvantaged persons and to effects on quality of life within achieve objectives that are the community. Participation in the important to the community in Foundation for Financial terms of social services. Education and Savings. Optimisation of the Group’s local roots with the capacity to interpret trends in the social context and respond to the community's social, cultural, and economic interests through the implementation of strategic philanthropic initiatives. Promotion of financial education, more specifically for young persons, to enable them to make betterinformed economic and financial decisions and development of socially-responsible investments. COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT Responsible management of the use Group, customers, Inefficient energy management Model 231/2001 and of materials, energy consumption, community. impacting the costs involved in environmental policy. waste treatment, and corporate managing the Group's mobility. infrastructure. Dedicated regulatory instruments and dedicated Contributing to improved Natural disasters and the organizational units environmental services for consequences of climate focusing on specific topics. customers and local infrastructure change, more specifically endowments and more generally, extreme meteorological events support the transition to an impacting the Group's assets economy that has a reduced and customers' economic environmental impact. activities. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Strategy Pg.19 Contribution to UN Sustainable Development Goals Achieving the objective of banking fairly and well in the framework of the strategic priorities represented under the material topics outlined by UBI Banca supports the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals identified below. The provision of basic banking services and savings programs for vulnerable sectors and initiatives to support households at difficult times help ensure equal access to financial services for both men and women (SDG 1.4). Support for local productive activities contributes to the objectives of economic growth (SDG 8.1) and productivity (SDG 8.2) and supports the creation of decent jobs, entrepreneurial activity, creativity and innovation, encouraging formation and growth of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (SDG 8.3 e 8.5). The Group's lending policies are designed to promote access for small and medium-sized enterprises to financial services and their integration into sectors and markets (SDG 9.3). Financing for high-quality, sustainable and resilient infrastructures supports economic development and human well-being (SDG 9.1). Banking services and contributions to universities and research institutes support technological innovation in industry and investments in technological development and research (SDG 9.5). In the framework of strategic philanthropic activity, support for projects and organizations in the social and health care and assistance framework help ensure that all persons have access to essential health services, medicine and quality care. (SDG 3.8). Banking services and contributions to academic and university training institutes and financial education initiatives targeting young persons and continuing education programs for the Group's employees support the development of skills for quality employment (SDG4.4). Employee management policies implemented by the Group, conditions of non-discrimination (SDG 5.1), equal opportunities and full and effective participation of women in economic affairs at all decision-making levels (SDG 5.5), equal pay for equal work (SGD 8.5) and a safe, protected labour environment for all workers (SDG 8.8). Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Strategy Pg.20 These policies and indirectly contributions to non-profit organizations operating in the area of social assistance support the objectives of promoting social and economic inclusion for all persons, without any type of discrimination (SDG 10.2), , and equal opportunities and reduced inequalities in performance (SDG 10.3). Use of renewable energy sources through the Group's energy sourcing requirements and making financing available for public and private investments in plants and infrastructure support the attainment of the objectives of energy transition (SDG 7.2) and increased energy efficiency (SDG 7.3). In the framework of personal financing, the home mortgage sector is an important one for UBI Banca, through which it helps to ensure that households can afford adequate housing (SGD 11.1). The operating areas for the Group's social activities include protecting and upgrading the cultural and artistic heritage of the local communities (SDG 11.4). Responsible management of the Group's properties and operations, financing for environmental investments by households and enterprises, as well as in infrastructures, contribute to the development of more sustainable cities (SDG 11.6). Compliance with the relevant regulatory texts in all activities supports the fight against all forms of corruption and bribery (SDG 16.5). Policies adopted in relation to the Group's activities in specific economic sectors (arms, diamonds and gold) provide guidelines designed to fight any form of violence, child abuse (SDG 16.2), illegal flows of cash and weapons, and organised crime (16.4) Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Strategy Pg.21 Creation of value The creation of economic value that is sustainable over time is the Group's principal objective as an essential condition for remunerating shareholders and employees and for maintaining an adequate level of capitalization to support credit activities through allocations to reserves. This objective is supported by all units of the Group through the establishment of the Business Plan and the relevant project plan, which is known as the Transformation Plan. Progress in connection with this Plan is systematically monitored by the UBI Banca Management Committee in dedicated sessions, so that any remedial measures that may be required can be adopted in a timely manner. During 2017, in connection with the Business Plan, rationalisation projects were pursued for the Group,1 the distribution network2 and the work force3 through improved efficiency, cost containment and projects for innovation 4 in processes, products and services to make the Group more competitive on the market in terms of quality and convenience. The Regulation on the performance measurement system and the Methodological performance measurement manual ensure that a uniform, consistent approach is used in obtaining information and stating results. Economic value generated and distributed [GRI 201-1 201-3:4 202-1 204-1] The reclassification of the consolidated income statement highlights the economic value generated by the Group, which is substantially reflected in the prices customers pay for the products and services it provides, net of any losses and impairement losses on loans. In keeping with UBI Banca's retail banking focus, the share of financial assets is in fact limited. In the area of climate change, which has taken on a preponderant role in assessing the sustainability of human, social and economic activity, the Group has no direct exposure to risks correlated with climate change potentially having substantial impacts on the creation of value. Processes in connection with purchasing (more specifically in connection with fuel and electricity costs) and business and credit (related to extreme weather events that might affect the operational capacities of business customers) may be impacted to a lesser extent, although these risks would be mitigated by the high level of diversification in lending sectors). On the other hand, business opportunities may arise in promoting investments by individuals and businesses in ways to save energy, the use of alternative energies, and investments by businesses to adapt to changing regulations and efficiency standards for products and production processes. 1 Reports and Accounts 2017, Consolidated Management Report Significant Events in 2017. 2 Reports and Accounts 2017, Consolidated Management Report Significant Events in 2017. 3 Reports and Accounts 2017, Consolidated Management Report Human resources. 4 Reports and Accounts 2017, Consolidated Management Report Commercial activity. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Creation of valuePg.22 DETERMIN ATIO N O F THE ECO N O MIC VAL UE CREATED 2017 2016 VARIATIO N (thousands of euro ) Interest and similar income 2,261,451 2,161,121 +4.6% Interest expense and similar (610,213) (663,230) -8.0% Commission income 1,744,216 1,508,992 +15.6% Commission expense (197,425) (173,959) +13.5% Dividends and similar income 13,684 9,678 +41.4% Net trading income (loss) 122,368 69,947 +74.9% Net hedging income (419) 415 n.s. Income (loss) from disposal or repurchase of: 130,432 91,770 +42.1% a) loans and receivables (47,056) (31,482) +49.5% b) available-for-sale financial assets 134,996 149,014 -9.4% c) held-to-maturity investments 55,937 d) financial liabilities (13,445) (25,762) -47.8% Net income (loss) on financial assets and liabilities at fair value 12,722 (8,421) n.s. Net impairment losses on: (862,306) (1,695,584) -49.1% a) loans (728,343) (1,565,527) -53.5% b) available-for-sale financial assets (165,624) (111,643) +48.4% c) held-to-maturity investments d) other financial transactions 31,661 (18,414) n.s. Net insurance premiums 155,128 Other income/expense on insurance operations (173,384) Other net operating income 319,825 306,541 +4.3% Profits of equity investments (for the part from disposals) (410) Profits on disposal of investments 859 22,969 -96.3% Post-tax profit from discontinued operations TO TAL ECO N O MIC VAL UE CREATED 2 ,9 1 6 ,5 2 8 1 ,6 3 0 ,2 3 9 +7 8 .9 % DETERMIN ATIO N O F THE ECO N O MIC VAL UE W ITHHEL D 2017 2016 VARIATIO N B Y THE GRO UP (thousands of euro ) Net provisions for risks and charges 9,009 42,885 -79.0% Net impairment losses on property, equipment and investment 87,971 80,823 +8.8% property Net impairment losses on intangible assets 68,713 125,197 -45.1% Profits (losses) of equity investments (the fair value part: writedowns/write-backs, impairment losses/reversals, other (23,801) (24,136) -1.4% expenses/income) Change in fair value of property, equipment and investment property and intangible assets Net impairment losses on goodwill Negative consolidation difference (640,810) Change in deferred tax assets and liabilities 43,694 (42,176) n.s. Profit allocated to reserves 565,014 (937,313) n.s. TO TAL ECO N O MIC VAL UE RETAIN ED 1 0 9 ,7 9 0 ( 7 5 4 ,7 2 0 ) n .s. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Creation of valuePg.23 DETERMIN ATIO N O F THE ECO N O MIC VAL UE 2017 2016 VARIATIO N DISTRIB UTED TO STAKEHO L DERS (thousands of euro ) b) other administrative expenses (exclusive of indirect taxes, 725,535 564,472 28.5% grants and donations) 1 SUPPL IERS 725,535 564,472 +2 8 .5 % 2 a) personnel expense 1,542,463 1,599,717 -3.6% EMPL O Y EES 1,542,463 1,599,717 -3 .6 % Profit (loss) for the year attributable to non controlling interests 26,435 (14,943) n.s. 3 Share of profit destined to dividend payments 125,543 107,163 +17.2% SHAREHO L DERS AN D N O N CO N TRO L L IN G IN TERESTS 151,978 92,220 +6 4 .8 % b) other administrative expenses: indirect and capital taxes, contributions to the Resolution Fund for the banking sector 344,750 396,865 -13.1% and to the Deposit County Scheme and contributions as part of treasury services Current taxes on income for the year4 35,482 (277,443) n.s. CEN TRAL AN D L O CAL PUB L IC ADMIN ISTRATIO N S 380,232 119,422 +2 1 8 .4 % b) other administrative expenses – grants and donations 6,530 9,128 -28.5% 5 Share of profits allocated to the fund for social purposes CO MMUN ITY AN D THE EN VIRO N MEN T 6,530 9,128 -2 8 .5 % TO TAL ECO N O MIC VAL UE DISTRIB UTED 2 ,8 0 6 ,7 3 8 2 ,3 8 4 ,9 5 9 +1 7 .7 % 1 Excluding indirect taxes, contributions as part of treasury services, charitable donations and sponsorships for social purposes, contributions to the Resolution Fund for the banking sector and to the Deposit Guarantee Scheme (DGS European Directive). 2 Inclusive of board members’ fees and expenses for external distribution networks (e.g. agents and financial advisors). 3 The figure for the year is based on the allocation of profits proposed to the Shareholders’ Meeting. It may differ from the total dividends actually paid out, if a change in treasury shares occurs on the ex dividend date. 4 It includes the changes in current taxes of prior years and the reduction in current taxes for the year 5 Allocations made by UBI Banca (and before the Single Bank also by the Network Banks) according to the provisions of its Articles of Association. Employees Economic value distributed to employees includes coverage for commitments resulting from internal funds, consisting of defined benefits and having the nature of items on companies’ balance sheets. In this connection, contributions are allocated to the “provision for risks and charges: pension and similar obligations”, which are subject to periodic actuarial measurement in compliance with IAS 19 “Employee benefits”. It also reflects payments made to external pension funds in the framework of defined contribution plans from which all of the Group's employees benefit. Remuneration, which is the main component of the economic value distributed to employees, consistently exceeds the minimum provided by the trade unions. AVERAGE SAL ARY , F IRST JO B CO MPARED W ITH TRADE UN IO N 2017 2016 MIN IMUM 1 Men 108.0% 108.4% Women 106.5% 104.8% 1 The base salary set in the national labour contract for the 3rd level 2nd area. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Creation of valuePg.24 Shareholders Share capital is composed of ordinary shares, each of which has equal dividend rights. As a result of its capital strength, UBI Banca has consistently been able to pay a dividend to the shareholders, even during the most difficult years. In addition to shareholder dividends, this item includes the Group's profits attributale to noncontrolling shareholders included in the consolidation. Suppliers The economic value distributed to suppliers accounts for 98% of the turnover of local suppliers, which are defined for that purpose as suppliers resident in Italy. When possible and advisable owing to the type of goods and services acquired, suppliers operating near the operational locations are used. Public administration UBI Banca has never received any form of government assistance. It has engaged in transactions with central banks in the framework of financing programmes (e.g. TLTRO) to promote financial stability or to facilitate monetary policy transmission. Community and environment The economic value of belonging to a community and the environment is represented by the costs sustained during the fiscal year for social purposes (independently of the actual payments during the same year) or the profit allocated to the reserve available to the corporate bodies (see Board's Fund ). The framework of contributing to social organizations marginally reflects initiatives to promote conservation of the environment. However, the Group has devoted substantial, consistent expenditure and investments to reduce its environmental impacts, that are not reflected in the distribution of the economic value created. SPEN DIN G O N IN VESTMEN TS F O R THE EN VIRO N MEN T (thousands of euro) 2017 2016 Waste management 1,955 1,287 1 Electricity GO certificates purchased 5 Replacement of UPS’s at strategic sites 0 918 Replacement of air conditioners at Brescia DPC (2017 quota) 99 1,600 Consumption monitoring and feedback systems first stage for 772 branches 988 2,820 (2017 quota) Consumption monitoring and feedback systems second stage for 628 branches 2,207 0 (2017 quota) Consumption monitoring system at the large New Management Centre building in 184 0 Brescia (2017 quota) Replacement of UPS of Teatina Bank 17 0 TO TAL 5 ,4 5 0 6 ,6 3 0 1 The UBI Group and the Bridg e Banks purchased the share of GO certified electricity from a firm that produces directly from renewable sources and is not shown the additional costs for the certification. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Creation of valuePg.25 Integrity in corporate conduct [GRI 102-16:17] Compliance with the rules is the first principle of sound, prudent management that has consistently characterized UBI on the market. It is the principal foundation for the trust of customers and all other stakeholders and the first component of the objective of banking fairly and well as a way of affirming a distinctive identity on the market, reflected in the observance not only of external standards, but also of the principles, values and rules of conduct defined independently in the Code of Ethics and accepted through accession to the United Nations Global Compact. The Code of Ethics, the Code of Conduct for Employees of the Group and the Management, Organization and Control Model pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 231/2001 (known as the 231 Model) constitute the main references on compliance with the regulatory texts, in terms of the risk of commission of crimes (including corruption, money-laundering and usury) or of engagement in activities that are illegal or inconsistent with the principles of ethics. The general principles are reflected in the specialized legislation governing different areas in the form of policies, circulars and rulebooks. The Group CSR Manager provides support and advice for training and communication activities and for the interpretation and implementation of the principles of the Code of Ethics. The responsibility to manage and spread the culture of regulatory compliance, as a principle of integrity in corporate conduct, promoting rigorous compliance with high standards of conduct, is governed by the UBI Group’s1 non-compliance risk management policies incumbent on the organizational units responsible for Audit (the Chief Audit Executive, a staff unit of the Supervisory Board) and compliance (a staff unit of the Management Board) functions. With particular reference to fighting money-laundering and usury, UBI Banca adopted the Strategic guidelines and policies governing risks connected with money-laundering and the finance of terrorism; the Group’s organisational regulations on fighting money-laundering and the finance of terrorism; and the Group’s regulations relating to usury. Management of antimoney-laundering activities is incumbent on the Anti-Money Laundering & Claims Area that reports to the Chief Risk Officer under the directives provided in the document. The Code of Ethics and 231 Model provide specific channels and processes for identifying and managing unethical or illegal practices, headed respectively by the Chief Audit Executive and Supervisory Body provided by law. In addition, the Group’s Policy on internal whistleblowing systems provides a specific channel for reporting activities or events potentially constituting violations of the regulatory texts governing banking or financial activity. All channels subject whistleblowing to anonymity and provide confidentiality and protection from retaliation for whistleblowers. The Code of Ethics, due to its key role in the application of Group values and principles, in addition to being officially adopted by all subsidiaries, is also brought to the attention of other investees so that they may commit to maintaining conduct consistent with the principles contained in it. It is communicated to staff through the app for the consultation of internal regulations on the corporate intranet and in hardcopy form for companies who have no access to that portal. It is delivered to members of governing bodies and to newly recruited personnel, when a relationship is established. It is published on the Group website and it is delivered to all those who work with the Bank under contract or who represent the Bank, even without 1Noncompliance risk management Policies defined the reference principles and guidelines for management of the risk of incurring court-ordered or administrative penalties, substantial financial losses or reputational damages as a result of violations of mandatory regulations or self-regulatory rules and features of the organizational compliance model. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Integrity in corporate conduct Pg.26 being subordinate to it. Suppliers are required to sign a declaration of acceptance as part of the relevant contractual arrangements. The Audit function, in the framework of quarterly reporting in connection with the governing bodies, prepares a report indicating the number of investigations carried out and the type of measures adopted. It also prepares an annual report on the proper operation of internal whistleblowing systems with aggregate information on the results of actions taken on whistleblowing reports received. Compliance [GRI 307-1 416-2 417-2:3 419-1] For reports on the findings and penalties to which UBI Banca and other companies in the Group have been subjected for noncompliance with the laws and regulatory texts, see the relevant paragraph of the Consolidated management report.2 No relevant penalties were reported for 2017 other than those we have indicated. In particular, there were whistleblowing activities for significant noncompliance with communication processes, as provided under the Group's internal regulations, nor were any substantial penalties reported under the provisions governing information technology reported in connection with product placement and investment services. No cases or circumstances were reported involving violations of the regulations and/or codes of conduct adopted in the area of transparency for products and services and proper customer relations. No significant fines or penalties were applied for noncompliance with the environmental regulations. Through the appropriate whistleblowing channels, six reports were filed for violations of the Code of Ethics, which are pending investigation. No violations of the Code of Ethics have been confirmed through investigations conducted in connection with reports through the whistleblowing channel. W HISTL EB L O W IN G REPO RTS 2017 2016 Whistleblowing reports received UBI Banca 1 10 7 IW Bank 1 0 Total whistleblowing activities 11 7 Whistleblowing investigations Whistleblowing reports during the year 11 7 Whistleblowing reports under investig ation at the end of the 1 0 previous year Total whistleblowing reports under examination 12 7 of which: closed on completion of the established procedure 4 6 because not relevant to the Policy 1 2 subject to appropriate manag ement provisions 3 4 follow-up frameworks not indicated 0 0 in prog ress 8 1 1 The 2016 data include five whistleblowing reports submitted to the Group's network banks prior to the incorporation of UBI Banca; the 2017 data include two reports submitted to Banca Adriatica prior to the incorporation of UBI Banca. 2 Reports and Accounts 2017, Consolidated management report – Other informations Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Integrity in corporate conduct Pg.27 REPO RTS AN D VIO L ATIO N S O F THE CO DE O F ETHICS 2017 2016 Alleged violations recorded in the year 6 of which: from reports received 6 from internal audits of organisational units from audit activities Violations defined in the year 2 of which: ascertained with penalties imposed ascertained with corrective action 1 without grounds 2 Violations being defined at the end of year 6 1 E.g. training activities, organisational changes and improvements to the internal control system. Corruption, money laundering and usury [GRI 205-1:3] All activities and organisational units are subject to verification connected with implementation of the 231/2001 Model (corporate liability model), while the Supervisory Body reports to the governing bodies on its adoption and effective implementation, the supervision of its functioning and oversight of its update. All transactions are monitored according to the amount limits set by the relevant legislation by means of dedicated software applications which support the identification of evidence potentially connected with money laundering or other illegal activities, including corruption. The situations detected are subsequently subject to assessment by the organisational units responsible for managing the customer relationship and then by the central control unit. The following activities were carried out during 2017:  12,200 hours of training, with 9,590 participants, on the principles of Legislative Decree No. 231/2001 and anti-corruption policies and procedures with mechanisms differentiated to reflect different levels of responsibility;  18,748 hours of training in the anti-money-laundering framework: in the classroom and through the e-learning platform with 7,844 participants (personnel from the UBI Banca commercial network, senior management, and employees from Group companies operating as the first point of contact with the customers). During 2017, there were no cases of corruption involving Group personnel. PARTECIPAN TS TO TRAIN IN G 2017 2016 O N AN TI-CO RRUPTIO N Su d ed Su d ed PRACTICES 1 N o rd Cen tro Iso le N o rd Cen tro Iso le Senior managers 96 8 5 7 2 2 as a percentage of the total Senior 31.0% 22.9% 33.3% 2.3% 13.3% 13.3% managers Middle managers 3,174 509 487 108 57 49 as a percentage of the total Middle 55.5% 28.7% 55.5% 1.9% 7.1% 5.2% managers Professional areas 4,058 645 608 167 107 58 as a percentage of the total 57.2% 20.1% 49.2% 2.4% 10.0% 4.5% Professional areas TO TAL 7 ,3 2 8 1 ,1 6 2 1 ,1 0 0 282 166 109 as a percentage of the total 55.8% 23.2% 51.7% 2.2% 8.8% 4.9% 1 Topic covered in the training about Administrative liability of entities (Legislative Decree No. 231/2001) Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Integrity in corporate conduct Pg.28 PARTECIPAN TS TO TRAIN IN G 2017 2016 O N AN TI-MO N EY L AUN DERIN G Su d ed Su d ed PRACTICES N o rd Cen tro Iso le N o rd Cen tro Iso le Senior managers 49 9 4 102 5 6 as a percentage of the total Senior 15.8% 25.7% 26.7% 33.1% 33.3% 40.0% managers Middle managers 1,769 1,108 373 2,810 484 520 as a percentage of the total Middle 30.9% 62.6% 42.5% 49.5% 60.5% 55.1% managers Professional areas 2,314 1,793 425 3,443 638 663 as a percentage of the total 32.6% 55.8% 34.4% 50.1% 59.9% 51.9% Professional areas TO TAL 4 ,1 3 2 2 ,9 1 0 802 6 ,3 5 5 1 ,1 2 7 1 ,1 8 9 as a percentage of the total 31.5% 58.0% 37.7% 49.4% 59.9% 53.2% Anti-competitive behaviour [GRI 206-1] With a provision of 21st January 2016, the Autorità Garante della Concorrenza e del Mercato (AGCM – the Italian Competition Authority) launched an investigation into the Italian Banking Association concerning the possibility that the interbank agreement involving the SEDA service3 (and more specifically the remuneration mechanism inherent in it), as set forth by the Italian Banking Association itself in a circular it issued in 2013, might constitute a resolution for an association of companies that restricts competition. With a provision dated 13th April 2016 the AGCM decided to broaden the investigation to include some banks (including UBI Banca), because the AGCM had found that the banks themselves were taking an active role “in the definition of the SEDA remuneration system, also with reference to the transition stage from the RID direct debit system to the new systems and to the treatment of mandates already deposited”. On 19th April 2016, concurrently with the notification of the decision for further investigation, inspections were conducted in some branches, including UBI Banca, which was found to have no involvement whatsoever in the alleged activities. On 7th April 2017, the statement of defence was filed in response to the communication of the results of the investigation and the final hearing before the authorities was held on 13th April 2017. On 15th May 2017, the AGCM notified UBI of the decision to close the proceeding under which, although it was found that the parties had implemented an agreement to restrict competition, it was decided not to issue any penalties as they were not merited by the minor violations confirmed. Human rights [GRI 408-1 409-1 412-1:3 FS6] As a result of the location and nature of the activities carried out, the operational framework for risks of violations of human rights laws would seem to be strictly limited and less likely to involve the Group's operational activities (except for the purchasing of gold and diamonds) than to involve health and safety risks for persons in connection with products from certain controversial economic sectors subject to credit activities. Where these sectors are concerned, considering the strictly marginal volume of activity, the Group has no specific policies, except for the arms sector, for which the Group adopted the 3 An optional ancillary reporting service in connection with the SEPA Direct Debit system. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Integrity in corporate conduct Pg.29 relevant policy4 in 2008 and in the area of gambling and gaming, for which it adopted an Internal Credit Area Directive in 2011. 2017 2016 Le ndi ng Le ndi ng CO N TRO VERSIAL SECTO RS Pe rce nta g e of Pe rce nta g e of (mi li ons of (mi li ons of tota l loa ns tota l loa ns E uro) E uro) Arms 142.7 0.24% 68.6 0.13% Tobacco 87.1 0.14% 62.1 0.11% Alcohol 46.5 0.08% 45.1 0.09% Furs 8.1 0.01% 7.6 0.01% Gambling 12.6 0.02% 6.1 0.01% Nuclear 0.0 0.00% 0 0.00% TO TAL 2 9 7 .2 0 .5 1 % 1 8 9 .4 0 .3 6 % End of November data for 2017 and end of October data for 2016, as a percentage of total loans to businesses. A full check was carried out on the customer database in 2017, which amongst other things resulted in updates of the economic sector activity codes with which the loans reported in the table are calculated. The main objective of the Group's arms Policy is to avoid the Group's involvement in operations potentially contributing to human rights violations and therefore prohibits relations with enterprises involved in weapons of mass destruction and other controversial arms such as mines, incendiary and laser weapons, fragmentation and depleted uranium weapons and is subject to limits and a rigorous authorisation process for the approval of banking and financial services for international arms trading operations, depending on the types of weapons and the countries involved. In 2017 206 banking transactions were carried out for exports made by clients for a total of €50.1 million (€13.2 million of which is attributable to Nuova Banca Etruria and Nuova Banca Marche) as against €23.4 million the previous year, distributed as follows:  €47.7 million in connection with arms equipment pursuant to Law No. 185/1990 (89.7% to EU/NATO/OECD countries);  €2.4 million in connection with weapons for civilian use, classified as light weapons (98.1% to EU/NATO/OECD countries). As in past years, all transactions were carried out in compliance with this policy, and no waivers were granted.5 4 http://www.ubibanca.it/pagine/Policies-CSR-EN.aspx 5 In 2017, UBI Banca ratified an operation in connection with €51,9000 in arms exports to Indonesia, for which the customer failed to provide timely information. A further 11 operations were reported totaling €1.8 million were channeled from customers of Nuova Bank Etruria and Nuova Banca Marche prior to their integration into UBI Group, to countries not permitted under the Group's policy (Albania, Colombia, Ecuador, India and Thailand). Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Integrity in corporate conduct Pg.30 2017 2016 TRA NSA CTION PE RFORME D FOR E XPORTS Amou n t of Amou n t of OF A RMS A ND A RMA ME NTS SYSTE MS 1 tran saction s tran saction s ( million s of eu ro) ( million s of eu ro) 2 3.7 7.3% 0.1 0.45% Military arms and munitions 2 37.4 74.7% 16.8 71.76% Military aircraft and other craft 2 6.6 13.2% 1.8 7.83% Military systems and equipment Arms and munitions for civilian use3 2.4 4.8% 4.7 19.98% TO TAL 5 0 .1 1 0 0 .0 % 2 3 .4 1 0 0 .0 1 % 1 The following transactions do not fall within the scope of the Group policy on arms and are therefore excluded from the report arms for sports and hunting and the relative ammunition, reproductions of antique of arms (Art. 1, paragraph 11, Law No. 185/1990), unless these are destined to government bodies, the armed forces or the police, and transactions performed on behalf of the government (Art. 8 Law No. 185/1990) or within the framework of joint intergovernmental programmes (Art. 13 paragraph 1, Law No. 185/1990). 2 Arms which, because of their specifications or technical and construction or design characteristics, are to be considered as having been constructed mainly for military se or by armed corps or police (Art. 2 of Law No. 185/1990). 3 Ordinary firearms pursuant to Art. 2 of Law No. 110 of 18th April 1975 and short firearms provided they are not automatic (Art. 1 paragraph 11 of Law No. 185/1990), commonly known as “light” arms, unless these are destined to the armed forces or the police. In compliance with the commitment to transparency provided under the Group's arms policy, a more detailed report on the operations in question is published in the Social Responsibility Section of the Group’s corporate website concurrently with the publication of the Government's report to Parliament under Law No. 185/1990 6. Where the gambling and gaming sector 7 is concerned, the internal directive provides that operations in this sector are completely marginal and that extremely stringent procedures are used in the assessment of financing applications. In addition to meeting creditworthiness requirements, transactors in this sector must already be favourably known to the bank and meet criteria for absolute integrity, seriousness and reliability. http://www.ubibanca.it/pagine/Policies-CSR-EN.aspx Last, the Group has a pending commercial bid on the sale of diamonds to clients and with the acquisition of Nuova Banca Etruria, it also acquired an activity in the gold sector. For these activities as well, potential involvement in activities that might entail risks of human right violations is considered. Accordingly, diamonds are purchased through Diamond Love Bond, 8 6 http://www.ubibanca.it/pagine/Policies-CSR-EN.aspx 7 The organisation of gaming and betting in those European countries which allow it is managed by central governments which sub-contract operations to private sector companies in return for the payment of license fees. In Italy, laws allow gaming and betting activities to be run by companies authorised by government, which intends in this manner to exercise stringent control over a highly profitable sector with a high risk of illegality. 8 Diamond Love Bond is a diamond company located in Antwerp authorised by the Belgian Ministry of the Economy, Commerce and Energy, with an international organisational network and it is present on all world diamond exchanges. The company adopts rigorous ethical principles. It follows and supports the UN Global Compact principles and adheres to the rules of conduct for Diamond companies – best practices recommended by the World Diamond Council System of Warranties and by the Diamond Trading Company – and it adheres to and complies with the Kimberley Protocol designed to break the link between illegal diamond transactions and armed conflicts. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Integrity in corporate conduct Pg.31 which certifies the origin to be “conflict free” (not deriving from zones of conflict or operations to finance armed groups or conflicts) and “child labour free” (not deriving from mining and working processes using under-age labour). For the responsible sourcing of gold, UBI Banca has adopted the existing policy of Nuova Banca Etruria subject to the relevant amendments, for adoption group wide.9 In 2017 470 diamond trading transactions were brokered and 422 transactions to purchase gold or to repay a loan in gold were carried out for which verification of compliance with the relative policy was also carried out. These transactions were close to zero as a percentage of the total number of transactions carried out by the Group. There were no other contracts or investments which are subject to or include clauses that are subject to human rights assessment. Depending on performance in connection with the Single Bank and the relevant transfer of skills for management of operations governed by the Group's arms policy, numerous training sessions on this topic – for a total of 381 hours were held for 127 staff members responsible for international trade activities (0.6% of Group employees), which also focused on human rights issues. 9 The Policy defines the internal guidelines for responsible sourcing of gold, with particular reference to the risk of violations in connection with human rights and financing of armed groups in the supply chain, drawing from the Model Supply Chain Policy for a Responsible Global Supply Chain of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas” from “OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chain”. The policy is available to the public from the Social Responsibility section of the corporate website (www.ubibanca.it). Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Integrity in corporate conduct Pg.32 Corporate governance and risk management The quality of the corporate governance and risk management system is a priority issue in the pursuit of the Group's strategic objectives. The following factors with reference to sustainability issues are particularly important: i) the expertise of the governing bodies and their ability to make planning decisions consistent with important scenario variables, and with the stakeholders' expectations, so that the sustainability priorities can be adequately integrated into the business strategy and operational processes; ii) implementation of adequate mechanisms for delegating authority and the involvement of management in strategies; iii) effective risk management, which entails, amongst other things, the alignment of performance measurement and incentive systems. UBI Banca has adopted an organisational model based on a single business unit that provides for centralised, synergistic performance of common service functions and management of banking and financial products by the product companies, with the objectives of achieving excellence and optimizing the distribution force through the commercial network. This approach is formalised in the organisation, management, and control model pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 231/2001 on the administrative liability of legal persons, companies and associations even without a recognised legal personality. In addition to representing grounds to exempt the Bank from liability in connection with the commission of certain types of crime and administrative offenses, this model also constitutes an act of social responsibility vis-à-vis the stakeholders because of the benefits that result in terms of the integrity and sustainability of operations. For effective risk management, the Group has adopted Group regulations on the integrated risk reporting, management and mitigation action 1 and specialized regulations governing specific types of risk. In relation to non-financial risks, the Group adopted a Reputational risk management policy, which requires socially responsible conduct, monitoring and responding to the economic, environmental, and social expectations of all stakeholders, with the objective of gaining competitive advantages and maximizing returns in the long run. Where other nonfinancial risks are concerned, more specifically in connection with the environmental and social aspects of operations, in 2018 the Group worked on a comprehensive review of the internal regulations with a view to making any necessary additions to them. Corporate governance [GRI 102-18:19 102-21:29 102-33:34 405-1] UBI Banca has adopted a two tier governance system consisting of a Supervisory Board and a Management Board. The Supervisory Board performs the duties of strategic policy-making and supervision (including performance assessment) of the management of the Bank and is the highest governing body of UBI Banca. It defines the Group’s principles and ethics with its approval of the Code of Ethics. For an in-depth discussion of UBI Banca's governance system, see the Report on corporate governance and the ownership structure of UBI Banca SpA in accordance with Art. 123-bis Consolidated Finance Act, contained in the Reports and Accounts 2017. 2 This report covers: the structure, composition (more specifically in connection with gender diversity, 1 The Regulations are designed to support the process of identification, measurement and monitoring on company risks, behavioural shortcomings and damaging events. 2 Consolidated financial statements of the UBI Banca Group 2017, Report on corporate governance and the ownership structure of UBI Banca SpA. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Corporate governance and risk management Pg.33 qualifications, and expertise of the members), powers of the governing bodies; the processes and criteria for appointing the governing bodies and relative internal committees; processes for managing conflicts of interest and delegating authority; and mechanisms for developing expertise and performance assessment. Induction sessions were organised for board members on matters related to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 and within the broader framework of sustainability issues as part of programmes to develop the expertise of members of governing bodies. The governance system is based on a constantly updated organizational structure with the aims of structural simplification and operational efficacy and efficiency. Organisation Chart of UBI Banca Spa Remuneration and incentives [GRI 102-35:39] For policies on remuneration and incentives, see the Remuneration Report 3. Governance of sustainability [GRI 102-20 102-40 102-42:44] Ethical, social, and environmental aspects of management are co-ordinated by the Group’s CSR Manager, responsible for UBI Banca's Corporate Social Responsibility Function, who reports to the Financial Reporting, Accounting Principles and Controls Service. This service reports to the Chief Financial Officer, who is on the staff of the Chief Executive Officer. Responsibilities on specific topics are delegated to: 3 Reports and Accounts 2017, Remuneration Report – Shareholders’ Meeting 2018. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Corporate governance and risk management Pg.34  The Welfare and Mobility Manager, in the Human Resources Area under the Chief Operating Officer, who is responsible for optimising systematic travel by employees and for the conception and co-ordination of action to improve the quality of life of persons inside and outside the Bank, from the viewpoint of both organisational well-being and personal well-being, offering concrete opportunities in terms of services and benefits;  The Health and Safety Manager, manager of the Prevention and Protection at the Workplace Unit, who reports to the Chief Operating Officer, responsible for the management of all aspects of health and safety of workers, by means of occupational risk assessment, prevention, and monitoring, and the appropriate corrective and training activities;  the Energy Manager, manager of the Energy Management Operational Unit in the Real Estate Department of UBI Sistemi e Servizi, who is responsible for analysing the energy requirement and for taking action to optimise consumption and improve the energy efficiency of buildings and services. Sustainability governance provides opportunities for discussion and dialogue with stakeholders to identify their expectations in connection with the Group's activities. In drafting the Code of Ethics, UBI Banca has identified the major categories of stakeholders: customers, staff, investors, suppliers, communities (with particular reference to local communities), public authorities, operators on the financial market, the media and opinion leaders and organizations representing stakeholders' interests. Current activities in terms of consultations with stakeholders involve shareholders (through Shareholders’ Meetings held as provided in the Articles of Association, at least on an annual basis in connection with the publication of the financial statements, and meetings in the field with senior management in connection with significant events in the life of the Bank, such as the development and implementation of the Single Bank Project in 2017), operators on the financial market and the media (through investor and media relations activities, on an intensified basis in connection with important dates on the financial calendar), employees (through periodic consultations with trade union organizations and studies on organisational well-being), and customers (through customer satisfaction surveys conducted systematically during the year). 2017 2016 F IN AN CIAL CO MMUN ICATIO N 1 No. of No. of No. of No. of e v e nts conta cts e v e nts conta cts 2 Conference calls/presentations 6 822 5 812 International conferences 7 219 6 186 Road shows 17 182 10 99 Individual and group meetings 46 166 55 138 TO TAL 76 1 ,3 8 9 76 1 ,2 3 5 1 Events organised with investors and analysts of the share and with investors in debt instruments. The number of contacts are the number of interactions, which may even be with the same parties, at different events on different dates. 2 5 conference calls e 6 presentations (also attended by UBI Group employees) REL ATIO N W ITH THE PRESS 2017 2016 Press articles 95 64 of which: financial 60 38 informational 11 13 social / local initiatives 19 10 on products and services 5 3 Meeting 12 11 The main social and environmental issues brought to light in carrying out these activities in 2017 involved employment (covered by trade union agreements relating to the Single Bank Project and the acquisition of three New Banks), the commitment to the local economy and Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Corporate governance and risk management Pg.35 community (an issue addressed by shareholders in Shareholders' Meetings) and involvement in economic sectors which may be experiencing social difficulties (questions specifically involving the armaments sector raised by a shareholder, customers, and social organisations). These issues are already being addressed by the Bank and are discussed in this Report. Newspapers and periodicals Orientation of specialist press articles 5.0% 2.0% General national 10.0% 15.0% dailies 4.0% Financial national dailies 9.8% Positive Local dailies Negative Neutral Financial periodicals 68.2% Other publications 86.0% As concerns communication through the social media, initiatives are ongoing to enhance social public interest and interactions in these forums. More specifically, on Facebook, UBI Banca's activities focused on expanding its community to 244,000 fans (up 25% on the previous year), with more than 150 million UBI Banca content views (up 39% compared with 2016) reaching an average of 3 million persons each month. On Instagram, a number of activities were commenced leading to an annual growth of 37% in followers and a 32% increase in engagement through an additional 300 published content items. Our Linkedin editorial and recruiting activities for which Human Resources is responsible made it possible to reach 50,900 followers, including 4,800 employees, with a further 216,000 job vacancy views. Last, on Youtube, the UBI Banca channel in 2017 to all intents and purposes tripled the minutes of video viewing from just over 4 million to 11 million. In 2018 the Bank intends to introduce a programme for consultations with stakeholders more directly related to the management of important sustainability issues, to steer the incorporation of important environmental and social issues into the long-term strategies, in the framework of the Group's strategic planning process. Risk management [GRI 102-11 102-30:31] For a description of the internal control and risk management system, see the Report on corporate governance and the ownership structure of UBI Banca SpA in accordance with Art. 123-bis Consolidated Finance Act, contained in the Reports and Accounts 2017. The main risks and uncertainties to which the UBI Banca Group is exposed are analysed in the relative section of the Consolidated Management Report contained in Reports and Accounts 2017. With particular reference to non-financial risks described in the sub-section Material Issues in the Strategy section, the Chief Financial Officer is responsible for the process of the identification, measurement and management of these risks through the Corporate Social Responsibility function, in the framework of the process of identifying and managing sustainability issues of importance to the Group. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Corporate governance and risk management Pg.36 Respect for customers The changing competitive environment that banks must address through digital transformation and the consequent changes in customer behaviour and expectations are of growing strategic significance. The primary objective is now to attract and retain customers better than the competition and to do this we need to adopt a competitive strategy that can create and reinforce bonds of trust. From this point of view customer satisfaction with quality and the cost of the product or service provided are not the only factors affecting customer loyalty. Of equal importance are customer expectations relating to the intangible aspects of the relationship, including the perception of the transparency of contractual conditions, security and privacy in relationship management and the solutions provided for problems and emergencies. This is gaining further significance due to the establishment of a service model centred on a variety of digital channels that does not offer the same reassurance of direct personal contact and is increasingly tied to technologies that increase internet data flow and the security problems associated with it. It is also the opinion of the Bank of Italy that the quality of relationships between banks and their customers is a key strategic factor for the competitiveness and soundness of intermediaries and that good rules, effective self-regulation and correct behaviour are the cornerstones of customer protection. UBI Banca shares this vision and evaluates respect for customers from the viewpoints of security (in terms of business continuity, IT systems and physical security in branches); uniformity of products and services (in the sense of providing customers with transparent information); marketing communications (above all in terms of the proposals being appropriate to customer needs and profiles and the appropriateness of the promotional communications and the commercial contact), respect for privacy and, more generally, compliance with legislation and regulations – including voluntary codes of conduct – that govern the sale and use of products and services. In the Italian context, all these aspects are governed by specific legislation and regulations for the sector, that the Group incorporates into its internal regulations that it distributes to all employees on the corporate internet and covered on specific refresher courses. In particular, the Group has adopted an Internal policy for managing inducements 1, Guidelines on commercial practices aimed at consumers 2, a Regulation implementing Bank of Italy provisions on the transparency of banking and financial operations and services 3, a Policy for 1 The policy incorporates criteria to implement the obligation to act in the best interests of the customer and ensure that commercial information is correct and transparent. 2 The guidelines are intended to state behaviour relating to commercial practices more clearly, in compliance with the provisions of the Code of Conduct, providing relevant information about operating in compliance with the provisions of Title III of the Consumer Code. 3 This regulation implements Bank of Italy provisions which assume business relationships based on good faith and integrity and are intended to improve the effectiveness of transparency tools, regulate the behaviour of intermediaries in order to promote more considered customer choices in line with their financial requirements and make it easier to compare offers and promote competition in the market. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Respect for customers Pg.37 managing proposals to make unilateral changes to the terms and conditions for customers 4 and the Group product development and management policy5. The regulations are based on:  organisational controls overseen by the Chief Commercial Officer for management activities and first level controls and by the Chief Risk Officer, the manager responsible for the Compliance Function and the Chief Audit Executive for second level controls;  internal regulations (policies, regulations and rule books), in relation to the relevant aspects of the issue;  technical controls consisting of dedicated support platforms for commercial activities (e.g. identification of customers to which determined products and services should be offered on basis of an analysis of their particular life cycle and behavioural profile and thus any unmet financial needs) and protection devices on IT systems. UBI Banca uses its Customer Satisfaction Unit to monitor customer satisfaction and direct the activities of the Group on the basis of the quality of the customer experience 6. Health and safety [GRI 416-1] During 2017 activities to upgrade physical security assets in branches, emergency exits and medical emergency alarm systems equipment continued in accordance with Legislative Decree No. 81/08. Particular attention has also been paid to ATM attacks, due to which new pretested deterrence systems have been installed and new physical devices have been applied to prevent the removal of the ATM itself. Approximately 300 branches have been upgraded. In order to combat robberies more effectively a new remote management system for opening safes has been identified and tested with positive results and is scheduled for installation in 200 branches in 2018. THEF TS AN D RO B B ERIES 2 2016 2017 ( in clu d ed ATM) Th efts Rob b eries Total Th efts Rob b eries Total Events 35 25 60 64 18 82 Frequency Index1 1.6 1.7 3.3 2.8 1.1 3.9 Employees involved 0 138 138 0 179 179 1 Number of events every 100 branches. 2 Data don't include Banca Teatina. Protection [GRI 417-1 418-1 FS15] Transparency The Bank of Italy has issued specific provisions on the transparency of banking and financial operations and services. These set minimum and general standards for the preparation of the documentation used to provide customers with information (structure of the documents, essential information, choice of terminology, standardisation of some common types of 4 The policy contains the strategic guidelines and general principals that the UBI Group intends to adopt for exercising the right to unilaterally change the conditions of long term contracts with customers (termed the ius variandi). The main provisions for the implementation of this policy are included in the “Regulation implementing Bank of Italy provisions on the transparency of banking and financial operations and services”. 5 The policy establishes guidelines for the development and distribution of new products and the maintenance over time of catalogue products in order to interpret the needs and characteristics of intended customers accurately, consistent with the mission, strategy, business objectives and overall corporate architecture of the Group. 6 Reports and Accounts 2017, Consolidated Management Report Commercial activity, Customer satisfaction. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Respect for customers Pg.38 contract) and they also introduce obligations for banking and financial intermediaries as well as for the marketing of traditional banking services of an organisational or control nature for compliance with regulations governing transparency and integrity in relations with customers. In 2017 522 complaints were received in relation to communications and information sent to customers, out of an overall total of 15 thousand, in line with 2016 (639). In general the transparency rules complement those required by other areas of regulation concerning transparency and proper conduct towards customers including, for example, those relating to investment services, regulated by the Consolidated Finance Law, insurance products or the provisions of the Consumer Code. Product responsibility In this respect it is noted that in the field of banking and financial services product responsibility relates mainly to respect for the interests of customers in commercial and marketing practices and more broadly to the impact on customer well-being and the local economy. The principal relevant authorities, on the necessary assumption that the banking sector (including the producers and distributors of banking products and services) must take the needs of its customers into consideration when developing a product have issued specific guidelines to strengthen measures for the prevention of behavioural and operational errors in the management of the commercial portfolio that could cause serious damage to customers, with consequent negative repercussions on the relationship of trust between the customer and the bank and potential damage to market integrity. These provisions regulate the definition and implementation of suitability requirements for all banking products offered in relation to specific characteristics of the customer to whom the product is offered and require the suitability requirements to be maintained throughout the life cycle of the product and/or the relationship with the customer. In this context, the principle of suitability is defined, although with differing areas of application, for both the producers and distributors of offered products. More specifically, the Bank of Italy, in line with its consumer protection commitments, has started the process to implement the EBA Guidelines on product oversight and governance arrangements for retail banking products (supranational product governance guidelines), and provided for them to be added to the relevant regulatory provisions governing transparency and proper relationships with customers advanced for consultation from 8 th February 2018. With the entry into force of the MIFID II regulations on 3rd January 2018, similar provisions apply in relation to the offer and management of investment products and services. Finally, it should be taken into consideration that from 1st October 2018 (when the regulations relating to the Insurance Distribution Directive come into force) the principles concerning the suitability of the offer to the characteristics of the customer will also apply to the overall management of the life cycle of insurance products. UBI Group has a specific Product development and management policy in place defining strict and explicit rules for the development and distribution of new products and the maintenance of existing products. The policy requires the involvement of a variety of organisational units using their different areas of expertise to ensure the proper and effective performance of the process in order to pursue objectives of quality, technological innovation, competitiveness, and regulatory compliance, consistent with our mission, strategy, business goals and the overall corporate architecture of the Group. In view of the regulatory developments specific initiatives are underway for a detailed revision and updating of the current policy so that all the regulatory provisions that have already been issued or are currently being finalised. In developing and managing products, particular attention must be paid to reduce time to market and ensure that products and services are suitable for customer characteristics (e.g. age, profession, investment plans) and needs (e.g. financial, protection from risk), in addition to the adoption of organisational procedures to define: i) ways of identifying the market in question; ii) the product testing phase (designed to assess the market impact of new products in a variety of scenarios); iii) the monitoring phase (designed to ensure the continuing suitability of the products for the market in question and iv) corrective actions to resolve any critical issues found with the products. The producers will also have to choose suitable distribution channels for the specific intended markets of the products while the distributors will need to have sufficient knowledge of the intended markets and provide consumers with all the relevant information (product characteristics, risks and price). Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Respect for customers Pg.39 The characteristics and needs of customers are surveyed through special consultation and interview procedures (e.g. focus groups with customers and potential customers and with commercial distribution network staff) or systematic procedures (e.g. the “Consultation Project” customer satisfaction survey or complaints management) and through the analysis of competitors’ products and services (benchmarking). Active participation in observatories and working groups (e.g. through the Italian Banking Association) or research centre initiatives is also a source of useful comparisons and information about a variety of areas and particularly significant for those concerning the possibilities offered by new technologies. Private customers by lenght of the Corporate customers by length of relationship (average 18 years) relationship (average 11 years) 7.0% 3.1% 16.4% 38.7% Up to 1 year 18.2% Up to 1 year From 1 to 5 years From 1 to 5 years 35.4% From 6 to 10 years From 6 to 10 years 26.7% 16.6% From 11 to 20 years From 11 to 10 years Over 20 years Over 20 years 23.4% 14.5% The management of potential conflicts of interest in the provision of investment services is regulated by a specific Group policy, adopted some time ago in compliance with the EC MiFID Directive No. 2004/39/EC. An assessment is also made the case of UBI Comunità products for the Third Sector involving a donation made by UBI Banca (e.g. Social Bonds, Sicavs, Ethical Funds and Enjoy Social Edition), to check the relevant senior officers of the beneficiary organisations in order to discover any potential conflicts of interest and activate the procedures governed by the relevant internal regulations. IW bank has responded to the specific characteristics of its business, which differs in some areas from that of UBI Banca (e.g. evolved trading, an open platform for assets under management, etc.) by setting up a specific development and management process for its products and services, in addition to the procedure required at Group level. Particular attention is paid to the placement of complex financial products. The Risk Appetite Framework Policy for trading in, the placement and subscription of financial products establishes transparency, integrity, product quality and customer protection rules for the provision of financial instruments. In compliance with the recommendations of the Supervisory Authority, UBI Banca does not place products on the Consob “black list” on the primary market (Communication No. 0097996/14), because it considers that these are not appropriate to retail customers. These are products that, according to Consob recommendations, may be recommended or distributed to retail customers only after an assessment carried out by the intermediary on their appropriateness to the customer’s interests and on the availability of sufficient information to assess the main characteristics and the relative risks. Measures have also been taken in relation to the IW Bank online trading platforms, to prevent customers from dealing in complex products that are in the “black list”. Digital innovation activities to develop and expand the available range of multichannel services continued throughout the Group in 2017. The objective is to monitor, study and build the best services, using technology to achieve a better user experience in terms of ease-of-use and transparency. Protection of privacy Technological progress and the development of procedures for acquiring and processing data associated with the provision of services and sale of banking and other products to customers require increasing attention to protection of personal data, in order to ensure that private individuals are aware, well-informed and protected with regard to the use of their personal Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Respect for customers Pg.40 information by third parties. The protection and safeguarding of personal data involves all the organisational units in the Group, on the basis of their relations with the various counterparties and the personal information that is processed. Specific organisational units have been established within the Group to protect privacy. They are directly involved in the issue by, among other things, promoting a privacy culture, providing advice to units on an individual basis, organising training courses and monitoring compliance with the consent granted by customers for their data to be processed. Technical measures are also in place in order to ensure all aspects of data security and protection, ensuring that corporate processes will be operational even in emergency situations (disaster recovery), with a series of controls and periodic tests and continuous implementation and improvement activities to comply with changing regulatory requirements. Customer protection is also implemented by providing constant customer information on the adoption of appropriate anti-fraud measures when using internet and mobile banking services. In particular, the UBI.S IT Security & Business Continuity Department, acting for the whole Group and all the stakeholders concerned, continuously adopts appropriate measures for the protection of personal data, in accordance with Legislative Decree No. 196 of 30 th June 2003 (Privacy Code), security regulations and the highest standards in the industry. More specifically, it ensures the protection of IT systems from cyber attacks, IT Incidents, data breaches and fraud that could infringe the rights of interested parties. With regard to the acquisition and treatment of personal data for commercial purposes, respect for the rights, fundamental freedoms and dignity of those concerned is always ensured in compliance with Legislative Decree No. 196 of 30th June 2003 (Privacy Code) on the protection of personal data. Regulation EU No. 2016/679 (the General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, applicable in all countries of the European Union as of 25th May 2018) on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and also to the free circulation of that data, requires those concerned to further strengthen the protection of natural persons through the introduction of stringent new principles. In 2017 specific work groups, which remain operational, were established to adopt and implement the requirements of the GDPR that impact on the technological, organisational and process measures of the Group. With this in view, the UBI.S IT Security & Business Continuity Department, as part of the FroG Security project (FroG Framework for organisation and governance), revised and issued a Security Policy, Logical security regulations and specific Rule books, taking into account the organisational and process changes within the Group and the aforementioned external regulations. Finally, in November, the Parent UBI Banca appointed a Data Protection Officer (DPO), the new professional role required by the GDPR, and established a Data Protection service within the Compliance Area and on the Area staff. The service reporting to the Data Protection Officer takes an active part in the projects of the work groups mentioned above which, among other things, have started to update the corporate regulations to bring them into compliance with the requirements of the GDPR by issuing Privacy Regulations and updating the Protection of privacy rule book. Out of all the complaints received by UBI Banca in 2017 7, only 47 related to privacy and almost all of them (34) regarded cases of mandatory reporting of personal data on credit to institutional data banks (central credit bureaux: Centrale dei rischi, CRIF, etc.). No formal irregularities were reported concerning data treatment and no events occurred which resulted in the theft or loss of customer data. The fall recorded is partly attributable to the fact that, since this year, some requests that were not classifiable as complaints have progressively and more correctly been reallocated to and processed by the Compliance Area as part of the project for compliance with the new Italian and European regulations, with the creation of the role of Data Protection Officer. 7 Reports and Accounts 2017, Consolidated Management Report Other information, Complaint management. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Respect for customers Pg.41 Commitment to the local economy UBI Banca pursues a growth path which must develop hand-in-hand with that of the local economies it serves. Its mission is to use household savings to finance their life projects as well as entrepreneurial projects creating a virtuous circle between savings, consumption and investment, creating shared value, generating growth and well-being at the local level through the capacity to select and sustain confirmed economic realities and those that may be less robust but that entail a wealth of new opportunities and outlooks and to provide households, social organisations and enterprises with innovative services to address constantly-changing demands through specialised distribution structures. Considering the increasingly important role the civil economy plays in the country's economic and social development, with a considerable impact from the standpoint of employment and in meeting the requirements of the community, in 2011, UBI Banca created a service model available on an ad hoc basis to non-profit organizations with the brand of UBI Comunità. With UBI Banca's new organisational approach introduced in 2017, UBI Comunità became a commercial division under the Chief Commercial Officer, devoted to developing relations between public entities and the private social sector. Within UBI Comunità, the Third Sector and Civil Economy Service promotes and supports economic initiatives in partnership with the public, private and social private sectors, building on relationships and positive experiences, supporting high social impact investments and social entrepreneurship mechanisms to support development of local areas, communities and new supply chains, in which the Bank serves as a partner in the growth of both Church and non-Church non-profit organisations. In 2017, the Service was strengthened with the gradual introduction of a commercial force dedicated to the development and management of relations (the first 13 resources, specialised and adequately trained, were assigned to areas having higher concentrations of customers in the sector) and the commercial synergies cutting across different markets and sectors and involving relations with public players were reinforced. In response to the public welfare crisis and leveraging on incentives in terms of taxes and contributions provided under the current regulatory texts, UBI Banca was the first in Italy to structure a supply of corporate welfare services under the brand of UBI Welfare. Corporate welfare instruments are designed to meet the needs of workers and their families by integrating public services in the fields of health, pensions, education, leisure time and protection and to more effectively reconcile work and family life. It provides a substantial opportunity to make enterprises more competitive and to strengthen the purchasing power of the workers through improvements in productivity, the business climate, worker satisfaction, and the company's capacity to attract and retain talent. Responsibility for UBI Welfare is incumbent on the commercial division responsible for Welfare and Protection, reporting to the Chief Wealth & Welfare Officer established in 2016, having the following broader mission:  to adapt customer advisory services to planning of financial well-being for persons and households throughout the life cycle;  meeting key financial requirements in different phases of the life cycle for persons and their families, helping protect the quality of life in old age through an integrated, innovative and broad spectrum in asset management and insurance coverage;  incorporating an increasingly relevant supply of social, health care and welfare services. The framework of public entities is subject to constantly changing rules and is affected by changes in progress in Italy's structural policies, as well as the national economic situation. Accordingly, UBI Banca, through services, products and consulting offered by the UBI Comunità area, targeting entities, municipalities, universities, academic institutions, hospitals, provinces, and a variety of different institutions, serves in its capacity as a local Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Commitment to the local economy Pg.42 bank, generating positive impacts, through support for efficient management of services carried out by general government targeting the socioeconomic fabric. Local presence [FS7] The commitment to the local economy presumes the knowledge of the local economic realities that can only be gained through local presence. This factor is reflected in the features of the Group’s commercial network, which is present in small centres, 1 in the organisation of the distribution of branches into Macro Territorial Areas, and in the decentralised levels responsible for lending. 2 Indirect economic impacts [GRI 203-1:2 FS7] In connection with the value of local presence, business and credit policies must be applied to meet the real requirements of local economic transactors, and specifically small economic activities and small and medium-sized enterprises with the objective of promoting and sustaining the development of a sound economic and entrepreneurial fabric capable of generating economic and social value in the medium and long term. The transposition of Ministerial Decree No. 57/2014, which introduces the Legality Rating for enterprises, is part of this context, in light of the need to address corruption and other illegal activities. This text requires banks to take these ratings into account in order to reduce the time and costs involved in assessments, in determining the enterprise’s creditworthiness and relevant economic conditions for access to credit, when relevant in the credit reporting process. The rating is valid for two years and may be renewed on request by the enterprise involved. Ratings may range from a minimum of “one star” to a maximum of “three stars” on the basis of the requirements the enterprise meets. UBI Banca has introduced specific rules for considering Legality Ratings in regulating the processing and approval of credit lines. Depending on the time required in the process, the data on the business volume for agencies that have a Legality Rating will be published, as soon as they become available, in the Social Responsibility section of the Group's corporate website pursuant to the requirements under the regulatory texts governing transparency. Finance for development UBI Banca invests €97.2 billion, which directly exceeds direct funding by euro 2.8 billion. The additional funding needed was acquired as a result of the Group’s ability to tap the financial market and public-sector funds, some of which on concessional terms, specifically targeting small and medium-size enterprises.. The Consolidated management report reflects all of the Group's commercial activities with enterprises, reflecting the dynamics of the different economic sectors, in support of those in which the outlook is more favourable for growth and innovation. This is true for: (i) the Farm & Food activities in the agriculture and agro-food sector, which contribute substantially to the country's GDP through increasing world interest in Made in Italy brands, (ii) the UBI World programme to support Italian enterprises on foreign markets with the required financial assistance and support services for the international expansion of their activities and (iii) leveraged financing operations in the framework of Corporate & Investment Banking for special operations in connection with business ownership to support growth processes and assist in managing discontinuity issues. 1 Group profile 2 Reports and Accounts 2017, Consolidated management Report Commercial activities Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Commitment to the local economy Pg.43 Special loan pools are dedicated to support growth in new entrepreneurial ideas (Start-up Loans), female entrepreneurship (Invest in Women and Women in start-ups). In addition to these programmes, credit lines made available in collaboration with entities and institutions at the local, national and community levels, including trade associations and the associated guarantee bodies, the Guarantee Fund for SMEs pursuant to Law No. 662/1996, the European Investment Bank (EIB) and the European Central Bank (ECB) through participation in the TLTRO II long-term financing programme. 2017 2016 L O AN S TO SMAL L MEDIUM EN TERPRISES N u mb er Disb u rsed N u mb er Disb u rsed O p eration s of th e year of loan s (millions of euro) of loan s (millions of euro) 2015 Credit Accord 460 22.6 701 46.1 Italy Investment Projects CDP and developing businesses 459 22.6 696 45.4 Public Administration (PA) Credit ABI and Businesses and PA 1 0.0 5 0.7 Subsidised public sector funding 21,808 5,959.1 18,030 4,787.8 European Central Bank TLTROs 21,617 5,822.7 16,379 4,156.7 European Investment Bank 191 136.4 1,651 631.1 Cassa Deposito e Prestiti Guarantee bodies and guarantee funds 17,208 1,522.9 15,358 1,472.8 Loans backed by guarantee funds 11,192 628.8 9,503 787.2 SME guarantee fund Law No.662 5,747 888.2 5,600 679.5 Anti-usury credit lines 269 5.9 255 6.1 Group initiatives 25 0.7 127 3.7 SME development 8 0.4 56 1.8 Start-ups 17 0.4 71 1.9 Natural disasters 1,177 59.4 21 3.1 ABI/CDP reconstruction agreement 1,177 59.4 21 3.1 Female entrepreneurship 9 0.5 13 0.5 Invest in women 8 0.3 11 0.4 Women in start-ups 1 0.2 2 0.0 TO TAL 4 0 ,6 8 7 7 ,5 6 5 .2 3 4 ,2 5 0 6 ,3 1 3 .9 2017 2016 N u mb er Remain in g N u mb er Remain in g L O AN S TO SMAL L MEDIUM EN TERPRISES o f lo an s d eb t o f lo an s d eb t To tal o u tstan d in g (millions of euro) (millions of euro) 2015 Credit Accord 2,673 77.0 3,602 126.0 Italy Investment Projects CDP and developing businesses 2,672 77.0 3,597 125.3 Public Administration (PA) Credit ABI and Businesses and PA 1 0.0 5 0.7 Subsidised public sector funding 49,176 10,695.1 36,812 8,367.1 European Central Bank TLTROs 44,167 9,465.7 30,513 6,916.6 European Investment Bank 3,295 1,199.4 3,534 1,399.0 Cassa Deposito e Prestiti 1 1,714 30.0 2,765 51.5 (CDP – state controlled fund and deposit institution) Guarantee bodies and guarantee funds 68,327 4,233.0 52,533 3,481.4 Loans backed by guarantee funds 50,546 2,620.3 37,759 2,089.7 SME guarantee fund Law No.662 16,076 1,580.8 13,425 1,368.2 Anti-usury credit lines 1,705 31.9 1,349 23.4 Group initiatives 808 10.8 1,030 18.8 SME development 337 5.9 441 10.2 Start-ups 471 5.0 589 8.6 Natural disasters 1,349 74.3 33 4.4 ABI/CDP reconstruction agreement 1,349 74.3 33 4.4 Female entrepreneurship 40 1.1 37 1.2 Invest in women 28 0.6 23 0.7 Women in start-ups 12 0.5 14 0.5 TO TAL 1 2 2 ,3 7 3 1 5 ,0 9 1 .3 9 4 ,0 4 7 1 1 ,9 9 8 .8 1 The figure for 2016 has been restated following an update of the method used to calculate it. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Commitment to the local economy Pg.44 The Group's commitment to local economic development is embodied with operations to support households and enterprises in times of difficulty as a result of widespread economic crises and adverse natural events:  anti-crisis intervention based either on own or sector-wide initiatives entailing the deferment of principal repayment instalments on mortgages, loans and leases and the extension of the repayment schedules for mortgages and maturities for short-term loans or for agricultural working capital credit arrangements, agreements for advances on Cassa Integrazione Guadagni Straordinaria (the extraordinary state redundancy/lay-off scheme) benefits and waivers;  the fight against usury, with financing guaranteed in connection with arrangements with local foundations in support of persons at risk of usury (according to the criteria established under Article 15 of Law No. 108, as amended) and with pawn credit 3 arrangements for valuable objects, to address temporary financing requirements for employees as well as small traders and businesspersons;  operations in support of households and enterprises that have been hit by natural disasters or extreme weather through membership in system initiatives and with the application of the legislative measures providing allocations to dedicated financing pools; in light of the high social impact of these activities, UBI has joined the ABI-CDP Central Italy 18/11/2016 Earthquake Facility and the Central Italy 03/07/2016 Earthquake Moratorium Facility. 2017 2016 DEF ER R AL /EXTEN SIO N O F MO R TGAGES TO O p eratio n s o f th e year O p eratio n s o f th e year HO USEHO L DS R emain in g R emain in g N u mb er N u mb er d eb t d eb t Initiatives bank 2,637 (millions of247.3 euro) 6,266 (millions of476.2 euro) System initiatives (ABI) 731 58.3 48 5.2 TO TAL 3 ,3 6 8 3 0 5 .6 6 ,3 1 4 4 8 1 .4 2017 2016 O p eratio n s o f th e year O p eratio n s o f th e year DEF ER R AL /EXTEN SIO N O F MO R TGAGES TO R emain in g R emain in g SMAL L MEDIUM EN TER PR ISES N u mb er d eb t N u mb er d eb t (millions of euro) (millions of euro) Initiatives bank 1,882 507.3 3,469 801.0 System initiatives (ABI) 2,242 199.8 530 174.1 TO TAL 4 ,1 2 4 7 0 7 .1 3 ,9 9 9 9 7 5 .1 UBI Welfare for Labour The broadest objective of UBI Banca is to build a welfare ecosystem that can meet new needs of enterprises, persons, and local communities with a true grassroots network, a well-being system with comprehensive coverage to supplement the State welfare system. A network that also creates interesting opportunities for organizations in the third sector such as corporate 3 Pawn credit is one of the most ancient forms of lending practiced by the “Monti di Pietà” banks created in the 15th Century by the Franciscans to combat usury, still today the last real resort in access to credit. This business is carried out in nine branches in the towns and cities of Milan, Pavia, Bergamo, Varese, Monza, Como, Brescia, Crema and Rome; and from 23rd October 2017, in Fossombrone, Pesaro e Macerata, three branches for pawn activities deriving from the former Ex Nuova Banca Marche. During 2017, the average volume of lending was equal to approximately €33.2 million with approximately 28,112 policies; the average loan granted was approximately €1,180. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Commitment to the local economy Pg.45 welfare service and benefit providers (improved productivity, competitiveness, business climate, and ability to attract and keep talent), for workers and their families (higher satisfaction levels, enhanced purchasing power and a better work-life balance). Against this backdrop, confirming proven practices, UBI Banca intends to propose return welfare by combining individual economic objectives with those of general interest through support for initiatives providing high levels of social benefits in which this new service receives a share of the returns. In partnership with DoubleYou Srl (a Zucchetti Group company), the first Italian software company in Europe, the UBI Welfare Service includes a computer platform and a package of services in connection with management of corporate welfare plans. These services provide an extremely simple approach to managing flexible benefits, alternative forms of compensation (tax-free goods and services and management of performance bonuses) that can be personalised and adapted to any business size and requirements. At December 2017, 291 corporate customers had joined the UBI Welfare Service, involving a total of 7,300 employees. Moreover, in this framework, liaison and development activities were undertaken with the key entrepreneurial associations, leading to the signing of a number of collaboration arrangements. The feedback has been very positive in terms of the appreciation of and interest in the proposal. Similarly, Cassa Assistance Azienda Italia was established to provide assistance to non-profit organisations according to the principles of mutuality and solidarity. The Cassa provides direct disbursements and/or reimbursements for services, compensation, health benefits, assistance and social benefits, comprehensive health care, supplementary and/or replacement National Health Service benefits for registered persons and their beneficiaries, and through the execution of appropriate insurance policies. UBI Banca has concurrently supported the establishment of an Observatory to monitor trends in corporate welfare and related topics, to promote knowledge and dissemination of instruments provided under Law No. 2016/2017 on Stability. These instruments are designed to improve industrial relations and the business climate in general, to increase productivity and wage purchasing power, while monitoring the spread of good practices and their repercussions on the local social and economic fabric. UBI Comunità for growth in the third sector UBI Comunità, which is dedicated to the realities of the third sector and the civil economy, strengthens and diversifies support for the activities of a number of different non-profit organizations, promoting and supporting investments in projects with the capacity to produce social impacts, and supporting initiatives with substantial social value to assist the weakest sectors with appropriately structured products and services. With deposits of €2.4 billion and €0.8 billion at end-June 2017, the Group holds a share of deposits and lending activities with non-profit organisations far outstripping the figures in the system. Deposits from non profit Gross lending to the non profit sector to organizations as percentage total gross lending to the private sector of total deposit 3.74% 0.96% 0.95% 0.94% 3.59% 3.57% 3.63% 3.64% 3.51% 0.78%0.85% 0.89% 0.87% 3.49% 0.59% 0.60% 0.61% 0.60% 0.58% 0.55% 0.55% 1.66% 1.74% 1.74% 1.71% 1.74% 1.72% 1.77% 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Sector UBI Group Sector UBI Group BASTRA data on sub-group 51 (non-profit organisations). Deposits are comprised of current accounts, deposits and certificates of deposit. Lending to the private sector excluding general government. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Commitment to the local economy Pg.46 To support the spread and strengthening of social entrepreneurship through credit instruments, in 2012-with the issue of a dedicated Social bond-UBI Banca launched collaboration with CGM and CGM Finance to promote and accelerate mechanisms of social innovation and economically sustainable growth of social cooperatives and consortiums in connection with banking instruments and services under concessional conditions; at end2017, 27 loans were granted in a total amount of more than €6 million. For that purpose, during the fourth quarter of 2017, UBI Banca was the first banking institution to join the ABI-CDP Convention of the Ministry of Economic Development 4 of 8thy July 2018 on the Revolving fund to support enterprises operating in social economic sectors. At the end of the year, the Bank obtained a new €50 million Social Activities MBIL financing facility from the European Investment Bank (EIB).5 The signing of the Convention with the MISE was made possible with a combination of the expertise of the Concessional Financing Unit, enabling the immediate transfer of established experience in other areas of UBI Communità in terms of internal measurements techniques and instruments to assess creditworthiness. In this context, social impact assessment (for which UBI Banca applies the social return on investment—SROI methodology to projects in connection with Social Bonds) becomes particularly relevant, as a proxy for value of social enterprises, and as a fundamental element to define their eligibility for access to concessional financing that banks are required to verify and measure. UBI Banca has developed a specialised methodology for assessing creditworthiness, so that the specialised features of various third sector entities (ETS) can be most effectively understood and assessed, through the acquisition of qualitative and quantitative information useful in expanding the social nature and impact of their activities (intangible assets). During 2017, in connection with operators in the sector, the Reporting form for third sector entities and the Detailed information form on loan applications from third-sector entities were updated and implemented. These two instruments support the commercial network and provide feedback on internal assessments of business opportunities and evidence on creditworthiness and financial and economic sustainability, that can also be used to define conditions to be applied to financing, potentially with an “incentive” approach depending on the levels of autonomy defined in the business policies. In banking services, during 2017, the marketing was launched for new Non-profit enterprise formula packages dedicated to third sector entities, divided into four lines with increasing fees and diversified services to reflect the size and various operational requirements of individual third sector entities. The new approach is designed to simplify the contractual, procedural and commercial proposal process by providing for each package a set number of products selected to meet the different levels of complexity in the customer’s requirements. In support of the funding requirements for non-profit organizations, UBI Banca has developed innovative investment instruments such as Social Bonds and Open-end investment company (SICAV)/UBI Pramerica Ethical Funds (see section on Commitment to the Community) and initiatives to involve employees and customers in dedicated instruments such as the Solidarity credit, UBI Pay and Payroll Giving. 6 4 The Convention establishes the terms and mechanisms for submitting concessional financing applications provided under the Decree of 3rd July 2015 of the Minister of Economic Development on granting of concessional financing (70% at the concessional rate of 0.50% with CDP funds and 30% at market rates with bank funds) designed strictly for social enterprises, social cooperatives, and related consortiums, with total funding of €200 million from the Revolving fund to support enterprises and investments in research (FRI) managed by the Cassa Depositi e Prestiti. The Convention is applicable only to credit institutions meeting specific requirements in terms of the adoption of specific valuation methodologies and/or the volume of financing granted to the target in reference. 5 Medium and long-term financing under advantageous conditions with terms of up to 20 years supported with concessional funding of investments with social implications developed by public, private and private social entities. The formal establishment and start-up of the facility is planned during the first quarter of 2018. 6 The Solidarity credit enables clients having Qui UBI and Qui UBI Affari services to send transfers to third sector entities free of charge; UBI Pay is an application that makes it possible to send money free Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Commitment to the local economy Pg.47 Last, to improve the skills and knowledge of operators in the non-profit sector, during the latter half of the year, UBI Comunità promoted the organization of a number of local arrangements designed to enhance the most significant new features introduced under the Third Sector Reform, considering that the benefits of the reform may also lead to growth and development in the non-profit sector and in Italy's system in general. Project finance for infrastructures UBI Banca's Corporate & Investment Banking Division, which operates in the Investment Banking instruments and services and Large Corporate Customer Management sectors, through specialised Structured Finance units, contributes to support infrastructure investments in Italy, a vitally important sector in the development and growth of the local economic and social fabric, assessing the key projects submitted in both the public and private sectors of renewable energy, transportation (roads, metropolitan railways and airports), services (water and gas networks) and health (hospitals). During 2017, UBI Banca's presence was particularly important in initiatives for the restructuring of existing financing and in support of the investment plans for a number of major airport infrastructures. UBI Banca has participated in financing from SAVE, which manages a number of airports in Northern Italy and in the financing of 21 Aeroporti SpAs and the subsidiary Gesac, which manages the Naples Capodichino Station, the first investment in the sector by F2i, which is the largest Italian infrastructure fund (the shareholders include Cassa Depositi e Prestiti—CDP), Intesa Sanpaolo and Unicredit Group). PR O JECT F IN AN CE ACTIVITIES 2017 2016 F in an cin g g ran ted d u rin g th e year Numbers of contracts 5 6 Amount authorised (€ million) 164 178 Amount disbursed (€ million) 61 145 F in an cin g o u tstan d in g at th e en d o f th e year Numbers of contracts 28 24 Amount authorised (€ million) 1,002 968 Amount disbursed (€ million) 741 726 2017 2016 IN F R ASTR UCTUR ES PR O JECT F IN AN CE O PER ATIO N S IN PO R TF O L IO N u mb er N u mb er Hospitals 5 5 Highways 6 6 Metropolitan railways 1 1 Gas transports networks 5 4 Airports 5 2 Other 6 6 TO TAL 28 24 General government services During the year, activities designed to improve the Treasury and Cash Service for the managed entities by providing technical and specialised advice, promoting the adoption of efficient solutions and simplified operations, promoting the use of innovative platforms (SIOPE+ and PAGO PA) and supporting digitisation processes. There are three main areas of activity: The Treasury and Cashier Service that manages 2,132 entities, including municipalities, schools, hospitals, provinces and regions and universities; of charge through the Jiffy interbank system using smart phones; Payroll giving is a function that UBI employees can use if they decide to donate designated amounts (such as €10) through payroll giving. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Commitment to the local economy Pg.48  The Treasury and Cashier Service that manages 2,132 entities, including municipalities, schools, hospitals, provinces and regions and universities;  the Ordinativo Informatico [IT Ordinance], which enables entities to reduce operational risks and rationalize time required to execute services, saving useful time that can be devoted to functions of public utility (72% of all transactions are now managed using this procedure);  the release of credits in connection with government suppliers, for which, in synergy with the competent units and resources of the Bank, a process designed to promote and simplify its used was developed and organised. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Commitment to the local economy Pg.49 Enhancement and well-being of personnel The digital transformation in progress in all economic sectors, particularly in the banking sector, entails a profound change in the business model, with a sharp acceleration in the digitisation of distribution processes and channels. Against this backdrop, the optimisation of the work force and the reduction of labour costs are priority objectives, as investments and activities to increase and optimise human resources, by attracting better talent, which is increasingly dependent not only on economic aspects of labour relations, but also labour satisfaction in general, which requires shared values, opportunities for professional growth, conditions for well-being in the work place, and the reconciliation of private and professional life. Accordingly, “organisational well-being” is a significant objective of the Group, particularly with policies and processes designed for substantial, and not merely formal, action in terms of regulatory texts governing labour health and safety. This is also pursued with the knowledge that a competitive advantage will be achieved as a result of higher productivity and improved worker performance (less absenteeism and staff turnover and greater customer satisfaction), and that society in general will save both tangible and intangible social costs deriving, for example, from accidents, operating errors, legal disputes, insurance claims, litigation, and care expenses. The scientific literature has shown that organisational well-being is closely associated with factors such as the corporate climate, the commitment of employees, labour satisfaction and work-life balance. Personnel management is incumbent on the Human Resources Area, which reports to the Chief Operating Officer, based on established processes and practices aligned with best practices at the national and international levels, although without formally-established policies. The Top Employer Italia certification, confirmed for 2017, acknowledges UBI Banca's excellence in the working conditions it offers its employees, in training and development policies at all corporate levels and human resource management strategies. On the regulatory level, conditions for employment and occupational health and safety are governed and treated specifically in the framework of the 231/2001 Model that provides special administrative formalities, controls and monitoring in connection with the hiring of personnel from third countries (in connection with the offense of employing irregular immigrants) and oversight of labour health and safety. With particular reference to the latter topic, UBI Banca (as the Italian legislator with Legislative Decree No. 81/2008 Art. 2 (o), draws from the definition of the World Health Organization (WHO) according to which “Health is a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity”. In the framework of the sustainability management process, during 2018, a comprehensive review is planned of the corporate texts (policies, regulations and rulebooks) so that any requirements to include formally established policies now based on rules under contractual arrangements or corporate policies at the implementing level can be identified. Employment and turnover [GRI 401-1 202-2] During 2017, in a context characterised by persistent complex economic and market conditions, initiatives were carried on aiming to optimise efficiency and profitability and to reduce labour costs according to social sustainability criteria applicable to organisational and management operations. In fact, operations are consistently carried out under arrangements with the trade union organisations that provide oversight mechanisms for the redeployment of staff involved in reorganization plans and the use of voluntary flexible labour arrangements Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Enhancement and well-being of personnel Pg.50 and early retirement incentives combined with the implementation of generational turnover plans. The change of role and retraining processes are accompanied by special training programmed, with a view to enhancing human and professional resources. IN TR AGR O UP MO B IL ITY 2017 2016 o f w h ich o f w h ic h (Displacements with contract detachment co n trac t c o n trac t or transfer) 1 TO TAL tran sfers TO TAL tran sfers Men 10,390 5,641 2,239 1,949 Women 6,982 3,467 1,699 1,549 TO TAL 1 7 ,3 7 2 9 ,1 0 8 3 ,9 3 8 3 ,4 9 8 1 This information derives from the Single Bank Project on incorporation of the New Banks (infragroup movement) and ordinary infragroup mobility. Operations impacting personnel dynamics are reflected in the generational turnover activities provided under the Business Plan that defines the integration of 1,100 new resources during the three-year period 2017-2019. In accordance with trends in the distribution model and the effort to simplify operations, the hiring of personnel from the external market mainly aims to incorporate young new graduates, and when required, those having distinctive specialised skill profiles not present in the Group to contribute to the development of new skills and professional capacities. 2017 2016 APPO IN TMEN TS TO TAL W O MEN TO TAL W O MEN On temporary contracts 536 278 248 140 Permanent 169 65 254 119 TO TAL 705 343 502 259 2017 2016 CO N TRACT TR AN SF O R MATIO N S TO TAL W O MEN TO TAL W O MEN From apprentices 0 0 3 2 Other 104 65 150 83 TO TAL 104 65 153 85 Geographical distribution of To enhance the attractiveness of the company, appointments and staff leaving The Group's Employer branding strategy provides a constant presence in universities in 1089 the reference areas where hiring is concentrated, and effective use of digital communication channels in the form of 594 notices that can be used to attract active 360 candidates, and through targeted campaigns that are also effective in attracting passive 204 66 36 72 candidates. Testimonials, guidelines and 9 social media posts have also helped improve North Center South and Islands Abroad the spread of knowledge of UBI Banca as a Appointments Staff leaving valid employment option. In terms of the hiring of professional and senior management personnel, the desirable profiles are predominantly local, in this case, in areas where the Group's offices, target activities and control operations are located. In 2017, 16 new senior managers were hired from the external market, of which 68.8% are residents in Lombardy. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Enhancement and well-being of personnel Pg.51 Appointments and staff leaving by Appointments and staff leaving position by age 744 929 666 752 526 614 163 149 152 75 44 29 16 1 Senior managers Middle managers Office workers in Under 30 years From 30 to 50 From 50 to 60 Over 60 years professional areas years years Appointments Staff leaving Appointments Staff leaving 2017 2016 STAF F L EAVIN G TO TAL W O MEN TO TAL W O MEN Business Plan reductions 1 1 ,3 2 6 444 435 111 of which: “solidarity fund” 1 ,2 5 4 426 403 102 incentivised redundancies 72 18 32 9 Voluntary resignations 144 44 98 33 End of contract 160 80 91 58 Retirement 4 0 18 6 Dismissal 9 1 7 2 Other 82 30 14 4 TO TAL 1 ,7 2 5 599 663 214 1 The reductions of 1,326 positions during 2017 under the Business Plan do not reflect the 53 terminations in connection with the New Banks during the period 1st January until 31st March 2017. Generational turnover activities primarily involved terminations (1,254) in connection with the early departure plan implemented under the trade union agreements signed on 11th December 2016 and subsequent arrangements. At the Group level, they include acquisitions and transfers of business sectors. The substitution index was equal to approximately 41 percent, corresponding to one incoming resource for every two departures. Women accounted for 34.70% of the personnel leaving and 63.13% of those leaving were working in locations in Northern Italy. Voluntary turnover was substantially unchanged at 0.8% as against 0.6% in 2016 and 0.7% in 2015. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Enhancement and well-being of personnel Pg.52 2017 2016 R ATE N EW EMPL O Y EE HIR ES R ATE N EW N EW AN D TUR N O VER EMPL O Y EE 2 EMPL O Y EE 2 TUR N O VER TUR N O VER 1 1 HIR ES HIR ES B y p o sitio n Senior managers 4.3% 11.8% 2.6% 3.2% Middle managers 0.9% 8.7% 0.5% 3.8% Other personnel 4.9% 7.5% 4.7% 3.8% B y g en d er Men 2.9% 9.1% 2.3% 4.2% Women 3.8% 6.6% 3.8% 3.1% B y ag e Under 30 48.1% 14.9% 41.0% 8.5% 30 to 50 1.2% 1.2% 1.3% 1.0% 50 to 60 0.4% 10.4% 0.2% 3.7% over 60 0.1% 71.2% 0.2% 26.3% B y g eo g rap h ic al area North 4.3% 7.9% 3.4% 3.9% Central 1.2% 6.6% 0.4% 2.2% South and Islands 1.7% 9.9% 1.0% 4.1% Abroad 15.3% 122.0% 12.9% 10.5% TO TAL 3 .3 % 8 .1 % 2 .9 % 3 .8 % 1 Ratio appointments by category on total employees by category at the end of the year. 2 Ratio staff leaving by category on total employees by category at the end of the year. Average seniority is 19.94 years for men and Lenght of service 18.3 for women, while the overall average seniority is 19.3 years. 13.3% over 30 years 17.6% During 2018, operations to rationalise the 15.8% organisation of the structures and strengthen 21 to 30 years 24.5% 27.2% the network continued with the optimisation 26.0% of the work force defined in the organisational 35.6% structure and the new distribution model: 11 to 20 years 33.1% 34.2% searches on the external market, in addition 26.6% to a substantial investment to introduce a 0 to 10 years 22.1% 24.0% significant number of young digital natives into the business structures, will be targeting WOMEN MEN TOTAL the new professions deriving from the digital transformation and the reinforcement of the government structures that maintain relations with the market regulators and those who supervise the maintenance of and developments in ICT systems. Benefit e work-life balance [GRI 401-2:3] In order to protect the health and well-being of the personnel, a number of contractually defined mechanisms are provided for all the employees of the group. Benefit All employees receive a package of benefits in connection with:  collective welfare plans including pension, health and insurance coverage under the relevant regulations;  child assistance and canteen benefits to provide meals as well as sports and recreational activities; Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Enhancement and well-being of personnel Pg.53  preferential conditions for access to different products and services offered by the Bank/company.  passenger transport services between the main management headquarters and financial support for geographical mobility In the preparation of corporate welfare plans, UBI Banca aims to harmonize at the group level the various forms of supplementary pension and assistance benefits and existing staff insurance policies so that adequate levels of benefits are provided in the different companies of the Group. In support of younger colleagues as they enter the work force, regulations were introduced to enhance the corporate contribution to supplementary pension schemes and first-homepurchase incentives. Additional welfare benefits are supported through the reimbursement of certain incurred household expenses (e.g. schools of all types and at all levels, campus expenses, textbooks, canteen services and care for elderly family members) or through education/recreation and sports services provided by the Bank. 2017 2016 CO STS IN CURRED CO STS IN CURRED 1 N O . USER S N O . USER S SER VICES AN D CO N CESSIO N S F O R EMPL O Y EES (thousands of euro) (thousands of euro) 2 Children's nurseries 72 336 70 344 of which: Bergamo 46 0 46 0 Brescia 4 0 3 0 Milan 10 0 10 0 Jesi 12 0 11 0 Summer recreational center for children 304 47 160 46 of wich Bergamo 175 24 98 22 Brescia 129 22 62 24 Shuttle coach service 0 899 0 764 3 Company cultural and recreational clubs 19,055 474 21,250 339 of which for: sport 3,485 0 2,956 0 tourist activities 2,614 0 2,383 0 cultural activities 6,126 0 5,031 0 recreational activities 5,376 0 9,294 0 activities and services for children 1,454 0 1,586 0 Supplementary pensions and insurance 0 58,816 0 50,118 Study grants and contributions to families 0 4,410 0 4,797 TO TAL CO STS 0 6 4 ,9 8 2 0 5 6 ,4 0 9 1 The New Banks are not included as a result of reporting problems 2 Places availables: 46 in Bergamo, 20 in Brescia, 12 in Milan and Jesi. 3 Cral BPA, Cral BPB, Cral BPCI, Cral CARIME, Circolo del Personale BRE and G.I.D UBI Banca, BVC, Cral Stiamo in contatto. Work-life balance mechanisms During the year, some aspects of social and corporate welfare policy were structurally regulated to promote an optimal balance between the Bank's technical, organizational and Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Enhancement and well-being of personnel Pg.54 productive requirements and personal, family and working time for employees, using flexible arrangements such as part-time, reduced or suspended working arrangements, time banking and smart working. With particular reference to the reduction or suspension of working hours with the objective of combining the requirements to curb staff costs and meet the needs of family and personal life, an agreement was reached with trade unions to allow recourse to partially paid “voluntary leave”, which resulted in around 140,000 days of leave been taken during the course of the whole of 2017. In particular, smart working, used by approximately 300 persons, represents an innovative labour solution that promotes the reconciliation of private and professional dimensions along with productivity and environmental sustainability. With reference to part-time contracts, requests, durations and returning from maternity/pregnancy/postpartum leave and organisational mobility are covered definitively at the regulatory level. More specifically, priority is given to substantiated requests and, in particular, to those justified by the need to care for children or other minors in legal custody (within the age limits of the elementary school certificate) or when the applicants provide serious family and/or health reasons involving the health of the applicant, spouse, family members of the first degree, cohabitants and persons in legal custody. Where work suspension for maternity/paternity is concerned, measures have been introduced to protect organizational mobility for workers and flexible hours compatible with the requirements of their jobs. In 2017 approximately 7,000 employees (54.8% women) took leave for maternity reasons and to care for their children, for study or other personal needs. 2017 2016 L EAVE DAY S TO TAL MEN W O MEN TO TAL MEN W O MEN Maternity and childcare 68,016 4,332 63,684 59,093 4,102 54,991 Study 898 439 459 878 469 409 Other personal needs 17,922 7,808 10,114 13,703 6,735 6,968 TO TAL 8 6 ,8 3 6 1 2 ,5 7 9 7 4 ,2 5 7 7 3 ,6 7 4 1 1 ,3 0 6 6 2 ,3 6 8 Particular attention has been devoted to the situations of employees directly or indirectly in disability circumstances, by introducing an experimental supplementary allowance in addition to the paid leave provided under Law No. 104. In addition, staff members certified to have disabilities of more than 70% are eligible for a corporate contribution in addition to their supplementary coverage. Since 2002, households of active and retired employees who have disabled children who are not self-sufficient may be eligible for support from the Clematis Onlus Association (www.clematisonlus.org), established on the initiative of a group of employees and supported financially by the Group. The Association executed an insurance arrangement to cover disabled children in case of the death of both parents with a comprehensive income of €12,000 per annum subject to revaluation and providing families with rehabilitative training and assistance allowances. 70 households have subscribed to the insurance arrangement, including 35 families of retired staff members, benefiting 73 disabled children. Parental leave On the topic of leave for the birth or adoption of children, the Group complies with Italian law on parental leave, which provides a mandatory leave period for women employees for two Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Enhancement and well-being of personnel Pg.55 months prior to the estimated birth date and three months after the birth and an optional period of absence1. CO MPUL SO R Y PAR EN TAL L EAVE 2017 2016 Employees taking leave during the year 402 328 of which: still on leave at the end of the year 136 115 returned from leave during the year 266 213 resigned on return from leave 0 0 Employees in work 12 months after leave ended 218 231 1 Rate of return 100.0% 100.0% 2 Retention rate 102.3% 98.7% 1 At the end of the parental leave. 2 One year after the end of the parental leave. O PTIO N AL PAR EN TAL L EAVE 2017 2016 Employees taking leave during the year 737 546 of which women 90.1% 88.3% Occupational health and safety [403-1:4] UBI Group is not limited strictly to the formal observance of the regulatory texts. Instead, it aims for ongoing improvement, with the adoption of an Occupational Health and Safety Management System (SGSLS) drawing from the UNI-INAIL Guidelines and constituting the practical implementation of the guidelines provided under Model 231. The Health and Safety Management System (SGSL) provides, to supplement the mandatory regulatory content, further verification of the performance and efficacy of corporate processes in the correct implementation of the regulatory texts, coordinated by the designated SGLS Manager. This role is incumbent on the pro tempore manager of the parent company's Labour Prevention and Protection function. Health and safety policies, governed by Legislative Decree No. 81/2008 and addressed more specifically under the Health and Safety Management System Regulations (SGSL), are applicable to all companies in the Group operating in Italy. The Regulations were approved in October 2014 and the policies, based on the positive and negative aspects of the health monitoring activities conducted by competent physicians, are still considered to be valid. Responsibilities in this connection are concentrated with the UBI Banca's Occupational Prevention and Protection Function which operates directly on the staff of the Chief Operating Officer, who formally serves as the Employer's Health and Safety Officer. The implementing regulations for corporate policies in this connection break down the tasks and responsibilities of the various players and corporate units of the Group involved in the implementation of policies and processes for staff involvement; communication flows between the various units and mechanisms to integrate the SGSL into the corporate processes; mechanisms for planning, monitoring, and periodic re-examination of the efficacy of the system provided in the UNI-INAIL Guidelines. 1 Natural parents have the right to optional leave (if the employment relationship is continuous) up to the first 12 years of the life of a child, for a period of between two and not more than 10 months that can be increased to 11 if the working father takes leave from work for either a continuous or staggered period of not less than three months. That total period can be taken by the parents even simultaneously. period of not less than three months. That total period can be taken by the parents even simultaneously. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Enhancement and well-being of personnel Pg.56 In accordance with Article 35 of Legislative Decree No. 81/2008, all companies have provisions for periodic meetings between company representatives (the Employer and its representatives), the manager and agents of the Prevention and Protection Service, the competent physician, and the Labour Representatives for Safety, when applicable. The Head of the Prevention and Protection Service is also periodically called to meet with the 231 Supervisory Bodies and participates in the activities of Health and Safety Working Group established within the framework of the Trade Union and Labour Directorate of the Italian Banking Association (ABI). All activities carried out have the twofold objectives of ensuring the regulatory compliance while reducing operational risks, reflecting cost savings deriving from the reduction in accidents and the lower insurance rates that the INAIL grants to companies providing evidence that they have adopted proper prevention and protection practices for occupational risks. First, prevention is guaranteed through ongoing adequacy checks of the workplaces and equipment, carried out periodically by personnel of the Prevention and Protection Service, through inspections of the various operating units throughout the country. More specifically, a checklist is used to identify the operational priorities based on “magnitude of risk” ratings assigned to individual situations of noncompliance identified during the inspections. For the New Banks, prior to the finalization of their acquisition, the Labour Prevention and Protection function was subjected to off-site supervision to ensure that the essential compliance requirements were present in the area of prevention, notwithstanding the maintenance within each legal entity of responsibilities incumbent on the parties provided in each case by the preventative legislation (employers, any agents they may have, heads of prevention and protection units, and the competent physician). Following the formal integration of these banks, the management model in force with the UBI Group was extended to all of the operational units acquired. The alignment of information on the effective level of workplace compliance is ensured by a special on-site monitoring activity carried out by a specific task force coordinated by UBI's Labour Prevention and Protection function, which will prepare a report to be submitted to the employer with a view to the adoption of a specific improvement plan. Given the importance in terms of prevention that the activities of the external suppliers (installation and maintenance workers), the relevant technical specifications have also been fine-tuned and the relevant contractors are required to provide more detailed documentation on the compliance of their activities and to adapt their IT procedures already available to staff of the Group so that any new risks and/or malfunctions can be reported. Projects to build new premises or to refurbish existing premises involve prior examination of documents by the Prevention and Protection Service, which programmed on-site conformity inspections on completion of the works and the entry into service of the premises. The employers of the Group companies, based on the evidence collected by the Prevention and Protection Service inherent in both the conditions of the workplace and health and safety training requirements, will prepare an Operational improvement plan to be submitted to the corporate entities directly involved in its practical implementation, for which periodic, formal reporting is requested. From the more specific viewpoint of health, the activities of corporate physicians provide continuous monitoring of the state of health of personnel and the healthiness of working environments both by means of the annual plan of periodic checkups for staff (compulsory health screening by law) and by on-site inspections of working environments. Staff may also report specific problems to the corporate physician by means of a dedicated and confidential email address. Other important aspects include work-related stress assessment, conducted and monitored, amongst other things, by means of the subjective perceptions of employees by means of special questionnaires and the management of the impacts of criminal events to which distribution network staff in particular are exposed. The progressive emergence of a new type of aggression, mainly verbal, but also physical perpetrated by customers as a consequence of a deterioration in their socio-economic conditions and connected with more rigid rules for granting credit has resulted in the extension of psychological assistance to include these situations as well. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Enhancement and well-being of personnel Pg.57 Fortunately, in 2017 as well, cases effectively observed were extremely insignificant in terms of numbers and severity. Training (52,607 hours in 2017) is another essential component of prevention to ensure that the concept of Participatory security is as widespread as possible. The training programmed are prepared in co-operation with UBI Academy and the corporate physicians with account taken of the different levels of risk to which employees are exposed as a function of their individual roles. Their level of completion by each employee is monitored through an integrated information system that can be used to program and report on training activities in each business. 2017 2016 TR AIN IN G O N HEAL TH AN D SAF ETY 1 1 PAR TICIPAN TS SESSIO N S HO UR S PAR TICIPAN TS SESSIO N S HO UR S Video terminal workers 1,025 1 999 816 1 796 Emergency personnel 556 48 5,139 431 28 3,355 of which : fire prevention 230 20 1,200 245 17 1,148 first aid 326 28 3,939 186 11 2,207 New recruits 109 2 409 2 Safety figures 472 13 1,810 348 13 1,486 Robbery risk 1,895 71 10,056 2,048 86 12,121 Other (updates) 13,344 84 34,194 8,195 90 16,084 3 TO TAL 1 7 ,4 0 1 2 1 9 5 2 ,6 0 7 1 1 ,8 3 8 218 3 3 ,8 4 2 1 Data of FAD courses are calculated as 1 session. 2 Training for senior managers, safety officers, company trade union representatives, etc. 3 The total number of participants is the sum of the different rows; however, the total persons trained is not represented as the same persons may have participated in more than one course in different contexts. A total of 14,014 persons were trained in 2017 (available from Table 401-1 to (5) Detailed listing of regulatory training ) PR EVEN TIO N AN D ASSISTAN CE ACTIVITY 2017 2016 Medical visists 1,743 1,298 On site inspections 467 343 Training courses (number of partecipants) 17,401 11,838 Evacuation drills with assistance 35 34 Environment monitoring 177 16 Post-robbery psychological assistance 8 16 1 TECHN ICAL IN TER VEN TIO N TO R EDUCE R ISKS 2017 2016 Fire prevention, emergency management, emergency exits 2,902 2,819 Plant (machinery, maintenance) 918 738 Premises (floors, walls, window ledges, staircases, architectural barriers) 699 615 Ergonomics (lighting, work stations, micro-climate) 491 462 Certificates and documents 738 91 TO TAL 5 ,7 4 8 4 ,7 2 5 1 New Banks are not included. CO STS IN CUR R ED F O R O CCUPATIO N AL HEAL TH AN D SAF ETY 2017 2016 (thousands of euro) Intervention required by Law No. 81/08 594 469 Prevention and protection at the workplace consulting services 426 425 Occupational health and safety training 186 241 Corporate Physician services (medical visits to monitor health) and post robbery 165 139 psycological assistance TO TAL 1 ,3 7 1 1 ,2 7 3 Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Enhancement and well-being of personnel Pg.58 The corporate Intranet UBI Digital Workspace includes a maintained and updated section devoted to health and safety, in which legal and corporate references are readily available along with news on the Group's safety scheme (such as contingency plans and escape routes to be followed in the various areas with real photographic images), didactic material used in the classroom during training initiatives, advice and useful information on proper lifestyles to maintain an effective psycho-physical balance. In addition to the monitoring activities directly carried out on site by the Prevention and Protection Service, there are plans within the framework of the SGSL processes to conduct ad hoc, in-depth monitoring activities of the processes incumbent on the delegated units, conducted through interviews with staff at various levels of responsibility, in connection with the implementation of the law, the practical implementation of the delegated responsibilities, and through the examination of the legal texts. These monitoring activities are extended, under the most significant arrangements, to suppliers on their premises, through an independent external auditor from a leading consulting firm. As provided by the management system protocols, all activities are reported and recorded and are subject to specific review meetings with the employers, so that the objectives achieved can be reviewed and future goals defined. In light of the role of compliance specialist” attributed to UBI Banca's occupational prevention and protection function, there are also periodic information flows on compliance in connection with the central compliance unit and to the collegial bodies. Occupational accidents and illnesses In the examination of accidents, we do not observe any categories of workers that are more vulnerable than others to the risks of being involved in occupational accidents. The largest percentage of accidents in 2017 as well continues to be events occurring when employees are traveling between home and work, which are risks to which all employees are exposed.2 Accidents that have occurred while on the job are also quite limited, despite the significant number of personnel who use service cars on a daily basis in the course of their professional activities and the total number of kilometres travelled. With regard to the risk of being subjected to psycho-physical damage as a result of robberies or being involved in aggression on the part of the customers, four events occurred during 2017, equivalent to 5.6% of the accidents occurring in the workplace and 1.6% of the total injuries reported. In addition, in 2017, there were no fatal accidents either at work or while commuting. 2 The INAIL has recently decided to include events as commuting accidents events that in previous years were not considered, such as alternative routes to work to take children to school. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Enhancement and well-being of personnel Pg.59 ACCIDEN TS 2017 2016 B Y GEN DER To tal Men W o m en To tal Men W o men At w o rk No. of events 72 38 34 49 28 21 1 Injury rate 0.25 0.21 0.31 0.19 0.17 0.23 3 No. of days lost 1,154 529 625 953 449 504 2 Seriousness index 3.03 2.33 4.06 2.99 2.24 4.23 Co mm u tin g No. of events 173 96 77 137 82 55 1 Injury rate 0.60 0.54 0.69 0.54 0.50 0.61 3 No. of days lost 3,933 2,228 1,705 2,396 1,517 879 2 Seriousness index 10.33 9.82 11.09 7.51 7.58 7.38 TO TAL N O . O F EVEN TS 245 134 111 186 110 76 1 In ju ry rate 0 .8 4 0 .7 5 1 .0 0 0 .7 4 0 .6 8 0 .8 4 3 TO TAL N O . O F DAY S L O ST 5 ,0 8 7 2 ,7 5 7 2 ,3 3 0 3 ,3 4 9 1 ,9 6 6 1 ,3 8 3 2 Serio u sn ess in d ex 1 3 .3 6 1 2 .1 5 1 5 .1 5 1 0 .4 9 9 .8 3 1 1 .6 1 1 Number of accidents per 100,000 hours worked. 2 Number of working days lost for every 100,000 working days. 3 Lost working days are counted from the day after the accident in question. 2017 2016 ACCIDEN TS So u th So u th B Y GEO GR APHICAL AREA N o rth Cen tral an d N o rth Cen tral an d islan d s islan d s At w o rk No. of events 46 14 12 31 10 8 1 Injury rate 0.25 0.22 0.29 0.16 0.40 0.21 3 No. of days lost 671 318 165 734 172 47 2 Seriousness index 2.89 3.23 3.31 3.05 5.24 1.02 Co mm u tin g 0 .0 0 0 .0 0 0 .0 0 0 .0 0 0 .0 0 0 .0 0 No. of events 101 49 23 112 7 18 1 Injury rate 0.55 0.77 0.55 0.59 0.28 0.48 3 No.of days lost 1,964 1,120 849 1,995 66 335 2 Seriousness index 8.45 11.37 17.02 8.30 2.01 7.28 TO TAL N O . O F EVEN TS 147 63 35 143 17 26 1 In ju ry rate 0 .7 9 0 .9 9 0 .8 4 0 .7 5 0 .6 8 0 .6 9 3 TO TAL N O . O F DAY S L O ST 2 ,6 3 5 1 ,4 3 8 1 ,0 1 4 2 ,7 2 9 238 382 2 Serio u sn ess in d ex 1 1 .3 4 1 4 .6 0 2 0 .3 3 1 1 .3 6 7 .2 5 8 .3 0 1 Number of accidents per 100,000 hours worked. 2 Number of working days lost for every 100,000 working days. 3 Lost working days are counted from the day after the accident in question. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Enhancement and well-being of personnel Pg.60 2017 2016 AB SEN CE B Y GEN DER ( d ays/1 ,0 0 0 ) Total Men W omen Total Men W omen 1 Illness 108.2 59.2 49.0 98.1 54.9 43.3 Accidents 5.1 2.8 2.3 3.3 2.0 1.4 of which: at work 1.2 0.5 0.6 1.0 0.4 0.5 commuting 3.9 2.2 1.7 2.4 1.5 0.9 Other absences 59.5 42.3 17.2 59.3 42.4 17.0 of which: public or elective positions 1.9 1.8 0.1 2.4 2.2 0.2 blood donations 1.9 1.6 0.3 1.7 1.5 0.3 assistance for disabled 23.0 12.1 10.9 22.0 11.5 10.6 union permits 2 31.1 26.0 5.1 32.0 26.6 5.4 strikes 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 other 3 1.6 0.9 0.8 1.2 0.7 0.5 TO TAL 1 7 2 .9 1 0 4 .3 6 8 .6 1 6 0 .8 9 9 .2 6 1 .6 Rate of ab sen teism 4 3 4 .0 3 4 .5 3 3 .4 3 7 .8 3 7 .2 3 8 .8 1 As a consequence of laws on privacy, it is not possible to record illnesses and therefore the number of absences caused by occupational diseases. 2 Permits recognized by sectoral agreements at national and local union leaders ( coupon permits) are not included. 3 The figures include permits for thermal treatment and for union meetings. 4 Number of absences for every 1,000 working days. 2017 2016 AB SEN CE B Y GEO GRAPHICAL AREA Sou th Sou th ( d ays/1 ,0 0 0 ) N orth Cen tral an d N orth Cen tral an d islan d s islan d s Illness1 64.7 19.3 24.2 65.9 10.5 21.7 Accidents 2.6 1.4 1.0 2.7 0.2 0.4 of which: at work 0.7 0.3 0.2 0.7 0.2 0.0 commuting 2.0 1.1 0.8 2.0 0.1 0.3 Other absences 36.7 11.0 11.9 40.0 7.4 11.9 of which: public or elective positions 1.0 0.3 0.6 1.6 0.2 0.7 blood donations 1.3 0.4 0.2 1.4 0.2 0.1 assistance for disabled 13.2 4.7 5.1 14.0 2.9 5.1 union permits 2 20.4 4.9 5.8 22.1 4.1 5.8 strikes 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 other 3 0.8 0.5 0.3 0.9 0.1 0.2 TO TAL 1 0 4 .0 3 1 .7 3 7 .1 1 0 8 .7 1 8 .1 3 4 .1 4 Rate of ab sen teism 3 3 .6 2 4 .2 5 5 .8 3 3 .9 4 1 .3 5 5 .5 1 As a consequence of laws on privacy, it is not possible to record illnesses and therefore the number of absences caused by occupational diseases. 2 Permits recognized by sectoral agreements at national and local union leaders ( coupon permits) are not included. 3 The figures include permits for thermal treatment and for union meetings. 4 Number of absences for every 1,000 working days. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Enhancement and well-being of personnel Pg.61 Trade union agreements in the area of health and safety in 2017, trade union activity focused primarily on finding mutually beneficial solutions to regulate the repercussions on personnel of substantial organizational changes deriving from the integration into UBI of the former network banks and the acquisition of the Nuove banks. This undertaking has in fact led to the need to postpone until 2018 the commitment between management and labour to implement, within the UBI Group, the agreement signed at national level in 2016 between the ABI and the trade union organisations in the credit sector to regulate the election of workers’ safety representatives (number, appointment mechanism and election) and the instruments for the discharge of their functions. Pending the signing of this agreement at the Group level, the worker safety representatives previously elected in the individual banks and companies were kept in office, including those elected in the New Banks and related subsidiaries. During 2017, an agreement was signed with the internal trade unions to regulate, as provided under Article of Law No. 300 on the remote supervision of workers, the adoption and use of various technological tools designed to ensure the safety of personnel and the protection of the company's assets (remote video surveillance, access control, telephone conversation recordings and call tracing), including new and additional robbery risk prevention tools identified as a result of the changes in the branch model. Professional development [GRI 404-2:3] In banking fairly and well , UBI Banca supports a corporate culture oriented towards customer service and simplicity, quality, innovation and ongoing improvement. These values are pursued even more vigorously in the framework of personnel management, where policies are constantly updated to ensure that they are consistent with the changing requirements of all stakeholders. In this context of evolving approaches and revision of processes, the objectives remain unchanged: optimisation of the Bank's human resources, consolidation of the culture of assessment, attention to professional development and acknowledgment of merit. Programs to develop skills and provide assistance in transitions The UBI Group adopts personnel management policies and systems designed to enhance the skills acquired, the benefits provided and the potential for individual growth throughout working life. In addition to the assessment component, the Performance Management process includes development activities, with the definition of targeted management and training activities designed to foster personalised growth tracks reflecting the areas of improvement, professional objectives and the potential of each employee. In this framework, considering technical skills to be a strategic requirement to address the complex changes in progress and in compliance with the European MiFID II Standards, UBI Banca adopts skill certification courses, more specifically with reference to the perimeter of managers devoted to financial consultancy, for whom classroom and online training activities have been provided. In 2017, the Performance Management process involved approximately 95.5% of the company's work force, with the exception of essential staff , involved with specific management performance evaluation tools. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Enhancement and well-being of personnel Pg.62 EMPL O Y EE IN VO L VED IN PER F O RMAN CE 1 2017 2016 ASSESSMEN T Senior managers 232 62.2% 244 72.6% of which women 23 59.0% 22 61.1% Middle managers 8,465 98.2% 7,070 94.5% of which women 2,367 97.5% 1,794 94.5% Professional areas 11,744 95.0% 9,113 91.6% of which women 6,171 93.9% 4,462 90.9% TO TAL 2 0 ,4 4 1 9 5 .5 % 1 6 ,4 2 7 9 2 .5 % o f w h ich w o men 8 ,5 6 1 9 4 .4 % 6 ,2 7 8 9 1 .7 % 1 In 2017, the following were excluded from the professional assessment perimeter: Newly-recruited personnel, those on leave, staff of minor companies in the Group, and personnel on external contracts. Of the total number of 2017 professional assessment cards, 24 cards were associated with employees classified as ND (external operations base) who have not been included in this table. A new step in the process was introduced in 2017: Self-assessment, which is the option for all employees to express their opinions on the components being evaluated by the relevant manager. All of the foregoing is consistent with the purpose of the instrument: awareness and ongoing discussion to promote development paths consistent with the professional objectives of the individuals and the requirements of the organization. This approach is also supported by the various Assessment activities (on an individual and group basis, with supervision and management focuses), differentiated to reflect the tools and processes in relation to the different company populations, consistent with the scope of the activity: to gather useful information to design a series of development activities. The 190 colleagues involved during 2017 in these initiatives have in fact benefited from individual feedback, making it possible to provide practical follow-up on the information. To expand knowledge of the New Banks employees and to have data to support future management decisions, in September 2017, an online assessment activity focusing on Business and Private consultants and senior management of branches, designed to assess performance in this capacity in terms of technical knowledge and management skills. Moreover, Individual coaching (20) and Team coaching (35) activities were intensified during 2017, with a view to the improved use of management skills in the Bank's specific organizational context. In addition, the group's commitment to policies focusing on planning appropriate generational turnover to cover prospective management roles has continued. More specifically, management and development activities of personnel involved in the talent project drew from ongoing management and training activities with a high level of professional and managerial specialisation designed to promote personalised growth and functional courses to consolidate the skills the organization requires and to create reservoirs for the managerial turnover and continuity. CAREER PRO GRESSIO N S 2017 2016 TO TAL W O MEN TO TAL W O MEN Within professional areas 737 49.7% 720 48.1% From professional areas to middle management 237 38.4% 317 45.1% Within middle management 305 26.9% 310 28.1% From middle to senior management 3 33% 13 7.7% TO TAL 1 ,2 8 2 4 2 .1 % 1 ,3 6 0 4 2 .4 % Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Enhancement and well-being of personnel Pg.63 Training and education [GRI 404-1] In 2017 the Group delivered more than135,000 training days, including 120,000 for ordinary activities and more than 17,000 for the project to integrate the New Banks. The set objectives were surpassed with an average of more than 6 training days per person. TR AIN IN G 2017 2016 Gro u p Hours of training (thousand) 1,031.4 667.9 1 of which compulsory training 392.4 289.6 2 Cost of training (milion euro) 3.5 2.5 3 Employees involved 96% 96% Average satisfaction in hundreds (objective 69/100) 76 79 1 Includes regulatory training on insurance required by IVASS (insurance authority). 2 Total costs including the New Banks from 01.01.17 until 31.12.17. 3 Total active employees at 31/12 (excluding those on leave) with at least one training event to total active employees at 31/12 (excluding those on leave). 2017 2016 TRAIN IN G B Y PO SITIO N AN D AVE RAG E AVE RAG E GEN DER E MP LO Y E E S H O U RS PE R E MPLO Y E E S H O U RS PE R C API T A 1 C API T A Senior managers 380 36.2 331 40.7 of which women 35 29.6 36 34.3 Middle managers 8,828 52.5 7,256 43.4 of which women 2,463 54.0 1,900 43.2 Professional areas 11,992 46.2 8,758 38.8 of which women 6,361 46.4 4,394 38.2 TO TAL 2 1 ,2 0 0 4 8 .6 1 6 ,3 4 5 4 0 .9 o f w h ich w omen 8 ,8 5 9 4 8 .4 6 ,3 3 0 3 9 .7 1 Average hours per capita are calculated on the total number of employees trained, including terminated employees. Training mode Subject Area 1.1% 3.7% Insurance 13.3% 24.6% Traditional Operational/IT/languages classroom and internship 4.5% Commercial Internal training 7.2% Regulatory 43.2% Behavioural/Managerial External training Credit 55.7% 13.2% 20.8% Finance and MiFID Social responsibility and 12.7% Code of Ethics Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Enhancement and well-being of personnel Pg.64 2017 2016 DETAIL S O F 2 2 REGUL ATO RY Partecip an ts Partecip an ts Ho u rs Sen io r Mid d le Pro fess. Ho u rs Sen io r Mid d le Pro fess. TRAIN IN G 1 man ag er man ag er Areas man ag er man ag er Areas Administrative liability of s s s s entities (Legislative Decree 12,200 109 4,170 5,311 2,547 11 214 332 No. 231/2001) Transparency and usury 9,352 15 1,278 2,576 6,009 65 1,821 2,705 Safety (Legislative Decree 52,607 177 6,203 7,634 33,842 107 3,465 4,711 No. 81/2008) Privacy 1,855 6 284 482 1,352 13 403 617 Anti Money-Laundering 18,748 62 3,250 4,532 17,545 113 3,814 4,744 Other regulatory subjects 43,827 149 5,474 8,048 14,438 93 3,185 5,197 TO TAL 1 3 8 ,5 8 9 229 7 ,5 5 2 1 0 ,4 2 5 7 5 ,7 3 4 199 5 ,9 7 0 7 ,7 2 8 1 Does not include regulatory training on the MiFID Directive, which is included in the “Finance and MiFID”. 2 Total participants is not the sum of the participants in each subject area, because a given employee may have attended more than one course in different subject areas. Training activities are managed by UBI Academy, the Corporate University of the UBI Group, whose object is the study, planning, consultancy and provision of services for the training and the professional and managerial development of UBI Group Bank in support of its business objectives. The purpose of the training activities is to achieve an ongoing improvement in the professional level of all employees of the Group, which is tantamount to working in the best interest of our customers, with an operating approach that is increasingly focused on 360° consultancy, appropriateness of investor services and greater awareness and preparation in order to reduce risks of non-compliance and those in connection with transparency. All of these activities are designed for more widespread improvements in productivity. From a management standpoint, all training initiatives are structured and planned to reflect the organizational and management requirements of the company business with the support of Human Resources; requirements are assessed and training plans are prepared on an annual basis with reference to the Business Plan and requirements identified by the heads of each of the parent company’s operating areas. Special emphasis is placed on the preparation, in cooperation with the relevant reference units, of training activities to support continuous education on the current regulations and relevant developments. As an indication of the importance of compliance with the rules and the quality of the training content, the didactic material on technical banking, commercial, credit and financial topics to support the classroom activities is subject to approval from the Group's compliance authorities. Intensive internal communication and training activities are designed to be an effective tool to spread and enhance the wealth of technical and professional knowledge, management experiences and skills, ethical and cultural behaviours of persons belonging to the UBI Banca Group, promoting the spread of a unified corporate identity. People are at the centre of the training process, through motivation to take action with a view to the continuous improvement in the three basic components: knowledge, can-do, and can-be: We offer examples of excellent performance drawing from best practices, persons of value representing professional examples and role models. UBI Academy uses a Quality Management System as an additional guarantee for all stakeholders, formalising and instituting procedures aimed at continuous improvement in the services offered. UBI Academy periodically undergoes internal and external audits for the verification and confirmation of its ISO 9001 quality certification, and since the beginning of 2017, the transition to ISO 9001. In 2015, risks in business processes and the appropriate measures to be adopted to manage them were identified, along with opportunities, possible solutions and measures to address them. On an annual basis, the Quality Manager uses the information received as a basis to record the verified cases of noncompliance. On that basis, he or she identifies the actions required to prevent them and/or to eliminate the underlying causes. The head of the Quality unit is also the point of reference for receiving and managing any complaints or grievances received from different stakeholders. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Enhancement and well-being of personnel Pg.65 UBI Academy plans initiatives for the development of managerial capacities dedicated to all network business functions and central structures to address the five managerial dimensions according to the UBI Banca model: relational, managerial, intellectual, innovative and emotional. Under each initiative, training is provided to address the company’s complex functions and provides traditional teaching methods, individual coaching and the use of new tools such as Skype for business. With the aim of spreading the Quality Culture, certificate courses are available in specialised areas such as Compliance, Audit and Risk, as well as specialised financial certifications. To support persons in professional integration and growth, network business role qualification training is provided to develop the required knowledge and skills required for these positions, to perform these functions required for the position itself, combined with which knowledge reporting (used to assess competence for network commercial functions. Some training activities are related to specific projects to support the adaptation of company processes to new regulations. The most important training activities for 2017 involve the following:  The MiFID II Project on implementation of the European system to increase the level of investor protection entailing verification of the level of knowledge and skills personnel require to provide financial advisory service; UBI Academy has established dedicated training programme to provide a high level of training in the area of finance, to operate in the best interest of customers and to avoid errors in assessment and the resulting economic damages to savers;  Organizational well-being, according to the results of an internal study on assessment of risk in connection with occupational stress factors, UBI Academy has provided training activities for employees of the central organisational units and for those of the branches, designed to enhance capacities for corporate communication and collaboration. To monitor the efficacy and quality of the training process, UBI Academy uses internal and external mechanisms. The training activities developed using different mechanisms entail the compilation by the users of a learning questionnaire, primarily for the technical and professional courses, that are used to assess the acquisition of training content and perceived quality. UBI Academy's annual objectives include achieving levels of quality perception above satisfactory. A monthly report is produced for senior management on perceived quality performance for each training initiative. Appropriate remedial actions are taken for courses assessed to fall short of the target level. Depending on the identified requirements, the target for 2018 is to deliver approximately 140,000 days of training (43% traditional classroom training, 42% distance learning and 15% other mechanisms: internships, on-the-job training, etc). The purpose of the training plan is to support execution of the 2019/2020 Business Plan and to support implementation of the new Distribution Model through the strengthening of skills and the spread of good practices and effective commercial performance; support of revenue challenges for the sales network; spread of the digital approach throughout the Group; development of the role of managers, which is essential in change and management of performance; support for professional development and assessment of all employees within the new business model, fostering development in the talents of all employees to ensure adequate levels of productivity. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Enhancement and well-being of personnel Pg.66 Dialogue with trade unions The scenario in Italy is one of a high level of attention toward workers which UBI Banca considers its commitment to maintain both on a daily basis and with regard to the management of large organisational changes; it is a commitment which goes beyond mere compliance with regulations. The quality of trade union relations in fact makes it possible to maintain a positive business environment and to find adequate solutions to meet demands for optimised, flexible labour, that are and will continue in the near future to be key driving factors in meeting the Group's objectives of efficiency and profitability. The Human Resources Area, which reports to the Chief Operating Officer, is responsible for negotiations between management and labour. It has been UBI Banca's longstanding practice to use a policy of cooperation, while observing the respective roles of each party, to find mutually beneficial solutions whenever possible through a transparent, practical, and ongoing dialogue, going beyond the minimum requirements provided under the institutional procedures. Policies and measures to protect workers from the social and occupational repercussions of company reorganizations are central issues in this connection. Professional retraining and mobility processes are used to optimise human and professional resources and assist in proposing specific training and mobility plans, while staff downsizing plans rely on a voluntary approach through redundancy incentive programmes and recourse to the income support “solidarity fund” for the sector. Freedom of association and collective bargaining [GRI 102-41 407-1] All of the banks' staff (including personnel from the three new banks acquired in 2017) and other companies with registered offices in Italy (more than 99% of the Group's total workforce) are covered under national collective bargaining agreements and are not subject to any restrictions to the freedom of association and participation in trade unions. There are six trade union organizations in the Group, to which 82% of the staff belong. All Trade Union Organizations operate freely within their own prerogatives, and the Group makes adequate operational means available to them to conduct trade union activities. Trade union representatives used approximately 247 thousand hours of trade union leave, in the exercise of their relative trade union rights. TRADE UN IO N MEMB ERS 2017 2016 No. Group's trade union 6 7 Total members (No.) 17,793 14,370 % members 82.3% 81.8% AB SEN CES F O R TRADE UN IO N B USIN ESS( N o. h ou rs) 2017 2016 Strikes of business disputes Strikes of category disputes Other strikes (national policy, etc) TO TAL 0 0 Trade unions leaves 247,018 239,715 TO TAL AB SEN CES 2 4 7 ,0 1 8 2 3 9 ,7 1 5 Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Dialogue with trade unions – Pg.67 Management of industrial relations [GRI 402-1] Under national collective bargaining agreements, processing steps and a minimum period of 45 days is established for negotiations with the Trade Union Organizations to make substantial organizational changes. During 2017, 104 meetings with trade union representatives were held, entailing a total of 780 hours, leading to the execution of important agreements designed to management of reflexes on the personnel affected by operations to optimise the Group's structure. The 2017-2020 update of the Group's business plan, in the wake of the acquisition of three new Banks from the Resolution Fund, led to the October 2017 signing of the Framework Agreement governing the merger of these Banks with the Group, providing flexible mechanisms to enable to pursue the efficiency and productivity objectives provided under the Plan, as voluntary recourse to part-time and flexible arrangements as well as in the approval of extraordinary leaveand confirming the work on staff through early and incentivized exodus initiatives. In 2017, the Group also undertook agreements with the trade union organizations to establish a single system for all UBI staff, to optimise costs, facilitate the gradual departure of workers nearing retirement age, and promote generational turnover. Below is a summary of the key areas in which negotiations were undertaken with trade union representatives during 2017: • On 29th April 2017, agreement of a further 14 voluntary departures under the December 2015 Framework Agreement; • On 24th May 2017, signing of the agreement on the migration from the National Collective bargain agreement for administrative, management, distribution, and service personnel to the agreement applicable to credit, financial and business enterprises, which involved Prestitalia; • On 15th June 2017, issue of the report to the Trade Union Organizations on the update of the 2017-2020 Business Plan on the merger of the new banks and subsequent triggering of the procedure with the meeting of 6 July 2017. These activities led to the signing of the Framework Agreement of 26 October 2017 governing the merger of the New Banks with UBI Banca Group, the repercussions on the status of staff, and relevant changes to the workforce (early severance plan, individual incentive plan, extraordinary leave periods, parttime, etc.); • On 26th July 2017, signing of the Agreement, pursuant to the Trade Union Memorandum of Intent of 11 December 2016, on harmonization of different contractual arrangements for subsidiaries within the Group, providing a single company collective bargaining agreement of second level, entailing 638 further redundancies, as against the 600 provided under the Memorandum; • From the latter half of July, meetings were undertaken with the trade union organizations, resulting, during the period October 2017 until January 2018, in the signing of agreements to confirm the company bonus (VAP), that still provide a “welfare plan” option offering a broad selection of services; • On 21st November 2017, signing of the Statement of Agreement pursuant to Art. 4 of Law No. 300/1970 governing, also in light of the amendments to the Jobs Act, the use of labour facilities and mechanisms potentially leading to the option of remote supervision of workers; • On 22nd December 2017, signing of a Statement of Agreement to identify forms of supplementary health benefits as a reference for UBI Banca and UBIS deriving from the simplification of the existing insurance and mutual systems. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Dialogue with trade unions – Pg.68 Equal opportunity and non-discrimination Diversity management, a matter of ethics in observing the principle of non-discrimination enshrined in the Group's Code of Ethics and one of the 10 universal principles of the Global Compact, is also a mechanism to enhance company performance through personnel selection processes designed to acquire the resources most suited to the vacancies involved and management processes to optimise employees’ individual capacities and skills. Diversity is addressed in the framework of human resource management processes in general, in which respect for equity and transparency are key features, with a view to utilising differences in culture, age, gender, and abilities to the greatest advantage. More specifically, from the management and organizational standpoint, the Group has adopted initiatives to promote a balance between professional and private life and to support employees returning from maternity/paternity leave and lengthy absences. Where compensation is concerned, UBI Group has formalised remuneration and incentive policies under which compensation is based on merit and fairness, through equitable, consistent remuneration for comparable roles and responsibilities, offering equal career development opportunities for everyone. Special attention is devoted to the management of disciplinary proceedings. In this connection, UBI Banca has adopted specialised guidelines applicable throughout the Group designed to ensure a proper, transparent approach through formally-established investigation, decisionmaking and judgment processes and through periodic reporting on the measures taken. Diversity and equal opportunity [GRI 405-1:2] Diversity management in the Group primarily involves gender diversity. Composition of the Group’s personnel The data confirm the increase in the share of women in the work force, including in management positions. Appointments are balanced between men (51.3%) and women (48.7%) while promotions involved 42.1% women and 57.9% men. These figures are consistent with the overall distribution of the work force. The Group complies with compulsory legislation and regulations on the subject of the employment of disabled persons, creating working conditions suitable for the best expression of work and professional skills. 2017 2016 DIVERSITY IN DICATO R S O F EMPL O Y EES ( B Y GEN DER) MEN W O MEN TO TAL MEN W O MEN TO TAL Min o rity g ro u p s Foreign national (EU and non-EU) 0.2% 0.2% 0.2% 0.7% 0.8% 0.7% Protected categories 6.9% 6.4% 6.7% 6.8% 6.3% 6.6% of which: disabled 5.5% 4.4% 5.0% 5.5% 4.5% 5.1% widows and orphans 1.2% 1.5% 1.3% 1.3% 1.7% 1.5% others 0.3% 0.5% 0.4% 0.1% 0.1% 0.1% Ag e Under 30 3.9% 6.8% 5.1% 3.6% 6.9% 4.9% 30 to 50 52.9% 62.8% 57.1% 51.8% 61.3% 55.5% 50 to 60 37.2% 28.1% 33.4% 36.8% 29.2% 33.8% Over 60 6.0% 2.3% 4.4% 7.8% 2.6% 5.8% Average age (year) 47 45 46 48 45 46.73 TO TAL 5 7 .7 % 4 2 .3 % 1 0 0 .0 % 6 0 .9 % 3 9 .1 % 1 0 0 .0 % Degree 55.0% 49.0% 52.4% 59.6% 53.6% 57.3% University degree 39.3% 48.0% 43.0% 34.1% 42.6% 37.4% Other 5.7% 3.0% 4.6% 6.3% 3.8% 5.3% Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Equal opportunity and non-discrimination Pg.69 2017 2016 DIVERSITY IN DICATO RS O F SEN IO R MIDDL E PRO F ESS. SEN IO R MIDDL E PRO F ESS. EMPL O Y EES ( B Y CATEGO RY ) MAN AGERS MAN AGERS AREAS MAN AGERS MAN AGERS AREAS Gen d er men 2.7% 50.2% 47.1% 2.9% 51.7% 45.4% women 0.4% 26.7% 72.9% 0.5% 29.1% 70.4% Min o rity g ro u p s Foreign national (EU and non-EU) 1.9% 0.1% 0.3% 2.0% 0.1% 1.1% Protected categories of which: disabled 0.3% 2.9% 6.7% 0.6% 2.9% 7.0% widows and orphans 0.3% 1.2% 1.4% 0.3% 1.2% 1.7% others 0.1% 0.5% 0.1% 0.1% Ag e Under 30 0.1% 8.7% 0.1% 8.9% 30 to 50 28.7% 49.4% 63.3% 29.5% 49.8% 60.9% 50 to 60 62.7% 44.7% 24.7% 65.0% 42.7% 25.8% Over 60 8.6% 5.8% 3.3% 5.5% 7.4% 4.4% Average age (year) 53 50 43 53 50 44 TO TAL 1 .7 % 4 0 .2 % 5 7 .9 % 2 .0 % 4 2 .9 % 5 5 .1 % Degree 34.3% 58.1% 49.2% 41.6% 62.7% 53.6% University degree 61.7% 39.7% 44.6% 55.2% 35.4% 38.4% Other 4.0% 2.2% 6.2% 3.2% 1.9% 8.0% To promote equal gender opportunities, management and smart working activities have been supplemented with training activities designed to support employees returning from maternity/paternity leave: 47 employees participated in five editions of the “Family Work Balance course entailing a review of labour organisation in connection with sensitive issues of transition and change in family, social, and labour roles. Specific training activities targeted the generational confrontation: Generational change: Experience and Energy”, in seven editions, involved 158 participants from a variety of generational settings, in an active discussion on relevant, current issues for the Group, to attempt to exchange and learn from different experiences and to enhance communication skills and collaboration. Remuneration In general, the male/female wage gap was reduced and substantially aligned in senior management and professional areas. AVERAGE GRO SS 2017 2016 1 SAL ARY VARIAB L E VARIAB L E F IXED VARIAB L E 2 TO TAL F IXED VARIAB L E 2 TO TAL (thousands of euro) TO TO TAL TO TO TAL Sen io r man ag ers Men 154.6 2.2 156.8 1.4% 150.8 4.6 155.4 3.1% Women 160.4 1.2 161.6 0.7% 158.6 3.0 161.7 1.9% Mid d le man ag ers Men 63.0 1.4 64.4 2.2% 63.0 1.7 64.7 2.7% Women 55.9 1.3 57.2 2.3% 55.5 1.7 57.2 3.1% Pro fessio n al areas Men 39.4 0.9 40.3 2.3% 39.9 1.2 41.1 3.0% Women 38.8 0.8 39.6 2.1% 39.2 1.1 40.3 2.8% 1 Data relating to 99% of employees, employees with foreign and extra-group contracts are excluded. 2 The figures are inclusive of: Incentive Schemes, One-off Bonuses, Company Bonuses and Commercial Contests. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Equal opportunity and non-discrimination Pg.70 AVERAGE GRO SS SAL ARIES O F 2017 2016 W O MEN TO MEN TO TAL F IXED TO TAL F IXED Senior managers 103.0% 103.8% 104.0% 105.2% Middle managers 88.8% 88.7% 88.4% 88.1% Professional areas 98.1% 98.4% 98.1% 98.2% Data relating to 99% of employees, employees with foreign and extra-group contracts are excluded. Non-discrimination [GRI 406-1] No violations of the principle of non-discrimination were observed in the Group, with reference to 61 disciplinary proceedings during the year, in observance of established procedures. These proceedings involve operational irregularities and negligence of various kinds (48), irregularities in the disbursement and management of loans (10) and undue appropriation/diversion of administrative funds (2). DISCIPL IN ARY MEASURES 2017 2016 Verbal or written reprimand 33 49 Suspension from work and pay (from 1 to 10 days) 23 23 Dismissal for just cause or on justified grounds 5 3 TO TAL 61 75 Actions taken against employees 29 7 TO TAL 90 82 CASES PEN DIN G AT THE EN D O F THE Y EAR CO N CERN IN G 2017 2016 EMPL O Y MEN T REL ATIO N S Pension and social security 3 9 Remuneration 12 37 Termination of contract of employment 30 28 Duties and job descriptions 19 21 Job appointments and performance of work 23 15 Anti trade union conduct pursuant to Art. 28 1 1 Other 59 10 TO TAL 147 121 Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Equal opportunity and non-discrimination Pg.71 Commitment to the community It is important for a bank with the mission to be a local community bank to be perceived as present and nearby, attentive to the economic and social needs of the communities where it operates. Acting as a driver not only for the economy but also for the social well-being of local communities, it promotes the creation of strong relationships with authorities, institutions and social organisations. In this context the support provided by the Group to families in difficulty, the attention it pays to poorer groups in society and its contribution to important social causes and projects are part of its overall business strategy. In particular, the socio-economic context caused by the prolonged period of crisis has strengthened the perception that businesses and nonprofit organisations should act in synergy with public institutions in order to support the development of new responses to meet the needs of society. Current changes (such as the falling birth rate, ageing population, new forms of poverty, growing number of care-dependent older people, migrants in need of help to integrate and youth unemployment) have revealed new categories of need with a high social content relating to an ever-increasing number of people. UBI Banca contributes to the response to these new needs both commercially, as the banking partner of nonprofit organisations that provide public goods and services, and by supporting social initiatives and projects. The development of business activities with social aims is a heritage shared by the entire Group, reflected in particular by UBI Comunità, which acts as an incubator for new ideas and initiatives. Strategic philanthropy activities charitable donations and sponsorships are managed on the basis of internal regulations that formalise delegations of responsibilities and processes. Most of this consists of donations made using specific allocations of retained earnings pursuant to Art. 44.3 of the Articles of Association of UBI Banca amounting to 2% of the distributable part of the net profit resulting from the annual financial statements after the minimum amount prescribed by law for the statutory reserve has been deducted together with any amounts decided by a General Meeting to create or increase reserves, including extraordinary or other reserves, with a maximum of €12 million (the “Board’s Fund”). In November 2016, as part of the revision of the Group’s organisational model at the time of the implementation of the Single Bank Project, the Supervisory Board drew up specific guidelines for the centralised management of the Board’s Fund and criteria for distributing funds among the Macro Geographical Areas (MGAs). On 14th February 2017, on the basis of these guidelines and following prior examination by the Management Board, the Supervisory Board approved the Regulations for the process to manage UBI Banca’s charitable donations. Each year, on the basis of the Regulations, the Supervisory Board approves an Annual Intervention Plan for UBI Banca, establishing general guidelines for the efficient allocation of the available resources to the initiatives with the greatest potential for impact and change. The Supervisory Board decides on the most far-reaching initiatives (usually inter-regional), while local interventions are referred to the MGAs. In order to ensure more effective relations with local communities, a Local Operational Team (LOT) has been formed for every MGA where each MGA Manager is accompanied by a specially designated Member of the Supervisory Board with experience of the relative local area. The LOTs are supported by the UBI Comunità Area manager and the Head of the Corporate Social Responsibility Function. The Supervisory Board examines the Annual Intervention Plans of the Macro Geographical Areas, verifies that they are in substantial compliance with the annual guidelines and expresses its prior opinion on the initiatives for which the MGAs are responsible that are defined as “major” (amounting to €20,000.00 or more) and/or extend over several years. Contributions from the donation of part of the income from products and services are defined as part of the process for structuring them and specified in the prospectuses for the placement of financial products. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Commitment to the community Pg.72 All sponsorships, including those of social value, are managed as part of an annual budget by the Sponsorships Function created within the Communication Area, with a selection process using a dedicated software application (Optimy) to ensure that this is done in a transparent and traceable way. The adoption of a specific set of regulations is scheduled for 2018. Dialogue with local institutions [GRI 413-1] UBI Banca contributes to the promotion and dissemination of skills, mainly in the field of economics, through its constant collaboration with local institutions: training institutes, universities1, and economic organisations such as Confindustria (Confederation of Italian Industry). UBI Banca is involved with Alternating School Work programmes with secondary schools, working with students to increase their knowledge of the working world and acquire the basic elements of economic citizenship and financial culture. In 2017 the Group hosted over 500 students from 26 schools in local communities. The Group built on its well-established relations with the economics, law and computer science faculties of public and private sector universities and business schools In 2017, working with them to fund scholarships, offering services to students and providing internship opportunities for final year students and recent graduates. Employer branding activities are also intense, with the aim of enhancing the Group’s profile as an employer of choice, partly to support the ongoing and substantial generation turnover plan. As a result of its employer branding, the Group has made a slight improvement to its ranking among ideal potential employers, even in a context where the financial sector is becoming less attractive. Overall, there were approximately 30 initiatives for guiding students and graduates in their career choices in 2017, mainly in the geographical areas where the Group has the greatest recruitment needs. Over 140 young people had work placements in the company, 81 of them as paid work experience that was not part of a university course, mainly in the policy, governance and control units that are most involved in significant processes of change and digital evolution. Twenty-five of them were recruited at the end of their work placement. Further investments are planned for 2018 to increase awareness of UBI Banca as an ideal workplace, intensifying employer branding activities in universities that have until now provided fewer recruits at a junior level and extending Alternating School Work programmes to offer work experience to school students in the main centres in which the Group is present. This is also consistent with the formalisation of a specific memorandum of understanding with the Ministry of Education, Universities and Research (MIUR). The co-operation between the Macro Geographical Areas and universities has also given rise to major initiatives such as the UBI Banca, why not? project with the University of Bergamo in the context of the “Know and interpret to control the market” business laboratory with the aim of looking into the reasons for customer retention among customers of the Bank and the reasons why the customers of other banks consider switching to UBI Banca and the “From information to strategic and financial stability” training programme that aims to show economics students how a bank evaluates the credit rating of a business in practice. Actions taken for social initiatives [GRI 201-1 415-1] Social interventions, whether occasional or part of agreements lasting several years, are intended to promote and enhance the identity of the Group and reinforce its brand. The choice of initiatives to support takes into account the positive impacts they can generate for 1 the Bocconi, Cattolica, Bicocca and state universities of Milan, the universities of Bergamo, Brescia, Pavia, Turin, Trento and Bologna, the Insubria University of Varese, the Carlo Cattaneo University of Castellanza, the Polytechnic University of the Marches, the University of Verona, the LUISS and Tor Vergata universities of Rome, the Bocconi SDA and the Sole 24 Ore Business School. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Commitment to the community Pg.73 stakeholders as a whole, in terms of reducing social costs and/or increasing the economic development of the community. In order to achieve the maximum economic and social return from the amounts paid out, it is important to identify and support the best initiatives in terms of how well they match the areas where the Bank operates and their visibility/impact in the area. This leads to “collaborative growth”, aligning social intervention with business strategies by acting on three fronts:  enabling growth, involving factors such as professional training, high-quality education, improved quality of life and a reduction in the problems that lead to costs for the community and social hardship  strengthening demand, involving factors such as the size and quality of the relevant markets (e.g. social housing initiatives, with actions that can support the demand for mortgages);  strengthening the competitiveness of communities, by encouraging investments and development activities. No payments, whether direct or indirect, are permitted to: political parties, movements, political committees and other political organisations, their representatives and candidates, congresses or festivals with political propaganda purposes 2. Donations are made through both the Board’s Fund (reserves of profits required for this purpose by the Articles of Association, some of which contribute to the assets of the Group’s Foundations) and part of the income from the placement of financial products, particularly as part of UBI Comunità initiatives. In addition to this, sponsorships3 with social aims, associating the UBI Banca brand with organisations and events, are often an expression of their history and tradition in their respective local communities. RESERVES AVAIL AB L E TO UB I MAN AGEMEN T B O DIES F O R 2017 20162 SO CIAL PURPO SES ( th ou san d s of eu ro) Brought forward from the previous year 0 5,121 1 Donations made during the year 4,189 7,139 Y EAR-EN D B AL AN CE 4 ,5 8 3 8 ,7 7 2 1 Including contributions to the UBI Banca Group’s Foundations 2 The values for 2016 have been adjusted to include the amount in the Board’s Fund that were omitted in error in the 2016 report In 2017 the Group made donations for social initiatives in the areas where it operates totalling €13.7 million4 (compared to €13.9 million in 2016), including:  €3.0 million drawn from Articles of Association-related retained earnings reserves of UBI Banca available to management bodies for social purposes, net of sums paid to Group Foundations (€1.1 million);  €8.9 million as operating expenses, including donations resulting from financial products with a donation element (e.g. Social Bonds, Sicav Social4Future) and contributions to local authorities as part of treasury and collection services;  €1.8 million by the Foundations, which are not included within the consolidation scope of the Group, but are an offshoot of it. They are legally autonomous and use the resources they receive from the Group to contribute to the achievement of its social responsibility objectives in the communities where it operates. 2 Code of Ethics, paragraph 6.6 3 These are sponsorships with aims of a social nature. Sponsorships of professional sporting organisations are only included in the report if they are directed to activities to promote to the moral education of young people through sport. 4 This excludes the contributions made to the Group’s Foundations (€1.6 million) and contributions in kind (€183 million). Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Commitment to the community Pg.74 Total Group donations for social initiatives (thousands of euro) 6,000 Disasters and emergencies Human rights and advocacy 5,000 Community and economic 4,000 development Education and training 3,000 Restoration of artistic heritage and conservation of the environment Universities and research 2,000 Public utility infrastructures and 1,000 services Welfare and solidarity 0 Culture Gifts Investments in the Commercial initiatives for community the community Donations from Social Bonds and Donations from Foundations by area other investment products of intervention Public utility 1.6% Culture 16.8% infrastructures and 7.2% 20.1% services 0.3% Human and civil rights Restoration of artistic 14.6% heritage and conservation 42.3% of the environment Welfare and solidarity Welfare and solidarity Social, recreational and Social, recreational and sports activities sports activities 18.3% 22.6% Universities and research 44.6% Universities and research Education and training 11.6% Donations from the Board’s Fund Under the 2017 Annual Intervention Plan approved by the Supervisory Board, the Parent directs new interventions towards welfare and solidarity, culture, universities and research, restoration of artistic heritage, disasters and emergencies, in order to support the development of young people and social integration, with particular regard to migrants and refugees. The Macro Geographical Areas have a particular responsibility for social, recreational and sports activities, education and training for young people, protecting the environment and the development of the local economy. The main interventions are listed below:  for the Parent (interventions managed directly by the Supervisory Board): contributions to the Spedali Civili Children’s Hospital in Brescia for the refurbishment of the paediatric outpatient clinic (the last tranche of the commitment made), the Ospedale Maggiore di Bergamo hospital research foundation (FROM) to finance socially relevant scientific research (last year of a donation over several years), the CESVI Onlus Foundation for the “Happy childhood: a listening, protection and inclusion pathway for children and families” project, the Banco dell'energia Onlus (energy bank) for the social project “A year of energy” for families with temporary financial difficulties, the Caritas Diocese of Brescia Counselling Centres and the Don Lorenzo Milani Community Association;  for the Bergamo and West Lombardy MGA: contributions to the Donizetti Foundation for the 2017 opera season (a regular donation), the City of Bergamo for the restoration of the chapels of the former church of St Augustine as the Great Hall of Bergamo University, the “Bergamo fare la pace” International Cultural Festival, Bergamo University for the “Campus Entrepreneurship” project for developing and facilitating an entrepreneurial approach (the second of three years);  for the Brescia and North East MGA: contributions to the Teatro Grande of Brescia Foundation for the GrandeUBI project and for training activities provided by Digital Universitas in Brescia; Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Commitment to the community Pg.75  for the Milan-Emilia Romagna MGA: contributions to the Poldi Pezzoli Onlus Foundation as a Main Supporter of the Museum (the last of three years), Padua University for graduation prizes for the best graduates of the year in twelve university departments (regular donation), the Cisalpino Istituto Editoriale Universitario academic publisher for the final volume of the “Almum Studium Papiense” history of Padua University project on the 650th anniversary of its foundation (the last of five years);  for the North West MGA: contributions to the tourist information centres for the Cuneo area and Alba, Bra, Langhe and Roero area for cultural events and art exhibitions, the Alba Truffle Fair organisation: “Bocuse d’Or” Academy, the Giannina Gaslini Institute in Genoa to buy a vehicle for transporting patients and their relatives and travel between different hospital departments;  for the Central and Southern MGA: contributions to the Colocci Foundation in Jesi (cofounded by UBI Banca) to support the activities of the University of Macerata (long-term contributor), to the Friends for Health Onlus in Rome for the “Tennis for Friends” event to promote preventive healthcare by buying a latest generation ultrasound scanner, the ISTAO Adriano Olivetti Institute in Ancona for three scholarships (regular donation), the San Pietro Fatebenefratelli Hospital in Rome to buy a DC Advantage ultrasound scanner for the Radiotherapy Department, the G. Pascale Foundation in Naples to buy an operating microscope to increase the early diagnosis of cancer, the Premio Sila Foundation in Cosenza for the new Premio Sila ‘49 literary prize for socially significant writing that is concerned with real life (regular donation). Sponsorships with social aims The main areas supported through sponsorships from the Parent and the Macro Geographical Areas are social, recreational and sports activities, culture and local economic development. In 2017 the main interventions in the field of sports and recreation were:  the Mille Miglia, a historical re-enactment of the vintage car race from Brescia to Roma and back, as a Trophy Sponsor;  season sponsorship of the Junior Rugby Brescia A.S.D. and Aurora Basket Jesi teams with the rebranding of the indoor stadium as the UBI BANCA Sport Center Ezio Triccoli ;  Scherma Scuola projects providing free fencing tuition in primary schools and Scherma per Disabili disability fencing project for the Jesi Fencing Club;  the Cuneo Granda Volley women’s team for championships in the various categories, supporting sport for young people;  the PalaUBIBanca branding of the Cuneo indoor stadium, to enable local sports clubs to access the facilities;  FISIP, the Paralympic Sports association that manages the organisation and development of alpine and nordic skiing, the biathlon and snowboarding;  Orio Center Winter Park in Bergamo, an amusement park with artificial slopes for practising the most popular winter sports, which hosts many attractions and Christmas events;  the Christmas Village ice rink in the centre of Milan, contributing to the Io Tifo Positivo project, that has been promoting the fundamental values of sport in schools, sports and youth clubs for many years;  the Christmas tree in Piazza Castello in Turin, which was donated to the city once more this year as a symbol of the Christmas festivities. In the cultural field:  the 54th Brescia and Bergamo International Pianoforte Festival, as part of a longstanding partnership;  The Pavia Barocca Christmas festival of Baroque music, a cultural event organised by the Ghislieri Music Association;  the Uovokids project/event (21st-22nd October) supporting the MED Association (the Italian Association for Media and Communications Education): Italy's major festival of contemporary creativity for children (0-12) and families, this innovative and Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Commitment to the community Pg.76 multidisciplinary event is held at the Leonardo da Vinci National Museum of Science and Technology in Milan;;  the 2017 Musicultura Festival of folk music and contemporary singer-songwriters, held each year in Macerata;  the “Lombards: a people who changed history” exhibition at the Castello Visconteo in Pavia from 1st September to 3rd December;  the International Jazz Festival held in Villa Litta in Lainate at the end of June with the best Italian and international artists;  the Pergolesi Theatre season of plays in Jesi, as part of an established partnership as the main sponsor. For local economic development, in addition to various trade fairs and exhibitions:  the Agriculture and Right to Food Week project/event held in Bergamo from 7th to 15th October with a series of side events associated with the G7 Agriculture meeting;  the Il Sentierino initiative, a botanical and visitor trail in the company of historical figures to help visitors gain a better appreciation for the history of the centre of modern Bergamo and reinforce a sense of belonging among a new generation of citizens;  the DimoreDesign cultural and tourism development project, with tours of historic houses in Bergamo enriched by meetings with the artists who have designed installations in them;  the 2017 Collisioni Festival, a music, food and wine festival held in Barolo where writers, journalists, actors, singers and Nobel prize winners take part in meetings and debates;  the Tipicità series of events celebrating the excellent foods and wines of the Marches with three initiatives: “Tipicità Made in Marche Festival” (4th-6th March in Fermo), “Tipicità in blu” (25th-28th May in Ancona) and the “Grand Tour delle Marche” (30 events held in various places throughout the Marches from 13th May to 26th November);  the Alba Truffle Fair organisation which hosted the Italian final of the Bocuse d’Or, the most important gastronomic competition in the world. Donations of goods UBI Sistemi e Servizi – the Group’s service consortium company – which again in 2017 donated retired electronic equipment, which nevertheless still functions well, to 12 schools, institutions and nonprofit organisations with an estimated value of €4,749.00 (75 notebooks/desktop computers). The Banca Popolare di Bergamo Onlus Foundation donated some volumes of the “Pittori Bergamaschi” (Painters from Bergamo) series to the principal libraries and universities in Italy, for a value (at historical cost) of €178 thousand. Employee involvement Group employees were also involved in charitable initiatives through fundraising projects and a corporate voluntary programme. Each employee may contribute a sum of six euros per year deducted directly from salary, against which the company pays in an equal amount, to ProSolidar, a national fund in the credit sector for solidarity and charitable initiatives consisting of a bilateral entity managed by the Italian Banking Association and the national secretariats of the banking trade unions. ProSolidar is the first body in the world formed by a national trade union agreement and it is funded on an equal basis by workers and companies. Donations made to it by Group employees in 2017 amounted to over €231 thousand. Donate one day is the corporate voluntary programme of the Group, now in its fourth year. It is designed to consolidate the presence of UBI in the areas where it operates at the same time as strengthening shared values of solidarity and team spirit among colleagues. Each employee can use a day’s holiday to volunteer for a nonprofit organisation chosen by them from those selected by UBI Banca and the Bank adds a donation of €100.00. In 2017 1,099 employees Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Commitment to the community Pg.77 took part, amounting to 6.4% of the workforce, volunteering at 70 nonprofit organisations spread over 34 towns and cities in 14 regions. The volunteers were able to choose between 150 activities with many different areas of social hardship: assisting children, the elderly, families in difficulty, or disabled people, or helping with cultural activities. UBI Banca donated a total of €110 thousand to nonprofit organisations. Enjoy Special Edition an account card specially for Group employees, who help to support social projects by simply using the card. UBI Banca waives its interbank commissions on POS terminal transactions5 using these cards, which are donated entirely to the social project chosen each year by employees themselves by means of a survey carried out on the corporate Digital Workspace portal. In 2017 over €16 thousand was collected and donated to the BLUE Diary charity project run by the GAUDIO Onlus Association, which came first out of the five projects selected for the 2017 Sodalitas Social Innovation Prize. The project involves building a customisable visual diary using Alternative and Augmentative Communication (AAC) for children and young people who find it difficult to understand verbal language and need a visual support. UBI Comunità initiatives As part of UBI Comunità, consistent with the Agenda 2030 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)6, particularly Goal 17 which is about developing partnerships to achieve social objectives, important strategic partnerships were created or confirmed with leading nonprofit bodies and organisations in 2017, including the following:  Local archdioceses, dioceses and religious organisations, as part of the business unit which co-ordinates commercial initiatives for ecclesiastical and religious bodies;  Associazione Italiana per la Ricerca sul Cancro the Italian Association for Cancer Research (AIRC) for which UBI Banca has been an institutional partner since 2013 for the November fundraising campaign entitled I Giorni della Ricerca Research Days, through various initiatives7 for current and potential customers and their employees. In 2017 the partnership, which was extended to include the Oranges of Health campaign at the end of January, the AIRC-Giunti School8 and the Mille Miglia drew great attention on both national and local media and allowed the AIRC to collect almost €5 million, over €660 thousand of which was attributable to the various initiatives activated by the Group (since 2013 UBI Banca has contributed almost €4 million in support of cancer research);  the San Patrignano Community, with fundraising activities directly involving branches for the Let’s put our heart into it initiative; in exchange for a minimum donation of ten euros at a branch supporters were given a packet containing chilli pepper and a recipe specially created by an award-winning chef for the campaign. All branches were involved in this activity from 26th June to 2nd July 2017;  AISM(Italian Multiple Sclerosis association), WeWorld (charity working with women and children), Fondazione Albero della Vita (children’s charity), Associazione CasAmica (accommodation for hospital patients and their relatives), Lega del Filo d’Oro (charity for 5 As a result of Regulation EU 2015/751, from December 2015 the percentage commission on POS transactions was reduced by about one third compared with before, which affected the amount donated to the winning project. 6 the SDGs are 17 goals set by the General Assembly of the UN in “Transforming our World: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development”, on 25th September 2015. Goal 17 is: “Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development”. 7 Initiatives for 2017 include: fundraising in branches and through internet banking, the UBI Comunità EnjoyCard customised for the AIRC, the proposal to use SDD direct debits for recurring donations and innovative functions for sending money using the UBI Pay app, which allows customers to make a donation using their smart phones with the Jiffy network. 8 This was an educational programme, sponsored by the MIUR (Ministry of Education, Universities and Research) and targeted at primary school classes IV and V in which over 800 schools and approximately 75,000 children/families were involved. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Commitment to the community Pg.78 deafblind people), and FOCSIV (international Christian voluntary work organisation), to support the following initiatives: La Gardenia di AISM, #Timeout: Let’s end violence against women, Cross the threshold, Close to those who cannot see or hear, Always closer to patients away from home and their families and We smiled for something serious, by making numerous fundraising instruments and channels available and increasing awareness among the Group's customers and employees;  Accenture Foundation and Bracco Foundation for the second Welfare what a business! competition aimed at social start-ups in the community welfare field, which has involved new partners this year: Golinelli Foundation and Snam Foundation as promoters, Polimi Hub, Socialfare and Campania Newsteel as enterprise incubators or accelerators and Milan Polytechnic and Aiccon as scientific partners;  Anffas Onlus (national association for families of persons with mental and/or relational difficulties) and the GCM Co-operative Group with which UBI Banca, co-operation with its trust company UBI Trustee promoted the Trust in Life project. The project provides services and financial support for people with severe disabilities and their families, using the legal instrument of a trust as a multi-beneficiary mutual tool to manage all the financial resources associated with the Life Project personalised support programme. This project is also intended to organise interventions to support the social inclusion of people with severe disabilities, by activating local networks and the specific expertise of partners, with an approach that is open to all those in the area with an interest in working together to share experiences and skills. To that end, meetings involving the key public and private stakeholders were held in local communities in 2017 to present and investigate the content of the legislation and the project. In 2018 it will continue to organise information events in local communities and launch a completion to bring together initiatives and best practice selected by operators belonging to the Anffas and GCM network in accordance with the “After Us” law (Law No. 112/2016). The projects selected will be supported by UBI Banca, which will forgo part of its income from the new Hybrid credit card. Investment products play an important role in supporting social projects that create value for the community: UBI Comunità Social Bonds, Sicavs and Ethical funds with a donation of part of the income. Social Bonds are bond instruments which, in addition to providing remuneration at a market interest rate for the investment made by subscribers, allocate part of the funding acquired (normally 0.50%) to support projects of high social value undertaken by nonprofit organisations, or use it for form a pool for the disbursement of finance to third sector initiatives. Again in 2017, UBI Banca was the confirmed sector leader, in terms of both volumes and impact generated, placing six new bonds amounting to a total of €95 million, which resulted in donations totalling €355 thousand, in addition to a further €203 thousand donated for two social bonds placed in 2015 and 2016 (for the Progetto Arca Foundation and the Confederation of the Misericordie d’Italia voluntary associations). From its launch in 2012 to the end of 2017, the Group has placed 88 social bonds, collecting approximately €973 million, and resulting in charitable donations of over €4.6 million and in approximately 20.5 million in available loan pools or loans granted. In order to allocate resources more effectively and efficiently to the initiatives that have the greatest impact on change and increase accountability to customers who subscribe bonds and to Group stakeholders more generally, as part of the structuring process for social bonds and the upfront placement of Sicavs or ethical funds, UBI Banca measures the social impact to evaluate the projects to be supported. The tool used is Social Return on Investment (SROI), which converts an estimate of the expected social impacts of the project into monetary terms (ex ante valuation) and the impacts achieved on its completion (ex post valuation). An outside independent company with professionals of high standing assists UBI Banca with the application of SROI. It verifies the compliance of the methodology used for data collection and the relative sources, the monetisation of the expected and achieved impacts of the project and the calculation of social value and verification of the underlying assumptions, as well as checking that the results of the project are consistent with its aims. Normally, 30% of the donation is disbursed on completion of a project, once it has passed the independent ex post check and has been found to have met expectations and complied with social and environmental requirements. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Commitment to the community Pg.79 SROI was applied ex ante to the three projects shown in the following table in 2017, with very positive results in terms of the expected social impact. Only the ex post SROI calculation will be performed for the Lega del Filo d’Oro “Close to those who cannot see or hear” project (approximately 2,000 disabled beneficiaries), while the Impact Factor tool will be used for the AIRC “My First AIRC Grant” project (scholarships awarded to 22 researchers). SROI Index(1) Promoter Project Direct beneficiaries (ex ante) AISM (Italian Multiple Rehabilitation and support 24 1.85 Sclerosis association) activities for people with disabled people secondary progressive multiple sclerosis L’Albero della Vita Cross the threshold to compare 120 5.16 Foundation the economic and relational families in poverty of families with children in social hardship the outer districts of some major cities Casa Amica Always closer to patients away 1,916 2.89 from home and their relatives patients and their relatives (1) Amount in euros in terms of the Social Return on Investment for each euro invested in the project In the commercial area, the UBI Comunità Social Edition initiative continued. This involves the issue of an Enjoy UBI Comunità prepaid card, customised with the logo of the nonprofit organisations for which they are issued. UBI Banca waives its right to part of the commission on these cards and donates it to the nonprofit organisation. Customised cards for six organisations were issued in 2017, including AIDO Lombardia and AIRC, for a total of around 13 cards, of which approximately 10,000 are active, generating a donation of approximately €21 thousand. As part of the partnership with the National Basketball Association (NBA), which involves the marketing of the prepaid Enjoy NBA card, UBI Banca has decided to donate five euros to FIPIC (the Italian Wheelchair Basketball Federation) for each card issued to a Group employee (approximately €1,300 in 2017). Also in the commercial area, €2.3 million were donated to local authorities as part of treasury and collection services, to support the achievement of their social aims. Actions taken by the Foundations Over the years the Group has formed a series of foundations and acquired others as part of merger projects, which act autonomously in their own local communities, in compliance with the provisions of the respective Articles of Association. The most significant initiatives in 2017 are:  for the Banca Popolare Bergamo Foundation, a donation to the Bergamo in History Onlus Foundation museum on the occasion of its 100th anniversary, the purchase of a Gran Coda piano for the students of the Gaetano Donizetti Conservatoire in Bergamo, support over two years for the activities of the Bergamo Modern and Contemporary Art Gallery (GAMeC) and support for the Intercultura Onlus Foundation for a competition to fund students for a period of study abroad;  for the Banca San Paolo di Brescia Foundation support to carry out the activities of the Opera per l’Educazione Cristiana (more specifically for scientific research purposes, a donation to the Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore for improvements to physics laboratories and actions to benefit students with disabilities), a payment to the Diocese of Brescia Pastoral Office of the Brescia Caritas for running the Madre Eugenia Menni community canteen for the needy; Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Commitment to the community Pg.80  for the CAB Foundation – Giovanni Folonari Institute of Culture donations to the Ugo da Como Foundation for the “Arnaldo Ritrovato” (Arnaldo rediscovered) exhibition at the Museum of Santa Giulia in Brescia and the Friends of Palazzo Martinengo Association for the exhibition “Da Hayez a Boldini. Anime e volti della pittura italiana dell’Ottocento” (from Hayez to Boldini: spirits and faces of Italian 19th-century painting) at Palazzo Martinengo in Brescia and support to Brescia University for the publication of volume V of the Annali di Storia Bresciana;  for the Banca Popolare Commercio Industria Foundation Onlus the purchase of equipment for the Friends of the Ospedale San Raffaele Multiple Sclerosis Centre Association (ACeSM Onlus), for the sensory stimulation of patients with relapsing remitting MS, and support for the Dynamo Camp Association Onlus for the Dynamo Off Camp project to bring recreational therapy away from the Camp to sick children in hospital or at home using a specially-equipped vehicle;  for the Banca Popolare di Vigevano Foundation a donation to the Pozzoli Charitable “After Us” Foundation for the “Pathways to independence for living in my own home”, a donation to the Vigevano committee of the Italian Red Cross for the “Pedi Care” project to provide new medical equipment on ambulances for the treatment of injured patients and support to the Vigevano branch of Caritas Pianzola Olivelli Association Onlus to operate the Emmaus community canteen service;  for the UBI Foundation for Varese Onlus a contribution to the University of Insubria for research on the immune system and donations for the purchase of a vehicle for disabled people for Unitalsi Varese, to the Varese Gulliver Centre for the Keep Moving (Non restare immobile) project and for the restoration of the organ in Castello Cabiaglio parish church Financial education [FS16] UBI Banca aims to contribute to the effort that all institutions need to make to respond to current social and economic changes by starting an open dialogue with the local community. The actions undertaken by UBI Banca with this in view include raising awareness about using financial resources responsibly and promoting the propensity to save that has always been characteristic of Italian households, with the objective of training economically-aware citizens and directing financial activities towards values of legality and transparency, partly as a result of the involvement of banks at a local level. To achieve this the Group has, over the years, developed a structured financial education programme throughout the areas where it operates: a project involving many units working in synergy to promote financial education together with the contribution of the Foundation for Financial and Savings Education (FEDUF). Young people are the segment that benefits most from an adequate level of financial literacy; it is an essential tool for entering the labour market, developing skills that allow them to act with awareness and teaching entrepreneurship to give them a better chance of success in the world of work. The following educational programmes are designed for schools:  Kids Programme for primary schools, to explain the economy to the very young while they have fun;  Junior Programme, an educational resource for children in the first year of secondary school that introduces them to economic citizenship issues by encouraging them to reflect on the principal functions of finance and their impact on people’s everyday lives;  Teens Programme, for older secondary school pupils, which introduces the basic notions needed for a real knowledge of economic rules, preparing the young people to become join and actively participate in the social, cultural, professional and economic reality that surrounds them. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Commitment to the community Pg.81 Following the mandatory introduction of Alternating School Work programmes as part of the Good School Reform (Law 107 of 13th July 2015), UBI Banca has developed a 40 hour project to meet the needs of schools and students who increasingly ask the Bank to become their educational partner and in this way contribute to the development of economic and financial skills among young people. The programme consists of three training days taught in the classroom by internal teaching staff that alternates traditional lessons and short workshops using group work, role play, exercises and a second workshop part in which the young people work in a team to deliver an enterprise project under the guidance of a teacher. In the current youth unemployment situation, offering programmes that stimulate an entrepreneurial spirit can be a value-added strategy for young people. That is why the theme of entrepreneurship education was addressed during the year by taking part in the Ministry of Education, Universities and Research National Coalition for Entrepreneurship Education and supporting the Start Cup competition and the national FEDUF Che Impresa Ragazzi (“What a business kids!”) competition. Start Cup is a competition organised by universities and university incubators to promote the creation of new high-potential enterprises whether they start in a university, are hosted by it, or are associated through a partnership. Che Impresa Ragazzi, now in its tenth year, is awarded to the best business plan delivered by upper secondary school pupils: the objective of the initiative is to develop the capacity to look at work with an entrepreneurial mindset. This year the first and second places in the national final in Rome, in the presence of the MIUR and ABI, were awarded to two enterprise projects from the UBI Banca Alternating School Work programme, out of the 60 participants in the national programme in the 2016-2017 school year. Many events were organised during the year to promote financial education. They include Risparmiamo il Pianeta (Let’s save the planet) and Diventare Cittadini Sostenibili, (Becoming sustainable citizens) which were held during Energy Week and involved a great many students with the objective of promoting reflection on the concepts of sustainable development, a sustainable economy, protecting and saving resources, cutting food waste and ethical finance. In the 2018/2019 school year, UBI Banca will also support the Osservatorio Permanente Giovani-Editori Young Factor project to promote financial and economic education for young people, together with Intesa Sanpaolo, Unicredit and Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena. Various lecture-performances have been organised throughout Italy co-operation with FEDUF, such as Scegli cosa voglio (Choose what I want) in Ancona, Fate il nostro gioco (Play our game) in Arezzo and Play Economy in Varese and Bergamo. The offer for students has been enriched in terms of people as well as content: a team of 70 colleagues/teachers from across Italy who interface directly with Italian schools to promote financial literacy has been created. They are fellow professionals who dedicate time and energy to contribute to providing our young people with the necessary means to become aware, active and well-informed citizens. CO MMITMENT IN F INANCIAL EDUCATIO N PARTECIPAN BANK TEACHING SCHO O L S CL ASSES INITIATIVES TS TEACHERS HO URS Programs Kids, Junior and Teens 80 282 7,050 67 364 Other initiatives and events 67 182 5,137 44 117 TO TAL 147 464 1 2 ,1 8 7 111 481 Important initiatives were also organised at a local level by the Macro Geographical Areas:  the Milan and Emilia Romagna MGA developed training activities for students in line with the Alternating School Work programme: in co-operation with the Liceo Giuseppe Parini and Liceo Berchet high schools in Milan and the Istituto Taramelli high school in Pavia, they created the “Invito a Palazzo” initiative to show art and history in the major buildings of banks and banking foundations. In 2017, the Vo.La.Re. (Volunteering Work Responsibility) pilot project was launched in order to build a programme of content and services that could be used to support those returning to the workplace and support new start-ups, aimed at young unemployed people and those looking for a first job;  the Marches and Abruzzo MGA, as well as taking part in FEDUF programmes, promoted the Economix Festival for the Marches, offering a varied and innovative range of educational experiences. It also organised the EDU FIN GAME educational quiz about the economy and finance for schools in the Marches; the best class in each school took part in Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Commitment to the community Pg.82 the Regional Final in Jesi to win the “Best School in the Marches for Financial Education” prize. IW Bank also promoted various initiatives, including the Trading Road Show with the aim of promoting the responsible use of trading platforms and risk management processes. Access to financial services [FS14 FS7] The Group is striving to facilitate access to financial services for disadvantaged people on the basis of the needs identified, with regard to both physical and sensory disabilities (ability to access Group branches and offices autonomously and use telephone and digital banking services) and situations of social and economic marginalisation. Elimination of physical and sensory barriers In particular, over 1,000 ATMs, amounting to approximately 50% of those installed, have been equipped with audio assistance. Recently-installed ATMs and those scheduled for installation are also equipped with audio assistance. All the Group’s Bancomat ATMs are also designed to use specific graphics for partially-sighted people, with significantly larger fonts than usual. These supports are activated by simply pressing the “5” key on the ATM number pad, which can be identified by touch. In 2017 nine new ramps, five stair lifts or elevators and fifteen conveniences accessible to disabled persons were installed at Group buildings and branches. The IT platforms for the Qui UBI and Qui UBI Affari internet banking services are continuously updated to comply with the main navigation requirements for partially-sighted people (e.g. through pages with strong colour contrast and alternative texts to accompany images) and 969 Bancomat ATMs (38.4% of the total) are accessible for use by partially or non-sighted people. Financial inclusion UBI Banca has identified a series of important social causes and specific expectations of stakeholder groups, particularly in terms of access to financial services for vulnerable groups, support for nonprofit third sector organisations to carry out activities with a high social impact and a cautious attitude to ethically controversial sectors due to their potential negative social impact. This commitment to provide adequate responses is mainly put into practice in the commercial and credit policies and range of products and services of the Commercial Retail Area. In order to promote access to financial services for economically vulnerable groups as a necessary condition for their social inclusion, UBI Banca has joined the initiatives originating from the collaboration between the Ministry of the Economy and Finance, the Bank of Italy, the Italian Post Office, and payment services associations to offer low-cost basic services: the Ordinary Basic Account, Free Basic Account for socially disadvantaged groups and the Basic Account for Pensioners. UBI Banca has created two products to support access to credit, particularly for home buyers, the Flexible Mortgage, with which repayments can be rescheduled or the repayment schedule can be changed if certain extraordinary events occur and the Young Couples' Mortgage which is designed to include those who do not have a permanent employment contract. In particular, over 26,719 mortgages were granted in 2017 for a total disbursement of over €3 billion (392,111 mortgages with remaining principal debt of approximately €40.5 billion outstanding at the end of the year) inclusive of mortgages for young couples and “atypical” workers (such as those without a permanent employment contract), in addition to ordinary mortgages. Additionally, for employees affected by the economic crisis and company reorganisations and restructurings, specific agreements have been signed with Finlombarda and the Foundazione Welfare Ambrosiano for advances on Cassa Integrazione Guadagni in deroga (the exceptional state redundancy/lay-off scheme), Cassa Integrazione Guadagni Straordinaria (the Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Commitment to the community Pg.83 extraordinary state redundancy/lay-off scheme) and Contratti di Solidarietà (trade union agreements to reduce working hours). 2017 2016 L O AN S TO HO USEHO L DS Disb u rsed Disb u rsed op eration s of th e year N u mb er N u mb er (millions of euro) (millions of euro) Home mortgages 26,372 2,980.0 14,374 2,343.3 1 26,108 2,953.0 13,674 2,271.3 Ordinary mortgages Mortgages for young couples and atypical workers 264 27.0 700 72.0 Solidarity credit 235 6.7 62 4.7 Loans for natural disasters (real estate/unsecured) 235 6.7 62 4.7 Support for studies 206 1.4 264 1.7 Under 30 Small Expenses 46 0.1 77 0.2 Under 30 Large Projects 54 0.7 93 1.0 ABI/PCDM Give them a future 106 0.6 94 0.5 Anti-usury 17,637 19.6 16,749 19.6 Pawn credit 17,637 19.6 16,749 19.6 TO TAL 4 4 ,4 5 0 3 ,0 0 7 .7 3 1 ,4 4 9 2 ,3 6 9 .4 2017 2016 L O AN S TO HO USEHO L DS Remain in g Remain in g Total ou tstan d in g N u mb er d eb t N u mb er d eb t (millions of euro) (millions of euro) Home mortgages 388,203 40,252.0 216,180 19,942.6 Ordinary mortgages 1 384,607 39,869.0 212,550 19,545.3 Mortgages for young couples and atypical workers 3,596 383.0 3,630 397.3 Solidarity credit 612 53.9 137 10.9 Loans for natural disasters (real estate/unsecured) 612 53.9 137 10.9 Support for studies 633 4.2 595 3.9 Under 30 Small Expenses 108 0.2 132 0.3 Under 30 Large Projects 211 1.7 190 1.7 ABI/PCDM Give them a future 314 2.3 273 1.9 Anti-usury 28,112 33.2 28,737 32.4 Pawn credit 28,112 33.2 28,737 32.4 TO TAL 4 1 7 ,5 6 0 4 0 ,3 4 3 .2 2 4 5 ,6 4 9 1 9 ,9 8 9 .8 Particular attention is paid to young people, with special current accounts for different age groups (Clubino, for children aged up to 12 with over 137 thousand accounts opened, over 9 thousand of which in 2017; I WANT TUBÌ for 13 to 18 year-olds with over 21 thousand accounts opened of which over 5,700 during the year, and QUBÌ <30 for the under 30s) and subsidised loans for studies or for developing new projects (Diamogli Futuro (Let’s give them a future), unsecured loans in co-operation with the Italian Banking Association and the Youth Department at the President of the Council of Ministers Office, and personal loans entitled Piccole Spese e Grandi Progetti Small Expenses and Large Projects). Co-operation with the Accademia Teatro alla Scala (La Scala Theatre Academy) of Milan, together with the Welfare Ambrosiano Foundation, also continued; unsecured loans were granted under special terms and conditions (termed “loans of honour”) to facilitate and support the personal and professional growth of students at the Accademia. Fourteen loan applications were received in 2017 for a total amount of €80,400.00 of which 13 have already been granted for a total of €76,700.00. In order to encourage saving, above all among the less well-off, UBI Banca has created Fundbased savings plans , which allow even small sums to be saved. Socially responsible investments [FS7] Following the launch of the UBI Sicav Social 4 Future fund in 2016, UBI Pramerica and UBI Banca have confirmed their commitment to social responsibility and environmental concern by Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Commitment to the community Pg.84 placing the UBI Pramerica Bilanciato Etico fund : a new fund investing in financial instruments that are mainly denominated in euros and listed on regulated markets in the euro area and meet ethical and social responsibility requirements. The new fund, with a total of €218 million placed within a time frame (October/November 2017), aims to broaden the range of ethical funds offered by the Group's asset management company UBI Pramerica in order to highlight the growing propensity and need for investors, including private individuals, to combine the traditional objective of financial returns with ethical and social principles when making their investment choices. In this way the UBI Pramerica Bilanciato Etico fund, categorised as a balanced bond product, is a combination of the typical exclusion criteria of the main socially responsible investments (SRIs). The fund aims at a balanced portfolio, investing mainly in bond-type and monetary financial instruments most of which are issued by companies with investment grade credit assets and up to a maximum of 30% in equity instruments and other securities that represent risk capital. All the instruments are mainly denominated in euros and listed on regulated markets in the euro area and meet ethical and social responsibility requirements. An additional feature of the fund is the commitment made by UBI and the Group’s asset management company to support nonprofit and social purpose organisations, by means of a one-off donation by UBI Banca of 4% of the placement commissions at the end of the placement period and a donation by the asset management company of 4% of the recurring management fees. A donation of 4% of the placement commissions and 4% of the management fees from the launch (November 2017) until 31st December 2018, will be made to support the CasAmica Onlus : “Always closer to patients away from home and their relatives: CasAmica opens new doors of welcome in Rome and Lecco”. The project is designed to support the opening of two new houses in Rome and Lecco, to accommodate patients and their relatives who travel to hospitals that are far from home, enabling them to stay in a family environment while they are ill; more specifically 2,000 more patients and their relatives in addition to the 4,000 a year hosted by CasAmica at its houses in Milan. More specifically, UBI Banca will grant a total donation amounting to €200 thousand against the placement of this fund, of which €140 thousand in the current year. During 2017, UBI Banca has also donated €159 thousand attributable to previous placements; to UNICEF for the Sicav Social 4 Future Class A fund and the Astalli Centre Association for the Sicav Social 4 Future Class 1 fund. In addition to the UBI Sicav Social 4 Future fund (launched in 2016) and the UBI Pramerica Bilanciato Etico fund (launched in 2017), UBI Pramerica offers two further Italian-registered products: the UBI Pramerica Azionario Etico fund (launched in 2005) and the UBI Pramerica Obbligazionario Euro Corporate Etico fund (launched in 2015), which donate 5% of the management commission received each year. The 2017 beneficiary is FAI the National Trust for Italy. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Commitment to the community Pg.85 UB I PRAMERICA AZIO N ARIO ETICO 2017 2016 Assets under management (million of euro) 23.2 19.2 as a percentage of the total assets under management in funds 0.14% 0.13% as a percentage of the total assets under management 0.04% 0.04% UB I PRAMERICA O B B L IGAZIO N ARIO EURO CO RPO RATE ETICO 2017 2016 Assets under management (million of euro) 46.2 36.4 as a percentage of the total assets under management in funds 0.28% 0.24% as a percentage of the total assets under management 0.08% 0.07% UB I PRAMERICA B IL AN CIATO ETICO 2017 Assets under management (million of euro) 218.5 as a percentage of the total assets under management in funds 1.31% as a percentage of the total assets under management 0.36% ETHICAL F UN DS 2017 2016 Assets under management (million of euro) 287.9 55.6 as a percentage of the total assets under management in funds 1.73% 0.36% as a percentage of the total assets under management 0.48% 0.10% UB I SICAV SO CIAL 4 F UTURE 2017 2016 Assets under management (million of euro) 370.9 387.7 as a percentage of the total assets under management in SICAV 1 2.26% 3.03% as a percentage of the total assets under management in SICAV 2.14% 2.59% 1 Delegated to Pramerica Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report Commitment to the community Pg.86 Commitment to the environment Protecting and respecting the environment have become global priorities in terms of the need to reduce the impact of human activities from the viewpoints of both pollution and the consumption of natural resources, with particular reference to waste production and the emission of greenhouse and ozone-depleting gases. For UBI Group, managing the direct environmental impacts of our own activities, particularly energy consumption, is significant as both a contribution to the fight against climate change and a way of optimising the operating costs of the Group, while the development of green investment and financing products not only promotes eco-friendly economic development but also enables us to take advantage of new commercial opportunities and gain reputational advantage. In the context of the model of organisation, management and control pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 231/2001, UBI Banca has identified some sensitive activities in terms of the environmental crimes specified by the Decree: waste disposal, the selection of suppliers and management of relationships with them and the use and operation of heating and cooling systems. The model includes special protocols and assigns specific roles and responsibilities for these sensitive activities. The Group does not restrict itself to mere compliance with rules and regulations relating to the potential commission of crimes, but adopts a proactive approach to environmental protection, mainly in relation to the management of energy consumption. This is the responsibility of:  the Energy Manager and the operational Energy Management Unit at UBI Sistemi e Servizi, which is allocated a specific budget. The Energy Manager is responsible for analysing the energy requirement of the Group member companies for which it acts as a service provider, drawing up policies and actions to optimise consumption (including the improvement of the energy efficiency of buildings and systems) and monitoring their application and the results achieved;  the Mobility Manager, for activities relating to the sustainable mobility of employees (commuting to and from work and business travel). The Environmental policy is scheduled for revision in 2018, as part of which the specific objectives to be achieved over the period of the 2020 business plan will be defined. Materials used [GRI 301-1:2] The Purchasing Department of UBI Sistemi e Servizi manages the purchasing cycle for Group companies. The main raw materials used are paper and toner for printouts for internal use and also those for customers. The undertaking made by the Group to reduce consumption has continued, with benefits for the Bank (reduced costs), the customer (streamlined operations) and the environment (reduced paper consumption and travel) through:  the efficient management of printing, using remote monitoring of office printers, configuring them for double-sided printing and, recently, introducing printing on demand using personal ID cards; Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Commitment to the environment Pg.87  the dematerialisation of documents using the Advanced Electronic Signature service for online operations and a signature on a tablet1 for bank counters, making it possible to eliminate the printing of paper forms;  the development and spread of Digital Bank consultation and payment services. CO N SUMPTIO N R AW MATER IAL S Data in KG 2017 2016 1 Paper purchased 2,408 2,377 2 of which: outsourcer 882 816 Origin of the fibres FSC/PEFC 49.7% 72.1% Ecological bleaching methods ECF 57.6% 67.3% Ecological brands Ecolabel 0.5% 59.6% Other 9.6% 5.9% Recycled 0,0% 0,0% Toner 30.1 30 of which: outsourcer 3 30.1 30 1 The 2017 paper consumption of Banca Tirrenica and Banca Federico del Vecchio was not included due to data collection difficulties. 2 Paper used by outside printing firms to send periodic reports (e.g . bank statements) and publicity. 3 Toner purchased and used by outside companies that operate printing equipment for Group offices, branches and printing centres. Increases in consumption are mainly due to the extension of the area reported on to include the New Banks. Energy consumption [GRI 302-1:4] UBI Banca is a multi-site concern. It operates in properties generally classifiable as for service use and it is subject to specific regulations on energy and energy efficiency, including:  Law No. 10/1991 “Implementing provisions for the National Energy Plan as regards energy efficiency, energy savings and the development of renewable energy sources and the related Presidential Decree 412/93 “Regulation containing rules for the design, installation, use and maintenance of the heating systems in buildings for containing energy consumption, in implementation of Art. 4, paragraph 4 of Law No. 10 of 9th January 1991”;  European Directive No. 2002/91/EC: “On the energy performance of buildings”, implemented by Legislative Decree 192/2005 as subsequently amended by Legislative Decree 311/2006;  Legislative Decree 102/2014 “Implementation of EU Directive 2012/27/EU On energy efficiency”. Energy is mainly used to ensure the functioning of the branches, offices and data processing centres of the whole Group. The energy supply is managed with the aim of containing operating costs while at the same time reducing risks associated with supply disruptions, using suppliers selected on the basis of cost, service quality and technical, commercial and financial reliability. From the environmental point of view, the objectives are a rational use of 1 Using signatures written onto a tablet computer makes it possible to conclude transactions in branches without the use of paper forms, leading to advantages in terms of environmental sustainability. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Commitment to the environment Pg.88 resources, the elimination of waste and the use of renewable and/or low-emission energy sources. Consumption is monitored using monthly consumption progress charts drawn up for the UBI Sistemi e Servizi Real Estate Department (a summary of electricity consumption only is also submitted to the UBI Sistemi e Servizi Management Committee) and the annual reporting cycle of the Sustainability Report and Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). To reduce energy consumption and the risks associated with potential increases in energy costs and the introduction of more restrictive legislation governing the energy efficiency of buildings and installations, UBI Sistemi e Servizi has:  improved its design system for the construction and refurbishment of offices and branches bringing them into line with technological advances available on the market in three areas of intervention: electricity and lighting, mechanics and installations, and architecture and construction;  completed the first stage of installing the monitoring and feedback system enabling the continuous measurement and control of consumption, programmed load management and remote verification to check that installations are working;  replaced the air conditioning in the Brescia data processing centre with a new very high performance system, which save a significant amount of electricity by using a free cooling pump to air condition the rooms;  started the implementation of a monitoring and feedback system at a large building in Brescia to evaluate the benefits that can be achieved by using this technology in this type of site. In the context of installing monitoring systems with a view to energy efficiency, low environmental impact and reducing emissions, following the adoption of a vademecum for energy efficiency in 2014, UBI Banca was the first bank in Italy to invest in the installation of intelligent domotics in its branches. The project has the two-fold aim of increasing awareness of energy consumption and reducing it by switching systems off intelligently. The use of domotics is particularly innovative because it is not limited solely to monitoring power lines, but also uses its own intelligence to store events, manage the loads of the main users of electricity in the branch using energy-saving rules and report problems in real time so that the immediate action can be taken. Installation in the first 772 branches was completed in 2017, while in 2018 the system will be implemented in a further 628 operating units. Once the installations are complete, domotics systems will be installed in all the banking Group’s branches that use a significant amount of electricity and connected to one of the largest cloud systems ever created, so it will be possible to control them remotely. The installations will also involve the branches of the New Banks. As well as saving energy, there are also indirect advantages from using this innovative system, such as for example higher safety standards at the workplace. The control centres will be able to recognise overloads and faults automatically outside office hours, which increases safety and efficiency. The monitoring system is currently being installed in a large building in Brescia, in order to evaluate the impact of this technology on energy consumption in management departments. As part of the periodic renewal of IT equipment, 5,056 desktops with monitors, 834 notebooks, 135 mini desktops and 2,144 latest generation monitors were purchased that are generally more energy efficient than those replaced. Initiatives were undertaken to reduce the number of vehicles in circulation in the company car fleet and renew it with vehicles with lower consumption and emissions. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Commitment to the environment Pg.89 EN ER GY CO N SUMPTIO N W ITHIN THE O R GAN IZATIO N 2017 2016 Heating GJ 226,239 113,074 of wich: natural gas GJ 215,975 104,657 gas oil GJ 9,452 7,964 LPG GJ 812 453 Distric heating GJ 27,905 30,343 KWh 7,751,295 8,542,614 Electricity GJ 410,301 356,095 KWh 113,972,604 98,915,224 from renewable sources % 97.3% 95.5% of which: purchased GJ 407,926 355,373 KWh 113,312,792 98,714,607 from renewable sources % 97.3% 95.5% Self-produced electricity GJ 2,375 722 KWh 659,812 200,617 from renewable sources % 100% 100% Fuel car fleet GJ 37,116 29,230 of which: petrol GJ 1,337 231 gas oil GJ 35,761 28,888 LPG GJ 18 112 TO TAL GJ 7 0 1 ,5 6 1 5 2 8 ,7 4 2 O F W HICH: N O N -REN EW AB L E F UEL S GJ 2 6 3 ,3 5 5 1 4 2 ,3 0 4 EL ECTRICITY AN D DISTRIC HEATIN G GJ 4 3 8 ,2 0 6 3 8 6 ,4 3 8 KW h 1 2 1 ,7 2 3 ,8 9 9 1 0 7 ,4 5 7 ,8 3 8 F RO M REN EW AB L E SO URCES GJ 3 9 9 ,3 5 5 3 4 0 ,0 1 7 O F TO TAL % 5 6 .9 % 6 4 .3 % 2017 2016 THE PRIN CIPAL MEASURES UN DERTAKEN Estimated Estimated Estimated Estimated TO REDUCE EN ERGY CO N SUMPTIO N en erg y en erg y fin an cial fin an cial W ITHIN THE O RGAN ISATIO N savin g s fo r savin g s fo r savin g s savin g s 2 0 1 8 ( GJ) 2 0 1 7 ( GJ) Replacement of heat generators in branches 331 6,083 522 10,943 Replacement of heat pumps/air conditioners in branches 147 7,431 879 51,029 Replacement of UPS (2016) 0 0 4,209 244,365 Replacement of conditioning systems in Brescia data-processing centre (2016-2017) 1,385 70,043 1,737 100,815 Installation of consumption monitoring system in 772 branches (2016-2017) 6,625 334,942 8,100 470,250 Installation of consumption monitoring system in 628 branches (2017-2018) 2,868 144,986 2015-2016-2017 rationalisation of the distribution network 14,365 726,249 4,320 250,800 Monitoring at the large New Management Centre building in Brescia 542 27,377 Replacement of UPS OF Teatina Bank (2017) 55 2,768 TO TAL 2 6 ,3 1 8 1 ,3 1 9 ,8 7 8 1 9 ,7 6 7 1 ,1 2 8 ,2 0 1 The main external source of energy consumption is business travel, which the Group is constantly seeking to reduce through the increasing use of video conferencing and make more sustainable by means of a travel policy which provides for the use, whenever possible, of public and/or collective transport. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Commitment to the environment Pg.90 EN ER GY CO N SUMPTIO N O UTSIDE O F THE O R GAN IZATIO N Data in GJ 2017 2016 Production of paper purchased 1 30,942.5 30,259.4 Business travel2 44,804.8 37,682.8 of which: private cars 33,275.2 27,561.8 train 3,728.6 2,458.2 air 7,801.0 7,662.8 Shuttle coach 3 2,978.1 2,978.1 TO TAL 7 8 ,7 2 5 .4 7 0 ,9 2 0 .3 1 The 2017 energ y consumption of Banca Tirrenica and Banca Federico del Vecchio is not included due to data collection difficulties. 2 The 2016 fig ure for business travel has been restated following an update of the method used to calculate with reference to railway travel. 3 The 2017 energ y consumption of the New Banks is not included due to data collection difficulties EN ERGY IN TEN SITY 2017 2016 Total energy consumption (GJ) 701,561 528,742 Energy intensity per employee (GJ/employees) 32.68 30.18 Energy intensity by surface area (GJ/Sq.m) 0.55 0.55 Increases in energy consumption are mainly due to heating and are caused partly by a winter that was colder than the previous one and above all by the extension of the area reported on to include the New Banks. These banks operate in areas where there is a greater dependence on heating systems that use fossil fuels. [GRI 305-1:7] Emissions The emissions produced by the Group mainly relate to greenhouse gases and the other pollutants produced by the use of energy from fossil fuels, whereas emissions of ozonedepleting gases were not found to be significant. Emissions are monitored using the annual reporting cycle of the Sustainability Report and Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). A major contribution to the overall reduction of emissions is also made by reducing the amount of commuting to and from work and the increasing use of sustainable transport. This reduction in mobility is influenced by smart working (from home or the nearest Group office), which started in 2015 and has significantly increased in 2017 with 4,560 days worked, saving an average of approximately 428,502 kilometres and avoiding the emission of at least 66,047 tons of CO2. Another contribution to more sustainable mobility is made by providing sheltered bicycle parking at some of the Bank’s main premises and a coach shuttle service running between our Bergamo, Varese, Brescia and Milan offices (and also around the city of Milan). The shuttle coaches transported an average of 310 passengers per day in 2017 which prevented at least 1,000 tons of CO2 emissions compared with the use of cars. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Commitment to the environment Pg.91 DIR ECT GHG EMISSIO N S ( Sc o p e 1 ) 2017 2016 Data in Tons CO 2 CO 2 e CO 2 CO 2 e From heating systems 13,603.8 13,686.4 6,576.9 6,618.0 of which: Gas oil 695.5 702.4 586.0 591.8 LPG 53.3 53.7 29.7 30.0 Natural g as 12,855.1 12,930.3 5,961.2 5,996.2 Company car fleet fuel 2,733.3 2,759.8 2,152.0 2,172.7 of which: Petrol 98.1 99.1 16.9 17.1 Gas oil 2,634.0 2,659.5 2,127.8 2,148.2 LPG 1.2 1.2 7.3 7.4 TO TAL 1 6 ,3 3 7 .1 1 6 ,4 4 6 .1 8 ,7 2 8 .9 8 ,7 9 0 .7 EN ERGY IN DIR ECT GHG EMISSIO N S 2017 2016 ( sco p e 2 ) CO 2 C0 2 e CO 2 C0 2 e 1 Location Based 37,619.8 37,790.0 31,983.5 32,144.0 Market Based 2 1,414.3 1,432.2 1,940.9 1,969.6 1 Emissions that would have resulted from the use of energ y produced on the basis of the averag e national energ y mix (data published by Gestore dei Servizi Energ etic – electricity services administrator). 2 Residual emissions attributable to energ y purchased from non-renewable sources. O THER IN DIR ECT GHG EMISSIO N S 2017 2016 ( sc o p e3 ) Data in Tons CO 2 CO 2 e CO 2 CO 2 e 1 Paper purchased 1,035.4 n.a. 1,022.1 n.a. Business travel 3,111.8 2387.6 2,641.7 1985.9 of which: private cars 2,363.5 2,387.6 1,965.1 1,985.9 train 195.2 n.a. 128.7 n.a. air 553.1 n.a. 547.9 n.a. 2 Shuttle coach 208.3 209.9 209.3 210.9 TO TAL 4 ,3 5 5 .5 n .a. 3 ,8 7 3 .1 n .a. 1 The 2017 emissions of the New Banks are not included due to data collection difficulties 2 The fig ure for 2016 has been restated following an update of the method used to calculate it. 1 GHG EMISSIO N S IN TEN SITY Data 2017 2016 in Tons CO 2 CO 2 e CO 2 CO 2 e Total residual emissions 17,751.3 17,878.3 10,669.8 10,760.2 Emissions intensity per employee 0.83 0.83 0.61 0.61 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 Emissions intensity per surface area (Sq.m) 1 The figure for 2016 has been restated following an update of the method used to calculate it. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Commitment to the environment Pg.92 2017 2016 E s ti ma te d E s ti ma te d THE PRIN CIPAL MEASURES UN DERTAKEN TO REDUCE THE s a v i ng s i n te rms s a v i ng s i n te rms GREEN HO USE GAS EMISSIO N S ( SCO PE 1 AN D 2 ) of T ons C O 2 of T ons C O 2 e qui v a le nt i n e qui v a le nt i n 2017 2017 Replacement of heat generators in branches 19 30 Replacement of heat pumps/air conditioners in branches 14 80 Replacement of UPS 0 381 Replacement of conditioning systems in Brescia data-processing centre 128 157 Installation of consumption monitoring system in 772 branches (2016-2017) 614 733 Installation of consumption monitoring system in 628 branches (2017-2018) 266 2016-2017 rationalisation of the distribution network 1,331 391 Monitoring at the large New Management Centre Building in Brescia 100 Replacement of UPS of Teatina Bank 5 TO TAL 2 ,4 7 7 1 ,7 7 1 VIDEO -CO N F EREN CES 2017 2016 Offices equipped 2,345 2,138 Video rooms 516 458 Number of video-conferences 36,251 31,740 Number of participants 173,388 115,807 Average number of participants 5 4 Total duration (hours) 80,341 63,318 N O x an d SO x 2017 2016 Data in Tons NOx SO x NOx SO x From heating 7.39 0.44 4.08 0.37 of which: Gas oil 0.47 0.44 0.40 0.37 LPG 0.04 0.00 0.02 0.00 Natural g as 6.88 0.00 3.66 0.00 Electricity purchased 17.45 8.39 16.49 8.49 of which: covered by certificates GO 16.98 8.16 15.74 8.11 not covered by certificates GO 0.47 0.23 0.75 0.38 Company car fleet fuel 10.69 0.13 8.58 0.10 of which: Petrol 0.09 0.00 0.02 0.00 Gas oil 10.60 0.13 8.56 0.10 LPG 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 TO TAL RESIDUAL EMISSIO N S 1 8 .5 5 0 .7 9 1 3 .4 1 0 .8 6 As with consumption, increases in emissions are mainly due to the extension of the area reported on to include the New Banks. Waste [GRI 306-2 306-4] Solid urban waste is managed by the public collection service and we are therefore unable to measure the quantity and methods of disposal. With reference to other types of waste, the Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Commitment to the environment Pg.93 Group is committed not only to reducing them, but also to disposing of them correctly through separate collection, various forms of recycling and sending only what remains to incineration or landfill. The Bank is subject to specific regulations on waste treatment procedures, in particular:  those concerning the management of records, forms and SISTRI (the traceability decree): Legislative Decree No. 152 of 3/04/2006 “Environmental regulations Part four: Regulations on waste management and the cleanup of polluted sites”; Ministerial Decree No. 78 of 30/03/2016, the “Consolidated SISTRI Law”; Ministerial Decree No. 148 of 1/04/1998 on “Regulations on the approval of the waste loading and unloading record form”; Ministerial Decree No. 145 of 1/04/1998 “Regulations on the definition and contents of the waste accompaniment form” and Law No. 70 of 25/01/1994 (establishment of the environmental declaration form MUD);  Presidential Decree No. 254 of 15/07/2003, containing regulations on the management of medical waste. The UBI Sistemi e Servizi Facility Management operating unit manages relations with suppliers engaged for the collection and treatment of special waste and verifies (by using the fourth copy of the accompaniment form 2) that waste has been treated in compliance with the applicable regulations in force. Hazardous waste is handled by authorised local waste disposal companies. W ASTE 2017 2016 Hazar dous 1 (Ton) 6 .2 3 .7 Reused Recycled 3.6 composted Recovered 6.2 0.1 Incinerated 0.1 Deep injection Landfill On-site storage N o n h az ard o u s ( To n ) 2 ,0 7 4 .5 1 ,4 8 9 .5 Reused Recycled 1,908.1 1,489.5 composted Recovered 166.5 Incinerated 0.0 Deep injection Landfill On-site storage TO TAL 2 ,0 8 0 .7 1 ,4 9 3 .2 p er emp lo yee ( Kg ) 9 6 .9 8 5 .2 2 b y flo o r area ( Kg /Mq ) 1 .6 1 .5 1 Hazardous waste as defined by Legislative Decree 152/2006 Environmental regulations and subsequent amendments and additions. 2 Net internal area 2 This form, which accompanies transported waste, is a compulsory waste identification document, which must be drawn up in four copies, filled in, dated and signed by the producer or by the holder of the waste and countersigned by the shipper. One copy of the accompaniment form remains with the producer or holder, while the other three, countersigned and dated on arrival at the recipient consist of one acquired by the recipient and two by the shipper, who sends one to the holder/producer. The receipt of the fourth copy of the accompaniment form by the producer/holder is necessary for the release of that party from responsibility for the proper disposal or recovery of the waste. The copies of the accompaniment form must be kept for five years. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Commitment to the environment Pg.94 Hazardous waste accounts for 0.30% of total separated waste and consists of retired electronic equipment (92.7% of hazardous waste), fluorescent tubes (5.4%) and medical waste (1.9%). All of this waste is entrusted to authorised local companies and none of it is imported or exported. Products and services with environmental aims [GRI 413-2 FS8] The Group contributes to the development of a more eco-friendly economic system in various ways, in line with our commitment to adopt commercial and credit policies intended to maximise our capacity to assess the businesses and projects we finance, including assessment of their environmental risks and benefits3. Loans backed by resources made available by the EIB may not be granted for activities whose environmental impact is not substantially reduced and/or compensated for in compliance with EU and Italian law. With particular reference to project finance activities, on the other hand, projects to be financed must pass authorisation procedures required by the current Italian regulatory framework, including an environmental impact assessment, and are also subject to technical, legal, administrative and insurance assessments carried out on behalf of the Bank by major international independent consultants. The product range includes banking, financial and risk management products and services designed to help customers to manage their activities in a sustainable way:  for individuals, Forza Sole (Sun Strength) for the installation of domestic photovoltaic systems and Creditopplà Home Refurbishment for the refurbishment and energy-efficient retrofitting of homes4;  for businesses, Nuova Energia Fotovoltaico (New Photovoltaic Energy) for the installation of photovoltaic systems, Energie rinnovabili (Renewable Energy) for the installation of systems for generating electricity and/or heat from wind, biogas and biomass and Full Power leasing for investments in renewable energy. 2017 2016 O p eratio n s T ota l O p eratio n s T ota l outs ta nd ing outs ta ndi ng PRO DUCTS W ITH EN VIRO N MEN TAL AIMS No. Di s bur s e d Re ma i ni ng No. Di s bur s e d Re ma ini ng (millions of pr i nci pa l (millions of pr i nci pa l euro) (millions of euro) (millions of euro) euro) IN DIVIDUAL S 0 0 0 0 0 0 Renewable energies #RIF! #RIF! #RIF! #RIF! #RIF! #RIF! Forza Sole (Sun Strength) 8 0.13 1.5 7 0.09 2.0 Home refurbishment and energy upgrades #RIF! #RIF! #RIF! #RIF! #RIF! #RIF! Creditopplà Home Refurbishment 4,135 78.0 186.7 4,610 85.7 159.4 B USIN ESSES 0 0 0 0 0 0 Renewable energies 0 0.00 0.0 0 0.00 0.0 New Photovoltaic Energy 23 22.0 241.7 28 32.8 257.2 Renewable energies 2 0.2 9.1 2 1.0 7.2 1 Full Power 2 6.0 494.7 1 2.7 538.8 TO TAL 4 ,1 7 0 1 0 6 .2 9 3 3 .8 4 ,6 4 8 1 2 2 .3 9 6 4 .6 OF W H I C H : RE NE W ABLE E NE RG I E S 35 28. 2 747. 1 38 36. 6 805. 2 1 The amount disbursed in 2017 includes a repossessed asset that was then leased again (transaction worth €5.5 million). 3 Code of Ethics, par. 6.2, Relations with customers 4 In addition to the tax incentives provided for energy-efficient retrofitting and refurbishment work (65% tax deduction for energy-efficiency and earthquake proofing work on buildings and 50% tax deduction for refurbishments Law No. 208 of 28th December 2015, known as the 2016 Legge di stabilità (“stability” annual finance law) extended until 31/12/2016), they can take advantage of fee-free financing at a particularly competitive interest rate. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Commitment to the environment Pg.95 With regard to major project finance investments, the consolidation process of the ownership and management of photovoltaic installations and to refinance many operations became stronger in 2017, following the entry into force of the “spalma incentivi” (spread the incentives) decree at the end of 2015. The sector has attracted the attention of major investors because expansionary monetary policies have always made the guaranteed returns on investments in renewables more attractive and UBI Banca has continued to play a significant role in supporting Italian investors, participating in some of the most interesting inter-bank transactions at a national level. In particular, this involves the acquisition of clusters of installations (PV, wind etc.) that have been managed using structured finance matched to output, guarantees and market pricing. The construction of new installations has decreased. PRO JECT F IN AN CE O PERATIO N S 2017 2016 IN PO RTF O L IO F O R PO W E R PO W E R PO W E R PO W E R REN EW AB L E EN ERGIES AN D NO . I NS T ALLE D FI NANC E D NO . I NS T ALLE D FI NANC E D THE EN VIRO N MEN T (MW ) (MW ) (MW ) (MW ) Energy 141 2,699 733 127 2,326 676 of wind farms 25 1,846 286 19 1,617 236 photovoltaic plants 97 743 386 93 644 399 other renewable energy 19 110 61 15 65 41 Enviroment 6 0 0 7 0 0 of waste tratement plants 1 0 0 2 0 0 water supplies and treatment plants 4 0 0 4 0 0 district heating systems 1 0 0 1 0 0 TO TAL 147 2 ,6 9 9 733 134 2 ,3 2 6 676 PR O JECT F IN AN CE ACTIVITIES F O R R EN EW AB L E EN ER GY 2017 2016 AN D THE EN VIR O N MEN T F in an cin g g ran ted d u rin g th e year Numbers of contracts 14 10 of which for renewable energy 14 9 Amount authorised (€ milion) 329 191 of which for renewable energy 329 150 Amount disbursed (€ milion) 206 132 of which for renewable energy 206 132 F in an cin g o u tstan d in g at th e en d o f th e year Numbers of contracts 147 134 of which for renewable energy 141 127 Amount authorised (€ milion) 1,528 1,321 of which for renewable energy 1,435 1,204 Amount disbursed (€ milion) 1,264 1,120 of which for renewable energy 1,177 1,050 In total, at the end of 2017 UBI Banca had a portfolio of renewable energy operations amounting to €1.9 billion (of which €1.2 billion in project finance). The transactions concluded during the year in the renewable energy field numbered 49, to give a total amount disbursed of €234.2 million. It is estimated that the power output financed in project finance by UBI Banca amounts to 1.4 million MWh of electricity per year, equal to the domestic electricity requirement of an entire region such as Liguria, with savings on emissions of over 452 thousand tons of CO2. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Commitment to the environment Pg.96 Attachment: calculation method EN ER GY CO N SUMPTIO N W ITHIN Un it o f C oe f f i ci e nt So u rc e THE O R GAN IZATIO N m easu re s Heatin g Natural gas Italian Banking Association Guidelines GJ/Mc 0.0343 Gasoil (density 0,84 Kg/L) Italian Banking Association Guidelines GJ/Ton 42.88 LPG (density 0,56 Kg/L) Italian Banking Association Guidelines GJ/Ton 46.1 Distric Heatin g Italian Banking Association Guidelines GJ/KWh 0.0036 Elec tric ity Purchased Italian Banking Association Guidelines GJ/KWh 0.0036 Photovoltaic Italian Banking Association Guidelines GJ/KWh 0.0036 Tran sp o rt Petrol (density 0,74 Kg/L) Italian Banking Association Guidelines GJ/Ton 42.82 Gasoil (density 0,84 Kg/L) Italian Banking Association Guidelines GJ/Ton 42.78 LPG (density 0,56 Kg/L) Italian Banking Association Guidelines GJ/Ton 46.10 Calculation method Data calculated on the basis of final figures by source of energy provided by the SAP corporate accounting system. Average prices given in the invoices available or recommended by Italian Banking Association guidelines were used to calculate the quantities of fuel. The consumption included in condominium expenses not reported in the table above are estimated as 70% of the condominium expenses themselves which were: approximately € 6.43 million for 2017; € 6.83 million for 2016. THE PR IN CIPAL MEASUR ES UN DER TAKEN TO R EDUCE EN ER GY CO N SUMPTIO N W ITHIN THE O R GAN ISATIO N Calculation methodolog y Energy savings were calculated using the coefficients reported for disclosure 302-1. For the calculation of savings for boilers and air conditioning systems the different outputs of new machines compared with those replaced were used mainly, while for electricity reference was made to specific design ratios or invoice figures for the years 2016 and 2017. EN ERGY CO N SUMPTIO N Un it o f O UTSIDE O F THE So u rce C oe f f i ci e nts measu re O RGAN IZATIO N Pap er CEPI GJ/Ton 12.85 Perso n al veh icles Petrol Italian Banking Association Guidelines GJ/Ton 42.82 Gasoil Italian Banking Association Guidelines GJ/Ton 42.78 Train High speed Italian Banking Association Guidelines/Ecopassenger GJ/Km 0.000762 Other Italian Banking Association Guidelines/Ecopassenger GJ/Km 0.000801 Air (Kerosene jet 71,5 KgCO2/GJ) Domestic Italian Banking Association Guidelines/ICAO GJ/Km 0.002007 International Italian Banking Association Guidelines/ICAO GJ/Km 0.001764 Intercontinental Italian Banking Association Guidelines/ICAO GJ/Km 0.000746 Sh u ttle co ach Gasoil (density 0,84 Kg/L) Italian Banking Association Guidelines GJ/Ton 42.78 Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Commitment to the environment Pg.97 Calculation method Paper : consumption is multiplied by the underlying CEPI coefficient which refers to energy consumed for the production of pulp, paper and cardboard in firms/paper mills. The Confederation of European Paper Industries (CEPI) is a nonprofit organisation which represents approximately 495 companies that produce pulp, paper and cardboard and 900 paper mills for an overall total that accounts for approximately 22% of world production. Business travel: energy consumption by the company car fleet already reported under disclosure 302-1 is excluded. The kilometres travelled by air were retrieved from the IATA certified management app provided by the travel agency. The International Air Transport Association (IATA) is a trade association to which airlines from all over the world belong and it represents approximately 280 airlines (83% of total air traffic). On the basis of the method provided by the Italian Banking Association, the kilometres travelled for domestic, international and intercontinental trips were multiplied by the respective coefficients calculated as the weighted average of the main routes (number of trips and distances). The kilometres travelled by high-speed train and other types of train were retrieved from the management app provided by the travel agency. On the basis of the method provided by the Italian Banking Association, the kilometres travelled by train were multiplied by the respective coefficients calculated as the weighted average of the main routes (number of trips and distances) using the app Ecopassenger. For business travel using personal cars, the CO2 emissions (see 305-3) were divided by the following ISPRA Database of average road transport emission factors in Italy coefficients: 3,127944 tons CO2/tons petrol and 2,992202 tons CO2/tons gas oil. The tons of fuel of obtained were multiplied by the underlying coefficients. Shuttle coach: the tons of gas oil were multiplied by the underlying coefficient. EN ER GY IN TEN SITY Calculation method Energy intensity does not include energy consumption outside the organisation (302-2) and was calculated by dividing total energy consumption within the organisation (302-1) by the number of employees and associate workers (21.465 amounting to 100 % of the Group total) and by the net internal floor area of properties (1.267.931 sq m) of the Group companies within the relative scope. DIRECT GHG Unit o f Unit o f Unit o f EMISSIO N S S o urc e C o e f f .C O 2 C o e f f .C H 4 C o eff. N 2 O m e a s ure m e a s ure m e a s ure ( Scop e 1 ) Heatin g Natural gas Italian Banking Association Guidelines 1.96 Kg/Mc 0.0857 G/Mc 0.03427 G/Mc Gas oil Italian Banking Association Guidelines 3.16 Kg/Ton 300.2 G/Ton 85.76 G/Ton LPG Italian Banking Association Guidelines 3,024 Kg/Ton 46.1 G/Ton 92.20 G/Ton Tran sp ort Italian Banking Association Guidelines Petrol Italian Banking Association Guidelines 3,140 Kg/Ton 730.0 G/Ton 50.0 G/Ton Gas oil Italian Banking Association Guidelines 3,151 Kg/Ton 46.2 G/Ton 110.0 G/Ton LPG Italian Banking Association Guidelines 3,024 Kg/Ton 0.3807 Kg/Ton 0.0469 Kg/Ton Calculation method CO 2 equivalent emissions include CO 2, CH4 and N2O and have been calculated using the IPCC 100 year GWPs for CH 4 (28) and N2O (265) EN ERGY IN DIRECT GHG Un it of EMISSIO N S ( scop e 2 ) Sou rce measu re CO 2 CO 2e CH 4 N 2O Electricity Location Based ABI Guidelines G/kWh 332.00 0.02 0.00 Electricity Market Based European Residual Mix G/kWh 465.11 471.00 Calcu lation meth od Emissions resulting from district heating have not been included in the calculation, because the heat used is a thermal by-product of power generation. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Commitment to the environment Pg.98 O THER IN DIRECT GHG Un it o f Co efficien ts Co efficien ts So u rce EMISSIO N S ( sco p e3 ) measu re CO 2 CO 2 e Pap er CEPI Ton/Ton 0.43 n.a. Private cars ISPRA Database of average road Petrol G/Km 181.276202 182.662889 transport emission factors ISPRA Database of average road Gasoil G/Km 155.612290 157.419381 transport emission factors Train High speed ABI Guidelines/Ecopassenger Kg/Km 0.039883 n.a. Other ABI Guidelines/Ecopassenger Kg/Km 0.041963 n.a. Air Domestic ABI Guidelines/ICAO Kg/Km 0.143499 n.a. International ABI Guidelines/ICAO Kg/Km 0.118859 n.a. Intercontinental ABI Guidelines/ICAO Kg/Km 0.051614 n.a. Sh u ttle co ach Gasoil (density 0,84Kg/L) ISPRA Database of average road Ton/Ton 2.992202 3.015214 transport emission factors Calcu latio n meth o d Pap er: consumption is multiplied by the underlying CEPI emissions coefficient which refers solely to emissions generated for the production of pulp, paper and cardboard in firms/paper mills. The Confederation of European Paper Industries (CEPI) is a nonprofit organisation which represents approximately 495 companies that produce pulp, paper and cardboard and 900 paper mills for an overall total that accounts for approximately 22% of world production. B u sin ess travel: emissions of the company car fleet already reported under indicator 305-1 are excluded. The kilometres travelled by air were retrieved from the IATA certified management app provided by the travel agency. The International Air Transport Association (IATA) is a trade association to which airlines from all over the world belong and it represents approximately 280 airlines, i.e. 83% of total air traffic. On the basis of the method provided by the Italian Banking Association, the kilometres travelled for domestic, international and intercontinental trips were multiplied by the respective emissions coefficients calculated as the weighted average of the main routes (in terms of the number of trips and distances), using the ICAO Carbon Emissions Calculator app. The kilometres travelled by train were retrieved from the management app provided by the travel agency. On the basis of the method provided by the Italian Banking Association, the kilometres travelled by train were multiplied by the respective emissions coefficients calculated as the weighted average of the main routes (number of trips and distances) using the app Ecopassenger. The kilometres travelled by employees in their own petrol or diesel powered cars have been multiplying by the underlying emissions coefficients. Sh u ttle co ach : the tons of gas oil have been multiplied by the emissions factors taken from the ISPRA database of average road transport emission factors. CO 2 equivalent emissions include CO 2, CH4 and N2 O and have been calculated using the IPCC 100 year GWPs for CH4 (28) and N 2O (265). GHG EMISSIO N S IN TEN SITY Calculation method Total emissions do not include Scope 3 emissions (305-3) and include scope 1 emissions (305-1) and the residual emissions of the scope 2 (305-2) not covered by GO certificates. Total emissions were divided by the number of employees and associate workers (21,495 amounting to 100% of the Group total) and by the net internal floor area of the properties (1,267.931 sq m) of the Group companies within the relative scope. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Commitment to the environment Pg.99 THE PRIN CIPAL MEASURES UN DERTAKEN TO REDUCE THE GREEN HO USE GAS EMISSIO N S ( SCO PE 1 AN D 2 ) Calculation method Emission savings were calculated using the emission coefficients reported for the disclosures 305-1 and 3052, multiplied by the fuel and/or energy savings (302-4). Un it of Coefficien ts Un it of Coefficien ts N O x e SO x Sou rce measu res Nox measu res So x Heatin g Naturale gas ABI Guidelines Kg/Mc 0.00 n.a. Gas oil ABI Guidelines Kg/Ton 2.14 G/Kg 2.010 LPG Kg/Ton 2.31 n.a. Electricity ABI Guidelines G/kWh 0.15 G/kWh 0.075 Tran sp ort Petrol ISPRA Database of average Ton/Ton 0.002965 Ton/Ton 0.000011 road transport emission factors in Italy Gas oil ISPRA Database of average Ton/Ton 0.012680 Ton/Ton 0.000015 road transport emission factors in Italy LPG ISPRA Database of average Ton/Ton 0.001799 n.a. road transport emission factors in Italy W ASTE Calculation method Waste by employee and by surface area was calculated by dividing total separated waste by the number of employees and associate workers (21.465, amounting to 100% of the Group total) and by the net internal floor area of the properties (1.267.931 sq.m) of the Group companies within the relative scope. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Commitment to the environment Pg.100 Methodological note Approval of the document [GRI 102-32] This Report is an integral part of the Consolidated management report pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016. Accordingly, it was approved by the Management Board of UBI Banca on 19th February 2018, made available to the Supervisory Board (in its capacity as an oversight body) and the auditor, filed with the Company Registrar, published at UBI Banca's corporate website1 and distributed to shareholders at the Shareholders' meeting as part of the documentation for the Consolidated financial statements. Reporting contents and boundaries [GRI 102-45 102-48:49] This Report provides information pursuant to Article 3 (1) and (2) of Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 and further information provided in the reference standards, as required to provide a fair view of the activities of the Group, its operations, results and impact 2. The methodologies and principles provided in the 2016 GRI Standards were used in drafting the Report, reflecting changes in the GRI G4 Guidelines as previously adopted. Accordingly, this document also serves as UBI Banca Group's Sustainability Report. With the publication of this Report, UBI Banca also meets the obligation under the periodic Communication on Progress requirement incumbent on the signatories as provided under the Global Compact of the United Nations. The topics to be addressed, and therefore the GRI indicators to be used are defined through materiality analyses3. When required, in addition to the indicators provided under the 2016 GRI Standards, selected indicators from the 2013 Financial Services Sector Disclosures, reflecting the GRI G4 Guidelines, were used. The calculation of environmental indicators also reflected the relevant guidelines issued by the Italian Banking Association, which reflect the GRI instructions in areas where insufficient details are provided, to ensure that the data provided by different banks are more comparable. In the introduction of the individual sections, the managerial approach was used in addressing the relevant topics, indicating the policies used and organizational procedures adopted. In the framework of the Group's sustainability strategy and the process of alignment to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016, for 2018, UBI Banca is committed to conducting an activity designed to integrate into the corporate regulations the policies applied in connection with different material topics, with particular reference to social topics, involving personnel management, human rights and anticorruption activity. The information is provided with the comparative data from the previous financial year. When not specifically indicated, the latter have not been subject to recalculation or restatement. For that purpose, the comparison reflects the change in the reporting perimeter: the 2017 data includes the figures for the New Banks4 from 1st April 2017. The quantitative indicators derive 1 https://www.ubibanca.it/pagine/Responsabilita-sociale-IT.aspx 2 There is no information regarding the use of water resources, as they are considered not relevant for the activity of a financial intermediary. 3 Strategy, Material topics 4 Reports and Accounts 2017, Consolidated Management ReportSignificant events taking place in 2017 Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Methodological note Pg.101 directly from the company databases, and only partially from the environmental data on energy consumption and relevant emissions of pollution, which are estimated. For all of UBI Banca Group's consolidated companies, this report does not include the companies listed in the table below. These companies have no significant impact from the standpoint of sustainability issues for the reasons listed in the table. Company Activity Reason for exlusion UBI Management Company Sa Asset management company Small foreign company UBI Trustee Sa Trust management consultancy Small foreign company 24-7 Finance Srl Special purpose entity pursuant to Law No. 130/1999 Company without its own organisation UBI Finance Srl Special purpose entity pursuant to Law No. 130/1999 Company without its own organisation UBI Finance 2 Srl in liquidazione Special purpose entity pursuant to Law No. 130/1999 Company without its own organisation UBI Finance CB 2 Srl Special purpose entity pursuant to Law No. 130/1999 Company without its own organisation UBI SPV BBS 2012 Srl in liquidazione Special purpose entity pursuant to Law No. 130/1999 Company without its own organisation UBI SPV BPCI 2012 Srl in liquidazione Special purpose entity pursuant to Law No. 130/1999 Company without its own organisation UBI SPV BAN 2012 Srl in liquidazione Special purpose entity pursuant to Law No. 130/1999 Company without its own organisation UBI SPV GROUP 2016 Srl Special purpose entity pursuant to Law No. 130/1999 Company without its own organisation UBI SPV LEASE 2016 Srl Special purpose entity pursuant to Law No. 130/1999 Company without its own organisation Company in liquidation. Oro Italia Trading Spa – in liquidation Gold, silver and other precious metal brokering bank Activities integrated into UBI Banca organisational units Mecenate SPV Srl Special purpose entity pursuant to Law No. 130/1999 Company without its own organisation Marche Mutui 2 Società per la Cartolarizzazione a r.l Special purpose entity pursuant to Law No. 130/1999 Company without its own organisation Marche Mutui 6 Special purpose entity pursuant to Law No. 130/1999 Company without its own organisation Closed-end fund, reserved for “qualified investors” Focus Impresa recognised within AFS financial assets (Balance Fund with no company organisation Sheet Item 40) Assieme Srl Multi-mandate insurance agency Small company Any limits to the reporting perimeter in connection with individual topics or indicators are explained in the relative paragraphs Reporting frequency [GRI 102-50:52] This report refers to the period between 1st January 2017 and 31st December 2017 and represents the first Consolidated non-financial declaration published by UBI Banca pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016. As it has been drafted in compliance with the GRI Standards, this document also constitutes the Group's Sustainability Report and, accordingly, it represents the eleventh consecutive edition since UBI Banca was established in 2007. This is an annual publication. The previous edition covers the financial year 2016 and was published in July 2017. Contact for questions in connection with the Report [GRI 102-53] The address for information on this Report is: UBI Banca Spa Corporate Social Responsibility Piazza V. Veneto, 8 24122 Bergamo Tel. 035-392925 Fax 035-392996 e-mail: csr@ubibanca.it Copies of the Report (in both Italian and English) may be requested from the above address or by using the “toolbox” on the website www.ubibanca.it.. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Methodological note Pg.102 Summary of GRI indicators [GRI 102-54:55] This Report has been drafted in accordance with the Comprehensive Option of the GRI Standards. The summary of GRI indicators is provided below with the relevant references and the indicators considered not to be applicable or material, with the reason for that decision. GR I PAGE O R GL O B AL STAN DAR DS DESCR IPTIO N R EASO N O F CO MPACT 2016 O MISSIO N 102 GE NE RA L DIS CLOS URE S O RG ANI ZAT I O NAL PRO FI LE 102-1 Name of the organization 3 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 8-9 102-3 Location of headquarters 3 102-4 Location of operations 3-4 102-5 Ownership and legal form 4-8 102-6 Markets served 8-9 102-7 Scale of the organization 4-8 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 4-8 102-9 Supply chain 4-8 1-10 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 10 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 36 7 102-12 External initiatives 10-12 1-10 102-13 Membership of associations 10-12 1-10 S T RAT E G Y 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 13-15 1-10 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 15 1-10 E T H I C S AND I NT E G RI T Y 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 27-28 1-10 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 27-28 1-10 G O VE RNANC E 102-18 Governance structure 33-34 1-10 102-19 Delegating authority 33-34 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 34-36 1-10 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental,and social topics 33-34 1-10 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 33-34 1-10 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 33-34 1-10 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 33-34 1-10 102-25 Conflicts of interest 33-34 1-10 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values,and strategy 33-34 1-10 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 33-34 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 33-34 1-10 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts 33-34 1-10 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 36 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 36 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 101 1-10 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 33-34 1-10 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 33-34 1-10 102-35 Remuneration policies 34 6 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 34 6 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 34 6 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 34 6 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio 34 6 S T AK E H O LDE R E NG AG E ME NT 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 34-36 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 67 1,3 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 34-36 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 34-36 10244 Key topics and concerns raised 34-36 Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Methodological note Pg.103 GRI PAGE O R GL O BAL STANDARDS DESCRIPTIO N REASO N O F CO MPACT 2016 O MISSIO N RE PO RT I NG PRAC T I C E 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 101-102 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 15-19 102-47 List of material topics 15-19 1-10 102-48 Restatements of information 101-102 102-49 Changes in reporting 101-102 102-50 Reporting period 102 102-51 Date of most recent report 102 102-52 Reporting cycle 102 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 102 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 103-106 102-55 GRI content index 103-106 102-56 External assurance 107-110 200 E CONOMIC 201 E C O NO MI C PE RFO RMANC E 103 Ma na g e me nt a pproa ch 23 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 22-25, 73-81 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 15 7 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 22-25 201-4 Financial assistance received from government 22-25 202 MARK E T PRE S E NC E 103 Ma na g e me nt a pproa ch 22, 50 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage 24 1 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community 51 203 I NDI RE C T E C O NO MI C I MPAC T S 103 Ma na g e me nt a pproa ch 43 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 43-49 7,8 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 43-49 204 PRO C U RE ME NT PRAC T I C E S 103 Ma na g e me nt a pproa ch 22 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 22-25 205 ANT I C O RRU PT I O N 103 Ma na g e me nt a pproa ch 26 10 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 28-29 10 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 28-29 10 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 28-29 10 206 ANT I C O MPE T I T I VE BE H AVI O R 103 Ma na g e me nt a pproa ch 26 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 29 300 E NV IRONME NTA L 301 MAT E RI ALI 103 Ma na g e me nt a pproa ch 8788 7,8,9 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 87-88 8 301-2 Recycled input materials used 87-88 8,9 Not applicable 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials 7,8 to banks 302 E NE RG Y 103 Ma na g e me nt a pproa ch 8789 7, 8 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 88-91 7,8 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 88-91 7,8 302-3 Energy intensity 88-91 7,8 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 88-91 7,8 Not applicable 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 7,8 to banks 303 W AT E R Non material 7,8 304 BI O DI VE RS I T Y Non material 7,8 305 E MI S S I O NS 103 Ma na g e me nt a pproa ch 87, 91 7, 8, 9 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 91-93 7,8 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 91-93 7,8 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 91-93 7,8 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 91-93 7,8 Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Methodological note Pg.104 GRI PAGE O R GL O BAL STANDARDS DESCRIPTIO N REASO N O F CO MPACT 2016 O MISSIO N 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 91-93 7,8,9 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 91-93 7,8 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions 91-93 7,8 306 E FFLU E NT S AND W AS T E 103 Ma na g e me nt a pproa ch 9394 Not applicable 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 7 to banks 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 93-94 7 Not applicable 306-3 Significant spills 7 to banks 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste 93-94 7 Not applicable 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff 7 to banks 307 E NVI RO NME NT AL C O MPLI ANC E 103 Ma na g e me nt a pproa ch 26 7, 8 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 27-28 7,8 308 S U PPLI E R E NVI RO NME NT AL AS S E S S ME NT Non material 400 SOCIA L 401 E MPLO YME NT 103 Ma na g e me nt a pproa ch 50 6 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 50-53 6 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part401-2 53-56 6 time employees 401-3 Parental leave 53-56 6 402 LABO R/ MANAG E ME NT RE LAT I O NS 103 Ma na g e me nt a pproa ch 67 3 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 68 3 403 O C C U PAT I O NAL H E ALT H AND S AFE T Y 103 Ma na g e me nt a pproa ch 50 1, 3 Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health and safety 403-1 53-62 1 committees Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, 403-2 56-62 1 and number of work-related fatalities 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 56-62 1 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 56-62 1,3 404 T RAI NI NG AND E DU C AT I O N 103 Ma na g e me nt a pproa ch 50 6 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 64-66 6 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 62-63 6 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development 62-63 6 405 DI VE RS I T Y AND E QU AL O PPO RT U NI T Y 103 Ma na g e me nt a pproa ch 69 1, 6 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 33-34, 69-70 1,6 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 70-71 1,6 406 NO NDI S C RI MI NAT I O N 103 Ma na g e me nt a pproa ch 69 1, 2, 6 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 71 1,2,6 407 FRE E DO M O F AS S O C I AT I O N AND C O LLE C T I VE BARG AI NI NG 103 Ma na g e me nt a pproa ch 67 13 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective 407-1 67 1-3 bargaining may be at risk 408 C H I LD LABO R 103 Ma na g e me nt a pproa ch 26 5 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor 29-32 5 409 FO RC E D O R C O MPU LS O RY LABO R 103 Ma na g e me nt a pproa ch 26 4 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor 29-32 4 410 S E C U RI T Y PRAC T I C E S Non material 1,2 411 RI G H T S O F I NDI G E NO U S PE O PLE Non material 1,2 Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Methodological note Pg.105 GRI PAGE O R GL O BAL STANDARDS DESCRIPTIO N REASO N O F CO MPACT 2016 O MISSIO N 412 H U MAN RI G H T S AS S E S S ME NT 103 Ma na g e me nt a pproa ch 26 1, 2 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments 29-32 1,2 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 29-32 1,2 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or 29-32 1,2 413 LO C AL C O MMU NI T I E S 103 Ma na g e me nt a pproa ch 72 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development 413-1 73 programs Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local 413-2 95-96 communities 414 S U PPLI E R S O C I AL AS S E S S ME NT Non material 415 PU BLI C PO LI C Y 103 Ma na g e me nt a pproa ch 72 415-1 Political contributions 74 416 C U S T O ME R H E ALT H AND S AFE T Y 103 Ma na g e me nt a pproa ch 37, 38 1 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories 38 1 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products 27-28 1 417 MARK E T I NG AND LABE LI NG 103 Ma na g e me nt a pproa ch 37 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling 38-40 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling 27-28 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing com 27-28 418 C U S T O ME R PRI VAC Y 103 Ma na g e me nt a pproa ch 37, 40 1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of 418-1 40-41 1 customer data 419 S O C I O E C O NO MI C C O MPLI ANC E 103 Ma na g e me nt a pproa ch 26 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 27-28 G4 SECTO R PAGE O R DISCL O SUR ES GL O B AL DESCR IPTIO N R EASO N O F F IN AN CIAL CO MPACT O MISSIO N SER VICES FS6 Portfolio for business lines by specific regions, size and sector 8-9; 29-32 Products and services with social benefits (UBI Comunità, Products and services for the FS7 43-49; 84-86 disadvantaged, support for households and businesses in difficulty ) FS8 Products and services with specific environmental benefits 95-96 7,8,9 FS13 Presence in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas 3 FS14 Access to financial services for disadvantaged people 83-85 FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of financial products and services 38-40 FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy 81-83 Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Methodological note Pg.106 External assurance [GRI 102-56] This Report was deemed to be compliant by the Auditor, Deloitte & Touche SpA. The audit was conducted according to the procedures indicated in the Independent Auditor’s Report below. The opinion expressed by the Auditor applies to compliance with Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 and the GRI Standards The quantitative information reported in this Non-Financial Declaration, relating to the social impact of projects supported as part of UBI Comunità initiatives (SROI Indicator) [1] have not been subject to audit by the Independent Auditors Deloitte & Touche S.p.A. This information has been reported voluntarily in addition that required for compliance of this document with the requirements of the Decree and those of the reporting standards adopted by the Group As provided under Legislative Decree No. 254/2016, this Report, approved by the Management Board in its capacity as the management body, along with the proposed Consolidated Financial Statements is made available to the Supervisory Board, which, in its capacity as an oversight body, is required to oversee compliance with the foregoing Decree and to report its findings in the Report of the Supervisory Board to the Shareholders’ Meeting, provided in the Reports and Accounts 2017. [1] Commitment to the community, Measures taken for social initiatives The initiatives of UBI Comunità. Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 2017 Sustainability Report – Methodological note Pg.107
