CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Makers of tomorrow WELCOME TO CYBERCOM + IOT CONTROLS WATER SAFER OPERATIONS WITH INNOVATION ZONE SMART FACTORIES = TRUE AND WASTE IN HELSINKI ­C ONNECTED SIMULATORS 26 28 29 30 Contents 31 MAKING CYBERCOM 04 About Cybercom 06 CEO’s comment 08 World and market 10 Strategy 12 Targets and outcomes 13 Business model 14 Offerings 6 18 Employees 2 MAKING TOMORROW 24 Our mission: a smarter future 26 Welcome to Innovation Zone 27 IZ and Fortum are hacking for sustainable energy 10 27 28 28 Easier commute on the way in Gothenburg Cybercom + Smart Factories = true AR as a weapon against dementia 29 Cybercom supports young media users 29 Connected helmet protects construction workers 27 29 30 IoT controls water and waste in Helsinki Safer operations with connected simulators and shared knowledge base 30 An inclusive municipality 31 The importance of green spaces 31 PostNord hits back at cyberfraudsters 32 Future proofing beyond technology MAKING PROGRESS 36 Stakeholders and dialogue 36 Material sustainability aspects 37 Policy and management 38 Employees: Disclosures and key data 41 Clients 42 Environment: Disclosures and key data 43 Risks 44 Executive Leadership Team 45 Economic performance 49 GRI Index 51 Organisation 51 Board of directors’ signatures 18 51 Auditor’s report on the statutory sustainability report This is Cybercom’s (reg. no. 559025-7001) eighth Annual Sustainability Report. The most recent Sustainability Report was published in April 2017. The Sustainability Report was prepared in accordance with the requirements set forth in the Swedish Annual Accounts Act (ÅRL) and GRI G4, Core Option. The disclosures required under ÅRL and GRI are mainly found on pages 36–44. A complete list is provided in the GRI Index on page 49. The auditor’s opinion on the statutory sustainability report is on page 51. The Sustainability Report also serves as Cybercom’s annual report to the UN Global Compact. Cybercom has been a member of the Global Compact since 2011. The Sustainability Report is not subject to external review. CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPOR T 2017 MAKERS OF TOMORROW The fourth Industrial Revolution is on the way. Virtually every company and ­organisation is stepping into a digital reality. And things are moving fast. For ­Cybercom, this is our home playing field. We are making tomorrow, today. We help our clients capture the opportunities of digitalisation. We provide ­innovative, secure and sustainable solutions in IT and communications technology by combining technical edge and strong business insight. This applies whether the issue is transforming products into services, developing new business models or helping the public sector get closer to citizens. We are found where technology and business development meet. We think big. We test, we learn and we adapt. And the distance from planning to action is short. The single objective is for our clients to succeed in the connected world. This is how we are making tomorrow, today. CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 1 M CYBE AKING RCOM Based on Cybercom’s values and inclusive culture, we are developing skills, client offerings and employees. This is how we are making Cybercom. This is Cybercom SWEDEN POLAND FINLAND INDIA DENMARK Cybercom is an innovative IT consulting firm that enables leading Cybercom has been a privately owned company since 2015. Its main ­com­panies and organisations to benefit from the opportunities of shareholders are JCE Group AB and Tequity AB. The company was listed the ­connected world. We are working every day to connect people, on Nasdaq Stockholm from 1999 to 2015. Cybercom’s domestic markets machines and services to make them work more smoothly together. are the Nordic region and Poland. The company also offers global delivery Our consultants and the solutions they create take us all the way from capacity for local and international business. Cybercom owns a joint e-services in the Nordic public sector to streamed media and driverless ­venture in India with Datamatics. cars in Europe, eIDs, secure card payments and health apps to healthcare, connected cranes and lifts and smart industrial robots. 1,463.0 112.5 SEKM SALES 2017 SEKM PROFIT AFTER DEPRECIATION 88% BUSINESS WITH SUSTAINABILITY EFFECTS AND AMORTISATION Five-year review Distributed value Operational performance and key figures1) 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Operating income, SEKm 1,463.0 1,353.9 1,259.6 1,262.9 1,195.1 Operating profit after depreciation and amortisation, SEKm2) 112.5 67.8 38.3 65.8 60.2 Total assets, SEKm 978.4 895 879.4 1,265.9 1,228.7 Average number of employees 1,250 1,217 1,169 1,222 1,180 Number of employees at end of year 1,262 1,203 1,218 1,307 1,267 Operating margin, % 7.7 5.0 3.0 5.2 5.0 Equity/assets, % 53 48 44 73 70 1)  new Group was formed on 1 December 2015 in conjunction with Cybercom Holding’s acquisition of Cybercom Group. Accordingly, the multi-­ A year review was prepared using a mix of the former Group and the new Group. The figures for the 2016 and forwards financial year pertain to E mployee benefits, including social Cybercom H ­ olding. For 2015, the figures for the full period pertain to Cybercom Group, while the figures at 31 December refer to Cybercom security contributions 57.6% Holding. The figures for 2014 and before pertain to Cybercom Group. Other external expenses 38.4% 2) Operating profit after depreciation and amortisation refers to profit before impairment of goodwill and a capital loss on the sale of a subsidiary. Investment activities 1.8% 3) As of 2017, the value of pro bono work for charity has been included in the “Charity” item under “Distributed value” in the total amount of Net finance income/expense 0.2% SEK 900 thousand. In 2017, employees of Cybercom worked approximately 1,000 hours pro bono in various projects directed at increasing Taxes 2.0% interest in IT among young people in collaboration with Hello World and Universeum, as well as projects aimed at facilitating social integration Charitable donations 0.1%3) for immigrants with a background in IT. The pro bono work corresponds to a value of SEK 465 thousand. Cybercom has also provided premises and ancillary services at no charge to Hello World, corresponding to a value of SEK 435 thousand. 4 About Cybercom CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 1,262 EMPLOYEES 44 NATIONALITIES 21 ASSIGNMENTS IN TWENTYONE COUNTRIES A SELECTION OF OUR CLIENTS Vision Alma Media Our vision is to be our clients’ most trusted business partner in the connected world. ASSA ABLOY Finnish Population Register Centre Ericsson Business concept Swedish Defence Materiel Administration (FMV) We help our clients capture the opportunities of Husqvarna the connected world. We provide innovative and ­sustainable solutions by combining technical edge IKEA and strong business insight. KONE Swedish Enforcement Authority Values MTV Finland SAAB Innovation Swedish Tax Agency Sony Mobile TomTom Passion Finnish National Agency for Education Volvo Cars Trust CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 About Cybercom 5 Good prospects and major challenges “All Cybercom operations are developing strongly and in the desired strategic direction, albeit at somewhat different pace. We are following our strategic plan with good results and are within reach of our targets.” 6 CEO's comment CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 I look back with pride at all way for a long time with some of our threat, but we need to keep educating we have achieved. We are industrial clients. Now we are growing more people at home to meet the growing, increasing the with more agile teams in industry and in demand. share of sustainable busithe public sector, which is a breakthrough We welcomed 425 new colleagues ness and improving our and a distinct change compared to previduring the year, 96 of whom are women. profitability, year after year. With a brisk ous purchasing patterns. I believe the agile Our target is 30 percent women at Cyberwind in our sails, Cybercom is developing approach is the way to reach the right com by 2020, and if we continue at the very favourably in a strong market, accelsolutions as swiftly and efficiently as possisame pace as during 2017, we are going erated by a positive macroeconomic situable. That benefits Cybercom, our developto make it. Together, we are now 44 tion. All Cybercom operations are deliverers, our clients and our society. nationalities, 1,262 employees in five ing strong development in the desired We aim to work in close collaboration, countries ranging in age from 20 to 67. ­strategic direction, albeit at somewhat to listen carefully and understand each cliOur mission is to boost the performance ­different pace. We are following our straent’s unique situation and create the optiof all people – our clients, their customers, tegic plan with good results and we are mal solution, for them and their customers our employees and our fellow humans within reach of our targets. or end users. Unique solutions that also – in a connected world. However, the 17 global Sustainable contain scalable advantages that can be I strongly believe that when we see the Development Goals demand more forceful shared with others. I am utterly convinced individual in every employee, strengthen action by Cybercom and our clients. ICT that digitalisation and technical innovation diversity, increase transparency and give and technical advancements are playing can lead to reduced carbon emissions and people freedom coupled with responsibila major role in the global economy and better quality of life in many other areas. ity, we also create better conditions for in sustainable development. Digitalisation Cybercom supports the UN Global Comsuccess. Aimed at shortening internal deciis behind the most important forces of pact and the Global Sustainable Developsion paths, making the approach even change this decade. The industrialisation ment Goals. We see opportunities in the more agile and reducing the distance of IT, including the focus on 5G, cloud serSDGs. Opportunities for stronger collabobetween different parts of our organisavices, cybersecurity and disruptive technolration, scalable solutions and a swifter rate tion, I eliminated one level of management ogies like artificial intelligence (AI), the of change together with our clients. We in the Swedish operations during 2017. Internet of Things and blockchain technolhave launched our Digital Sustainability The International region, which was oriogy will be affecting us at an accelerating offer as a driver of business innovation. ented towards international telecom operrate in the next decade. And this is what We are training our sales force and manage­ ators, was also sold early in the year. In the the days of Cybercom consultants are ment in Digital Sustainability and moni­tor­ new organisation, I have devoted focus made of. This is a thrilling evolution, but ing progress in our control system. and energy to Innovation and Sustainabilwe are not stopping there. We see beyond ity through collaboration across the group technical developments and engage in the We are the same, we are different, and joint client solutions and partnerships. consequences of our solutions. Cyberwe are innovative. Our greatest challenge We have introduced Innovation Zones with com’s team of IT security experts are helptoday is finding enough new colleagues innovation teams in all Cybercom operaing companies and society protect privacy, and making sure that interest in technoltions – they are the hub for new employee assets and systems. We are putting the ogy is sparked in more young people and introduction, employee development and new technologies in relation to the suswomen. In response to this challenge, we innovations. Change and innovation that tainability risks of our time to more effecare engaged in many different forums, create sustainable business for us and our tively craft the solutions of tomorrow, add such as career days, meet-ups, hackathons clients are taking us forward. business models and open new markets. and events like Women in Tech. We are My thanks to all colleagues, clients and welcoming an increasing number of unipartners. Together, we made 2017 an outA client-based and agile approach versity students who are doing their standing year. Now we are creating the to achieve Agenda 2030. Our business degree projects in our organisation and future – We are Makers of tomorrow! development has appealed to our clients have allocated additional resources to proand our relationships deepened during the vide guidance and mentorship. All of these year. We have chosen to work with fewer efforts energise and enrich us and we feel Stockholm, March 2018 key clients in order to create higher, more that we are contributing to an important long-term value. Successful deliveries of aspect of long-term social development. Niklas Flyborg agile teams are one example. Cybercom’s Although a global workforce is a strength President and CEO agile approach is efficient and assures the in the IT sector, there is serious risk that we quality of products and services whose will soon be facing a shortage of skills in functions are fit for purpose and focused our industry throughout Europe. Global on the user. We have been working this recruitment is one way of fending off this CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CEO's comment 7 A changing world and a changing market Cybercom’s priorities are strenghtened by the increasingly digital and connected world, coupled with the ambitions of numerous actors to advance sustainable development. External drivers communities and more. 5G also entails network complexity in terms of the number of user scenarios and a wide array of equipThe scope and significance of digitalisation is enormous – we are ment and data that require Artificial Intelligence (AI). in the midst of a fourth industrial revolution that affects us all. This is not only a technical shift. It is an utter transformation of DIGITAL BUSINESS EVOLUTION how we interact with each other, including how we do business. Business design, industries, markets and organisations are going Digitalisation, globalisation and urbanisation are moving us to fundamentally change in the next ten years.1) The digital busitowards new ways of living. This is creating huge opportunities, ness evolution is continuously using new technology to integrate but also brings challenges. The political, legal and financial arenas the physical and digital worlds and create new business models. are being affected, and it looks like the decisions we make now Smart devices and machines that deliver increasingly insightful will have more far-reaching consequences than ever before. Techdigital services, always and everywhere, are going to shape the nical progress is moving at breakneck speed. Discerning opportufuture. We are moving towards an intelligent digital network that nities and risks, understanding consequences and managing includes constantly connected people, machines, devices, condevelopments as they occur will be critical. tent and services. The disruptive technology trends driving this future are creating intelligent, digital networking. POSITIVE VALUES AI is going to find its way into all existing technologies and creRobotisation, automation and virtualisation are only a few comate entirely new tech categories. Predictions are that AI is going ponents of digitalisation. They are enabling entirely new ways to to break through big and, used properly, will create more flexible, solve problems and create value. Basically, it is all about the possiinsightful and autonomous systems. The physical and digital bility of collecting Big Data that is processed into information that worlds will blend to create a natural and more absorbing digitally provides input for decisions and action. enhanced experience. AR (augmented reality) and VR (virtual realThe fifth generation network (5G) is expected to be as revoluity) are two examples. The amount of data generated by things tionary as the advent of the internet. 5G not only creates higher and products is growing exponentially and is going to require bandwidth for the consumer, it provides space for new activities processing in central systems to an increasing extent. Digital that can develop and improve industry, healthcare, agriculture, trends, along with the opportunities activated by AI, are going IoT Globalisation 18.1% Sharper focus on automation and managing changing client requirements Robotisation MARKET GROWTH CLOUD SERVICES Globalisation Sustainability Urbanisation Social changes are driving demand for IT solutions 23.7% MARKET GROWTH Source: Annual Nordic IoT market growth (2013–2019F) Annual Nordic cloud services market growth (2013–2016), Radar. 1) Gartner Top 10 Strategic Technology Trends for 2018 8 World and market CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 to drive the next generation of business and create digital business ecosystems. Business results will be delivered by a growing Cybercom’s markets and priorities population of people and companies – machines, devices, conAll of Cybercom’s geographical and industrial markets are tent and services – that are linked in a single network. Social benaffected by the trends mentioned above. We are seeing major efit can also be delivered in the same way. This networking investments in the Nordic region to drive digitalisation in the demands new and improved functionality that reduces friction ­public sector to improve efficiency, cut costs and increase public and increases security. Blockchain technology is one example. benefit through new citizen-focused services. The industrial sector in northern Europe, Cybercom’s main business segment, is developing new business and service models, often with digital Digitalisation and sustainability support like IoT (Internet of Things). Assignments are more frework hand-in-glove. quently including cloud services, robot technology and machine learning. As more businesses are digitalised, software and system Companies are increasingly ready, willing and able to add positive development is increasing dramatically in importance. To put it value. Digitalisation and technical progress have made much of simply, that means market players with limited technical expertise this possible. Going beyond reducing negative impact, companies must improve programming in terms of planning, development, are moving towards plus/minus zero or net positive impact on climaintenance, organisation and much more. Cybercom can make ents and the world. Many companies are reviewing their entire a big difference here as well. value chain and identifying opportunities. And many are developCybercom is continuing in the direction stated in our strategy ing circular strategies and platforms for sharing. for the period of 2015–2018. This includes continuing the initiaDematerialisation and servicification are among the most tives in data visualisation, IoT, privacy and information security important changes. This involves a shift from products to services, and cloud services. Cybercom is focused on being a key player in where the user receives equal or better service, but with lower cloud services in the Nordics. We have entered into partnerships use of natural resources. The transformation of the music induswith Microsoft and Amazon, meaning that we can build solutions try when consumers began buying digital services instead of CDs on their infrastructure. We are reinforcing our advisory services or other physical products is one familiar example. A similar evocapacity. We are becoming increasingly proactive in how we lution is occurring today in industries like transport, real estate approach the client and recommend solutions that advance and food. New companies are being formed that offer products ­sustainability. that generate public benefit or help reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and climate impact. The widespread support of the UN Sustainable Development Goals and Agenda 2030 is perhaps the clearest sign of the willingness of business to contribute to sustainable development. CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 World and market 9 Cybercom’s strategy The UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals entail opportunities for collaboration and new business for Cybercom. We are supporting the global SDGs by actively seeking assignments that contribute to sustainable development and measuring their sustainability effects. Cybercom is helping clients capture the opportunities of the connected world. We offer innovative and sustainable solutions by combining technical edge with strong business insight. A united Cybercom with a strong client offering is the key to success. Our innovative culture and open communication also strengthen Cybercom and our brand. Our strategy is based on three elements: clients, talent and collaboration. We reinforce client intimacy 1 – We build the business around our clients. – Everyone has client responsibility (sales and/or delivery). – We have Group KAMs for prioritised clients and put long-term client relationships first. We nurture talent 2 – We attract, develop and retain the best people. – Our consultants combine business skills with technical edge. – We are recognised as thought leaders in selected areas. We embrace collaboration 3 – We leverage our capabilities across organisational boundaries. – Our common ways of working support team and project deliveries. – We reuse experiences to drive business development across units. CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Strategy 11 Our targets Cybercom has defined seven target areas to keep the company moving in the right direction. TARGET AREAS TARGETS Cybercom will increase the percentage 1 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS of sustainable business with our clients. The assignments will contribute to sustainable development and responsible use of finite resources. Key accounts will generate 70% 2 CLIENTS of sales, the ten largest clients 50% and no individual client will account for more than 15%. 3 TYPE OF ­ASSIGNMENT Cybercom will have even distribution between consultancy services and ­turnkey commitments. Cybercom’s net recruitment will be at least 5%, with focus on more equal 4 RECRUITMENT gender distribution. Our workforce will be at least 30% women, as women earn 30% of degrees in technical fields. High ethics will be part of our DNA and 5 BUSINESS ETHICS define us and our business. All employees will receive training in Cybercom’s Code of Conduct and anti-corruption rules. 6 GROWTH Cybercom will strive for growth of 5% per year over a business cycle. Cybercom will be one of the more 7 PROFITABILITY ­profitable companies among its peer competitors and achieve an operating margin of 10%. 12 Targets and outcomes CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Cybercom’s business model We generate value for clients and revenues for ­Cybercom in several ways. Our business model is OUTCOMES COMMENTS based on either continuous billing or fixed price commitments. We deliver in agile teams, expert assignments, project or service deliveries and licensing. 88% Refers to Cybercom’s ten 69% largest clients. Projects Share of sustainable deals in 2016 Share of sustainable deals in 2017 Project deliveries are based on Cybercom taking charge of and delivering a project (such as a particular solution) or taking on a greater commitment. The client pays based on effect and value. As a result, the 46% 43% Key accounts 46% (58) project may be delivered at an agreed fixed price or Ten largest clients 43% (44) on a continuous billing basis. 17% Largest client 17% (14) Services 65% Service deliveries are based on Cybercom taking 35% responsibility for a system, feature or service and its Consultancy services 65% (63) maintenance and uptime. The client pays a fixed price Turnkey commitments 35% (27) per month, but the service may include a variable component related to volume or time. Net recruitment for the 81% year was 4.9%. Expertise 19% Number of men 81% (82) number of women 19% (18) Expertise assignments mean that Cybercom offers one or more consultants to meet a particular need for 100% Anti-corruption training the client. The client pays for the people, skills and 80% time expended. 58% Board of directors 100% (100) Group management 80% (100) Other employees 58% (70) Licensing In the Licensing Model, the client has access to soft8% ware developed and owned by Cybercom in ­exchange Net sales growth 8% (7) for a licence, royalty and/or maintenance fee. Teams 7.7% Team deliveries means that Cybercom offers Operating margin 7.7% (5) teams of 6–8 employees who apply agile methods to sdevelopment. The client pays a fixed price for the entire team. CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Business model 13 “Every other client considers us their most trusted business partner – that is a huge feather in our cap.” Bo Strömqvist, Head of Sales Cybercom Group Digital sustainability as a driver of business innovation We always strive to be the client’s most trusted business partner in the connected world. We listen carefully and offer our clients innovative and sustainable total solutions based on four main areas of expertise. 72% (73) CUSTOMER SATISFACTION 50% (21) PERCENTAGE OF CLIENTS SEE US AS MOST TRUSTED 91% (91) PERCENTAGE OF CLIENTS THAT WILL PROBABLY INDEX1) BUSINESS PARTNER IN THE CONNECTED WORLD OR DEFINITELY CONTINUE TO ENGAGE CYBERCOM 1) The Kantar Sifo average index is 66, based on 7,000 interviews in the IT/Tech industry – northern Europe – B2B. 14 Offerings CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Always near the client Cybercom’s areas of expertise Our vision is to be the client’s preferred business partner in the connected world. Reinforcing client intimacy is a fundamental Digitalisation: We identify digital opportunities, aspect of Cybercom’s strategy and essential to successfully supbuild solutions and create measurable business 50% results. By harnessing new technology, we can porting clients as required in today’s fast-changing environment. By collaborating closely with clients, we shorten the path from take small steps for continuous improve­ments idea to commercialised product or service. Cybercom brings skills, or longer leaps to realise innovative ideas to resources and support to this process. We also support our clients meet client needs and realise potential. in reaching their customers and consumers in a smarter way. Here, we contribute qualified business development and advisory services. Innovation Zone (see page 26) is yet another example of IoT/Internet of Things: Cybercom possesses Cybercom’s client-centred capability, approach and delivery. 30% world-leading expertise in trends, technologies On the organisational level, our vision and strategy call for us and opportunities to take full advantage of to build the business around our clients. Everyone has business connection. and client responsibility (sales and/or delivery). We prioritise ­loyalty and long-term relationships and have Group KAMs. IT security: Security is everything in the ­connected world. With the right expertise, 10% methods and tools, we help clients securely manage all data. Cloud services: Cybercom is the client’s agile partner, from design to operational services. 10% We help clients utilise cloud resources and ­traditional virtual resources, efficiently and ­flexibly. The percentage of Cybercom’s total business generated by each area of expertise is an estimate, as many assignments include multiple areas. Partner throughout the project life cycle Cybercom has the skills and capacity required to be the client’s partner throughout the project, from strategic advice to operation. Strategic advice Innovation Development Testing Operation and Cybercom analyses the Cybercom’s innovation Cybercom’s developCybercom gives its ­management client’s operations and services make clients ment method is based ­clients access to a fullCybercom takes care of provides strategic advice ready for sustained on agility and transparscale test organisation all aspects of operation on digital development. competitiveness, profitency. In partnership with – so they do not have and management, from Advice is always clearly ability and success. We our clients, we create to invest in and create development of manlinked to the business test new technologies new products and sertheir own. The Cyberagement models for and measurable results, and build prototypes. We vices that streamline com Test Center offers large organisations to based on our underADVISORY bring the INNOVATION new methods utilisation, resourceCREATION all theTESTING infra­structure day-to-day manageMANAGEMENT whatoncan standing ofAdvising and digital strategy and approaches Prototyping andrequired innovating automate and open Agile development of the and expertise Testing necessary to ensure fully ment, Manage, technology monitor digital and and business development digital business solutions secure and efficient digital working digital solutions solutions for constant should be developed. in a changing market. door to new markets. solutions for thorough testing, support. improvements Along with our which is becoming partners, Amazon Web increasingly important Services and Microsoft, to match the requireCybercom is a leading ments of mature users. cloud services vendor in the Nordics. ADVISORY INNOVATION CREATION TESTING MANAGEMENT Advising on digital strategy Prototyping and innovating Agile development of Testing to ensure fully Manage, monitor digital and business development digital business solutions secure and efficient digital working digital solutions solutions for constant solutions improvements CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Offerings 15 Aiming for net positivity Cybercom’s greatest opportunity to make a difference resides in helping others see the opportunities provided by technology and use technology to develop towards Agenda 2030. When we succeed, our solutions result in a positive footprint that is bigger than the negative impact that our business produces. In this way, we are shifting our focus from internal risks to external opportunities. Digital solutions for sustainable development Technology and innovation are essential to develop companies, Security: More secure digital space and/or better protection cities and communities in a sustainable direction. Today’s tech­ of privacy. nology can take us a long way, but we have to be smart about Other product or service development: Development in how we use it. That requires us to change our habits, organisa­addition to the above that contributes to attaining the global tions and regulations. Cybercom has an important role to play SDGs and sustainable development. here: we explain to clients and decision-makers which underlying We also categorise our initiatives according to the level of digital solutions are essential for a sustainable world. Without activity on Cybercom’s part. The goal is to be even more proactive encryption, compression algorithms, cloud storage and real-time in our sales efforts to make a bigger difference for our clients and data, smart buildings, smart mobility and smart consumption are for sustainable development. The categories are relative, specific, all out of reach. That is why we participate in contexts like the active and proactive contributions. UN Global Compact Private Sector Forum and that is why we Relative contributions: We help the client improve relative develop solutions for digital sustainability. During the year, we to their own past results. Example: Reduced waste volumes or began categorising and tracking our client assignments and smarter mobility, where Cybercom contributes a cloud service. ­solutions according to their contribution to attaining the global Sustainable Development Goals. Specific contributions: We bring sustainability skills to ordinary assignments. Example: Development of a control system for Cybercom’s services contribute mainly to six sustainability effects: greenhouse lighting to optimally utilise energy in sustainable food production. Energy savings: Cybercom’s client, their customer or the end user can reduce energy use. Active contributions: We help the client develop new solutions that promote sustainable development, where sustainability was Dematerialisation: Physical materials or products are converted not part of the client relationship from the beginning. Example: to digital or electronic form or the same level of functionality is A new e-commerce platform where users are encouraged to live delivered with fewer or zero materials. and consume sustainably. Servicification: The transition from product to service by a Proactive contributions: We are proactive, identify oppor­ Cybercom client or the end user. Functionality is equal or better tunities, present novel ideas and perform assignments in which while negative impact on the environment and society is reduced sustainability drives digital innovation. Example: Shift a customer’s or reversed to positive. business model and offering from products to services and Reduced use of resources: Reduced or zero usage of non-­ ­solutions. renewable resources or other natural capital. Digital Sustainability Cybercom has developed a process that helps companies achieve Cybercom supports clients on their journey towards net ­positivity net positive impact on society. In practice, that means companies from initial inventory and through the implementation phase. give more than they take – their products add more public benefit We divide the process into three main phases. First, the company’s when they are used than they require in production. current contribution to sustainable development is assessed. There­ Cybercom’s process for developing net positive businesses is after, future potential net positivity is evaluated. Finally, the project based on Business Model Canvas methodology, where we add transitions to implementation and making the sustainable a global sustainability filter. The sustainability filter is based on ­tomorrow happen. studying whether innovations, business models or products will work in a world of 11 billion people – the projected global population in 2100. 16 Offerings CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 DIGITAL SUSTAINABILITY PROCESS (DSP) Monday Implementation morning tasks strategy 3 NEXT STEP Future value propositions GLOBAL Transition matrix INNOVATION FILTER 3 NEXT STEP PHASE 3 | Implementation Make the sustainable tomorrow happen. Capacity scanning 2 TOMORROW 2 TOMORROW PHASE 2 | Potential Evaluation of future potential for net positivity. GLOBAL PHASE 1 | Current status Trend scanning INNOVATION 1 TODAY Assessment of the company’s current contributions to sustainable developFILTER ment and readiness to grasp future opportunities. 1 TODAY Current context Potential value Impact in proposition society CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Offerings 17 Ellionore Jacobsson SENIOR CONSULTANT I am inspired by kids, especially my niece Vera, who is seven. She is growing up in a time when respect for gender and integration is unquestioned. There is no prejudice or bias in her thoughts about the world and the future, which provides a lot of space for ideas and creativity. We adults should learn more from children. Bartosz Libner INNOVATION LEAD & SOFTWARE DEVELOPER I am interested! In people, outer space, science fiction and technology. I love playing sports and am inspired by how technology can, for example, help people with spinal cord injuries walk again or people with dementia remember things, as in my last assignment. It is very rewarding. I was looking for a job where I could make a difference to our society. Cybercom offered me that platform, and I found my dream job. It is important to have the courage to act and think innovatively while always understanding the consequences. Ask for advice in difficult situations. Sofia Ljunggren CHIEF SECURITY OFFICER We are Makers of tomorrow Makers, because we make digital happen. We believe in talking less, doing more. We are the client’s partner in a changing world, where we take on business challenges with digital tools. We know that innovative and sustainable solutions are as much about technology as what the tech can actually do. Tomorrow, because we want to create a better tomorrow. Digital development and sustainable development should always be synonymous. We learn from experience, benefit from our collective capabilities and are creative in how we apply technology. This is how we are creating solutions for a sustainable digital future. 18 Employees Magnus Skebäck HEAD OF CYBERCOM GOTHENBURG Einstein said, “If at first the idea is not absurd, then there is no Sini Lindroos hope for it” – he is my kind of hero! Constantly learning new SERVICE DESIGNER things is so enriching. Cybercom must support employees in this, provide opportunities for various kinds of assignments. Being a consultant is the most fun job ever. I want to design the products and services of tomorrow that make life easier and contribute to sustainable development. To reach everyone in society, solutions absolutely must be user-friendly. Katarina Cornelius HEAD OF BUSINESS TRANSFORMATION I am energised by being the catalyst of change journeys, by seeing companies, organisations and people grow and develop. Transformation isn’t always about companies and money. Technology can change behaviour, and we bring that awareness with us in our solutions. Piotr Kuszewski ANDROID DEVELOPER I like the brilliance found in simplicity. Systems and solutions do not always have to be complex. A relatively simple system can have huge impact on a company. The most important thing is to identify the real need and work with a solution that actually meets that need. At Cybercom, I have learned that teamwork and collaboration are the keys to success, internally and externally. The atmosphere here is friendly and open. That takes my stress level down, because I know that if something unexpected happens, my colleagues will be ready to help. Tomi Asp FULL-STACK DEVELOPER Employees 19 Coleb Mujurizi Yanting Larsen IT SECURITY CONSULTANT UX & FRONTEND DEVELOPER The internet is a fantastic innovation that lets people from all over the I think being a Maker is about having the right attitude – striving to be an world interact. It brings us closer together! I want to contribute to a society expert in your field, contributing and enjoying solving problems. You can that is totally connected – and secure. Right now I am working in the active always acquire knowledge – it is your attitude that takes you all the way. safety department for one of our automotive industry clients. Boosting Your Development As a Cybercom colleague, you are Better tomorrow everyone’s development so that each indipart of a network of about 1,300 We put high demands on the solutions we vidual can reach their full potential. people. In addition to the colleagues create and on what our solutions achieve. Innovation Zone is our hub – how we and the culture, Cybercom is disWe do not work with technology for its ensure that Cybercom constantly develops tinguished by striving to make a own sake or for just any purpose. Digital in the latest technologies. Within the ­better tomorrow and by its skills, development and sustainable developframework of Innovation Zone, employees innovativeness and concern. ment should be synonymous. Our soluand clients have the opportunity to jointly tions should be innovative, scalable and evaluate ideas, perform tests, develop proCulture and colleagues secure. And they should boost profitability totypes and lead pilot projects in a creative Our values of innovation, passion and trust and sustainability in terms of saving environment. inform our culture and shape our working energy, finite resources and costs. days. We are passionate about Cybercom’s A company that cares mission, “Boosting your performance in Skills and development Cybercom cares. People who work for the connected world”. And we are thrilled Cybercom is an arena of skills, where peoCybercom are offered competitive pay and energised by the prospect of constant ple gain experience from different indusand generous, relevant benefits. Being an development. tries, companies and organisations. And attractive employer is all about listening We Cybercom people are the same and opportunities to work across the field of IT and constantly developing. Attractive we are different. We all share a passion for and develop in various roles. We are conoffices, centrally located to make it easy innovation and development and a downvinced that we learn most in our assignto use public transport, are an important to-earth approach. We are also a diverse ments – after all, our work is immersed in aspect. We strive to make our offices collection of personalities and profiles. In digitalisation. That is why Cybercom’s welcoming meeting places for creativity our about 1,300 people-strong network breadth and development potential are and innovation. A small but telling 19 percent are women and 81 percent are some of the best we have to offer. example is our big café rooms with table men. Our youngest colleague is 20 and the Cybercom people care about their tennis or other team activities in all of our oldest is 67. We come from 44 different development and prefer to control it themcountries. We have adjusted the benefits countries and represent a wide range of selves. The team leader supports and package according to feedback from our skills. Anyone looking for expertise, coaches as and when required. Boosting ­employees. whether that means in-depth industry Your Development, Cybercom’s platform Cybercom also cares about employee knowledge or digital tools on the leading for learning and development, is available social security. The precise arrangements edge, will not have to look far. We have to help. This is where opportunities, vary among markets, but all offer advanthe breadth it takes. responsibility for individual development, tageous insurance policies. Employees in a model for learning and development and Finland and Sweden are covered by colleca professional development process are tive agreements that include benefits like found. Everything is aimed at boosting pensions and parental leave supplement. 20 EmployeeS CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Daniel Myrberg Ivar Grimstad COMPETENCE TEAM LEAD & CONSULTANT, PRINCIPAL CONSULTANT CURRENTLY ON PARENTAL LEAVE INTERNATIONAL JAVA CHAMPION & JUG LEADER My head is always spinning with ideas about how products and services Being a programmer is like being a kid in a toy store. You can play can be made better, through an entirely new solution or an optimisation. with the technology in a way that a lot of other professions don’t Along with dedication to finding find new technology to deliver allow for. That is how you find that extra tiny detail that makes all the improvements, this is a really big part of my life. the difference in the world. It has taken me all the way to becoming And, wow, I get paid for doing it! a selected project manager at the international level for development of the new Jakarta EE standard. Kit Gullbrandson HEAD OF CYBERCOM STOCKHOLM/KISTA Daniel Moberg I am proud of the business my colleagues and I have built up in Kista. We get FRONTEND COMPETENCE TEAM LEAD along so well and the atmosphere is outstanding. And of course I am very proud to have been nominated “Manager of the Year” by my colleagues! I appreciate our capacity to work with the client to deliver big value in very little time. We work in cross-functional agile teams with focus on MVP (minimum viable product). That is an incredibly effective recipe! 89% PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES 11 YEARS OF EXPERIENCE 4 YEARS AVERAGE TERM 37 AVERAGE AGE 44 NATIONALITIES WITH UNIVERSITY DEGREES ON AVERAGE OF EMPLOYMENT CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 EmployeeS 21 M TOMO AKING RROW Cybercom makes companies and organisations successful in the connected world. With technical edge and in-depth business skill, we build sustainable and innovative solutions. This is how we are making tomorrow. Our mission: A smarter future Cybercom is making tomorrow by equipping companies and organisations for success in the digital world. We offer our clients innovative total solutions. We begin with four areas where digitalisation can generate major and positive changes. 24 Our mission CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Commerce Consumers Digitalisation is not only affecting individual product characterDigitalisation is totally redrawing the consumption map. istics, but also business models. This often involves servicificaWe are seeing new business models and new offerings. tion, where company offerings transition from products to Consumers no longer buy products, they buy solutions to ­services. To succeed, this requires deep understanding of what problems. The relationship between businesses and conactually creates value, and the ability to translate that insight sumers is changing. The identity of the owner, producer or into competitive solutions. user is not always immediately apparent – new networks Connecting production and products has profound impact. are taking shape. One example is the smart home, with Data collection and analysis make it possible to streamline prosecurity solutions that might also incorporate connected duction and use. What used to be separated is now connected. services from other providers, such as health monitoring Everything is optimised in systems instead of individual units. or single-use door codes for home deliveries. The sustainability effects include higher security and lower energy use. Cities Citizens By 2050, about 70 percent of the world’s population is Digitalisation is having profound impact on people’s lives. expected to live in urban environments on a land area three The convenience we experience as e-shopping consumers or times the size of what it was in 2000. In other words, many remote-working entrepreneurs is shaping our expectations in ­cities of the future do not exist yet. Urbanisation and digitalisaother areas, including society. tion entail great opportunities to make life more sustainable, This involves the entire relationship between citizens and as regards energy, infrastructure, mobility and much more. The society, from the democratic process to public services and city becomes a device of a sort, one that can control how we all interactions with public agencies and authorities. Digital use energy, ensure accessibility and manage self-driving cars ­solutions are also being used to vastly improve the efficiency of that communicate with each other and their surroundings. public administration. This is a huge transition for public institutions – new demands are being placed on methods, organisations, systems and, not least importantly, the approach to ­citizens and business. CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Our mission 25 Welcome to Innovation Zone Innovation Zone is Cybercom’s hub for devel3 QUESTIONS FOR DANIEL KULLGARD, CYBERCOM INNOVATION LEADER opment and innovation, where employees, clients and other partners can all test ideas, develop prototypes and run pilot products How has Innovation Zone (IZ) evolved in 2017? in an ultra-creative environment. In order This was the year IZ was really established, as a to accomplish as much as possible, we bring regular part of Cybercom. We focused on further organisations, people and skills together developing IZ, where one of the goals was to form in cross-functional teams. a group of IZ leaders. We now have ten leaders who have met four times so far. If you are interThe method can most closely be described as ested in their projects and experiences, check out experience-based innovation. The key is trial and their blog on cybercom.com. error, instead of overthinking. A large measure of What have you done? A lot! We held Hack-A-Bike, INNOVATION ZONE freedom is included – you can proceed from your the world’s first hackathon on electric bikes, in own interests and test ideas and new technolo• 9 offices in collaboration with Cycleurope, for instance. The 3 countries gies: learning is the primary goal. The only offices in Sundsvall, Kista and Malmö created requirement is that the technology or solution • 88 consultants “Innovation in a Box”, a kit that makes it easier must be relevant to Cybercom’s clients, in the and students for clients to get innovating on their own. near future or further down the road. • 19 client projects What’s happening in 2018? We will be continuing Innovation Zone began as a pilot project in our IZ initiatives. Our priorities include working • 8 cross-site projects 2016 so that Cybercom’s consultants could use much more closely with Cybercom’s Sustainabilthe time between assignments for learning and • 11 projects with ity Ambassadors to generate more innovations development. Today, Innovation Zones are found new technology with focus on sustainability. It’s going to be really in the Cybercom offices. For new employees, exciting to see what we can achieve here. much of their introduction to Cybercom is provided in Innovation Zone. 26 Innovation Zone CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CONTEST | FORTUM IZ and Fortum are ­hacking for sustainable energy Fortum’s 48-hour hackathon AI Comes Home was based on exploring AI services for consumers’ homes. The Innovation Zone team started with the idea that most people want to live sustainably, but often don’t know what to do. The team used detailed information about the household’s electricity consumption to give personalised advice and recommended actions through an AI assistant. Cybercom’s solution was selected as one of two winners and Fortum is continuing to study AI assistance as a sustainable lifestyle tool. Fortum is continuing to develop tools for greener energy in the home and sustainable living, based partly on Cybercom’s AI solution with AI assistance and voice interface. Google Home is being used in the tests. Climate action. The goal is to take immediate action to fight climate change and its consequences. Innovation Zone’s AI solution is helping to raise awareness of energy use and encouraging changes in behaviour. INNOVATION ZONE | VÄSTTRAFIK Easier ­commute on the way in Gothenburg Commuting is already easy in the Gothenburg region, and it is about to get even better. People who live outside the city can park free at Västtrafik’s park-and-rides and take public transport the rest of the way. Västtrafik is collaborating with Innovation Zone, Cybercom’s machine learning specialists and doctoral students to predict availability at the park-and-rides. We use historical information about use of the parking spaces and add in factors like weather forecasts and holiday calendars. The goal is a service that helps commuters decide whether to take the car into the city or leave it behind. Sustainable cities and communities. The goal is aimed at making cities and communities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. Västtrafik is reducing congestion and providing more accessible and sustainable public transport in the Gothenburg region. CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Innovation Zone 27 COLLABORATION | GÖTEBORGS TEKNISKA COLLEGE Cybercom + Smart ­Factories = true Cybercom and our Innovation Zone are involved in creating the smart factories of the future. In concrete terms, the Smart Factories project involves students building two physical factories in Gothenburg and ­Skövde. They are “mini-factories”, but the technology being loaded into them is anything but “mini”. For instance, the factories are fully automated. Over the long run, Smart Factories are meant to inspire more digitalised, automated and sustainable industry. The project is being run by Göteborgs Tekniska College and was made possible by Cybercom and other corporate partners. Smart Factories is being run through student projects, specifically intended to inspire young people to choose technical studies. In total, there will be about 21,000 hours of student jobs in fields including virtual commissioning, sustainable production and programming of automated processes. Cybercom is contributing to the Smart Factories project in several ways, including data collection in the Cloud, AR visualisation and the factory assembly guide, the Smart Factories mobile app and the Machinebook service. Sustainable industry, innovation and infrastructure. The goal is to build up a resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialisation and foster innovation. Smart Factories is working towards innovation that supports industrial adaptation to sustainability with more efficient use of resources. INNOVATION ZONE | MEMOAR AR as a weapon ­against dementia Innovation Zone teamed up with the start-up company MemoAR to test their idea: using AR to make life easier for people with early dementia. We created a mobile app with features like face recognition, speech-to-text and key word analysis. The user can add contacts and get help recognising them. Entire conversations can be recorded, after which keywords are used as reminders. The goal is to further develop the solution by implementing it in AR glasses. Good health and well-being for people. The goal is to ensure that everyone can live a healthy life and to promote the well-being of people of all ages. It is not only about living long, it is about living well. Technology can help older people in society and solutions like MemoAR support people with particular challenges. 28 Innovation Zone CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CLIENT CASE | SKANSKA Connected helmet ­protects construction workers Skanska Poland is testing smart helmets to increase safety at its building sites. The helmet was developed in collaboration with Cybercom and Intel. And it is really smart – the helmet detects and gives warnings about all kinds of anomalies and hazards, such as vibrations, impact, falls or changes in temperature. Without a doubt, it is welcome news in an industry where the accident rate is still far too high. Fifty smart helmets are being tested at a building site in Warsaw. PARTNERSHIP | SWEDISH MEDIA COUNCIL The initiative is the first of its kind in Europe. Cybercom supports young media users Cybercom is a digital partner to the Swedish Media Council. The agency works to promote the empowering of minors as conscious media users and to protect them from harmful media influences. The Swedish Media Council monitors developments regarding media, children and youth, disseminates information, and provides guidance via films, podcasts, e-learning and quizzes. It is critically important that the website, its features and campaign domains are appealing, fast and run smoothly. The Council’s website, statensmediarad.se, was named one of the ten best websites in the public ­sector, healthcare and organisation in the 2017 MKSE Digital Excellence Awards. Quality education. The goal is aimed at ensuring inclusive, equal and high-quality education Decent work and economic growth. The goal is and to promote life-long learning for everyone. The Swedish Media Council contributes to both aimed at inclusive and sustainable economic growth education and democratisation by increasing awareness of media among children and youth. and full and productive employment with decent working conditions for everyone. Solutions like Skanska’s helmet make the work environment safer and more secure for construction workers. CLIENT CASE | H  ELSINKI REGION ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES IoT controls water and waste in Helsinki HRM (Helsinki Region Environmental Services) plays an important part for the Finnish capital – the agency supplies more than a million people with drinking water, treats wastewater and manages the majority of waste produced in the region. These and other services are being improved through several IoT projects. Towards ensuring success with service development, HRM and Cybercom drafted an overall vision and strategy for IoT. The aim was to coordinate and manage all of the agency’s IoT projects to ensure a better total result. The strategy also promotes innovation and collaboration – a significant effect for the largest organisation and pioneer in water and waste management in Finland. Clean water and sanitation. The aim is to ensure ­access to sustainable water and sanitation management for everyone. By applying IoT, HRM and other organisations can ensure sustainable water supply and make water use significantly more efficient. CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Innovation Zone 29 CLIENT CASE | VIRTAMED Safer operations with connected ­simulators and a shared knowledge base Wouldn’t it be fantastic if surgeons could practice operations to develop their skills and minimise the risk of errors? Computer simulation does just that by creating virtual training scenarios. It gives future surgeons and experienced surgeons alike the opportunity to practice arthroscopic surgery and many CLIENT CASE | FLEN MUNICIPALITY other procedures in a risk-free setting before they operate on real patients. An inclusive The Swiss company VirtaMed develops The connected surgical simulators will municipality and produces the most realistic surgical simmake a critical difference to mentors and Flen Municipality is upgrading for ulators in the market. Cybercom Poland is trainees. Training sessions are going from efficiency and better service to citihelping the company take the simulators being one-time events stored in individual zens by moving its IT systems to the to the next level by connecting them to the devices to being globally accessible lessons cloud and building new e-services. cloud. The aim is to create a common global and tools for all users. Sharing all resources The entire infrastructure will be network and improve surgical training in a and making them available to everyone migrated. One important enabler way that is only possible by using connecimproves surgical training and skills and, for this is the “catalog service” that tion in the cloud. The project began in late ultimately, the quality of healthcare and controls management of identities 2017 and by February this year, Cybercom patient health. That aligns well with Virta­ and access to services and features. had developed a prototype to show the Med’s and Cybercom’s shared ambitions The catalog service will still be confunctions of the cloud-based simulator at to generate positive values and contribute trolled from the municipality’s own a global conference. Due to high quality to sustainable development. system. This is important for various and security standards, the system requires reasons. One is that the system is extremely efficient and secure connection, linked with other institutions, such as which Cybercom can deliver. Swedish healthcare system catalogs, the school system and other operaGood health and well-being for people. The goal is to ensure that everyone can lead healthy lives. tional systems in the municipality. It also ­involves promoting the well-being of people of all ages. Cloud services and tools like VirtaMed’s simulators c­ ontribute to better healtcare and thus human health and survival. Cybercom is helping the municipality develop the catalog service and is contributing with identification ­systems, integration with other ­operational systems and system ­management. The new cloud-based infrastructure provides an open environment where it will be much easier to develop new web services. Flen also expects to cut costs considerably. The new online services create a closer relationship between the municipality and citizens, which is inevitably going to recast the local authority’s approach and working methods. Digitalisation puts focus on citizens and makes it easier for them to be part of society and makes it easy, secure and accessible to use municipal services around the clock. At the same time, the municipality saves resources, energy and costs. Peace, justice and strong institutions. The goal is aimed at promoting peaceful and inclusive societies and justice for all. It also involves building efficient, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels. Cloud services like those the Municipality of Flen is using can make public institutions more transparent and promote informed decisions. 30 Innovation Zone CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CLIENT CASE | HUSQVARNA CLIENT CASE | POSTNORD The importance of green spaces PostNord hits back at Shifting your perspective can really make a big difference. ­cyberfraudsters ­Husqvarna Commercial Lawn and Garden switched its focus from products to customer needs, digitalisation and sustainability. Cybercom is supporting PostNord’s information Together with Cybercom and our Digital Sustainability process, security work. We are working proactively to secure Husqvarna developed a strategic plan, updated business model the company’s information assets and taking action and, above all, a new future position: to provide green spaces. as needed to investigate and manage incidents. The The change process is helping Husqvarna become the partner wave of fake emails is a recent example. The emails and service-driven company they want to be. The goal is to offer look like they are from PostNord, but are actually sent sustainable, customised solutions for green spaces and urban by fraudsters. People who click through the emails ­environments. have been hit with a virus that locks their entire ­computer. This involves ransomware that demands a ransom in bitcoin from the user to regain control over their computer. Unfortunately, PostNord and other “Cybercom presented a unique approach companies whose brands have been misused this way in which the UN global sustainability goals cannot do anything about it right then and there. What PostNord and Cybercom have been able to do drive innovation and new sales. We truly is track and investigate these crimes, with the ultimate appreciate the experience and resources aim of bringing the fraudsters to justice. We have also that Cybercom brought to our collaboration.” collaborated with the media to expose cybercriminals publicly and make it harder for them to ­continue their KALLE LIND, DIRECTOR COMMERCIAL LAWN AND GARDEN, activities. HUSQVARNA GROUP Sustainable cities and communities. The goal is aimed at making cities and Peace, justice and strong institutions. The goal is aimed at communities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. More than half the world’s promoting peaceful and inclusive societies and justice for all. It population lives in urban areas and more of us are becoming city-dwellers all the also involves building efficient, accountable and inclusive institime. That makes safe and peaceful green spaces even more important. They are tutions at all levels. Protection of personal data and privacy are good for the well-being of people and the environment alike. prerequisites for people to be willing to act and communicate in digital environments. CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Innovation Zone 31 CONNECTED DEVICE SECURITY PROTOCOL DESKTOP USER 3.5 MB LOADED Future proofing beyond technology Expertise and services in IT security Cybercom is working at all levels to ensure secure and sustainable digitalisation. Companies and public institutions are well aware that cyber threats are increasing, but few know how to respond to these rapid changes. Cybercom is helping raise awareness of these issues and to assess and prioritise actions considered reasonable from the balanced risk perspective. We help companies, public institutions and organisations with all aspects of information security, from drafting complete management models to nonconformance reporting. Our Three hundred users have downloaded the GDPR Check developed by Cybercom service areas include IT/information security, identity and to provide free and straightforward access management, and compliance with regulations, support. Read more about it at cybercom.com/gdpr-kollen. including GDPR, which takes effect in May 2018. 32 Innovation Zone CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 DATA 123,456 TB ANALYSED Digital revolution and criminality? Digitalisation has infinite be misused. Inadequate security can have Everything is being digitalised and conpotential, but also means that we are conserious consequences at all levels of socinected. This is no less than a revolution. stantly being confronted with new quesety, from disruption or breakdown of vital All sectors and all relationships are tions and consequences. That requires public operations to threats to personal affected, from the individual to the global good judgement and accountability. privacy and identity. Physical assets and level. Digitalisation is driving sustainable belongings may also be affected. In order development in several ways, including Potential and risks to make optimal use of technology, we smarter technology that is overcoming As more and more is being controlled by must have secure and resilient systems many challenges. Energy, infrastructure computers in all parts of society, we are and we must decide what kind of society and resource management are but a few being confronted with new and higher we want to create and live in. examples. And connected people have the risks. Unintentionally, we are building in whole world of information in their hands vulnerability that can be difficult to comInformation security and cyber­ – this transparency and accessibility equaprehend and control. While technology is security are sustainability issues. lises old information asymmetries and proinherently neutral, it unlocks new potenAt Cybercom, we see technology as a motes democratisation. tial and thus also opens the door to risks powerful tool for building strong com­ But everything is open to debate. What and misuse. munities. We want to leverage our collechappens to democracy when people live in The smart home with digital assistance tive capabilities to be involved in creating their own filter bubbles and are always at and voice control is a down-to-earth the conditions necessary for sustainable risk of being the targets of disinformation? example. It is so convenient to tell the development. That applies to Cybercom’s How do we measure results and value ­coffee pot to brew a cup in the morning, entire offering and especially our expertise when people meet AI and robotisation? for instance. But the very existence of this in the field of information security and How do we ensure the rights of individuals function opens a new channel that has cyber security. to privacy while managing security risks to be secured and can, in the worst case, CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Innovation Zone 33 M PRO AKING GRESSCybercom works towards clear objectives in areas including sustainable business, diversity, profitability and business ethics. This is how we generate results. Supplemental sustainability information In-depth information about Cybercom’s operations and performance is presented here. The section contains disclosures in the areas of stakeholder dialogue, organisation and governance, employees, clients, environment, risks and economic performance. Stakeholders and dialogue Cybercom’s key stakeholders are employees, clients, owners and the with each group of stakeholders, communication and dialogue methods union organisations that represent the company’s employees. The table used and how the dialogue affects Cybercom’s operations. illustrates the topics that are usually the subject of Cybercom’s dialogues Stakeholder group Topics Dialogue Outcome Clients Offer, quality, delivery, security management, Client survey, interviews Sales training, business systems in the Swedish operations for privacy, business ethics, labour conditions, cliquality, environment and information security that will be mate performance, procurement procedures integrated throughout the Group. The system is based on the established standards ISO 9001 (quality), ISO 14001 (environment) and to some extent ISO 27001 (information security) Employees Skills development, working environment, Employee survey, interviews Training, management conferences, employee events/ corporate culture, diversity and gender meetings about vision and values ­equality Investors/owners Profitability, corporate responsibility, business Annual general meeting, board Code of Conduct and Business Ethics, sustainability report, ethics work, interviews, investor meetings corporate governance report Suppliers Suppliers’ environmental work Suppliers’ Code of Conduct, Compliance with code, sustainability focus ­procurement, negotiations Material sustainability aspects The table illustrates the sustainability aspects that Cybercom has assessed made with consideration to the opinions of key stakeholders concerning as material in terms of management and reporting. The assessment was Cybercom’s operations and sustainability work. Identified sustainability aspect Corresponding GRI G4 aspect Business ethics – Anti-corruption and anti-competitive behaviour Anti-corruption Dedicated employees and employee development Employment, occupational health and safety and training Financial stability Economic performance Sustainable products and services Products and services and product and service labelling Sustainability in the Cybercom culture – Information security – Privacy issues related to IT Customer privacy Diversity and gender equality Diversity and equal opportunity and non-discrimination Smart use of resources Energy and emissions We began a stakeholder dialogue at the end of the year aimed at updatand a study of Cybercom’s capacity to manage sustainability issues. ing Cybercom’s materiality assessment. The dialogue was conducted in The survey showed that employees consider equal treatment and equal two main steps: a survey of all Cybercom employees and interviews with opportunity, sustainable business and ethical and legal conduct the most a number of key clients. The survey and interviews were augmented with important sustainability topics for Cybercom. The entire materiality an analysis of sustainability communications from competing companies assessment will be provided in the 2018 Sustainability Report. 36 Stakeholders and dialogue CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Policy and management The company’s Code of Conduct constitutes Cybercom’s main sustaina­ 5 Environment bility policy. Our aim is to minimise the company’s negative environmental impact. Cybercom has also had a Suppliers’ Code of Conduct since 2012. The Cybercom respects the precautionary principle and seeks to actively conSuppliers’ Code of Conduct covers the same areas as Cybercom’s internal tribute to reducing negative environmental impact through responsible Code of Conduct, except for financial reporting and other external commeasures and technological advancement. Cybercom always acts in communications. Cybercom’s internal Code of Conduct and the Suppliers’ pliance with laws and internationally recognised directives. Code of Conduct are available on cybercom.com. 6 Corruption and other prohibited business practices Code of Conduct Cybercom complies with the Swedish Anti-Corruption Institute’s Code The Code of Conduct is based on the UN Global Compact and its princiof Gifts, Rewards and other Benefits in Business, and works actively to ples on human rights, labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption. combat corruption and unethical practices. Employees must not give or It was written in 2004 and most recently updated in 2016. receive gifts, benefits or bribes that constitute a breach of this code. The Code of Conduct applies to all employees. The Code sets standards Cybercom is politically independent and does not sponsor political organifor employee professionalism and integrity to ensure that everyone who sations. Cybercom is opposed to any form of money laundering and has represents Cybercom conducts themselves ethically in relation to the taken the relevant measures to prevent financial transactions that are of company’s stakeholders. criminal intent. The Code of Conduct covers the following areas: 7 Promote accurate disclosure in financial reports and other public communications 1 Comply with laws and regulations Cybercom shall be transparent and provide relevant information when All Cybercom employees are responsible for acting in compliance with so required. This means that the company shall always provide fair and laws and regulations applicable to Cybercom’s operations and deliveries. correct information. Cybercom’s goal is for all communication to contribIn the event of an individual issue demanding it, they will seek legal ute to a stronger brand. advice. Cybercom applies the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. Cybercom presents and reports corporate information in compliance with 8 Properly use company assets and confidential information applicable laws and regulations. All business decisions shall be made with the good of the company in mind. All consultants will be professional in their relationship with 2 Human rights ­Cybercom and will not pursue competitive activities. Cybercom respects human rights as laid down in UN conventions. EveryClient trust is of vital importance to Cybercom. All employees will treat body in the organisation must show respect for the integrity and dignity ­client information in complete confidentiality. Information about Cyberof all people. Cybercom will not in any way contribute to the violation of com’s clients may only be used in the implementation of the project in human rights. question. This confidentiality remains in force even after the project has been completed. Cybercom has clear guidelines for the handling of con­ 3 Labour law and working conditions fidential information. Cybercom supports freedom of association and the right to collective ­bargaining. Cybercom does not permit child labour. Cybercom applies 9 Protect our clients’ and partners’ confidential and the principle that a child is a person younger than 15 years of age unless patented information national legislation states an older age, in which case the older age Cybercom requires all employees to sign a confidentiality agreement in applies. Cybercom applies the definition of child labour as laid down by accordance with Cybercom’s security policy. There are clear rules for the the International Labour Organisation (ILO). Cybercom does not tolerate handling of, and access to, material belonging to Cybercom. any forms of discrimination. All employees have equal rights and must never be subjected to unjust treatment due to gender, sexual orientation, 10 Take a professional pride in the consultancy role ethnic origin, religion, beliefs, political affiliation or disability. All employFreedom with accountability and focus on the individual are important ees must show respect for each other and for Cybercom’s business partcontributory factors in Cybercom being able to attract highly skilled staff. ners and will take responsibility for combating discrimination. Cybercom Cybercom seeks to offer all employees the opportunity for personal and works unabatedly to combat discrimination. This permeates the compaprofessional development. A workplace that is open, creative and flexible ny’s policies and processes during, for example, recruitment, setting of sets the course for being able to offer clients professional and attractive wage rates, and skills enhancement. Cybercom offers salaries that comply products and services. To sum up, Cybercom shall always conduct itself with the minimum wage, as laid down in national legislation, with corethically in its dealings with all its stakeholders. Cybercom shall be characrectly prepared employment contracts. Cybercom also ensures that workterised by professionalism and integrity ing hours are compliant with local legislation. Cybercom seeks to give all employees time for rest. Cybercom shall not in any way utilise forced labour and will always ensure that the working relationship between employee and organisation is at the employee’s own free will. 4 Health and safety Cybercom shall provide a healthy and safe workplace in compliance with internationally acknowledged standards. Cybercom works proactively to prevent accidents and work-related illnesses. All employees are offered health and safety training when and if required. CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Policy and management 37 Employees Key figures and indicators pertaining to the number of employees refer to 31 December of each year. 2017 2016 2015 Percentage Percentage Percentage Total number of employees Employees Women, % Employees Women, % Employees Women, % Number of permanent employees 1,251 20 1,185 17 1,200 17 – Of which full-time 1,231 20 1,154 17 1,200 17 – Of which part-time 20 40 31 29 0 0 Number of temporary employees 11 73 18 33 18 28 Total number of employees 1,262 19 1,203 18 1,218 17 2017 2016 2015 Percentage Percentage Percentage Employees by country Employees Women, % Employees Women, % Employees Women, % Sweden 775 22 748 20 765 18 Finland 171 12 164 12 193 10 Poland 277 21 253 18 209 16 India 21 14 23 13 28 25 Singapore – – 2 50 13 8 Denmark 18 39 13 8 10 10 Total number of employees 1,262 19 1,203 18 1,218 17 2017 2016 2015 Percentage Percentage Percentage Composition of the company Number Women, % Number Women, % Number Women, % Board of directors 9 33 9 33 9 33 Under 30 0 0 0 0 0 0 30–50 6 17 7 29 7 43 Over 50 3 67 2 50 2 0 Managers 121 26 115 26 97 20 Under 30 3 33 3 33 1 0 30–50 91 19 89 22 75 17 Over 50 27 52 23 39 21 29 Other employees 1,141 19 1,088 17 1,121 17 Under 30 338 22 309 18 276 18 30–50 664 19 642 16 696 15 Over 50 139 21 137 20 149 21 2017 2016 2015 Employee turnover Women Men Total Women Men Total Women Men Total New recruitment during the year 425 280 237 Under 30 44 141 185 34 119 153 12 89 101 30–50 45 177 222 24 95 119 24 109 133 Over 50 7 11 18 1 7 8 0 3 3 Percentage of new employees 35% 23% 19% People who left during the year 372 294 332 Under 30 25 85 110 12 50 62 7 58 65 30–50 28 204 232 27 166 193 42 186 228 Over 50 8 22 30 8 31 39 9 30 39 Percentage who ended employment 30% 24% 27% 425 NEW EMPLOYEES IN 2017 19% WOMEN 33% WOMEN IN BOARD OF DIRECTORS 38 Employees: disclousure and key data CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Training hours/employee 2017 2016 2015 Absenteeism 2017 2016 2015 Women 18 13 34 Absenteeism rate by country, % Men 19 14 26 Sweden 2.9 3.4 2.6 All employees 19 14 27 Finland 2.4 3.0 2.4 Poland 2.5 2.0 1.5 India – 0 0.1 Development reviews 2017 2016 2015 Singapore – 0.4 0 Percentage of employees given Denmark 3.2 1.9 1.6 development reviews Average Cybercom 2.8 3.0 2.2 Women 94 89 89 Men 90 84 81 Collective bargaining All employees 91 85 83 ­agreements 2017 2016 2015 Excluding new employees Percentage of employees ­covered by collective bargaining agreements 76 77 77 Priorities quarter. The other component of the development model is the ProfesAttracting, developing and retaining creative and skilled colleagues and sional Development Inventory, which focuses on the employee’s shortcreating opportunities for employees to achieve their full potential are and long-term goals in relation to Cybercom’s needs and strategy. The among Cybercom’s most important tasks. dialogues are held as needed and result in a development plan that is folSkills provision is the industry’s – and thus Cybercom’s – greatest challowed up in connection with the regular meetings. lenge and its greatest opportunity. As a knowledge company in IT, we are dependent upon having the right skills in a changing and largely unpreLeadership dictable environment. It is difficult to precisely predict what technical skills Strong and professional leadership is crucial to sharpening our competiare going to be needed. For this reason, the willingness and capacity to tive edge. In recent years, we have focused on changing the leadership manage change and learn new things is an important skill in and of itself. structure of the company. The drivers were Cybercom’s strategy to reinThis reality requires Cybercom to maintain and reinforce its flexibility force client intimacy and employee preferences for closer leadership. The as an organisation as well. We must keep creating opportunities for our new structure is based on leaders of smaller teams in the same skills area, employees to develop as regards new methods and technologies, for as opposed to traditional consulting managers and larger teams. The instance. This is accomplished in part through various forms of internal Competence Team Leads focus on motivating, coaching and developing mobility, between skills areas or markets, for instance. Accelerating our employees individually and the team as a whole. A Team Lead devotes flexibility and development will be a high priority in 2018 and forward. 20 percent of their time to leadership and works as a consultant the rest of the time. Skills development One positive consequence of the new structure is that more employees Cybercom’s approach is based on a novel perspective on professional are developing into leaders while retaining their skills areas. The change is development, where the definition of a successful career path is up to the popular: in the latest employee survey, 75 percent of employees rate the individual. We prefer to compare a career to a climbing wall, rather than a management at 4 or 5 out of 5. ladder. To develop and attain their goals, the employee must often be flexible and grasp the opportunities that arise. Sometimes you need to Employee’s rights and conditions make a lateral move before continuing in your chosen direction. Cybercom respects human rights. Respect for individuals and their priv­ Our work is based on a joint platform for learning and skills developacy and dignity are fundamental to all of our relationships, both within ment that we call Boosting Your Development. The platform contains four Cybercom and with clients, partners and other external stakeholders. main areas: ­Naturally, Cybercom has particular responsibility for its own employees. Opportunities: We divide professional and personal development into All of Cybercom’s sustainability-related policies and positions are specified five levels, from Junior Consultant to Principal Consultant. Each level in the company’s Code of Conduct: see page 37. entails expectations in the categories of knowledge, colleagues and busiEmployees of Cybercom are offered competitive compensation and ness. In addition to the professional levels, there are five main developgenerous, relevant benefits. We have adjusted the benefits package ment areas categorised by function: technology development, business according to feedback from our employees. development, sales, leadership and project management. Cybercom also cares about employee social security. The precise Roles and areas of responsibility: This where the aspects that are arrangements vary among markets, but all offer advantageous insurance Cybercom’s responsibility, the manager’s responsibility and the individual’s policies. Employees in Finland and Sweden are covered by collective responsibility for the employee’s skills development are defined. agreements that include certain benefits as regards pensions and parental Model for learning and development: We work according to the leave supplement, for example. 70/20/10 model, where 70 percent of learning comes from challenging tasks, 20 percent from enriching collaborations and relationships and 10 Diversity and gender equality percent from formal training. For Cybercom’s consultants, this means that A diverse range of perspectives strengthens our joint creative and probat least 90 percent of development occurs in their assignments and the lem-solving capacity and makes us a better partner to our clients. When course of the working day. we recruit and develop employees, the focus is on skills. Cybercom’s doors Professional development process: We apply the same agile are open and we look outside the borders of Sweden to find the right approach here as in the rest of the business. Regular meetings between skills for the company. managers and employees are the backbone of our professional development model. These one-on-one meetings must be held at least once per CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Employees: disclousure and key data 39 “We need to keep creating opportunities for our employees to develop as regards new methods and technologies, for instance. This is accomplished in part through various forms of internal mobility, such as moving between skills areas or markets. Accelerating our flexibility and development will be a high priority in 2018 and forward.” Linda Westlund, Head of HR We work with East Sweden’s Chamber of ComHealth and safety interaction with a manager in the same skills merce and the Swedish Public Employment SerCybercom is acting to achieve a good work area generates understanding and opportunivice to offer work experience to newcomers to environment and employee health and well-­ ties to identify challenges at an early stage. Sweden and thus an opportunity to gain a footbeing by means including matching the right The absenteeism rate at Cybercom was 2.8 hold in the labour market. The hope is to offer person to the right assignment, providing percent during the year. There were no reported participants jobs or put them together with opportunities for variation and development workplace accidents. partners or recruitment firms that can match on the job and allocating tasks to minimise them to jobs in their networks. stress. We strive to accommodate preferences Management of HR issues More equal gender distribution is one of the for flexible working hours. Management of employee-related matters at company’s general objectives: the workforce is We work in an office setting on our own or Cybercom is based on several policies and proto be 30 percent women by the end of 2020. client premises. Because we spend so much cedures. The most important of these include The goal is based on the 70/30 ratio of new time in front of computers, it is important for our Code of Conduct, the health and safety graduates in technical education in the counemployees to vary their work postures. Cyberpolicy and procedures, the diversity policy, the tries where Cybercom operates. We have hit com’s premises offer various types of workstagender equality plan and a procedure for dealing the target at the board and management level tions and we encourage people to get moving – with incidents of discrimination. – the board consists of three women and six by playing table tennis at the office, for instance. The purpose and objectives of HR work are men, while there are 32 women and 89 men Cybercom’s greatest health and safety risks are the same in all material respects throughout in senior management. We have a little way to repetitive strain injuries and stress-­related disorCybercom, although approaches may differ. go overall – at the end of the year, the gender ders. We are using group-wide systems support and distribution ratio between men and women The new leadership structure with Compeother means to plan for increased collaboration at Cybercom was 81/19. tence Team Leads has been assessed as also and efficiency within the Group. ­fostering employee well-being. More frequent 40 Employees: disclousure and key data CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Clients Legal and appropriate conduct system is certified under ISO 9001 and our polmanner and the effect of any security incidents High ethics must characterise every aspect of icy and quality targets help us steer our efforts must not entail risk of seriously damaging the our business and operations. Our Code of Conin the right direction. In order to assure quality, client’s operations or our own. duct governs our actions in all countries where the majority of our work is process-oriented. Cybercom works systematically with inforwe operate and business ethics are a standing The enterprise management system contains mation security based on our information secuitem on the leadership team’s agenda. necessary documentation in the form of prority policy. Internal security measures are inteAs of 2014, all employees complete an cess and role descriptions, as well as instrucgrated in Cybercom’s business system. Defining online course in anti-corruption. The training is tions and templates. Training is a key compothe right level of security for client assignments based on our Code of Conduct and Business nent of quality management. involves setting the acceptable exposure to risk, Ethics and presents various possible dilemmas We set targets and monitor a number of performing a risk assessment and describing on which employees must take a position. quality parameters – customer satisfaction first the organisational, process-related and techniThere were no cases of corruption or discrimiand foremost among them. The overall objeccal security measures that must be implenation at Cybercom in 2017. tive is to continuously increase the CSI (Cusmented. The security measures taken are tomer Satisfaction Index) and to always outperalways the most rigorous of the available alterQuality form the industry average. There is a separate natives. For Cybercom, quality is a matter of client perpolicy, strategy and process run by sales managception. Accordingly, our task is to consistently ers to accomplish these ends. Read more about Client privacy meet the client’s needs and meet or exceed Cybercom’s targets on page 12. Cybercom works actively to ensure compliance expectations. We succeed at this by working with applicable laws and regulations on protecintimately with clients in order to understand Information security tion of privacy, including the new EU General their needs and challenges. We monitor techFor Cybercom, information security means our Data Protection Regulation, GDPR. This work is nological advancements and how technology ability to ensure the necessary confidentiality, conducted both internally and on assignment can be applied in the light of our clients’ needs. integrity and availability of our internal systems for clients. Cybercom did not experience any Finally, we constantly develop our skills so that and information and the systems and informalosses of client data in 2017. we can deliver in pace with new needs and new tion of our clients. Our clients’ systems and technology. Cybercom’s quality management those of Cybercom must be managed in a safe CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Clients 41 Environment Policy and management vided by IVL Swedish Environmental Research Targets and outcomes Environmental aspects are included in CyberInstitute. In 2017, Cybercom signed the declaCybercom has identified overall targets for its com’s Code of Conduct. Our commitment conration drawn up by the Fossil-Free Sweden Inikey environmental aspects: purchasing, travel, sists of minimising Cybercom’s negative envitiative. waste management and environmental ronmental impact, applying the precautionary Internally, Cybercom has made good progengagement through client assignments. principle and actively contributing to reducing ress in the environmental area. Relatively speakWe have made progress in the environmental negative environmental impact through teching, we devote more energy to helping our area over time, particularly as regards travel. nological progress. ­clients implement solutions to reduce negative Business travel has been reduced and we travel As a complement to the Code of Conduct, environmental impact and increase positive more often by train, as opposed to flying. As for Cybercom has an environmental policy oriented impact. the daily commute, there has been a marked towards sustainable business. decrease in trips by car in favour of other alterCybercom’s environmental management sysActivities natives. tem has been certified under ISO 14001 since We are a consultancy, and for us the main thrust We did record one negative change in 2017, 2017 throughout the Swedish organisation is to reduce the share of environmental impact however: carbon emissions from air travel (some Cybercom offices were environmentally caused by travel, both business travel and in our increased to 277 metric tons from 181 tons in certified by 2008). We use Cybercom’s environdaily commute. Accordingly, we changed our 2016. The increase was due to international mental policy, environmental targets and action way of working some time ago, and make assignments. The emissions are still lower than plans to manage and track our environmental extensive use of various IT solutions to commuwhen we began to measure and, overall, we efforts. Each office adjusts the general environnicate internally and with our clients. This has believe Cybercom’s environmental performance mental targets and action plans to their specific not only reduced travel, it has helped streamline is at an acceptable level. circumstances. collaboration internally and with clients. We provide training and regular communicaEmployees and clients are informed about tions about Cybercom’s environmental work. how Cybercom’s offices can be reached by pubAll employees are required to complete weblic transport. We make it easier for employees based environmental training and there are to leave their car at home. For example, all additional resources available. Employees are offices have showers and dressing rooms so also encouraged to review their own climate that people can run or cycle to work. impact using the Climate Account service proElectricity consumption in Cybercom’s offices and data centres 2017 2016 2015 –13.5% Total electricity consumption (MWh) 2,037 2,356 2,230 Electricity consumption in relation to sales (MWh/SEKm) 1.4 1.7 1.8 The disclosures pertain to Cybercom’s offices and own data centres. Cybercom buys mostly renewable electricity in all countries in which we operate. To convert energy from MWh to GJ, use the conversion factor of 3.6. CHANGE IN ELECTRICITY Virtual communications 2017 2016 2015 CONSUMPTION 2016–2017 Number of Skype meetings 91,163 90,086 57,792 Carbon emissions from air travel in relation to sales 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Carbon emissions from air travel (metric tons) 277 182 343 640 599 451 Carbon emissions1) in relation to sales (metric tons CO² /SEKm) 0.19 0.13 0.27 0.51 0.50 0.34 1) Data excludes Cybercom’s joint venture in India. We monitor greenhouse gas emissions from air travel. Greenhouse gas emissions are reported by the travel agents Cybercom uses in each country. For our operations in Singapore, greenhouse gas emissions are calculated based on distance travelled. 277 METRIC TONS OF CARBON 91,163 SKYPE MEETINGS EMISSIONS FROM AIR TRAVEL 42 Environment: DISCLOSURES AND KEY DATA CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Significant risks and uncertainties Cybercom is exposed to a number of risks that could affect the Group’s earnings and financial position. Cybercom regularly performs risk assessments that include identification of the risks that affect the Group and takes action to manage these risks. Market and operational risks Description Action Skills provision Cybercom’s business is dependent upon its capacity to attract Cybercom works continuously with environmental and working con­ and recruit skilled employees and upon its employees mainditions, leadership and skills development to ensure that the company taining their skills, continuing to develop and staying motiis an attractive employer. Innovation Zones are found at the company’s vated. Shortages of labour occur from time to time and the offices to provide for skills transfer and to explore new technology. company may have difficulty recruiting employees. High Cybercom works with brand-building activities and recruitment employee turnover or loss of key people could therefore through, for example, participating in conferences, seminars and have negative impact on the company. courses. The company invites university students to write degree papers within Cybercom’s operations. Skills provision to the Nordic markets is augmented with capacity from the centres of excellence in Cybercom’s Polish and Indian operations. The company recruits globally. Economic conditions The Nordic market for IT and consultant services is affected Cybercom’s core business is in communications services and digitalisation, by the general economy. Deterioration of the general busiwhich have effect in both economic upturns and downturns through effiness climate may therefore affect demand for the company’s ciency improvements or competitive advantages. The company has develservices. oped areas of expertise where market demand is expected to remain strong for decades. In addition, the company further develops skills in new areas on an ongoing basis and monitors national and global market trends. Client concentration Cybercom’s ten largest clients account for 43 percent of the Cybercom often has many different, mutually independent projects in company’s sales and the largest client accounts for 17 perprogress for its larger clients. The company strives to maintain a good cent. Cybercom seeks to build long-term relationships with balance among clients from different industries and geographies to its clients, several of which have been clients for many years. ­mitigate risk exposure. Cybercom’s target is for the ten largest clients to account for 50 percent of sales while no individual client accounts for more than 15 percent of the company’s revenues. Capacity utilisation risk Cybercom’s revenues are highly dependent upon the number Cybercom is developing its business and deepening expertise in areas of consultant hours sold. Reduced demand for consultant where demand is growing and is expected to continue growing for hours affects capacity utilisation and may be caused by any many years ahead. The company’s services cover the entire project life number of factors, including economic downturns and/or cycle and consultants are equipped to successfully take on various roles. shortages of appropriate consultant skills. Moreover, there Employees are continuously further developed. The office-based Inno­ is risk that clients may in some cases discontinue projects vation Zones are helping ensure that the company has knowledge and at short notice, which in turn may prevent Cybercom from expertise in the latest technologies. The company also collaborates immediately occupying the consultants involved in other with a large number of sub-consultants to ensure flexible capacity in assignments. response to economic fluctuations and client-specific variations. Price level and client The level of prices charged to clients are a key component of Cybercom’s strategy calls for the company to sell proactively and offer ­commitments the company’s earnings. When prices are negotiated with the more advisory services in order to engage in dialogue with multiple client on an ongoing basis, earnings are affected immediately stakeholders on the client side (operations, purchasing and IT) and move if market prices fall. For that portion of sales generated by clihigher up the value chain. The company continuously further develops ents with which the company has made general agreements, its procedures for assessing and controlling risks in client assignments. Cybercom is not affected by changes in the price level unless the general agreement is renegotiated. Fixed price assignments and other commitments to clients, where Cybercom promises to provide a solution or service at a price agreed in advance, constitute another type of price risk. In these situations, the company bears the risk that the cost of delivering the assignment might have been incorrectly estimated. Ethical risks Examples of ethical risks include employee failure to comply All Cybercom employees are required to sign the company’s Code of with national regulations, Cybercom’s Code of Conduct or Conduct and Business Ethics immediately upon employment. This is also ethical guidelines, or employee involvement in corruption, mandatory for the company’s sub-consultants. Preventive actions are bribery or other irregularities. Such actions may damage taken at all levels of the company by means of communication, training the brand or lead to legal sanctions and fines. and dilemma exercises. Health and safety risks Cybercom’s greatest health and safety risks are repetitive The company’s premises are designed to encourage physical movement strain injuries and stress-related disorders. and variation in working posture. Aimed at minimising stress, Cybercom strives to maintain an open, communicative, reassuring and transparent culture. The company’s employees are provided occupational health services according to their individual needs, as well as tools and equipment to prevent repetitive strain injuries, for example. Human rights Cybercom operates in certain countries where there is greater Cybercom’s management works continuously to ensure that all operarisk connected to discrimination based on gender, social or tions comply with the company’s Code of Conduct and Business Ethics. religious identity, age or sexual orientation. Everyone must show respect for the privacy and dignity of the individual. Bank and client agreements There are clauses in the company’s loan agreements as well as Cybercom’s financial structure is good and the company strives to maincertain client agreements that give the other party the option tain a stable financial base that provides favourable conditions for diato terminate the agreement if major changes to the ownerlogue with banks. The company has many different client agreements, ship structure occur. If an agreement is terminated, it may assignments and numerous large clients. have negative impact on the company. Financial risks Cybercom is exposed to several financial risks, such as liquidThese risks are described in Cybercom’s annual report for 2017. ity risks, interest rate risks, currency risks and credit risks. CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Risks 43 Executive Leadership Team Niklas Flyborg Kristina Cato Dennis Lundqvist Annika Nordlander President and CEO Cybercom Group Head of Sustainability and CIO Cybercom Group COO Cybercom Sweden Head of Cybercom Sweden ­Communications Cybercom Group Born 1976 Born 1959 Born 1962 Born 1968 M.Sc. Electrical and Electronics EngineerSystems Engineering, Mid Sweden Degree in Economics and Business M.A. Uppsala University ing, Royal Institue of Technology ­University Administration, Stockholm School With Cybercom since: 1999 With Cybercom since: 2016 With Cybercom since: 2014 of Economics Previous: Linköping University Hospital Previous: ÅF AB, Epsilon AB Previous: Ericsson, Fujitsu, Merkantildata, With Cybercom since: 2012 DFind IT, Proffice. Previous: Mandator, Cell Network, Observer/Cision, Capgemini. Veli-Matti Nurminen Marcin Siech Bo Strömqvist Johan Wallin Head of Cybercom Finland Head of Cybercom Poland Head of Sales Cybercom Group Head of Solutions M.Sc. Engineering, Lappeenranta Born 1975 Born 1964 Born 1964 ­University of Technology M.Sc. Computer Science from Technical Bachelor Degree in System Analysis, M.Sc. Computer Systems and Born 1964 University of Lodz, EMBA Diploma from Linköping University, Washington State ­Engineering, Chalmers University of With Cybercom since: 2014 University of Towson and Certificate University ­technology (CTH) EMBA from Robert H.Smith School of With Cybercom since: 2012 With Cybercom since: 2007 Previous: Tieto and Oy Visual Business (University of ­Maryland) Systems Ltd. Previous: Rational Software, IBM, TDC, Previous: Ericsson, Teleca With Cybercom since: 2005 Cision, Enea Previous: Teleca, Computerland Linda Westlund Camilla Öberg Head of HR Cybercom Group CFO Cybercom Group Born 1978 Born 1964 B.Sc. in Human Resource Management, Degree in Economics and Business Mid Sweden University Administration, Stockholm School With Cybercom since: 2014 of Economics Previous: Uniflex Bemanning, Mistat AB With Cybercom since: 2012 Previous: Logica, WM-data, SEB, Lexicon and the Swegro group 44 Executive Leadership Team CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Economic performance Generated economic value The table shows Cybercom’s generated direct economic value and how this is distributed to various stakeholder groups. SEKk 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Generated direct economic value Revenues 1,463,498 1,353,925 1,259,598 1,262,887 1,195,135 Distributed economic value Employee benefits –785,184 –766,570 –782,933 –824,303 –793,840 Other external expenses –522,884 –480,000 –408,590 –345,921 –314,732 Charitable donations1) –989 –549 –575 –521 –142 EBITDA 154,440 106,806 67,500 92,142 86,421 Investment activities –24,580 –23,363 –23,873 –26,373 –26,199 Net finance income/expense –2,592 –5,588 –2,621 –2,490 –6,904 Dividends 0 0 0 –9,022 0 Corporation tax paid by country2) Denmark –1,062 0 0 0 –35 El Salvador 0 0 0 0 –51 Finland –7,368 –3,503 –925 –3,567 –752 India –2,138 –754 –573 –1,637 –774 Italy 0 0 –1 0 0 Korea –1,316 –1,163 –809 –123 0 Paraguay 0 0 0 0 –440 Poland –1,314 –2,730 –1,755 –472 68 Rwanda 0 –187 0 –1,350 –1,048 Senegal 0 0 0 –4,775 –7,227 Singapore 0 –466 185 24 –33 Sweden –13,008 –4,215 –1 –319 –160 Taiwan –114 –126 –121 –94 0 Tanzania –404 –431 –802 –582 –2,283 Chad 0 –583 –546 –383 0 Germany 0 –10 0 0 0 Retained economic value 100,545 63,687 35,658 40,979 40,583 1)  s of 2017, the value of pro bono work for charity has been included in the “Charity” line item under “Distributed value” in the total amount of SEK 900 thousand. In 2017, A employees of Cybercom worked approximately 1,000 hours pro bono in various projects directed at increasing interest in IT among young people in collaboration with Hello World and Universeum, as well as projects aimed at facilitating social integration for immigrants with a background in IT. The pro bono work corresponds to a value of SEK 465 thousand, which is included in revenues in the table above. Cybercom has also provided premises and ancillary services at no charge to Hello World, corresponding to a value of SEK 435 thousand. 2) In the countries where the company has paid withholding tax, these amounts have been included in the amount of tax paid. CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 economic performance 45 Consolidated income statement – Group SEKk 2017 2016 Net sales 1,439,790 1,327,899 Other operating income 23,243 26,025 Employee benefits –800,365 –780,320 Other external expenses –508,227 –466,798 Depreciation and amortisation –37,708 –39,050 Capital gain or loss upon sale of subsidiary –4,270 – Operating profit 112,462 67,756 Financial income 2,580 762 Financial expense –5,172 –6,350 Profit before tax 109,871 62,168 Taxes –28,010 –17,249 Profit for the year 81,860 44,919 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income – Group SEKk 2017 2016 Profit for the year 81,860 44,919 Other comprehensive income Items that have or may be transferred to profit and loss for the period Translation differences arising from translation of foreign operations 6,693 8,885 Comprehensive income for the year 88,553 53,805 Attributable to: Owners of the parent 88,553 53,805 46 economic performance CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Consolidated balance sheet – Group SEKk 2017 2016 Assets Noncurrent assets Goodwill 332,589 329,356 Other intangible assets 69,099 82,778 Property, plant and equipment 30,973 31,310 Financial assets 1,232 1,195 Deferred tax assets 4,579 5,273 Total noncurrent assets 438,473 449,912 Current assets Trade receivables 437,287 334,811 Tax assets 551 968 Other receivables 26,012 19,323 Prepaid expenses 14,720 17,612 Cash and cash equivalents 61,319 62,023 Assets held for sale 0 10,324 Total current assets 539,889 445,061 Total assets 978,361 894,974 Equity and liabilities Equity Share capital 50 50 Other contributed capital 391,558 391,558 Retained earnings including profit for the year 130,178 41,625 Equity attributable to owners of the parent 521,786 433,233 Total equity 521,786 433,233 Noncurrent liabilities Tax assets 18,687 17,944 Other receivables 80,518 101,971 Prepaid expenses 1,265 686 Total noncurrent liabilities 100,470 120,601 Current liabilities Advances from clients 34,336 34,935 Provisions for restructuring measures 1,227 4,872 Trade payables 130,374 110,850 Tax liabilities 15,930 3,492 Liabilities to credit institutions 21,677 32,000 Other current liabilities 38,374 36,691 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 114,187 118,014 Liabilities relating to assets held for sale 0 286 Total current liabilities 356,105 341,140 Total equity and liabilities 978,361 894,974 CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 economic performance 47 Consolidated statement of cash flow – Group SEKk 2017 2016 Operating activities Profit before tax 109,871 62,168 Adjustment for non-cash items 34,936 48,075 Cash flow from operations 144,807 110,243 Income tax paid –13,989 –9,617 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 130,818 100,626 Change in trade receivables –97,424 –33,284 Change in other current receivables 1,934 7,642 Change in trade payables 18,369 2,197 Change in other current liabilities –4,184 19,493 Cash flow from operating activities 49,512 96,675 Investing activities Investments in intangible assets –1,860 –1,953 Investments in property, plant and equipment –12,792 –11,736 Acquisition of subsidiaries, net effect on cash and cash equivalents –5,856 –19,127 Cash flow from investing activities –20,509 –32,816 Financing activities Financial liability/leasing 6 –1,305 Repayment of debt –32,000 –45,000 Cash flow from financing activities –31,994 –46,305 Cash flow for the year –2,990 17,554 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 62,023 41,412 Exchange rate differences in cash and cash equivalents 2,286 3,057 Total equity and liabilities 61,319 62,023 48 Economic performance CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GRI Index The following list provides references to the GRI indicators that Cybercom has elected to report in accordance with the materiality assessment and the ten principles of the Global Compact. General standard indicators Page reference/remarks Global Compact Principle G4-1 Statement from the CEO on the organisation’s strategy for addressing sustainability 6–7 G4-3 The name of the organisation Cover, back G4-4 Primary brands, products and services 14–17, 24–25 G4-5 Location of the organisation’s headquarters Cover, back G4-6 Countries where the organisation has significant operations 4 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 4 G4-8 Markets served 4–5 G4-9 Scale of the organisation 4–5, 38, 45–47 G4-10 Total number of employees 38 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 39 Principle 3 G4-12 Organisation’s supply chain 15, 37, 41 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period No significant changes G4-14 Whether the precautionary approach is addressed 37 Principle 7 G4-15 Externally developed initiatives to which the organisation subscribes 6–7, 11 G4-16 Memberships of associations 6–7, 20 G4-17 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 4–5 G4-18 Process for defining the report content 36 G4-19 Material aspects identified 36 G4-20 Limitation regarding the aspect boundary within the organisation 1 G4-21 Limitation regarding the aspect boundary outside the organisation 1 G4-22 Effects of restatements of information provided in previous reports 1 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods No significant changes G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation 36 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 36 G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement 36 G4-27 Key topics raised through stakeholder engagement and how the organisation has 36 responded G4-28 Reporting period Inside cover G4-29 Date of most recent report Inside cover G4-30 Reporting cycle Inside cover G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report Cover, back G4-32 In accordance option & GRI content index 49–50 G4-33 External assurance Inside cover G4-34 Governance structure of the organisation 51 G4-56 Organisation’s values, code of conduct, etc. 37 Principle 10 CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GRI index 49 GRI Index General standard indicators Page reference/remarks Global Compact Principle DMA Economic performance 45–47 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 4, 45 DMA Employment 20, 39–40 G4-LA1 Employee turnover 38 DMA Occupational health & safety 20, 39–40 G4-LA6 Absenteeism & work-related injury 39 DMA Training & education 20–21, 39 G4-LA9 Employee training 39 G4-LA11 Development reviews 39 DMA Equal opportunity 20, 37, 38–40 Principle 6 G4-LA12 Composition of the company 38 DMA Non-discrimination 20, 37, 38–40 Principles 1, 2, 4, 5 & 6 G4-HR3 Number of incidents of discrimination 39 DMA Anti-corruption 37, 41 Principle 10 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption 41 DMA Customer privacy 37, 41 Principle 1 G4-PR8 Number of losses of customer data 41 DMA Energy 16, 42 Principle 8 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation 42 G4-EN5 Energy intensity 42 DMA Emissions 16, 42 Principle 8 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions 42 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity 42 DMA Products & services 14–17 Principle 9 G4-EN27 Mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 14–18, 42 DMA Product and service labelling 14–15 G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 14 50 GRI index CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Organisation Sustainability work at Cybercom is under the to Cybercom’s sustainability initiatives. Finally, ­ nancial results, key performance indicators, fi joint responsibility and control of the executive seven Sustainability Ambassadors from various development of priority activities and so on. leadership team. Initiatives are led and coordiparts of the organisation support the work of nated by the company’s Head of Sustainability the Head of Sustainability and Communications. Corporate governance and Communications. During 2017, the Sustainability Ambassadors The general meeting is the company’s supreme Cybercom has a flexible sustainability organiworked with sustainable leadership, sustainable governing body. It is at the general meeting that sation in which representatives of operations business, education and communications. shareholders are able to exert their influence. and the business are included. From the operaShareholders who want to participate in a gentional side, the CFO and representatives of the Board of directors eral meeting must be recorded as shareholders Legal, Environmental, Quality and HR departDuring the year the board has focused on on a printout or other reproduction of the entire ments. From the business side, the organisation important board issues as the company’s stratregister of shareholders representing conditions includes Cybercom’s executive management egy, business plan and budget, the company’s five days before the meeting and must also and representatives of our advisory services and financing and industry trends. The board notify the company of their participation by sales. Innovation Zone, our marketing forum ­monitors management performance through the date stated in the notice of the meeting. and our recruitment specialists also contribute monthly reports which include reports of Board of directors’ signatures Stockholm, 21 March 2018 Board of directors Auditor’s report on the statutory sustainability report To the general meeting of the shareholders in Cybercom Holding AB reg. no. 559025-7001 Engagement and responsibility It is the board of directors who are responsible for the statutory sustainability report for the year 2017 on pages 1–50 and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The scope of the audit Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report. This means that our examination of the statutory sustainability report is substantially different and less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with the International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. Opinion A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. Stockholm, 9 April 2018 KPMG AB Helena Arvidsson Älgne Authorised Public Accountant CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ORGANISATION, SIGNATURES AND AUDITOR'S REPORT 51 For more information about Cybercom’s sustainability work and the Sustainability Report, please contact: Kristina Cato Head of Sustainability and Communications kristina.cato@cybercom.com +46 708 64 47 02 Production: Hallvarsson & Halvarsson in cooperation with Cybercom Photo: Mattias Bardå, Emil Svensson Print: Åtta45 ECOLA DIC BE N OR L +46 8 578 646 00 Bydgoszcz I Gothenburg I Helsinki I Jönköping www.cybercom.com Karlskrona I Kista I Copenhagen I Linköping Cybercom Holding AB Lund I Łódz I Malmö I Mumbai I Stockholm Box 7574 Sundsvall I Tampere I Warsaw I Östersund S-103 93 Stockholm | Sweden
