COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO I am pleased to confirm that Fireside Communications Limited reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Rebecca Wanjiku-CEO About Fireside Ltd. offers a full range of Civil, Telecoms and Electrical Engineering design and Construction services to private enterprises as well as government agencies in Kenya. Us We offer a full design and build service to ensure compliance with all relevant standards and the latest technologies, whilst meeting and exceeding client expectations. Our project leaders empathetically coordinate diverse specialists and highly qualified engineers to deliver designs that realize our client’s goals. Our success, reputation, accreditations, and affiliations are built on a comprehensive mix of quality, service, and craftsmanship, matched by the continuous development of our skills and our understanding of evolving technologies; thus, we are capable of delivering innovative turnkey solutions to our clients. Fireside engineering teams are fully committed to the timely execution of projects, to providing full attention and the highest priority to get the job done. We, therefore, complete our assignments within reasonable budgets and schedules. Efficiency particularly dominates the conversation with today’s clients and the use of capital, land, operating budgets and natural resources are common themes. And this translates into expanded project value to our clients. Communication with our clients is equally valuable in order to understand, meet, and exceed their requirements in providing complex turnkey solutions. For the Industry, Innovation and Growth Telecommunications Engineering: Fireside is committed to provide deployment, maintenance and management solutions for various technologies in cabled and wireless communications. From structured OUR cabling, WiFi, WiMAX, Microwave, Data center, LAN, and Fiber solutions, we bridge connectivity in Kenya and provide seamless access to telecommunications services for corporate and residential settings. SOLUTIONS For our Society CSR: Partnerships in learning: Fireside collaborates with our community to support mutual learning and development through science and technology. The program aims at partnering with neighboring learning institutions in our locality to support and appreciate the advances in technology and engineering and also enlighten the society of the benefits of engineering to the society. Presently Fireside collaborates with Kabete Approved School and Railways Technical Institute as well as Mary Leakey Girls High School and we look forward to spreading the initiative further beyond the immediate surroundings in the future. Women in Technology: Over the years we have promoted affirmative action to our team through this initiative in collaboration with our partners in technology including Safaricom, iHub, Akirachix, and many more. Our team presently comprises of over thirty percent (31.9%) female staff and through our affirmative action plans we foresee the numbers growing further to bridge the employment disparities. Supplement to this, we have adopted and integrated SDG Number 5 (Gender Equality) to all our departments and programs as part of the composition. For our community Financial Stability, improving livelihoods: health and well-being, standards of living, Decent work and economic growth: tools and equipment of work, working environment, training development and continuous learning. Our Mission To extend to each and every client, vendor and employee respect, honesty and the highest levels of professionalism and quality; to be recognized as a world-class construction and engineering firm. Our Vision To be one of the most respected corporate with exemplified professionalism, efficiency and ethical values, creating a highly challenging and techno-savvy work environment for enhancing customer satisfaction. Fireside Values • Honesty • Quality • Professionalism • Financial Stability • Service to the community With a group of over 70 employees, Fireside has steadily grown in capacity covering through our operations and we have a vision of even growing our family further and expand our operations to OUR cover all regions in Kenya and beyond. Fireside team is made up of robust, energetic, and hardworking people who aim at achieving a common objective in making a better society. Our engineering unit makes the largest composition with over Fifty percent (52.2%) while the other units including managerial, Administration, support, and marketing unit. having the share of the TEAM remaining percentage (47.8%) Fireside has promoted affirmative action in our employment paradigm and presently our team constitutes over thirty percent female employees (31.9%) and we aim for more. Being an engineering firm, the indulgence of women has not been impressive in the past and we therefore through our initiatives encourage more women to join our team especially in the engineering unit. We picture our numbers doubling in the next two or three years to support the business demands and also strengthen our central and regional hubs with more influx of women in engineering. CoP on the Global Compact Principles HUMAN RIGHTS Principle #1 Action taken Businesses should support and respect the protection of • Ensuring that the company abides by internationally proclaimed human rights instituted and upcoming OHS policies. • Ensuring that workers are provided the safest possible working environment. Principle #2 • Ensuring that workers are provided with Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in correct personal protective equipment (PPE). human rights abuses • Ensuring that workers are regularly trained on safety and first aid techniques. • According workers their freedom of expression and association. LABOUR Principle #3 Actions Taken Businesses should uphold the freedom of • Ensuring that the company does not practice association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining forced labour. • Offering workers well laid out engagement contracts. Principle #4 • Fireside Communications Limited does not Businesses should eliminate all forms of confiscate workers’ documents forced and compulsory labour • Ensuring that all staff are hired on the basis of skill and experience. Principle #5 • Offering continuous training to give workers Businesses should uphold the effective opportunities to develop themselves abolition of child labour professionally. • Well laid out channels for escalating Principle #6 complaints and grievances Businesses should eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ENVIRONMENT Principle #7 What we have done Businesses should support a precautionary • Fireside communications Limited operations are approach to environmental challenges; powered by clean energy, both LPG and electricity. Principle #8 • Adhering to the ban on use of plastic bags in Undertake initiatives to promote greater Kenya. environmental responsibility. • Tapping solar energy in the company’s parking area. Principle # 9 • Ensuring emergency procedures to prevent and address accidents affecting the environment and Encourage the development and diffusion of human health. environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Principle #10 What we have done Businesses should work against • Closely monitoring company accounts. corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. • Regular auditing of company accounts and expenditure. • Ensuring accountability for issued petty cash. • Ensuring transparent transactions and deals with business partners. Measurements of outcomes The following are indicators to the outcomes of the above mentioned actions: • Very few incidents of work based injuries. • Gender inclusivity in the male dominated field of engineering. Over 30% of the Fireside workforce comprises female employees. • The Fireside environment is extremely sustainable and free of air, water, noise and soil pollutants. • Company financial stability as a result of financial accountability. • Excellent partner relations as a result of transparent transactions and interactions.
