COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 1 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2017 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 3 UN GLOBAL COMPACT SUSTAINABLE COOLING AT THE AIRPORT IN BERGEN, NORWAY 44,000 small containers containing salt mixture reduce energy costs, optimize the operation and increase the cooling effect at the new cooling plant at the T3 airport terminal in Bergen. The innovative use of salt solutions, developed by COWI, to cool the new terminal at the airport of Flesland has made this a pioneer plant. The global demand for cooling is rising exponentially. A warming planet and the rapidly growing middle classes in warm and hot developing economies drive the increasing need for air conditioning. Thus new and cheap ways of storing energy can contribute significantly to a sustainable society. 04 COMMITMENT FROM OUR CEO 12 ENVIRONMENT 06 SUSTAINABILITY AND CSR IN COWI 14 GREEN ACCOUNTS 08 HUMAN RIGHTS 16 ANTI-CORRUPTION 10 LABOUR RIGHTS 18 ABOUT GLOBAL COMPACT COWI is a leading consulting group that PUBLISHED BY EDITORIAL INPUT ENDED creates value for customers, people COWI Holding A/S February 2018. and society through our unique 360° Parallelvej 2 approach. Based on our world-class 2800 Kongens Lyngby competencies within engineering, Denmark economics and environmental science, Tel 56 40 00 00 we tackle challenges from many vantage Fax 56 40 99 99 points to create coherent solutions for our www.cowi.dk customers − and thereby sustainable and www.cowi.com coherent societies in the world. www.cowiholding.com COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 5 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMITMENT FROM OUR CEO In COWI, sustainability is an integrated part business leaders. Sustainable growth is key of our vision and at the heart of our business to dealing with the challenges facing the model. In a world where urbanisation and global community right now. This increased populations are dramatically increasing, awareness translates into both new legislation societies and customers need solutions that and voluntary standards for sustainability – a are effective and sustainable, and which situation we welcome and for which we are enable quality of life for the entire community. more than prepared. We not only see it as COWI is part of the solution as we have been necessary for the future of our children and for more than 88 years. Every day, we strive grandchildren. We see that it provides COWI to deliver high quality, smart and sustainable with great business opportunities now and in solutions that meet the needs of societies and the future. customers around the world. Going forward there is no doubt in my COWI’s vision is to create coherence in mind that sustainability increasingly will be tomorrow’s sustainable societies; and we are part of the solutions we offer. For COWI, committed to do so with long-term societal, especially SDG goal 11: Sustainable cities and environmental and people interests in mind. communities integrates and in many ways encompasses almost all our services. We see this way of working ascending the agenda of global leaders. We see it mirrored Thus, in our daily way of doing business, in the UN Sustainable Development Goals of we remain fully and continuously committed September 2015 and the recent Bonn Climate to the United Nations Global Compact. Change Conference in 2017. This Communication on Progress report is produced with reference to the ten principles We see it reflected in the increasing awareness of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. among the world’s decision-makers and Lars-Peter Søbye, President, CEO COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 7 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Further challenges are climate change At present, we are following closely the and environmental degradation, which global debate on how companies can AT THE END OF 2017, constitute threats that need to be work with the 17 Sustainable Development overcome by, for example, low-energy Goals – or at least some of them, and we are COWI HAD POLICIES buildings, security measures against already in the sectors related to COWI’s key THAMES TIDEWAY COVERING THE adverse weather, and recovery of services using them as a stepping stone to contaminated land. One COWI project develop our dialogue with customers. The Thames Tideway Tunnel is a major new sewer FOLLOWING AREAS: working with the mitigation of such climate that will help tackle the problem of overflows from challenges is Singapore’s new deep tunnel To formalise our focus, we have developed London’s sewers, and protect the river Thames ›› Sustainable development sewerage system (DTSS), which will help a number of policies and guidelines on from pollution. The scheme includes a 25km-long ›› Transparency and anti-corruption solve problems brought on by extreme rain. sustainability and CSR, which set out the bored interception tunnel and associated shafts, ›› Sustainable supply chain overall framework for how we work on a connecting tunnels and pumping stations. COWI ›› COWI Whistle-blower hotline COWI’s specialist competencies together daily basis. These policies and guidelines is designing two 45m-deep vertical shafts – ›› Business integrity with the commitment of our customers are described in this report, and underpin involving piled, segmental and sprayed concrete ›› Diversity and inclusion represent and sustain the creativity the strong correlation that exists between Credit: TIDEWAY lining methods – and 14 connecting tunnels with ›› Health and safety (HSE) and innovation needed to meet these our values and our business practices. segmental or sprayed concrete linings at depths global challenges. This is the core of our ranging from 15m to 60m below ground. The All policies are available at: services and our business model, and it This report serves as the required annual project is expected to be completed in 2023. www.cowi.com/sustainability is where we have the greatest impact on Communication of Progress for the United www.cowi.com/policies sustainability. Nations Global Compact (UNGC). As such, its content is structured around the ten POLICIES AND GUIDELINES UNGC principles. As an integrated part of our project and key services which are instrumental in quality management system we apply a In addition, the report serves to meet the SUSTAINABILITY providing future and sustainable solutions project screening tool in which we take requirements of Danish law, and contains that can meet the challenges. COWI’s into account health and safety, as well the green accounts of our Danish company. engagement in light rail projects in Denmark as security, environmental, social and It also describes our activities within the AND CSR IN COWI and Norway exemplifies our commitment to community outcomes for all projects environment, human rights and social improving liveability in cities. carried out by COWI. responsibility. OUR APPROACH take environmental and community It is essential to COWI and to realising Through our services, we contribute to impacts into consideration. our strategy that we are among the most sustainable development. attractive employers for professionals looking Our chief potential for contributing to the for a career within the consulting engineering COWI’s vision is to create coherence in reduction of environmental impacts lies in industry. To this end, we promote diversity FREDERIKSVÆRK FLOODGATE tomorrow’s sustainable societies. Our vision our service delivery and in the solutions we and cultivate a culture with clear and high Frederiksværk Floodgate is a high-water gate built frames our approach to corporate social develop with and for our customers. This ethical standards. Both of these are critical to to protect the town against repeated flooding. The responsibility (CSR) and sustainability, which is where we direct our efforts, because our efforts to attract talented candidates and floodgate is located in Arresø Canal where the canal is to create value for our customers, key projects providing sustainable solutions are retain outstanding people. joins Roskilde Fjord. It prevents flooding with doors stakeholders, COWI and society. We create our business. that close at high tide thus protecting citizens and value for our customers by enabling them SOLUTIONS MEETING companies against extreme high tide in Roskilde to meet their sustainability goals and thus Naturally, we also focus on the sustainable GLOBAL CHALLENGES Fjord. The doors close and the pumps start when make the societies in which we operate operation of our own facilities. COWI supplies solutions, knowledge and the water level is between 0.5 and 1.0m above Main more sustainable. ideas for development of the modern world Sea Level. When the water level is back below 1.0m Our commitment to sustainability and and the challenges it faces – among these, and the current outgoing, the pumps stop and the We have a three-pronged approach where corporate social responsibility is an achieving sustainable growth. doors open. COWI designed the floodgate and was we integrate CSR and sustainability into: extension of our fundamental values and responsible for construction supervision. ›› Business conduct: The way we carry out mission. This commitment is also reflected One set of challenges is related to the our own activities. in our memberships of the UN Global growing world population and to the ›› Employee behaviour: The way we behave Compact and the UN Caring for Climate increasingly high urbanisation rates across at the workplace and our obligation to act. initiative, as well as our support to the the globe with ensuing pressure on ›› Business deliverables: The way we ensure International Federation of Consulting infrastructure, built environment, water and that the solutions we design for customers Engineers’ (FIDIC) Code of Ethics. energy. These four sectors frame COWI’s COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 9 UN GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE RELATING TO HUMAN RIGHTS Employee conditions and compliance with human rights are important to COWI. To ensure that we detect any human rights 01 02 PRINCIPLE: PRINCIPLE: violations on projects in which we are involved, we operate according to two Businesses should support Businesses should make sure procedures: and respect the protection that they are not complicit in ›› Health and safety supervision: COWI seeks of internationally proclaimed human rights abuses. to increase our influence on project sites human rights. by offering supervision of safety and health conditions. This allows us to ensure that internationally accepted standards are enforced on a project. ›› Obligation to act: Employees at COWI have WORKING WITH HUMAN RIGHTS customers, our procurement practices and HEALTH AND SAFETY WORK our partners. Internally, our focus is on the the so-called obligation to act, meaning that The support of human rights is rooted in In 2017, the work on health and safety right to a safe workplace with our health everyone is obliged to act if they see human COWI’s culture and reflected in one of our continued to focus on the psychosocial and safety policy as the overall guide. rights violated on a project. five guiding values ‘respect’, which states: working environment and the prevention of SEXUAL HARASSMENT IN CARE WORK, DENMARK work-related stress as well as supervisory COWI is taking part in a research project together with the National DEALING WITH HUMAN RIGHTS The two procedures are included in our work on construction sites. The risk of Research Centre for the Working Environment and the National Institute “We respect those ON PROJECTS physical work injuries is very low in our project management training and COWI’s on-boarding programme. for Public Health. The project is specially aimed at helping workplaces To ensure that we do not have adverse operations. In 2017, 10 injuries with we work with, nature impacts on human rights through projects absence from work were reported as in the care sector, such as hospitals, nursing homes and psychiatric residential facilities, prevent and manage sexual harassment. The and society. We in which we are involved, we operate according to two procedures: Supervision opposed to 11 injuries in 2016. project is built around designing guidelines based on the principles of action learning that can prevent and manage sexual harassment respect each other in and Obligation to act, described on the Due to legal restrictions, we have no from patients and clients. Input for the research is collected through following page. POLICY ON HEALTH AND SAFETY decision-making and specific data on the occurrence of absences due to work-related stress. COWI strives for a healthy and safe work interviews with employees, managers, union representatives and shop stewards from ten workplaces. implementation. We All new employees are introduced to these However, we are aware of the fact that environment, both in our own operations and in our project-related activities. three procedures as part of COWI’s onwith a highly committed work force in a respect friendship boarding programme, and the procedures knowledge-based company stress-related To meet our objectives, we will: across the organisation, are included in our training, amongst illness may represent a substantial risk. To ›› comply with relevant health and safety other in COWI’s award winning project mitigate this risk and in line with our core independent of the management academy. values we have designed and implemented legislation and standards; ›› ensure that a safe working environment hierarchy.” KEY ACTIVITIES AND OUTCOMES a robust programme to prevent stress or is never compromised for economic or bring people back to their jobs in cases of productivity reasons; Since 2012, COWI has had a sustainable debilitating temporary stress. ›› ensure that project managers instruct their POLICIES AND PRINCIPLES Through our policy on sustainable procurement system, which is now used in development, we integrate human rights Denmark, Sweden and Norway. Through The Health & Safety project initiated in 2016 teams on specific project-related health RELATING TO HUMAN RIGHTS the system, we assess suppliers on human and safety risks and necessary preventive in our business. In the policy, we commit covering COWI operations in Denmark is and labour rights, ethical standards, social measures. This includes the use of personal ›› Respect is one of COWI’s five values ourselves to taking social aspects into proceeding according to plan and expected and environmental policies, health and protective equipment; ›› COWI Whistle-blower consideration when carrying out projects, to be fully completed in 2018. The aim safety, diversity and anti-corruption. We ›› provide employees with an opportunity to ›› FIDIC Code of Ethics, adopted by COWI and to enhancing our employees’ attention of the project is to obtain OHSAS 18001 store all information concerning every influence their own working environment in a ›› Policy on health and safety to and knowledge of social conditions. certification (Occupation Health and Safety supplier in our system, which means that dialogue with management; ›› Policy on sustainable development Assessment Series). In 2017, we carried out the entire organisation has access to all ›› inform our customers and business partners This policy is integrated into our risk the Danish statutory workplace assessment relevant supplier information. if we find violations of health and safety All policies are available at assessment and training systems, through for physical and psychosocial working standards, labour rights, human rights or www.cowi.com/sustainability and www.cowi.com/policies which we continue to raise awareness of conditions with excellent results. However, According to COWI’s 2020 strategy and our unnecessary or illegal environmental degradathe importance of COWI not contributing to develop our working environment approach for procurement, our goal is to tion on projects in which we are involved. negatively to human rights in our external further we have set ourselves a number of activities, including the work we do for ensure that all COWI suppliers are certified. ambitious key performance indicators. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 11 UN GLOBAL COMPACT LABOUR RIGHTS Management Academy which offers a broad range of training programmes and courses on a wide number of subjects. Business ethics are taught and debated as part of the training at the project management academy, ensuring awareness as well as knowledge of our whistle-blower system. 03 05 PRINCIPLE: PRINCIPLE: PARTNERING FOR TRAINING OF Businesses should uphold the Businesses should uphold the DEAF PEOPLE IN INDIA Indian law requires a mandatory spend of two freedom of association and elimination of all forms of forced per cent of net profits on CSR initiatives. To effective recognition of the right and compulsory labour. fulfil this obligation, COWI India Private Ltd. to collective bargaining. (CIL) partners with the Noida Deaf Society 04 06 (NDS), a non-profit organisation bringing PRINCIPLE: PRINCIPLE: education and training to hearing impaired in Businesses should uphold Businesses should uphold the India. For deaf people in India, access to both the effective abolition of child elimination of discrimination education and work is quite limited. Through CIL, we are able to contribute relevant labour. in respect of employment and education and employment opportunities. occupation. NOIDA DEAF SOCIETY SCHOOL Our contribution supports the NDS School, POLICIES, PRINCIPLES AND TOOLS LABOUR RIGHTS ON PROJECTS rights standards practised. The obligation Our aim is to increase the number of and supports directly the operational costs of educating 120 youths as well as facilitating RELATING TO LABOUR RIGHTS The almost 7,000 people working for to act described in the human rights section women in management, which is a key item their access to the labour market. ›› Respect is one of COWI’s five values COWI have working conditions in line with also applies here. in COWI’s diversity action plan for 2017. ›› COWI Whistle-blower international labour rights. Therefore, gender diversity is a focal point in COWI’s relationship with NDS began in 2013, ›› Policy on sustainable development The COWI Whistle-blower system is leadership training and talent programmes. when five students from NDS were given ›› Policy on diversity and inclusion We support and practise diversity and available for reporting observations or special photogrammetry training; the same WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT ›› Policy on health and safety equal opportunities. Our employees are suspicion of discrimination. training was conducted again in 2015. Three The share of women in management was ›› FIDIC Code of Ethics, adopted by COWI free to organise themselves and bargain of these students are still employed by COWI collectively as they wish, and they are all DIVERSITY IS MORE in 2016 24 per cent, and is in 2017 also India in the Mapping Division. paid a fair wage. COWI dissociates itself THAN A RIGHT 24 per cent compared to 30 per cent of all All policies are available at from all kinds of child labour. COWI is an international company with employees being women. The agreement between COWI India and NDS www.cowi.com/ sustainability and www.cowi.com/policies projects all over the world. We view diversity has been extended for another three years The main challenge for COWI in terms of as a competitive advantage, because a As we were unable to meet our target of to 2020. The aim is to educate more than labour rights is that potential violations of breadth in employees gives us new and having at least two of COWI’s six board 200 youths, and we will continue to offer jobs these often take place outside our sphere of interesting views and different aspects members women by 2017, we renewed the when suitable job opportunities arise. influence. They frequently concern migrant and perspectives to our business and goal for 2020. In 2017, we had one female POLICY: DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION labour in the construction industry. We organisation. Today we are 42 different board member, and we will continue to COWI views diversity as a competitive advantage that helps us achieve attempt to meet this challenge by working nationalities in all career levels. work on finding candidates of both genders the best results for our customers. according to the following guidelines. who meet our competence requirements. EMPLOYEES IN THE COWI GROUP It is our standpoint that everyone should 2016–2017 To meet our objectives, we: ›› ensure that our employment and When COWI has the management have equal opportunities regardless of KEY ACTIVITIES AND OUTCOMES ›› aim to have a diverse workforce that recruitment practices adhere to local 2016 2017 responsibility of the construction phase of gender, age, race, religion, nationality, ethnic During 2017, we continued our activities mirrors the diversity of our business legislation, wherever we work in the and social origin, disability, political and to ensure that COWI employees have Employees 6,586 6,599 and markets; world; a project, we are able to influence labour rights conditions at the construction site, sexual orientation. state-of-the-art skills and competencies, Average age, years 41.4 42 ›› give equal opportunities to everyone, ›› continuously improve equal and act, if they are not aligned with national ensuring not only their performance on regardless of gender, age, race, opportunities in our employment and Women 30% 30% and international ratified legislation. If we In 2017, we continued our talent COWI projects, but also their marketability religion, nationality, ethnic and social recruitment practices; are not in charge of the supervision of the management process to identify and build outside COWI. Men 70% 70% origin, disability, political and sexual ›› work towards creating a culture project, we do not necessarily have access talent as well as improve focus on diversity. orientation; of tolerance and appreciation of Women in management 24% 24% to the construction site, and are therefore We continue to be engaged in relevant We enhance skills and competencies difference. unaware of the human rights and/or labour mentoring programmes with universities. through COWI’s in-house Project COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 13 UN GLOBAL COMPACT ENVIRONMENT Credit: PLACEBO EFFECTS FOR RUTER AS POLICIES, PRINCIPLES AND TOOLS 07 09 PRINCIPLE: PRINCIPLE: RELATED TO Businesses should support Businesses should encourage ENVIRONMENTAL a precautionary approach to the development and diffusion PROTECTION environmental challenges. of environmentally friendly technologies. ›› Respect is one of COWI’s METRO IN NORWAY’S CAPITAL CITY five values 08 The Fornebu Line is the future Oslo Metro section from Majorstuen PRINCIPLE: ›› Policy on sustainable to Fornebu. The line will link Fornebu in Bærum to the train stations Businesses should undertake development at Lysaker and Skøyen and to the metro network at Majorstuen. The ›› Policy on diversity and inclusion initiatives to promote greater metro line is yet another example of introducing rail transport in order ›› Policy on health and safety environmental responsibility. ›› FIDIC Code of Ethics, adopted to reduce the number of cars in the cities and thus obtain cleaner air. The metro line will cover 8.2 kilometres from the centre of Fornebu to by COWI Majorstuen, and around 5.6 kilometres of the section will pass through Oslo. COWI has in recent years fortified its position as a leading All policies are available at designer in large metro projects, and is thus able to assist a growing www.cowi.com/sustainability and The area of environmental protection is Finally, we promote the voluntary In Bonn COWI arranged and coordinated number of cities in their desire to become more sustainable. www.cowi.com/policies where COWI has the greatest potential to participation of employees in environmental a side event in the Nordic Pavillion where make a difference and not only promote initiatives and locally run campaigns to we presented ‘Multifunctional sustainable sustainable solutions to our customers, but increase the awareness of resourceland-use: urban farming trend meets also enable them to choose sustainable conscious behaviour. traditional peri-urban land-use’, i.e. how solutions. new business models for sustainable landKEY ACTIVITIES AND OUTCOMES use are central to developing long-term multifunctional sustainable land use in perifor dealing with too much water caused cities, e.g. the drainage tunnel Abu Hamour We focus on being a leading consultant A large proportion of our projects carries profitability and sustainability in land-use urban areas. COWI coordinated the papers by extreme rain or cloud bursts. Six of which provides a major improvement to the within the development of climate-change some element of climate-conscious management. Other issues were related and authored one of them. Vestfold’s municipalities signed up for the capacity of Abu Dhabis wastewater system. mitigation measures and adaption technologies. Below is a selection of such to how partnerships and stakeholder project in order to strengthen their decisionsolutions in sectors and business lines projects from 2017. involvement between different sectors in The ongoing KIC project is Pathfinder, making basis for meeting the challenges of where we have a strong foothold. In society can develop sustainable land-use which aims to create climate smart climate change. A clear trend in urban areas IDRIS line with our climate-change strategy, CLIMATE KIC NORDIC to achieve synergies between climate eco-based agro-forestry through green is the multifunctional utilisation of areas for The IDRIS project (Doha Re-sewerage we contribute actively to evaluating the COWI is a partner of the Nordic branch mitigation and adaptation as well as business innovation for local production water management. This can be parks, Implementation Strategy) is a typical potential for climate solutions and argue for of Climate KIC – the EU’s largest increased resilience. Project initiatives from and distribution, and to contribute to social recreational grounds, and areas for sports. project brought about by the increasing their implementation in partnership with our public-private innovation partnership on the Nordics were presented. sustainability and integration. Local green These areas often combine aesthetic, urbanisation. The city of Doha expects to customers. We continue to upgrade and climate change. It consists of companies, sustainable development in peri-urban landscape and water technology features. see a growth in population of one million develop our skills in this area to be able to academic institutions and the public sector. In Milano we were part of a panel discussing areas and in interaction between urban and Overflow solutions suggested in Vestfold people over the next 20 years, and its propose new and more environmentallyThe aim is to transform knowledge and ‘Greening the cities’. The discussion rural areas can contribute to creating new were, among others, the decoupling of tide sewerage system simply cannot cope with friendly solutions to our customers. ideas into economically viable products was centred on the journey from bluejobs and improve social cohesion. At the from the sewage system, local digestion such a strain on its capacity. This is the and services that help mitigate and adapt green infrastructure in urban planning to same time, the project creates an arena ponds and the reopening of streams. reason for the comprehensive improvement We seek to reduce our own impacts to climate change. bio-materials for zero-energy buildings, for creative professionals, entrepreneurs, of Doha’s sewerage system, which includes through carbon-conscious policies and reintroducing nature back into cities can producers and public sector in the There is no doubt that water management a major deep tunnel sewer network and initiatives on the efficiency needs of our In addition to the ongoing KIC project, alleviate the impacts of climate change field of sustainable and innovative econeeds to be an integral part of the cityscape advanced sewage treatment works. COWI customers and our organisation. The data Pathfinder, COWI took part in two specific while reducing emissions. COWI presented agroforestry. in the future. COWI has in recent years is involved in the project as the Independent to document our progress in this area is KIC related events in 2017: a workshop ‘Nature-based solutions for urban planning’. seen a steady increase in climate change Quality Control (QCE), which includes only available for our Danish activities, and at the Bonn COP23 and the Climate CLIMATE CHALLENGES assignments globally. They range from the review of the contractor’s design for is described as part of the green accounts Innovation Summit in Milano, and wrote a In addition, a series of four white COWI recently assisted the Norwegian small consulting projects such as the above compliance with contract requirements and on the following pages. series of whitepapers. papers were written, all on the topic of county of Vestfold in developing a plan to major storm water projects in capital on-site supervision of the works. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 15 UN GLOBAL COMPACT calculations of CO2 emissions have been Next year we plan to expand the green countries, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, further detailed and the calculation method accounts to cover more offices around the India, Norway, Sweden, United Kingdom changed in 2017 compared to 2016, world. The individual offices already do and United States of America, contributed hence the CO2 emissions per kilometre great work in increasing sustainability at with 8,000 tons of CO2 equivalents. flown have increased due to improved our work places. This year we account for data quality. There was a slight decrease in more offices for the largest CO2 contributor, kilometres flown. air travel. In 2017, offices in the following In all Danish offices, central waste stations were set up to facilitate sorting of paper, 3,5 CLIMATE EFFECT PER WORK STATION organic waste and mixed waste in 2017. COWI wishes to be a sustainable GUIDELINE: 3,0 2,7 company that prioritises the environment SUSTAINABLE 2,5 2,4 2,4 2,5 2,3 and resources. As a leading consultant SUPPLY CHAIN in waste management solutions, COWI 2,0 2013 wishes to practice good, sustainable 2014 waste management on our home turf. At COWI procures goods and services 2015 2016 2017 at the best terms, assessing total 1,5 the same time, we also achieve a better working environment for our cleaning staff, costs, quality and sustainability. To meet our objective, we will: 1,0 who do not have to bend over all the time ›› integrate sustainability to empty paper bins. requirements in our supplier and 0,5 sub-consultant approval process. ›› give preference to water and 0,0 energy-efficient products to reduce consumption rates. ›› give preference to environmentally GREEN ACCOUNTS friendly products and recyclable products. ›› avoid products containing hazardous CLIMATE EFFECT FROM FLYING 2017 substances. India ›› consider the emissions of CO2 9% Norway when booking business trips. 12% As part of our reporting on the renewal of the car pool, among other ›› consider whether a business Sweden Communication on Progress, COWI things, contribute to this positive CLIMATE IMPACT PER CATEGORY (COWI DK) trip can be replaced by a video 4% United Kingdom in Denmark publishes our carbon development together with a constant conference or other information 5% United States of America footprint for a given year and the strive to reduce the use of heat, and communication technology. 59% trend for the last 5 years. Data covers electricity and water. ›› report on the results of our efforts. 4% Belgium 6% activities in Denmark, including 1% Canada corporate functions and the Danish Emissions from energy consumption Denmark part of our major business line, Bridge, (heating and electricity) decreased as Tunnels and Marine Structures. well as the consumption per employee and per square meter office space In 2017, we saw a slight overall compared to 2016. Many of COWI’s projects involve the use of increase compared to 2016 in our supervision cars and car travel in project contexts. environmental footprint as shown in Finally, the recycling of waste lead to We pursue different policies for reducing our carbon the graphs to the right. This is primarily CO2 savings of 40 tonnes in 2017. foot print in Scandinavia. In Denmark and Norway due to a different methodology on This is lower than previous years, our fleet consists of electric cars or hybrid cars calculation of emissions from air travel but due to a decrease in paper which have proved to be highly popular among increasing the emissions per flown consumption recycling has also employees. In Sweden we have entered into an kilometre. The numbers displayed are decreased. The amounts of organic agreement with Sunfleet so that we are able to CO2 equivalents, thus encompassing waste for recycling increased fivefold borrow a car when we actually need it. all greenhouse gases. Per employee showing the effect of the increase in we are at the same CO2 emission level waste sorting at all of the local offices. Emissions from road transport in Denmark in private as in 2015. cars have decreased compared to 2016, but since Air travel, as always, accounts for a 2012 emissions have increased. The emissions Since 2012, we have decreased large part of our climate impact in from transport in COWI supervision cars have our CO2 emissions per employee Denmark: 58 per cent in 2017. The decreased more than 10% compared to 2016 due by 20 % and since 2008 by 47 %. impact per employee in 2017 is 1.4 to the continuing switch to hybrid and electric cars The decreasing emission factors tonnes CO2 compared to 1.7 tonnes in the COWI fleet and also fewer kilometres driven. for electricity in Denmark and the CO2 in 2012. In these figures, the COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 17 UN GLOBAL COMPACT ANTI-CORRUPTION Credit: SCHEIWILLER SVENSSON ARKITEKTKONTOR AB MÄLARENERGI The Swedish town of Västerås is working on becoming a sustainable society. In order to reach the goal of becoming completely free from coal and oil fuels by 2020, the combined heat and 10 power station, Mälarenergi is building a new PRINCIPLE: CHP Block in Västerås. The new CHP Block Businesses should support will use recycled wood instead. COWI has been commissioned to design the foundations for the and respect the protection new CHP. The project fits in well with COWI’s of internationally proclaimed ambition to help customers and society become human rights. sustainable. AGAINST ALL FORMS OF accountability into day-to-day business is to personal security or business climate. CORRUPTION the best prevention against corruption. We apply enhanced risk management, if We strongly believe and every day we COWI’s Whistle-blower system enables exceptionally a project is carried out in one POLICIES, POLICY AND TOOL: prove that it is possible to achieve success employees and external stakeholders of those places. In 2017, 96 countries were PRINCIPLES GUIDELINE: COWI ›› make the whistle-blower publicly available without accepting or engaging in any form to report anonymously any violations on the list. of corruption. We have a business integrity of our principles on business integrity AND TOOLS WHISTLE-BLOWER via www.cowi.com. policy to support this belief, which states: and sustainable development. It is WHISTLE-BLOWER USE RELATING TO COWI wishes to maintain a high standard ›› continuously train our employees to mainimportant that our employees have a joint Eight cases were reported into our whistleof business ethics and encourages anyone tain our culture of integrity and honesty understanding of our business integrity blower hotline in 2017 as opposed to six ANTI-CORRUPTION to talk to their line manager about concerns and inform them of the whistle-blower “We will not in our policy and are familiar with the COWI cases in 2016. These were all reported ›› Integrity is one of COWI’s five values regarding business ethics. If they feel system. Whistle-blower system, which can help the to the Board of Directors, investigated uncomfortable doing so, they can use the services or in any business and prevent future offences and at corporate level or passed on to local ›› Business integrity policy COWI Whistle-blower system. POLICY: BUSINESS INTEGRITY ›› Corporate Practice in Business Integrity other activity, directly unethical behaviour. management for follow-up. ›› COWI Whistle-blower To meet our objectives, we will: COWI wishes to maintain its impartiality and independence, and contribute or indirectly, accept KEY ACTIVITIES AND OUTCOMES ›› FIDIC Code of Ethics, adopted by COWI ›› ensure that any concerns raised through globally to a fair conduct of business, the whistle-blower are investigated, and avoiding extraneous influence on selection, bribery, extortion, In 2017, COWI’s business integrity compliance project began the All policies are available at appropriate action taken. execution or compensation procedures. WHISTLE-BLOWER fraud, collusion or any implementation of a group-wide roll-out of www.cowi.com/ sustainability www.cowi.com/policies ›› allow everyone, including employees, We will not in our services or in any other our new third party due diligence practice, former employees, sub-contractors, activities, directly or indirectly, accept other undue business which, when completed, will include agency staff and business partners, to bribery, extortion, fraud, collusion or any activity.” an increased number of partners and 8 use the whistle-blower. ›› allow whistle-blower notifications within: other undue business activity. customers in relation to anti-corruption. This includes significant changes to 6 ›› violation of law, regulations and To meet our objectives, we will: Each member of the COWI Group is existing processes and IT systems. Further, internal policies. ›› continuously train our employees in the required to implement business integrity a new global business integrity training 4 ›› misbehaviour with regard to accountarea of business integrity. management. This should be done in programme was carried out in 2017 with 3 ing and auditing. ›› continuously develop and maintain proper accordance with the FIDIC Code of Ethics, mandatory e-learning for all employees in ›› fraud, theft and conflicts of interest. tools to help and guide our employees. COWI’s business integrity policies and COWI. In the future, all new employees ›› improper giving or receiving of gifts. guidelines, and with the laws applicable must complete the course. ›› discrimination and harassment. in the company’s home country and the ›› violation of environmental protection, 2014 2015 2016 2017 countries of operation. As part of our risk management system, health and safety legislation. COWI reviews twice a year an internal list of The slightly upward trend is due to improved ›› unfair bidding procedures and communication about the system. In COWI, we believe that the adoption countries that our business lines define as scientific misconduct. of good governance, transparency and high-risk areas in terms of concerns related COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 19 UN GLOBAL COMPACT ABOUT GLOBAL COMPACT Global Compact is an initiative launched in January 1999 by former UN SecretaryGeneral Kofi Annan. It is a call to businesses worldwide to help build social and environmental frameworks that ensure open and free markets and help people everywhere secure a chance to share the benefits of the new global economy. The Global Compact encompasses ten principles spanning everything from international declarations on human rights and labour rights to environmental and corruption issues. EASYMINING: RECYCLING PHOSPHORUS FROM WASTE In order to recycle phosphorus from waste, EasyMining, a Swedish mining company, has developed a process that recovers phosphorus from ash after the combustion of sewage sludge. The technology has a very high Credit: EASYMINING recovery rate of phosphorus, and helps reduce the need for extraction from virgin raw materials. COWI was commissioned to develop and design a full scale industrial process. For COWI it is an exciting challenge to take part in EasyMining’s Ash2®Phos projects, because the technology is a breakthrough for resource-efficient phosphorus recovery. CLIMATE RESILIENT INFRASTRUCTURE ADDRESS Parallelvej 2 DEVELOPMENT FACILITY, SOUTH AFRICA 2800 Kongens Lyngby An increasing water demand due to population growth and Denmark economic development coupled with a more variable water PHONE +45 56 40 00 00 supply caused by the impacts of climate change put heavy EMAIL cowi@cowi.com demands on the water supply in the SADC region. Therefore, WWW cowi.com the SADC states need to strengthen their cooperation over shared waters to avoid the risk of conflict and undermining of development gains. COWI will together with WYG provide technical assistance to ensure the water supply infrastructure interventions and facilitate the advancement of transboundary water management by SADC member states.
