Sustainability Report 2017 1 Content Transcom 2017 Transcom at a glance 3 Comment from CEO 5 The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and UN Global Compact 6 Governance 7 Code of Business Conduct and Supplier Code of Business Conduct 8 Risk management 8 Transcom Cares highlights 9 People development 9 Equal opportunities 11 Community engagement 12 Transcom’s sustainable operations 13 Environment 13 Anti-corruption 14 Supply chain and human rights 14 Data protection 15 Report details 16 Stakeholder dialogues 16 Materiality 17 About the report 18 GRI Content Index 19 Auditor’s report on the statutory sustainability statement 22 ce customer touch points we give our clients the possibility to further improve their brand value, adapt their offerings and drive growth. In March 2017 Transcom was acquired by Altor Equity Partners AB (Altor). Altor is the majority owner of Transcom. During 2017 Xzakt was also acquired by Altor and became sister company with Transcom. Transcom has its head­quarters in Stockholm, Sweden. Transcom operates in 20 countries • 53% male managers • 47% female managers Revenue 2017: EUR 429M €€ 27,000 customer Total equity: EUR 128M experience specialists with more than 33 Current debt: EUR 155M languages 1.4 million customer service interactions per day 3 “In 2017, Frost & Sullivan awarded Transcom the 2017 European Contact Center Outsourcing Customer Value Leadership Award. We are extremely proud to be recog­nized by Frost & Sullivan for what we consider to be the most important award of all. Delivering customer value is our top priority, and this award is a testament of how we have achieved our key objective of aligning customer experience management and innovation. We 2017 pride our­selves of being at the forefront of customer care and of investing in the right technology solutions that would enable us to support our clients in their digitalization journey, while EUROPEAN maintaining the highest quality standards in our core service CONTACT CENTER OUTSOURCING offering”, says Michael Weinreich, President & CEO, Transcom.” CUSTOMER VALUE LEADERSHIP AWARD Xzakt Kundrelation (Xzakt) was established in Stockholm 2000. of their providers Göteborg Energi and Skellefteå Kraft, both Today Xzakt is one of Scandinavia’s largest outsourcing providers leading environmental suppliers of energy. for the management of customer service and switchboard call The biggest asset is the employees at Xzakt and that’s why operations, including services in all the Scandinavian languages. they focus on employee well-being, which is seen as the most Since 2000 Xzakt has been known for their quality and flex­ ibility in managing customer relationships. Xzakt’s services material sustainability aspect. During 2017, there were 243 full are provided around the clock any day during the year from time employees at Xzakt (44% men and 56% women). All one of their offices in Skellefteå, Gävle, or Stockholm. Xzakt’s employees are covered under a collective bargaining agreemain customers are leading Nordic companies with a strong ment. Xzakt understands the importance of empowered presence within e-commerce, finance, insurance, media and employees and have therefore during 2017 conducted training appliances, to name a few. for all managers in how to provide a healthy working environment for employees. At Xzakt sustainability is integrated into the company culture. From the start of employment Xzakt’s values, including the Xzakts employees are very engaged through many community importance of sustainability is emphasized. Due to Xzakt’s engagement projects. For example they have a close collaboraentrepreneurial mind set they focus on integrating sustainability tion with UNICEF, Hand in Hand and Little Angel, all important into their company culture and ensuring that all their employees organizations that help provide education to children and understand the importance of integrating sustainability into students. In 2017 Xzakt started working with Little Angel, a the business. Xzakt’s operations run on a minimum of energy charity foundation founded by Gunilla von Platen, one of the consumption, only 369 177 kWh/year, due to their high perfounders of Xzakt, that is building an orphanage for children in formance technical equipment and the environmental efforts need in Syria. 4 Comment from CEO ” Sustainability, and specifically our program Transcom Cares, serve as a guiding light at the core of our business Transcom is a global customer service provider, handling over intelligence provides to customers’ service and experience puts 1.4 million interactions with our clients’ customers every day. We stringent demands on Transcom’s sustainability strategy in are the employer of 27,000 people around the world, hiring regards to ethical algorithms and employee talent development. thousands of new people every year. Sustainability, and specifically We also expect our suppliers to uphold these global values on our program Transcom Cares, serve as a guiding light at the core ethical conduct, environmental protection, and universal human of our business, and is an integral part of our corporate strategy, rights. business culture, and day-to-day operations. We are a proud signatory of the UN Global Compact, and have Transcom Cares was launched in 2013, and focuses on people during the year continued to implement the ten principles in a development, equality & diversity, and community engagement. wider context. During 2017, Transcom has also taken the next step Through this program, our talented employees showcase their in our commitment to sustainability by addressing the Sustainable willingness to support the local communities, co-workers in need, Development Goals (SDGs). For Transcom, goals 5; Gender Equality, and the environment through volunteering, influencing and 8; Decent Work and Economic Growth, 10; Reduced Inequalities, supporting our corporate donations. 12; Responsible Consumption and Production, and goal 17; Partner­ Transcom has for many years had the goal to be an equal ships for the Goals, are the areas in which we feel that we can opportunity employer ensuring a diverse and gender balanced have the greatest positive impact and support the international work force throughout our operations. We are pleased to see that community to enable a better world. we are successful in our employee equality. We recognize the With our strong commitment to ethics, integrity, and quality, I have fact that we still must strengthen our efforts to achieve a more great confidence in Transcom’s continued journey as a sustainable balanced senior management. and prosperous company. I am pleased to present our efforts and For our customers it is of outmost importance that Transcom results in the Transcom sustainability report 2017. operates at the highest ethical standards and safeguards their Stockholm, April 17, 2018 customers’ information, especially as our industry moves towards an increasingly digital and connected environment. Keeping up Michael Weinreich with the development and seizing the opportunities that artificial President & CEO 5 The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and UN Global Compact Transcom is a signatory member of the UN Global Compact and 17; Partnerships for the Goals, are the areas in which we feel that has integrated the ten principles in our business strategy. During we can have the greatest positive impact and give support to the 2017, Transcom has started implementing the Sustainable Develop­ international community to enable a better world. The proactive ment Goals (SDGs) into our core business. For Transcom, goals 5; approach that embodies our sustainability strategy means that Gender Equality, 8; Decent Work and Economic Growth, 10; Reduced sustainability within the four areas, human rights, labor rights, environInequalities, 12; Responsible Consumption and Production, and goal ment and anti-corruption is integrated in our business model. Principle from UN Global Compact Transcom Key Achievement Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Full signature and acceptance of the Transcom Code of Business Conduct amongst all proclaimed human rights. employees. Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Initiated and disseminated supplier sustainability self-assessment and the Transcom Supplier Code of Business Conduct. Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Collective bargaining in place in five countries: Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Spain, and Sweden. recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour. Transcom has a strict and explicit statement against all forms of child labor and any forms of slave labor in our Code of Business Conduct for both employees and suppliers. Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Robust and structured employment process to guarantee a healthy work place and being an equal opportunity employer. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Embedding an environmental friendly strategy in our core business and supporting our environmental challenges. customers to become aligned with the environmental benefits of a digital transformation. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environ­mental responsibility. Increased awareness for employees in daily operations and active agenda for community engagement to protect the environment in societies we operate. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Promotion of digital development in hardware and software to minimize our environmental technologies. impact from digital transactions and e-waste. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including Doing business at the highest ethical standards regardless of region or situation in extortion and bribery. accordance with our zero tolerance on corrupt practices. 6 Governance Governance structure of sustainability Board of Directors Executive team Central control IT security / Communi­ Finance / HR Finance COO office COO office cations Procurement Ensure Have transparent Endorse training Reduce and have Take proactive Have ethical and customer data reporting and and talent proper disposal measures environmental protection and communication management of e-waste against fraud friendly suppliers security on CSR Promote equal Initiate energy Take proactive opportunity and reduction at measures for diversity among offices anticorruption employees Support community engagement To increase efficiency, sustainability at Transcom has a clear gover­The audit committee and the Board of Directors are responsible nance structure. Each material sustainability area has a topic owner, for following up on sustainability activities and targets. Transcom’s responsible for implementing and monitoring the area. The topic sustainability work and progress is followed by the Head of Internal owner is also responsible for collecting and consolidating data on key Audit, who reports independently to the Board of Directors. performance indicators within the sustainability area and to increase internal engagement around Transcom’s sustainability initiatives. 7 Code of Business Conduct and Supplier Code of Business Conduct Transcom’s Code of Business Conduct serves to guide Transcom’s thetical situations to prepare employees for real life cases. In the employees to act in accordance with our company’s values, end of the training everyone has to pass a quiz to show that they responsibilities, and ethical obligations. The Code of Business have gotten a proper understanding of the code. Conduct is based on 13 principles covering human rights, labor To ensure that Transcom’s suppliers are compliant with human rights, environmental issues, and anti-corruption. It is owned by the rights, labor and social standards, anti-discrimination and antiBoard of Directors, and is revised on an annual basis. Our policies corruption policies, and environmentally responsible processes, help us mitigate emerging risks and keep up with expectations Transcom has implemented a Supplier Code of Business Conduct. from our stakeholders. The Board of Directors is the policy owner and the Head of Introduction to the Code of Business Conduct is included in every Procurement is responsible for annually updating the code. The employee’s onboarding. To ensure compliance with the code, we Supplier Code of Business Conduct is part of every major procure­currently do a refresh training every second year, where all staff must ment process. Transcom monitors the implementation of the code go through a web-based training course including all principles by sending out self-assessment questionnaires to relevant suppliers from the Business Code of Conduct as well as a number of hypoon a yearly basis. Audits of specific suppliers may also occur. Risk management When conducting our materiality analysis several sustainability risks are handled by local HR managers, workers’ representatives risks were identified, which we are actively working to mitigate. or labor unions. Each elected health and safety representative at The sustainability risks that were identified are: e-waste, working every site continuously assess and mitigates work environment conditions for our contracted employees, customer data protecrisks with the local management always at a minimum annually. tion, fraud within customer service and access to capital. It is vital Also, a risk assessment with regards to corruption has been for Transcom to limit and monitor our risk exposure. With regards conducted which is elaborated on in the section “anti-corruption”. to working conditions all health and safety issues and identified 8 Transcom Cares highlights Transcom Cares is Transcom’s sustainability program focusing on social sustainability issues. What started as an employee grassroots initiative for community engagement by Transcom employees in the Philippines has developed into a global corporate outreach program. It has become integrated in our operations to support our local communities and gives our employees the opportunity to volunteer and support those in need. The program consists of three focus pillars; people development, equality and diversity, and community engagement. People development Our employees are at the heart of everything we do. To be able to our talents. Transcom must also be an attractive workplace to be deliver outstanding customer service an engaged, skilled, and able to appeal to new talents. Therefore, our goal is to become the enthusiastic workforce is our backbone. At Transcom we understand number one employer of choice in the industry. the value of supporting high performing employees and retaining Total number of employees by employment contract and gender Total number of employees by employment contract and type Male Female Total Total number of employees 10,653 15,466 26,119 Permanent contract 8,179 11,333 19,512 Temporary contract 2,474 4,133 6,607 Full time 7,296 9,099 16,395 Part time 3,476 6,248 9,724 Employment type by gender is based on total number of employees. Data for our operations Transvoice, Corporate, and operations in Chile has not been included in the breakdown due to limitations in reporting data. Total number of employees by employment contract and region Total number of employees by employment contract and region Permanent contract Temporary contract Total Total number of employees 10,653 15,466 26,119 Central and South (C&S) 3,207 2,649 5,856 English speaking and Asia pacific 10,102 60 10,162 Iberia 2,882 2,158 5,040 North region 3,321 1,740 5,061 Central and South region includes our operations in Croatia, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Poland, Serbia, Tunisia. English Speaking and Asia pacific includes Canada, Philippines, UK and USA. Iberia includes Spain and Portugal and North region includes Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Netherlands, Norway, and Sweden. Data for our operations Transvoice, Corporate and operations in Chile has not been included in the permanent and temporary breakdown due to limitations in reporting data. Total number of employees in Chile amounted to 500, Corporate 208 employees and Transvoice 169 employees. 9 Training Career development We are highly motivated to offer our employees a stimulating To give our employees the opportunity to grow at Transcom we working experience with competitive compensation and robust have a clearly defined career progression, either as a line manager career development. We offer several programs to continuously or in a specialist role. We are happy to see that many of our improve our employees’ skills and to continue to be a company managers began their work at Transcom as agents or in junior in the forefront. Throughout the year Transcom has provided a lot support roles. Through our internal career and leadership programs of different training programs for our employees. All new hires at we are able to transform our employees to excellent future leaders. Transcom get a new hire training, followed by client related regular Because of this we are able to focus on internal recruiting. updates. Transcom also conduct policy trainings to secure that all Every year, we award and recognize special efforts made by our employees are aware of how to act in specific situations. Coaching committed team leaders from all around the world with the Team and performance management is also accessible for all Transcom Leader Award. employees. Another highly appreciated virtual training initiative is Transcom University, with online training courses accessible through the intranet. Because of all these training initiatives Transcom is able to inspire learning, advance knowledge, and foster innovation. Transcom’s Performance Management Program In order to be able to support our team member’s journey to perform to their fullest potential and shine in their respective roles Transcom has a Performance Management Program. Together managers and team members work to plan, manage and evaluate employees’ work objectives and overall goals and contribution to Transcom’s operations. The program includes clear goals and objectives at the start of the performance cycle, customized performance oriented training for team members and resources needed to do their jobs as well as focusing on coaching and giving feedback to evaluating the progress made in an annual performance review. Performance review Consolidation Setting of Annual goals and Performance objectives Review scores Reviewing Training and performance of coaching team members 10 Equal opportunities Transcom is an equal opportunity workplace where everyone We are currently digitalizing our recruitment process to further has the same possibility to develop. We have zero tolerance for increase objectivity in the early screening of prospective employees. discrimination and actively work to prevent it. In line with our This will also minimize any risk of discrimination in the recruitment Business Code of Conduct, we value the opportunity to engage process. The process is rolled out in Sweden, and will be rolled out in open dialogue with our employees across the company and globally during 2018. we respect our employees’ right to freedom of association and collective bargaining. In 2017, 32.5% of Transcom employees were covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Gender distribution of employees Gender distribution of employees Female: 59% Male: 41% Male Female Gender breakdown by employee categories Executive Management management Executive Management Employees Employees Management Female: 23% Male: 40% Female: 60% Male: 77% Management Management Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Female: 47% Male: 53% Male Female 11 Community engagement Employees at Transcom have always been engaged and contri­ educational opportunities Transcom is helping to empower children buted to building strong communities. With our longstanding and facilitate a better future for the students at the school. program, Transcom Cares, we want to actively facilitate employee’s community engagement. It is apparent that Transcom Cares not Financial relief to hurricane victims only contribute to a better society at large but also increases the Last year was an extremely harsh hurricane season. In the beginning well-being and commitment of our own employees. Simply put, of September, Hurricane Irma crossed the Caribbean and US, community engagement is part of Transcom’s DNA. This year has followed by Hurricane Maria, causing immense damage and being been filled with many heartfelt Transcom Cares initiatives. Some two of the costliest hurricanes in the Caribbean on record. After remarkable examples from around the world are: the catastrophic situation caused by the hurricanes, Transcom in the US started a relief fund to help the victims by collecting money The Great Transcom Bake Off for the employees affected by the hurricanes. In the Netherlands, our Dutch Transcom team initiated the first ever Transcom Bake Off. The contest served as a fund raiser Innovative community impact in Croatia for the Animal Ambulance. Transcom employees took part in Transcom Croatia has several successful volunteering initiatives. the competition, which tested every aspect of their baking skills In Vukovar, Croatia, Transcom employees are engaged in “Vukovar and were judged by a professional jury. The cakes were rated on Butterflies” (Vukovarski leptirići), which is a humanitarian association taste, texture, presentation and creativity. The jury was impressed for children with disabilities. Since there is no guaranteed treatment by the participants’ creativity and praised their commitment to and support for these children in need of healthcare in Croatia, help the volunteers at the Animal Ambulance. The money raised Transcom employees, parents and volunteers decided to support through the contest was gladly doubled by Transcom Netherland. the organization through sales of creative artwork. Every Christmas Transcom is happy to support the Animal Ambulance, which and Easter Transcom’s call center in Osijek acts as a showcase for picks-up sick and wounded animals to an animal shelter where selling the creations. All of the sales provisions goes to Vukovar devoted volunteers help and care for the animal. Butterflies, which helps paying medical treatments for the children, utility bills, volunteer training, and set up playrooms. Besides the Transcom Vilnius supports fundraising sales of creative artwork Transcom also donates funds to the initiatives for children with cancer organization to be able to buy didactic toys to improve the children’s cognitive abilities. In Lithuania, around 100 children under the age of 18 are diagnosed with cancer every year. This does not only affect the child, but the Employees at Transcom’s second call center in Pula are actively whole family. Unfortunately, only one parent can live with the child participating in different volunteering initiatives. For example, when in the hospital, which can cause even more stress on the Transcom started an important collaboration with the Red Cross in family. To simplify these family’s situations Transcom supported Pula focusing on various local community projects to clean up the the building of a home where families can stay together while coastal area, sports activities at the homeless shelter, donation of their child is being treated for cancer. The home is located near clothes and sales of Christmas decorations at the Red Cross Advent. the biggest oncological center in Lithuania. On top of the medical care from pediatricians, pain specialists, medics and oncologists Transcom Italy gives a helping the children will also be provided with access to different art and hand to refugee children music therapies. The aim with the home is to help families both Transcom in Italy is proud to participate in several UNICEF volunteer physically and emotionally during the child’s cancer treatment. initiatives. In May 2017 a large number of employees participated in the fundraising “The Orchid of UNICEF” through selling orchids. Transcom Philippines empower children in need The money from the sales was used to help migrant and refugee Transcom in the Philippines has enhanced their program together children, victims of violence and poverty in countries hit by war. with STEPS School Worldwide Familia Mission in Bohol and Manila Through a simple flower, Transcom employees were determined to by volunteering and donating school supplies. STEPS School help save the lives of thousands of migrant children. In December Worldwide Familia Mission strives to help improve the quality of another initiative called “Adopt a pigotta” (Adotta una Pigotta) was life for poor and underprivileged children through different educainitiated by Transcom’s employees where the sales of Rag Dolls tional programs mainly focusing on organic farming. By providing that were hand made by our employees were donated to UNICEF. 12 Transcom’s sustainable operations Environment It is of great importance for Transcom to reduce the impact our meetings, and adopting a strict approval process to ensure that operations have on the environment. We focus on the factors any business travel undertaken is necessary and efficient. Travel where Transcom has most significant environmental impact, expenses have gone down significantly in the past few years. Failure which are e-waste, business travel, and energy consumption in to mitigate future global climate risks will impact all businesses our facilities. Our environmental policy and travel policy leads in the long run, hence this is high on Transcom’s sustainability Transcom’s operations into a more environmental friendly direction agenda. Our ambition for 2018 is to have a global real estate and and optimizes our environmental performance. For example, facility management consultant help us reduce energy consumpTranscom has the ambition to reduce the need for business travel tion even further. by increasing the use of collaboration technology, like online Total energy consumption (MWh) Total CO2e emissions (tons) Non-renewable Renewable Total Scope 1 137.8 Fuel 349.78 0 349.78 Scope 2 6,498.23 Electricity 13,210.89 2,276.47 15,487.36 Scope 3 1,485.51 Heating 4,412.36 256.86 4,669.22 Total 8,121.54 Renewable energy in scope 2 emissions are Cooling 1,262.56 200.7 1,463.26 considered to have a zero CO2e impact. Scope 3 Total 19,235.59 2,734.03 21,969.62 emissions only include CO2 emissions, due to emission factor provided from our travel supplier. Renewable energy origin from solar, wind, biogas, biomass and hydro power. Energy intensity 841 kWh/employee Scope 1 emissions occur from sources Scope 2 emissions accounts for Scope 3 emissions accounts for emisthat are owned or controlled by emissions from purchased electricity, sions that are not owned or con­trolled Transcom. This includes emission heating and cooling consumed by by Transcom but occur due to Transcom from company cars. Transcom. activities. The disclosed data includes emissions from business travel. E-waste (WEEE Directive) and other country specific e-waste regulations. Excellent information technology is a prerequisite for Transcom’s However, before we let the electronics go to waste we try to extend employees to be able to provide high quality services. Hence, the useful life as much as possible, also looking at buying refurbished Transcom tries to evolve our technology infrastructure to have less PCs when possible. Transcom has engaged with e-waste manage­ environmental impact through seeking to always adopt improved ment companies in most geographies to deal with e-waste and efficient business solutions to reduce wasteful consumption. generated in a sustainable manner. When possible we will further When we buy new electronics, we favor environmental friendly develop our e-waste management to encompass a more circular technology and equipment. For example, whenever possible we life-cycle approach. Naturally, Transcom follows the precautionary procure ENERGY STAR-labelled retailers. E-waste is another part principle by managing risks of negative social and environmental of the electronics lifecycle, which we take seriously, and therefore impact in accordance with international guidelines and always adopts follow the Directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment a proactive stance to increase the protection of the environment. 13 AnTI-CoRRUpTIon Consistently enforcing a proactive stance to corruption in all its scope of the investigation will depend on the subject matter of the forms is of the utmost importance for a global operation such as concern. Where relevant, the investigation can escalate to the ours. Every year, the internal audit department does a risk assessChairman of Transcom’s Board of Audit Committee, an independent ment of all of our operations according to Transparency Interauditor, or the police or other law enforcement authority. The national’s Corruption Perception Index as part of our internal audit employee will be informed of the commitments Transcom has taken review process. Our review, escalation process, and whistle-blower after the complaint, unless the circumstances do not permit to. If system all jointly showed that 2017 was a year with zero cases of urgent action is required, this may be taken before any investigation confirmed corruption. is conducted. The overriding principle is the interest of the Company This is much due to our rigorous and forceful steering documents and its stakeholders. The employee will, unless circumstances do and actions to implement our zero tolerance to fraud and other not permit it, be told what action Transcom has decided to take unethical behavior. Key factors are our comprehensive policy and must treat any such information with the strictest confidence. base for combating corruption, including our Supplier Code of We further train all employees at the start of their employment in Business Conduct and Code of Business Conduct for employees. anti-corruption as part of the mandatory Code of Business Conduct We also have a whistle blower policy in place that applies to training. All employees must after completion also provide a signed Transcom employees, agency workers, contractors, and home affidavit of their understanding of the Code of Business Conduct. agents. We offer employees to file their complaints via email, mail, In the operations we ensure that all risks of corruption are addressed or fill out a form (where they can be anonymous) via our intranet. in each country through the countries risk register, in the scope of All complaints and malpractices are thoroughly investigated through our internal audits and in strategic risk assessments for business a fair, quick and confidential assessment process. The length and developments. SUpply ChAIn AnD hUMAn RIGhTS Transcom’s responsibility, encompassing the four areas human governance practices. Through our sustainability evaluation rights, labor rights, environment, and anti-corruption, does not only process, we gain insights on the sustainability risks in our value include our own operations but spans our entire value chain. We do chain and an understanding of the level of maturity of our suppliers. our outmost to ensure that our suppliers attain the highest ethical, This gives us information on how we can support our suppliers social and environmental standards, and have processes in place and ensure that there are no breaches towards human rights, to evaluate how well our suppliers follow different sustainability labor rights, environmental protection or corruption in the supply standards. chain. Through our follow up process we are able to identify and Transcom’s suppliers can be divided into four main categories; IT minimize risks, including risks connected to human rights. and network, temporary staff and recruitment agencies, facilitiesAlso, all new suppliers are expected to sign our Supplier Code related suppliers and other miscellaneous suppliers. Most of them of Business Conduct, which is based on UN Global Compact’s are situated in Europe (two-thirds) with the remainder mainly in ten principles and requires suppliers to pose similar demands North America and the Asia-Pacific region. into their suppliers. Exceptions can be made in cases where, for Our follow up process on suppliers consist of web-based selfinstance, corporate IT vendors can show that they have a more assessment questionnaires, which are sent out on a yearly basis to comprehensive Code of Business Conduct than Transcom’s our largest vendors. The questionnaire covers all ten principles of policy. the UN Global Compact and their implementation of ethical 14 Data protection The new EU regulation GDPR (General Data Protection Regula­ Security awareness training is an annual requirement at Transcom tion) comes into play in May 2018. GDPR is a set of rules and and must be made within 30 days of a new hire. Transcom will requirements that will strengthen the protection of personal data continually evaluate and apply the latest knowledge and technology managed by businesses. To be fully prepared for GDPR a project to uphold our security measures and we are confident that we manager was assigned, reporting directly to Transcom CEO, as are well equipped to comply with the coming data protection well as a steering committee that has been initiated comprised of regulations. various senior members of Transcom including our Global Director of Security and Privacy, Global Head of Legal, Global Governance, Global HR and Global IT Operations. A gap analysis was made to map all potential risks in connection to GDPR. Moreover, the data privacy governance and contractual framework is being reviewed in the context of GDPR and will be implemented. Transcom personnel will go through specific GDPR trainings to complete the cycle. 15 Report details Stakeholder dialogues As a part of our materiality analysis Transcom has conducted cate adequate resources to achieve the highest impact. A number stakeholder dialogues. At Transcom, we focus our sustainability of internal and external factors are analyzed when assessing strategy on people, a decision which our stakeholders support. In a whether a sustainability topic is material, mainly Transcom’s people-centered business like ours, long-term success largely overall mission and strategy, and the concerns expressed by our depends on the ability to attract, develop and retain the right people. stakeholders. Transcom conducts stakeholder dialogues in order to identify We organize specific stakeholder dialogues with our employees, which sustainability aspects are considered to be most material, e.g. through web-based surveys and feedback meetings. In i.e. which economic, environmental and social issues that are addition to this, we conduct employee satisfaction surveys, which most critical and has the most significant impact on Transcom’s are open to all employees, including temps and agency workers. business. When deciding on which stakeholders to engage with Gathering feedback from our employees on their satisfaction is Transcom considers the degree to which our operations depend critical in order to continuously improve our workplace and make and have an impact on the stakeholder in question. It’s the it a great place to work. The results of the survey are analyzed and responsibility of Transcom’s Group Executive Management team discussed on the local as well as on the global level, and action to define which stakeholders to engage with. The table below plans are created in order to address the findings. summarizes the most important sustainability issues to each key The list below summarizes the most important sustainability stakeholder group. Transcom’s Group Executive Management issues to each key stakeholder group. prioritizes amongst material sustainability aspects in order to alloMost important aspects per stakeholder group: Employees Equity analysts • Be an equal opportunity employer • Be transparent with financial reporting • Be transparent with financial reporting • Focus on fair working conditions for employees • Work proactively with anticorruption • Be an equal opportunity employer Owners ESG analysts • Provide continuous training for employees • Focus on fair working conditions for employees • Be transparent with financial reporting • Uphold freedom of association and right to collective • Have fair and transparent recruitment practices bargaining Investors • Ensure high degree of customer satisfaction • Provide continuous training for employees Clients • Focus on fair working conditions for employees • Have fair and transparent recruitment practices • Ensure high degree of customer satisfaction • Be an equal opportunity employer • Focus on health and safety management for employees • Focus on fair working conditions for employees 16 Materiality To ensure that our sustainability strategy is relevant and of imporGroup Executive Management team; employees, owners, investors, tance to our stakeholders, it is based on our stakeholder dialogues ESG analysts, equity analysts, and clients. They were all asked to and materiality analysis. This provides a roadmap of which sustainanswer which sustainability topics they think are material through ability issues to focus on. In 2016, Transcom conducted a materiality web-based surveys, and the result served as the basis of our analysis with key stakeholder groups, selected by Transcom’s sustainability strategy 2017. Topics that are critical • Endorse training and talent management / People development. to building trust • Promote equal opportunity and diversity among employees. • Support community engagement. Important • Have transparent reporting and communication on sustainability. focus areas • Ensure customer data protection and security. • Take proactive measures against fraud. Basic areas • Reduce and have proper disposal of e-waste. • Take proactive anti-corruption measures. that need to • Initiate energy reduction at offices. be managed • Have ethical and environmentally-friendly suppliers. 17 About the report Reporting period: January – December 2017 Omissions Reporting standard: Global Reporting Initiative Standards People data Publication of previous report: June 2016 People data has been collected from Transcom’s HR system, SAP. Contact in charge of the report: Helene Ruda, Head of Head count is used for all employee data. In disclosure 102-8, on Communication, helene.ruda@transcom.com information on employees and other workers, it was not possible to split the data by employment contract and type for the Corporate, Report boundaries Transvoice, and Chile units. The GRI indicator compilation is planned The report is based on the new Global Reporting Initiative to be integrated in the system for the forthcoming sustainability Standards (GRI Standards), according to the core option, the EU report. In disclosure 405-1, on diversity of governance bodies and Non-Financial Reporting Directive (Directive 2004/95/EU) and employees, is partially reported as data cannot be divided into age the Swedish legislative Annual Accounts Act (ÅRL), hence this categories due to limitations in the system. The gender split on report acts as Transcom’s Statutory Sustainability Report. executive management is per the first of January 2018. Transcom’s operations Corporate, Transvoice, and Chile are excluded from Communication on progress (COP) information 405-1. We are a signatory of the UN Global Compact, which is a United Nations initiative to support businesses to implement sustainable Environmental data policies, and report on their progress. Additionally, to the focus The material aspects “Reduce and have proper disposal of e-waste” areas of our sustainability program, Transcom fully supports the and “Have ethically and environmentally friendly suppliers” do not ten principles of the UN Global Compact with respect to human have quantitative indicators for 2017 as the results from measurerights, labor rights, environmental care and anti-corruption work. ments and assessments are to be compiled in 2018 from the These principles are an integral part of our corporate strategy, supplier evaluation system. The aspects are described with business culture and day-to-day operations. We are whole-heartcomplete and extensive management approach disclosures. edly committed to ensuring that we comply with the UN Global Compact and its principles. On the emissions and energy indicators 302-1, 302-3, 305-1 and 305-2 the emissions factor has been manually standard calculated Report scope to 0 for all energy sources being renewable, more specifically hydro, wind, and solar power. The current energy data information provided During 2017 we divested our operations in Peru, thus this has been globally by the suppliers does not include a LCA based emissions excluded from our report. A major organizational change has been factor so the estimate is set at 0 for the production only. the appointment of our new CEO and that Transcom has become sister company with Xzakt following an acquisition by Altor. Data for scope 1 and 2 emissions are based on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol standard for calculating data. Scope 3 emissions includes business travel and is provided by third party. External assurance No independent third party assurance has been conducted on the GRI-data. However, Ernst & Young Sweden AB has conducted an assurance in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevR 12. 18 GRI Content Index GRI Disclosure Chapter Fulfill­COP Omissions Standard ment Principle GRI 102: General disclosures Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization Transcom 2017 F 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Transcom 2017 F 102-3 Location of headquarters Transcom 2017 F 102-4 Location of operations Transcom 2017 F 102-5 Ownership and legal form Transcom 2017 F 102-6 Markets served Transcom 2017 F 102-7 Scale of the organization* Transcom 2017 F 102-8 Information on employees and other workers People development F Principle 6 102-9 Supply chain Supply chain and human rights F 102-10 Significant changes to the organization Report scope F and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach E-waste F Principle 7 102-12 External initiatives The Sustainable Development F Goals (SDGs) and UN Global Compact 102-13 Membership of associations Community engagement F Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Comment from CEO F Ethics and Integrity GRI 102: General Disclosures 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and Code of Business Conduct and Supplier F Principle 10 norms of behavior Code of Business Conduct Governance 102-18 Governance structure Governance structure F Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder dialogues F 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Equal opportunities F Principle 3 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholder dialogues F 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder dialogues F 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholder dialogues F Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated Transcom 2017 & About the report F financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries About the report F 102-47 List of material topics Materiality F 102-48 Restatements of information F No restatements have been made 102-49 Changes in reporting F No significant changes in reporting have been made 102-50 Reporting period About the report F 102-51 Date of most recent report About the report F 102-52 Reporting cycle About the report F 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About the report F 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with About the report F the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index GRI index F 102-56 External assurance F * For more information about our financial performance please see our Annual Report, http://www.transcom.com/en/About-Transcom/investor-relations/ 19 GRI Disclosure Chapter Fulfill­COP Omissions Standard ment Principle Material topics GRI 200 Economic Standards Aspect: Take proactive measures for anti-corruption GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Anti-corruption F Principle 10 Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components Anti-corruption F Principle 10 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Anti-corruption F Principle 10 GRI 205: 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Anti-corruption F Principle 10 Anticorruption 2017 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions Anti-corruption F Principle 10 taken GRI 300 Environmental Standards Aspect: Initiate energy reduction at offices GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Environment F Principle 7, 8, 9 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components Environment F Principle 7, 8, 9 Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environment F Principle 7, 8, 9 GRI 302: 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation Environment F Principle 7, 8 Energy 2017 302-3 Energy intensity Environment F Principle 8 GRI 305: 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Environment F Principle 7 Emissions 2017 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Environment F Principle 7 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Environment F Principle 7 Aspect: Reduce and have proper disposal of e-waste GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary E-waste F Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components E-waste F 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach E-waste F GRI 400 Social Standards Aspect: Endorse training and talent management/People development GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary People development F Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components People development F 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach People development F GRI 404: 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and People development F Training and transition assistance program education 2017 Aspect: Promote equal opportunity and diversity among employees GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Equal opportunities F Principle 6 Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components Equal opportunities F Principle 6 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Equal opportunities F Principle 6 GRI 405: 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees People development P Principle 6 Diversity and equal opportunity 2017 20 GRI Disclosure Chapter Fulfill­COP Omissions Standard ment Principle GRI 400 Social Standards Aspect: Ensure customer data protection and security GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Data protection F Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components Data protection F 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Data protection F GRI 418: 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches Data protection F Customer of customer privacy and losses of customer data Privacy 2017 Aspect: Safeguard end-customers privacy and integrity GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Data protection F Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components Data protection F 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Data protection F GRI 418: 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches Data protection F Customer of customer privacy and losses of customer data Privacy 2017 Aspect: Have ethically and environmentally friendly suppliers GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Supply chain and human rights F Principle 1, 2, 4, 5, 8 Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components Supply chain and human rights F Principle 1, 2, 4, 5, 8 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Supply chain and human rights F Principle 1, 2, 4, 5, 8 Aspect: Support community engagement GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Community engagement F Principle 1 Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components Community engagement F Principle 1 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Community engagement F Principle 1 21 Auditor’s report on the statutory sustainability statement (This is a translation from the Swedish original) To the general meeting of the shareholders of Transcom Holding AB (publ.), corporate identity number 556962-4108 Engagement and responsibility It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the statutory sustainability statement for the year 2017 and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The scope of the audit Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability statement. This means that our examination of the corporate governance statement is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. Opinions A statutory sustainability statement has been prepared. Stockholm Ernst & Young AB Erik Sandström Authorized Public Accountant 22 Copyright © 2018 Transcom Transcom Holding AB Gjörwellsgatan 30 SE-112 60 Stockholm Sweden Company registration number: 556962-4108 www.transcom.com
