Elisa’s annual report consists of four parts: Annual review | Financial statements | Responsibility report | Corporate Governance statement Responsibility report 2017 Responsibility at Elisa Financial responsibility Digital responsibility Social responsibility Environmental responsibility GRI index content Responsibility at Elisa...................................3 Financial responsibility.................................8 Digital responsibility.................................... 11 Social responsibility.....................................15 Environmental responsibility...................19 Description of the report..........................21 Contact information...................................21 Independent assurance report ............. 22 GRI index ...................................................... 25 GRI indicators..............................................30 Customer orientation guides our daily operations. We continuously develop the reliability, safety, availability and climate impact of our services. Responsibility report 2 Responsibility at Elisa Financial responsibility Digital responsibility Social responsibility Environmental responsibility GRI index Responsibility at Elisa As a Finnish pioneer in telecommunications, ICT and online services, we have a key role as part of society. We are the market leader in mobile and fixed network services in Finland, and number two in mobile services in Estonia. We serve over 2.8 million consumers, corporate and public administration customers in our main markets and internationally. We provide environmentally friendly communication and entertainment services, and tools to improve operations and productivity of organisations. It is important for us that we act responsibly, ethically and WORLD OF SECURE CONNECTIONS ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE AND AUTOMATION lawfully in all situations. Our Code of Conduct guides our operations. We have adopted the Elisa Code of Digitalisation and cyber security, which will be Performing and learning systems increase our Conduct based on our values. Commonly agreed code pervasive in the future, are essential features for understanding of our customers, improve the quality of of conduct and policies enable sustainable, ethical and individuals, services and products. our operations and create new business opportunities. successful business and assure our stakeholders of our trustworthiness. Elisa’s most important themes: Elisa’s most important themes: Information security, operational reliability and Functionality of networks, availability of services and Code of conduct together with Elisa principles of contract reliability of services. information security. and conflict of interest policy are important guidelines to ensure ethical business, equal, information secure and antiAGEING POPULATION SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT corruptive corporate culture. We are committed to UN Global Compact. All Elisa’s public commitments, policies The number of older people (65+ years) in the Limited natural resources and climate change are and indexes can be found from the corporate responsibility population will increase, and their standard of living will steering societies towards a more intelligent way of website. be higher than before. Mobile health services, remote utilising information and digital solutions. Services are measuring and remote analytics will allow older people to offered more efficiently, virtually and remotely. Global megatrends that influence Elisa’s business and live at home. Elisa´s business model are described under Strategy and Elisa’s most important themes: operating environment in the annual report. From the Elisa’s most important themes: Network energy consumption, recycling of devices, use viewpoint of corporate responsibility, key megatrends that Ease of use of services, availability and accessibility. of renewable energy and requirements of environmental influence the ICT sector and Elisa’s business are: legislation. Responsibility report 3 Responsibility at Elisa Financial responsibility Digital responsibility Social responsibility Environmental responsibility GRI index Our corporate responsibility is based on our strategy, values and business model. Together We enable safe We act We act with our stakeholders, we have determined responsibility themes that we measure with a digital environment with empathy responsibly, scorecard. for everyone ethically and lawfully These themes allow us to influence the UN Sustainability Development Goals either through our own actions (footprint) or through services developed for our customers and other We co-operate with stakeholders to We do activities to ensure We improve our energy stakeholders (handprint). make digital environment safe. especially youth and senior people efficiency in networks and inclusion in digital environment. working environments. We increase awareness of digital safety. We support workforce adaption to We use renewable electricity. digital workplace. We do co-creative service design to We make economic ensure accessible and safe services. We do responsible sales and contributions to society customer communication. through investments, taxes, We recycle devices safely. employment, sponsoring and charity. Responsibility report 4 Responsibility at Elisa Financial responsibility Digital responsibility Social responsibility Environmental responsibility GRI index Risks Risk management is an essential part of Elisa’s internal As a new risk management measure in 2017, we launched control system. It aims to ensure that risks affecting a compliance programme aiming to update Elisa’s current the company’s business are identified, influenced and compliance management model inlcuding anti-corruption, monitored. competition law, productand environmental responsibilty and further work safety and -conditions. We also performed Elisa has identified the following risks a Group-level human rights risks and impacts screening relating to corporate responsibility: For more information on our risk management, please see • Risks associated with information security and privacy our investor pages. The management of risks associated protection; leaks of personal data, phishing and with corporate responsibility is described in our corporate information security breaches involving personal data, responsibility management principles and policies. There is in particular more information about these principles and policies on our • Climate risks that could influence the operational corporate responsibility website. reliability of services if extreme weather conditions became more common • Risks associated with personnel arrangements, outsourcing in particular: discrimination risks and risks associated with working conditions or equal pay • Occupational health and safety risks, particularly in the case of maintenance or installation work done as subcontracting, and personnel coping at work In 2017, we launched a compliance • Potential human rights violations, particularly violations pertaining to workers’ rights, discrimination, child programme aimed at updating Elisa’s labour or forced labour in the supply chain current compliance management • Risks associated with corruption or bribery, particularly model. in relation to the supply chain and customer relations • Risks associated with customer communication, including incorrect or insufficient communication Responsibility report 5 Responsibility at Elisa Financial responsibility Digital responsibility Social responsibility Environmental responsibility GRI index Key topics and stakeholders Active stakeholder dialogue is an important part of the daily development of Elisa’s business operations and corporate In recognising Elisa’s material corporate responsibility responsibility. We engage in active dialogue by means of aspects, we have taken into account the most important regular surveys and various studies. financial, social and environmental effects of our operations, products and services, as well as other significant trends Our stakeholders can report breaches of the Elisa Code affecting the industry, and we have applied the GRI of Conduct by sending email to codeofcondcut@elisa. reporting guidelines. fi. Stakeholders can ask for advice or report violations of the Code, also anonymously, to Elisa’s internal audit or We conducted wide stakeholder survey as a part of year Elisa’s Legal Services. 2017 corporate responsibility strategy work. The corporate responsibility topics were reviewed and reassessed as a In addition Elisa employees can report violations to their result of the strategy work and other stakeholder feedback supervisor or to HR helpdesk. The cases are investigated during the year. using processes in place. We address violations of the Code by appropriate means. The key topics and material focus areas in our corporate responsibility reporting are: For more information about stakeholder dialogue, please see our corporate responsibility website. • Information security and privacy protection • Financial responsibility Corporate responsibility aspects are regularly discussed by • Availability, safety and accessibility of services the Elisa Executive Board and the Board’s audit committee. Active stakeholder dialogue is • Responsible employer A description of corporate responsibility management an important part of the daily • • Energy efficiency and climate change Ensuring operational reliability in society and external initiatives can be found on our corporate responsibility website. development of Elisa’s business • Responsible customer communication operations and corporate Our most important stakeholders are our personnel, In 2017, we signed and committed to the following initiatives: responsibility. customers, owners, social operators and partners. A stakeholder assessment is performed annually in UN Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP) connection with the update of the materiality analysis by Commitment 2050 Elisa’s Executive Board. Energy Efficiency Agreement Science Based Targets Responsibility report 6 Responsibility at Elisa Financial responsibility Digital responsibility Social responsibility Environmental responsibility GRI index Goals and performance Theme Target Target year Performance We enable a safe digital environment for all 2019 New KPI, targets has been Corporate citizenship is one of Elisa’s set in 2017 CORPORATE strategic goals, which are measured with We are empathetic CITIZENSHIP the scorecard. We have determined We are ethical and follow the law the following medium-term corporate responsibility goals and indicators, which we report annually in our corporate Elisa’s medium-term goals, responsibility report: FINANCIAL 2020 http://corporate.elisa.com/investors 100 per cent of Elisa employees have completed 18% Continuous dataprotection training (1 DIGITAL Cybersecurity Continuous 68% Reducing the number of disturbances 2020 57% Job satisfaction is ≥3.5 in 98 per cent of teams 2019 87% Customer satisfaction 2019 79% SOCIAL 100 per cent of Elisa employees have completed the CoC Continuous 72% training Developing responsibility in the supply chain Continuous Renewal of auditing practices Science Based Targets 2025 Target has been set in 2017 ENVIRONMENT CO2 emission savings 2019 97% 1) Data protection training was renewed in 2017 and the new training was launched in October 2017 Responsibility report 7 Responsibility at Elisa Financial responsibility Digital responsibility Social responsibility Environmental responsibility GRI index Financial responsibility As a responsible company, taking care of the financial profitability and competitiveness Research and development of our operations is important to us, as it is the only way to guarantee continuous deWe at Elisa believe that in the future, services will be velopment of our services and network, as well as to employ thousands of competent built by open-mindedly trying out new opportunities and employees together with our partner network. We also participate in a significant mancooperating with innovation networks. ner in the development of society as a whole by paying corporate income tax, engaging We promote the development of digital society by, for in active R&D and cooperating with startups. instance, our participation in R&D and cooperation with startups. A key part of this activity is a trainee programme for successful students in academic institutions. In six years, Financial effects 2017 (EUR million) we have employed 42 students through the programme. Promoting top international research Net sales We have established strong cooperation between 1,787 (1,636) academic researchers and Elisa’s business operations to promote our understanding of new scientific breakthroughs and thus promote our strategic choices. We continuously look for new opportunities to cooperate Suppliers Salaries Dividends and Corporate Capital with the best international researchers in different scientific and partners paid interests taxes paid expenditure fields. In 2017, Elisa Research brought Elisa employees and investments over 150 new top researchers from ten countries together and promoted top-notch research in 24 research projects. 881 304 263 65 246 (802) (275) (248) (60) (204) Capital expenditure investments doesn’t include investments in licenses. Responsibility report 8 Responsibility at Elisa Financial responsibility Digital responsibility Social responsibility Environmental responsibility GRI index In addition, through the HPY Research Foundation, we As an early-phase customer, we have been able to use, for support scientific research, teaching and development instance, artificial intelligence created by the startup Two work in Finnish telecommunications technology, Hat Security in Habbo Hotel to cut the operating costs of telecommunications and data communications. By 2017, the service by more than 50 per cent. As a sales channel, the HPY Research Foundation had granted a total of EUR we continued our cooperation with the startup OnePlus, for 1,015,710 in scholarships, mainly to researchers preparing example. Their products were also Elisa’s bestselling phones their dissertations in different universities. The library of in 2017. the HPY Research Foundation includes approximately 109 dissertations. For the third time, we arranged the Elisa Innovation Challenge to encourage both companies and private Renewal through startup partnerships individuals to create new product and service innovations with the help of network technology. Startup partnerships are an important part of Elisa’s continuous development. Over the course of several years, In 2017, we received 84 proposals from 19 countries. The we have introduced to the market several innovations with developers of the best products were announced and the startup companies, thus promoting the success of new awards were handed out at Slush 2017. Elisa was the main companies. In 2017, Elisa had more than eighty Finnish and cooperation partner of the event for the fourth year in a international startup partners. row. The winner selected from among the three finalists was the Finnish startup iqBox with its remotely controlled We continuously collect feedback from startups, and and energy efficient smart mailbox that allows for food according to the feedback, we are an easily approachable deliveries even when the customer is not at home to and agile partner. We aim for business that benefits both Over the course of several years, parties, in which we can act as an early-phase customer for receive the order. we have introduced to the market startups or offer our effective sales channels to them. several innovations with startup companies, thus promoting the success of new companies. Responsibility report 9 Responsibility at Elisa Financial responsibility Digital responsibility Social responsibility Environmental responsibility GRI index Taxes and investments Elisa operates throughout Finland, and 30,59 per cent of 2016 Municipalities share of Elisa’s the corporate income tax goes to municipalities. Around corporate tax in regions (EUR) By paying taxes and other public levies, we participate in half of this went to municipalities outside the Helsinki the development of society as a whole. We are significant metropolitan region, which means that we are a major corporate income tax payer in Finland. According to the corporate income taxpayer in many locations in Finland. Häme 2,783,283 confirmed tax information for 2016, Elisa was the seventh Eastern Finland 2,117,712 largest taxpayer company and paid more than 80 per cent We are also the most important operator-investor in Central Finland 443,296 of all the taxes paid by Finnish telecoms operators. Finland. We build and maintain landline and mobile Western Finland 549,174 communications networks in our main market areas in In 2016, we paid EUR 392 million of taxes in Finland, of Finland and Estonia. Ostrobotnia 1,580,919 which EUR 60 million was corporate income tax. In Estonia, Northern Finland 718,837 the company must only pay corporate income tax if it In 2017, our capital expenditure investments totalled Uusimaa 10,527,404 pays dividends to its owners. Elisa Estonia has not paid any EUR 246 (204) million. Our investments were yet dividends to its parent company. again allocated directly to the development of the data communications infrastructure, 4G networks, the landline trunk network, IT systems, digital services and customer terminal equipment. Total 18,720,625 Elisa's taxes Elisa’s capital expenditure 2017 EUR million 14 13 13 250 199 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 207 2017* 202 196 204 246 215 184 190 193 191 200 2016 183 2015 171 150 87 100 56 93 94 60 65 50 15 20 11 19 11 16 0 Corporate Value-added tax Income tax and Public fees Other taxes and tax withholding tax public fees 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 *Unconfirmed taxes Capital expenditure, EUR million CAPEX/revenue, % Responsibility report 10 Responsibility at Elisa Financial responsibility Digital responsibility Social responsibility Environmental responsibility GRI index Digital responsibility Our business operations are based on the trust of our customers, the functionality of our services and information security. As the world becomes more digital and more and more activities are handled electronically, cybersecurity becomes even more important. The reliability and information security of our ICT services and processes are also emphasised. Data protection and information security Data protection Digitalisation has exposed us to online crime. As everything We pursue a high level of data protection in all our takes place online, an ever-increasing number of people operations. We process the personal data of our customers, are subjected to more varied and professional malfeasance. employees and partners, which is why data protection and Furthermore, digitalisation and implementation of the confidential communications are of utmost importance. new EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) We have introduced data protection principles into all emphasise the significance of data protection. Built-in data of our operations that require the processing of personal protection not only minimises risks and their consequences, data. Our employees and partners have been trained to but also maintains customers’ trust in companies. take data privacy into account in their work, and we all are obligated of confidentiality concerning information in the Data protection and confidential In our information security policy and safety management model, we define the principles, roles and responsibilities scope of data privacy. communications are of utmost that we follow in the development, maintenance The enforcement date for GDPR is on 25th of May importance in our operations. and monitoring of security and data protection. The 2018. The future GDPR will emphasise the significance policies are binding on Elisa, its subsidiaries and, via of data protection as well as clarify the data protection agreements, also on Elisa’s suppliers and subcontractors. requirements concerning the processing of personal data. For more information about information We have started preparations and assessment of our security management, please see our operations against future legislation well advance in corporate responsibility website. order to make sure our readiness and capability for the Responsibility report 11 Responsibility at Elisa Financial responsibility Digital responsibility Social responsibility Environmental responsibility GRI index requirements. We are managing the preparation and Information security In order to improve consumers’ information security, we implementation of the GDPR according to our security were the first operator to introduce to the market the management approach. The actions in the different Information security is a key part of F-Secure SENSE router, which consumers can use to business units and production units are controlled by a data our operations and the quality of our secure all of their smart devices. We also renewed Elisa’s protection team. In 2017, more than 300 people have been services. Customers, legislation and our safety package service. The service protects children online, involved implementation of the GDPR. business impose information security can be used to locate a misplaced phone and offers parents requirements. assistance in controlling their children’s online activities. At the preparation stage, we have, among other issues, ensured that awareness of data protection increasing both Elisa’s IT business unit received ISO Over the course of the year, some of our customers were Elisa and its subsidiaries; identified and implemented the 27001 information security certification subjected to both phishing and emails that contained necessary technical changes and development areas in the ISO/IEC malware. Phishing and malware distribution are criminal in 2017 that covers capacity services 27001 systems which we use to process personal data; performed and Elisa Security monitoring functions. activities aimed at hampering the operation of the web or data protection risk assessments for our operations; and In order to receive the certification, collecting confidential information, such as email user IDs comprehensively trained our employees to understand the a company must prove that it applies and passwords. According to our practices, we immediately requirements of changing legislation. Furthermore, we have a systematic information security policy to protect its notified our customers of these incidents with instructions verified that agreements are up to date and developed information systems and confidential information, as well as on what to do. Our website also includes information on the necessary documentation, particularly in our role as a to meet its statutory obligations. what to do when you receive a phishing email or malware, processor of our customer companies’ personal data. and how to avoid being swindled. A Finnish act on electronic identification entered into During the year, around 160 key Elisa employees from force in May 2017. It offers the opportunity to offer In 2017, we organized both general and targeted different parts of the organisation completed our Data strong identification services to parties of the network information security training for all our employees. In Protection Ambassador training. The Data Protection of identification service providers. Due to the legislative targeted training employees were taught with the help of Ambassador organisation has a key role in the introduction reform, we introduced a new service called Elisa Tunnistus, simulated risk scenarios to act in the correct manner when of the new data protection requirements throughout which is connected to the network of identification service facing an information security threat or phishing attempt. the organisation. In the training, the Data Protection providers and includes all of the identification methods A total of 5,598 elisians and persons working for Elisa from Ambassadors studied in detail the requirements of the included in the network, bank identification and mobile different Elisa´s units participated in the simulation training. GDPR. They will receive continuous further training on certificates. topical data protection issues. Responsibility report 12 Responsibility at Elisa Financial responsibility Digital responsibility Social responsibility Environmental responsibility GRI index Functional network and services service. At the end of the year, we introduced the NB-IoT When we detect an extensive disturbance, we inform technology in our 4G network. It allows companies to use ourcustomers as soon as possible and continue until Utilisation of digital services requires a reliable and higher a precursor of 5G to test their 5G technologies and study the fault has been repaired. In 2017, we continued our datarates in communications network. One of our key tasks new Internet of Things services. investments in proactive, comprehensive communication in Finland and Estonia is to ensure comprehensive and about disturbances. We managed to continue to decrease reliable mobile and data communication connections. We Transferring mobile base stations to cloud services will the overall number of faults and the number of major have a key role in securing operational reliability in society. both increase the reliability of the services, and save energy disturbances, even though the number of services we offer For more information about network management and and reduce CO2 emissions. In the autumn, we started the is continuously growing. the safety of the mobile network, please see our corporate construction of a network utilising the latest technology in responsibility website. Tampere. It will enable the launching of 5G services and Transfer of critical authorities services to commercial 4G smart urban solutions. Similar technology was also taken network requires reliability testing of data transfer service The majority of our investments were yet again directed into use in downtown Helsinki. in congested conditions. We successfully tested the towards improving the functionality and availability of prioritisation of official services with Nokia – first in a test the fixed and mobile networks. In addition to expanding Elisa’s experts ensure that our services are in operation 24/7 environment in February, and then under actual conditions the current networks, we actively study and test new by active monitoring, proactive measures, trouble shooting on First of May. technologies, such as 5G. We were the first company in as well as by modernising networks. During on call duty Finland to test a technology where mobile base stations hours, we focus on anticipating threats and failures, as well In Finland the authority governing safety of mobile can be more easily managed remotely through a cloud as on repairing faults. networks is Radiation and Nuclear Safety Authority (STUK), while the corresponding authority in Estonia is part of the Ministry of the Environment (the Environmental Board). We continuously monitor research in the industry Elisa network incident management development and guidelines published by the authorities. We work in close cooperation with other parties in the industry to 300,000 90 reduce any harmful impacts of radio-frequency radiation, 250,000 75 for example by careful planning of the locations of mobile 200,000 60 base stations. We are an expert member in the Finnish Electromagnetic Fields (EMF) advisory board. 150,000 45 100,000 30 50,000 15 0 0 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 Incidents, pcs Preventive incidents, % Responsibility report 13 Responsibility at Elisa Financial responsibility Digital responsibility Social responsibility Environmental responsibility GRI index Availability and accessibility of services Elisa’s service designers arranged a workshop for members of the Finnish service design network to come up with ideas We continuously develop our products and services for how children’s rights could best be taken into account in based on our customers’ needs. The goals of our ongoing service design. UNICEF assisted in facilitating discussion at development work are better experiences, profitability, the event and the workshop was based on a children’s rights safety and availability of our services. For more information assessment tool provided by UNICEF. about our accessibility development principles, please see our corporate responsibility website. We continued arranging our highly popular digital schools for children at 18 locations. In 2017, we also offered digital We aim to design services to meet the needs of the most training for entrepreneurs in cooperation with local demanding customer in order to ensure accessibility to associations of the Federation of Finnish Enterprises. The everybody (Design for All). We invited diverse customer digital schools will continue in 2018. groups to test our services and visited the customers´ homes to see how the services work in a different The theme of a seminar arranged on United Nations Day environments and life situations. During the year, we was accessibility of services. In the seminar, an expert from engaged more than 200 different types of customers in the the Finnish plain language expert centre Selkokeskus gave design and development of our services. a key note presentation on clear communication. After the event, Elisa’s communications professionals attended a At the Word Design Camp arranged in the spring, young clear communication training course arranged by Elisa and people together with Elisa’s service designers developed Selkokeskus. the new ideas for reading and writing. The ideas designed The majority of our investments at the camp were distributed for all young Finns to use. A corresponding co-creation workshop was arranged in the were directed towards improving autumn as part of a project called Pidetään yhtä (“Stay the functionality and availability of Connected”), which aims to reduce the communication gap between generations. the landline and mobile phone networks. Responsibility report 14 Responsibility at Elisa Financial responsibility Digital responsibility Social responsibility Environmental responsibility GRI index Social responsibility For us, social responsibility means bearing our responsibility for our customers, personnel and partners, in particular. Respecting human rights, equality, good management, wellbeing at work and safety are important to us. We require that our employees and partners respect human rights as well. Responsible employer Elisa’s management principles are based on training, the setting of clear goals and shared values. Daily management We employ more than 4,700 professionals as full time and performance appraisal discussions between supervisors employees in Finland and internationally. Elisa’s success is and employees twice a year are a key part of management based on the work input and wellbeing of our skilled staff at Elisa. with a capacity to evolve. We promote equality and non-discrimination, and we Digitalisation is affecting our business, the content of support the transfer of women into male-dominated workplaces and vice versa. In addition to our In a gender equality study by our work, our way of working, our management, our tools and our working environment. In working life, this employee satisfaction survey, we assess equality and Equileap, Elisa was the only Finnish requires continuous development, taking care of one’s own non-discrimination with an annual equality and nondiscrimination survey. According to the results of the company in the top ten. wellbeing and open interaction. The change also requires that supervisors set clear goals. equality and non-discrimination survey performed last spring, Elisa employees feel that they are being treated New ways of working allow for flexible working and equally at work. alternation between work and leisure. Clear goals, modern tools and flexible opportunities for working make work In an equality study by Equileap, we were the only Finnish more meaningful and make employees more productive, as company in the top ten, and our employees voted Elisa as well as save time and help to protect the environment. one of the best employers in Finland. Responsibility report 15 Responsibility at Elisa Financial responsibility Digital responsibility Social responsibility Environmental responsibility GRI index Elisa personnel Great Britain 18 We have a zero-tolerance approach to workplace in different Hong Kong 3 harassment and discrimination. We regularly monitor the countries Italy 2 achievement of our equality and non-discrimination goals. (31 December Norway 1 2017, headFrance 7 Over the course of the year, we signed the UN Women’s Spain 54 count) Finland 4,079 Empowerment Principles and updated our equality and non-discrimination plan, which includes our development Sweden 6 actions. Furthermore, we completed a human rights risk USA 1 assessment and arranged a human rights seminar for the Estonia 968 Russia 11 employees of Elisa on United Nations Day. The theme of Canada 1 this year’s seminar was plain language. Singapore 1 Our employees and partners have the right to work in a We offer high-quality healthcare with services considerably healthy and safe working environment, and an obligation to in excess of the Finnish statutory requirements. To support bear their responsibility for the working community. our staff in taking care of their wellbeing, we offer sports Elisa personnel in Finland and Estonia activities and hobbies. (31 December 2017, FTE)* Daily management is a key in promoting wellbeing at work, as well as occupational health and safety. It provides More information is available in the Personnel review Northern Finland 147 a good frame for early intervention actions. Additionally section of our annual report and on the corporate Eastern Finland 407 responsibility website. we cooperate with other parties in the industry and our Central Finland 77 partners to improve our own occupational safety and Western Finland 111 occupational safety in the industry in general. We focus Ostrobotnia 367 particularly on the management of telecommunications Häme 531 connections, such as the working conditions of mechanics Southern Finland 2,071 working on masts. Estonia 899 *Parent company and subsidiaries Responsibility report 16 Responsibility at Elisa Financial responsibility Digital responsibility Social responsibility Environmental responsibility GRI index Customer interaction and customer Information security, safety, availability and ease of communications use of our products and services are key aspects in the development of the customer experience. For more information about customer interaction management, Elisa’s customers include 2.8 million please see our corporate responsibility website. consumers, companies and public administration organisations in Finland, In order to develop our services and operations, we Estonia and around the world. A profound continuously ask for feedback from our customers with the help of customer satisfaction surveys. We analyse the understanding of our customers’ needs feedback and turn it into development plans to be used as is a prerequisite for the development of the basis of our business. our services to meet customers’ changing needs. Customer orientation is one of our In 2017, we invested in making it easier for consumers to contact us, developing the quality of customer interaction guiding values and customer satisfaction and multilingualism. is an important factor in steering our operations. We have achieved good results by simplifying processes, adding customer-specific expertise, clarifying instructions and improving the processing of feedback offered by customers who contact us. In 2017, we invested in making it The positive development was reflected in our customer easier for consumers to contact us, satisfaction indicator NPS (Net Promoter Score). The NPS for private customers in Finland increased by 19 per cent. developing the quality of customer interaction and multilingualism. The EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) will impose new requirements for the management of customer information. Over the past few years, we have invested in our data protection competencies and technical capabilities. We continued the development of our operations to, for example, ensure data management and keeping data up to date. Responsibility report 17 Responsibility at Elisa Financial responsibility Digital responsibility Social responsibility Environmental responsibility GRI index Partners In 2017 3 audits in risk countries were performed. 0 companies were rejected. During the audits, 34 observations We cooperate with more than 5,700 suppliers and were made, of which 3 were considered critical, 7 major and subcontractors, which means that partners are a key part of 24 minor. By the end of the year, 18 of all observations have the responsible development of our business. We acquire a been corrected of which 2 critical, 6 major and 10 minor. large part of our services, materials and products from within the EU (91.9 per cent) and some also from outside the EU Towards the end of 2017, suspicions regarding working hours (8,1 per cent). in the Finnish operations of Tata Consulting Services were raised. TCS is a partner of Elisa. We ensured by means of a Active cooperation ensures that the quality and responsibility request for clarification that the operations comply with Elisa’s goals are reached in the different parts of the supply chain. general Code of Conduct and legislation. For more information about the management of responsible purchasing, please see our corporate responsibility website. Cooperation projects We surveyed human rights risks pertaining to our supply Supporting society and sponsorships are part of corporate chain as part of a human rights survey that covered citizenship. Elisa supports and sponsors carefully selected In autumn 2017, we launched a project called Pidetään the entire Group. The risks identified include human targets. Our partners appeal to wide focus groups, act yhtä (“Stay Connected”), aimed at promoting interaction trafficking, discrimination, wages, the use of child labour and responsibly and comply with Elisa’s values while having between adults and young people. As part of the project, Elisa environmental/social effects. natural links to our business. We always commit to long-term employees have the opportunity to take part in voluntary work cooperation with the selected targets. during their regular working hours with selected partners. This To develop and survey key responsibility actions in the supply one-year voluntary project goes by the name “Stay connected chain, we performed corporate responsibility surveys on 52 We have been engaged in long-term work towards the – as One Elisa” and allows employees of Elisa Corporation of our largest suppliers in summer 2017. Based on the survey wellbeing of young people, in particular, over the course and Elisa Appelsiini Oy to perform voluntary work during one results, we deepened our cooperation with two suppliers. of several years. We have made major investments in working day. the Tukikummit Foundation, Children of the Station and We updated Elisa’s Code of Ethical Purchasing to ShedHelsinki, among others. We also support the success story of Finnish reading and correspond to the revised legislation regarding the posting of writing game Ekapeli. Ekapeli has already helped thousands employees and the Act on the Contractor’s Obligations and In spring 2017, we established the ShedHelsinki Foundation of Finnish children in learning how to read. The cooperation Liability When Work is Contracted Out. to support and realise child and youth welfare work in the is based on Elisa’s desire to support digital learning among form of musical theatre focusing on children with special children and adolescents to help ensure equal opportunities in We changed our Corporate Responsibility auditing practices needs. The chairperson of the Board of Directors of the society. The cooperation is a continuum to the Elisa WORD in high-risk countries. Since 2017 new supplier audits in ShedHelsinki Foundation is Elisa’s CEO, Veli-Matti Mattila. literacy project and the digital schools, which have been risk countries are performed by an third party Corporate arranged since 2014. Responsibility auditor. Audits cover labour conditions andThe work of the ShedHelsinki Foundation in 2017 culminated rights, environmental aspects, anti-corruption, human rights in a musical theatre performance. The play, Prinsessa For more information on Elisa’s cooperation projects, please and monitoring of complience. Ruusunen – Paluu tulevaisuuteen (“Sleeping Beauty – Back see our website. to the Future”) was realised in cooperation with the Helsinki City Theatre. Responsibility report 18 Responsibility at Elisa Financial responsibility Digital responsibility Social responsibility Environmental responsibility GRI index Environmental responsibility Our persistent environmental responsibility work focuses on climate and energy. We are determined to reduce our carbon footprint and that of our customers. The ICT industry has a key role in enabling more environmental friendly ways of operating and mitigating climate change. The global carbon footprint can be reduced by as much as 20 per cent with telecom and ICT products and services. For more information about Elisa’s environmental policy Finnish Energy Efficiency Agreement and performed the and environmental management system, please see our Energy Efficiency Directive audits that are required by 2019 corporate responsibility website. well advance. Mitigating climate change We continuously improve and renew our network, and purchase renewable energy to make our own carbon By developing our operations, we can offer sustainable footprint as small as possible. digital services that supports our customers to use natural We want to promote the resources in a smarter and more climate-friendly manner. Our carbon footprint (Scopes 1 and 2) has decreased by achievement of carbon-neutral In 2017, we set new carbon footprint goals. We committed 63 per cent since 2016. Nearly all of the electricity used by Elisa in Finland and Estonia, 267,672 MWh (276,931), comes society. The reduction of carbon to aim for carbon neutrality by 2050. The first milestone from renewable sources. In 2017, the renewable electricity dioxide emissions has been part of on our way to carbon neutrality is to reducethe carbon footprint of our energy consumption by 50 per cent from was produced by wind power in Finland and hydropower our strategy since 2009. the 2016 level by 2025. We set these goals according to in Estonia. Science Based Target initiative´s reguirements and they are We utilised more of the waste heat of our server room in in line with the goals agreed at the Paris Climate Change Espoo than before. The amount of heat utilised amounted Conference. We committed to the Finnish sustainability to the annual consumption of 122 (82) detached houses initiative Commitment 2050. In addition we signed a with electric heating. We have virtualised 63 per cent of our Responsibility report 19 Responsibility at Elisa Financial responsibility Digital responsibility Social responsibility Environmental responsibility GRI index own servers, which saved 13,172 MWh of energy in 2017. In have prepared a commuting development plan which listed our mobile networks, we achieved savings of 6,574 MWh actions will be enhanced in 2018. through modernisation and electricity-saving properties. We annually disclose our carbon footprint to the CDP 63% We support our customers to reduce their carbon initiative intended to international investors. In the CDP footprint with services that enable them to have efficient, 2017 report, Elisa was accepted on the Climate A list with environmentally sound operations. 106 leading companies. Thousands of companies from all around the world participate in the annual CDP climate Our customers achieved emissions savings of 34,901 tCO2 reporting. (37,527) by using our solutions. The greatest savings were achieved by online interactive solutions: 27,564 (30,221) tCO2. Cloud services allowed our customers to save 7,264 Recycling and other environmental effects emission reduction (7,166) tCO2. A significant part of the ICT industry’s environmental impact comes from the manufacture of devices. As a In 2017 we send approximately 23 million invoices, of which service provider, Elisa can reduce the environmental about 70 per cent are electronic. Roughly 90 per cent of impact of devices by effectively and properly recycling our order confirmations are sent in electronic format. decommissioned devices. We launched a smart commuting project, which included a In 2017, we prepared a recycling guidance video for our survey of our entire personnel, workshops for key personnel customers and an internal training video for the personnel and a commuting pilot. Based on the project results, we in our stores. Elisa's carbon footprint Energy efficiency of tCO₂ mobile data transfer kWh/GB 61,980 1.2 51,629 0.8 0.7 13,142 0.3 9,480 0.2 4,811 13 14 15 16 17 13 14 15 16 17 Responsibility report 20 Responsibility at Elisa Financial responsibility Digital responsibility Social responsibility Environmental responsibility GRI index Description of the report Elisa’s annual report consists of four parts: the financial financial reports (the Elisa Group). For some indicators, The responsibility report is released annually. The previous statements, annual review, corporate governance and the scope has been limited due to a lack of reliable reports are available at www.elisa.fi/sijoittajille. Prior to 2013, responsibility. The annual report is published in Finnish information. The deviations in the boundaries are explained we compiled an index describing responsibility measures and English at www.elisa.fi/vuosikertomus. The different in the context of the specific indicator. We will continue to based on the GRI’s sustainable development reporting sections can be downloaded as interactive PDF files. develop the coverage of our reporting in these respects. guidelines in 2011 and 2012. The publication date of the 2016 report was 15 March 2017. This is Elisa’s fifth verified responsibility report that is The financial information is from the consolidated published as part of the annual report. It is also Elisa’s financial statements, and it complies with IFRS accounting non-financial report. The report has been prepared principles. Contact information according to the Global Reporting Initiative standards Core requirements and Nasdaq Nordic ESG Reporting With regard to environmental indicators, the most Elisa Corporation Guide has also been taken into account when preparing the significant environmental effects of the parent company Minna Kröger, Director, Corporate Responsibility report. and its subsidiaries are included in accordance with the GRI Tel. +358 50 572 7620 guidelines. The calculation of carbon dioxide emissions firstname.lastname@elisa.fi The reporting period is the calendar year 2017. The Global is based on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Reporting Initiative index for 2017 is part of this report. Standard (www.ghgprotocol.org). The figures for Scope 3 are reported according to the GHG Protocol Corporate Corporate responsibility website: Elisa’s management has decided to have the corporate Value Chain standard. The reporting of Scope 2 emissions http://corporate.elisa.com/responsibility responsibility report assured by a third party. The 2017 takes into account GHG Protocol Scope 2 instructions. corporate responsibility report is assured by EY. The For a description of the calculation method, please see our Investor relations: assurance covers the responsibility section of Elisa’s 2017 corporate responsibility website. http://corporate.elisa.com/investors/investor-relations annual report and the personnel review. With regard to personnel, figures for both the parent The reporting of key aspects covers all of the business units company and subsidiaries are included. The structural and subsidiaries included in Elisa’s consolidated financial changes in the Group are presented in more detail in the statements: Consumer Customers, Corporate Customers, annual report. Production, Support Services and the subsidiaries. The starting point for the reporting is the same scope as for the Responsibility report 21 Responsibility at Elisa Financial responsibility Digital responsibility Social responsibility Environmental responsibility GRI index Independent Assurance Report (Translated from the original Report in Finnish language) TO THE MANAGEMENT OF ELISA OYJ At the request of the Management of Elisa Oyj (hereafter whether the corporate responsibility information has been Elisa) we have performed a limited assurance engagement prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the on the information presented for the reporting period reporting principles. 1.1.–31.12.2017 in Elisa’s Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 (hereafter corporate responsibility information). Assurance Provider’s independence and quality assurance Management’s responsibility We comply with the independence and other ethical The Management of Elisa is responsible for the preparation requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional and presentation of the corporate responsibility information Accountants issued by the IESBA (International Ethics in accordance with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards Board for Accountants). We apply ISQC 1 Standards 2016, and Elisa’s internal reporting guidelines (International Standard on Quality Control) and accordingly (hereafter the reporting principles). maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance Assurance Provider’s responsibility with ethical requirements, professional standards and It is our responsibility to present an independent conclusion applicable legal and regulatory requirements. on the corporate responsibility information based on our work performed. We do not accept nor assume responsibility Limitations of the Engagement to anyone else except to Elisa for our work, for the assurance In a limited assurance engagement the evidence gathering report and for the conclusions that we have reached. procedures are more limited than in a reasonable assurance engagement, and therefore less assurance is obtained than We have conducted the assurance engagement in in a reasonable assurance engagement. The procedures accordance with the International Standard on Assurance selected depend on the Assurance Provider’s judgment, Engagements (ISAE) 3000 ‘Assurance Engagements Other including an assessment of the risks that the corporate than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information’. responsibility information would not, in all material respects, The ISAE 3000 standard requires compliance with ethical comply with the reporting principles. We have planned and requirements as well as planning and performing the performed our engagement to obtain sufficient appropriate assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance on evidence on which to base our conclusion. Responsibility report 22 Responsibility at Elisa Financial responsibility Digital responsibility Social responsibility Environmental responsibility GRI index We have performed, among others, the following procedures: Conclusion Based on our work described in this report, nothing has a. An update of our knowledge and understanding of Elisa’s come to our attention that causes us to believe that the material sustainability reporting topics, organisation and corporate responsibility information has not been prepared, activities, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting b. An assessment of suitability and application of the principles, or that the Information is not reliable, in all reporting principles regarding the stakeholders’ needs for material respects, based on the reporting principles. information, c. Interviews with senior management to understand Elisa’s corporate responsibility leadership, d. Interviews with personnel responsible for gathering and Helsinki, 1 March 2018 consolidation of the corporate responsibility information to understand the systems, processes and controls related to Ernst & Young Oy gathering and consolidating the information, e. Reviewing corporate responsibility data from internal and external sources and checking the data to reporting information on a sample basis, Terhi Mäkinen f. Performing recalculation of information and reviewing the Partner, Authorized Public Accountant underlying data which is the basis of narrative disclosures related to the data. Jani Alenius g. Visited two sites and reviewed reporting practices Leader of Climate Change and Sustainability Services Our assurance report should be read in conjunction with the inherent limitations of accuracy and completeness for corporate responsibility information. This independent assurance report should not be used on its own as a basis for interpreting Elisa’s performance in relation to its principles of corporate responsibility. Responsibility report 23 Responsibility at Elisa Financial responsibility Digital responsibility Social responsibility Environmental responsibility GRI index Signatures to the corporate responsibility and non-financial report Helsinki, 7 March 2018 Raimo Lind Clarisse Berggårdh Petteri Koponen Chairman of the Board of Directors Leena Niemistö Seija Turunen Antti Vasara Mika Vehviläinen Veli-Matti Mattila President and CEO Responsibility report 24 Responsibility at Elisa Financial responsibility Digital responsibility Social responsibility Environmental responsibility GRI index GRI content index 2017 – Elisa Oyj UN Global Content Name Boundary Compact Website: http://corporate.elisa.com/responsibility GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES (GRI 102, 2016 standard) 1. Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization Accounting principles Elisa Corporation x 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Elisa in brief Elisa Corporation x 102-3 Location of headquarters Basic information on the Group Elisa Corporation x 102-4 Location of operations Responsible employer Elisa Corporation x 102-5 Ownership and legal form Shares and shareholders Elisa Corporation x 102-6 Markets served Notes to the financial statements 1. Elisa Corporation x 102-7 Scale of the organization The report of the board of directors; Notes to the financial Elisa Corporation statements 1. x 102-8 Information on employees and other workers GRI indicators Elisa Corporation x 102-9 Supply chain Partners Elisa Corporation x 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain Notes to the financial statements 2. 3. ja 35. Elisa Corporation x 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach GRI indicators Elisa Corporation 102-12 External initiatives Responsibility at Elisa; Policies and guidelines; Indices and Elisa Corporation commitments; Management and targets 102-13 Membership of associations Stakeholder dialogue Elisa Corporation 2. Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO's review Elisa Corporation x 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Responsibility at Elisa; Risks ; GRI data Elisa Corporation x 3. Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Responsibility at Elisa; Code of conduct Elisa Corporation x 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Key topics and stakeholders; Stakeholder dialogue Elisa Corporation x 4. Governance 102-18 Governance structure Governance structure; Management and targets Elisa Corporation x 102-19 Delegating authority Governance structure; Management and targets Elisa Corporation x 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics Management and targets Elisa Corporation x 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics Key topics and stakeholders; Customer interaction and Elisa Corporation customer communications; Management and targets x Responsibility report 25 Responsibility at Elisa Financial responsibility Digital responsibility Social responsibility Environmental responsibility GRI index UN Global Content Name Boundary Compact 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Governance structure Elisa Corporation x 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Governance structure Elisa Corporation x 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Governance structure Elisa Corporation x 102-25 Conflicts of interest Governance structure Elisa Corporation x 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy Charter of the Board of Directors Elisa Corporation x 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance Governance structure Elisa Corporation x 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts Governance strucuture Elisa Corporation x 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes III Descriptions of internal control procedures and main Elisa Corporation features of risk management systems. x 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics Key topics and stakeholders Elisa Corporation x 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting Signatures to the corporate responsibility and non-financial Elisa Corporation report x 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Internal auditing Elisa Corporation x 102-35 Remuneration policies Remuneration statement Elisa Corporation x 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Remuneration statement Elisa Corporation x 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration Remuneration statement Elisa Corporation x 5. Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder dialogue; Key topics and stakeholders Elisa Corporation x 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements GRI indicators Elisa Corporation x 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Key topics and stakeholders Elisa Corporation x 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder dialogue; Customer interaction and customer Elisa Corporation communications x 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Key topics and stakeholders; Customer interaction and Elisa Corporation customer communications; Partners x 6. Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Description of the report Elisa Corporation 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Foundation; Description of the report Elisa Corporation 102-47 List of material topics Key topics and stakeholders; GRI index Elisa Corporation 102-48 Restatements of information Description of the report Elisa Corporation 102-49 Changes in reporting Description of the report Elisa Corporation 102-50 Reporting period Description of the report Elisa Corporation x 102-51 Date of most recent report Description of the report Elisa Corporation x 102-52 Reporting cycle Description of the report Elisa Corporation x 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Reporting and contact information Elisa Corporation x 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Description of the report Elisa Corporation x 102-55 GRI content index GRI index Elisa Corporation x 102-56 External assurance Description of the report ; GRI index Elisa Corporation x Responsibility report 26 Responsibility at Elisa Financial responsibility Digital responsibility Social responsibility Environmental responsibility GRI index UN Global Content Name Boundary Compact TOPIC SPECIFIC CONTENT GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH (GRI 103, 2016 standard) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Key topics and stakeholders; Description of the report; Elisa Corporation GRI index 103-2; 103-3 Indirect economic impacts, DMA Foundation; Financial responsibility; Research and development;Elisa Corporation Indirect economic impacts, DMA Management and targets x Foundation; Environmental responsibility ; Management and Elisa Corporation Energy, DMA targets x Foundation; Environmental responsibility; Management and Elisa Corporation Emissions, DMA targets x Foundation; Environmental responsibility ; Management and Elisa Corporation Products and services, DMA targets x Foundation; Environmental responsibility ; Management and Elisa Finland Effluents and waste, DMA targets x Compliance, DMA Foundation; Responsibility at Elisa, Code of Conduct Elisa Corporation x Foundation; Customer interaction and communication ; Ease of Elisa Corporation Marketing Communications , DMA use; Management and targets x Foundation; Digital responsibility; Data security and privacy; Elisa Corporation Customer privacy, DMA Management and targets x Customer Health and Safety , DMA Foundation; Functional network and services Elisa Corporation x Employment, DMA Foundation; Responsible employer; Management and targets Elisa Corporation x Diversity and Equal Opportunity , DMA Foundation; Responsible employer; Management and targets Elisa Corporation x Occupational Health and Safety , DMA Foundation; Personnel review; Management and targets Elisa Corporation x Training and Education , DMA Foundation; Personnel review; Management and targets Elisa Corporation x Foundation; Responsible employer; Code of conduct; Elisa Corporation Non-discrimination , DMA Management and targets x Foundation; Data security and privacy; Management and Elisa Corporation Security Practices, DMA targets x Foundation; Partners; Code of conduct; Management and Elisa Corporation DMA, Anti-corruption targets x Public Policy, DMA Foundation; Stakeholder dialogue; Code of conduct Elisa Corporation x GRI 201: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE (GRI 201, 2016 standard) 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed GRI indicators Elisa Corporation 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change GRI indicators Elisa Corporation GRI 203: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS (GRI 203, 2016 standard) 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported GRI indicators Elisa Corporation 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Research and development; Responsible employer; Networks Elisa Corporation Responsibility report 27 Responsibility at Elisa Financial responsibility Digital responsibility Social responsibility Environmental responsibility GRI index UN Global Content Name Boundary Compact GRI 205: ANTI-CORRUPTION (GRI 205, 2016 standard) 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures GRI indicators Elisa Corporation x 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken GRI indicators Elisa Corporation x GRI 302: ENERGY (GRI 302, 2016 standard) 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization GRI indicators Elisa Corporation x 302-3 Energy intensity GRI indicators Elisa Corporation x 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption GRI indicators Elisa Corporation x 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services GRI indicators Elisa Corporation x GRI 305: EMISSIONS (GRI 305, 2016 standard) 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions GRI indicators Elisa Corporation x 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions GRI indicators Elisa Corporation x 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions GRI indicators Elisa Corporation, A more detailed description at the context of the indicator x 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions GRI indicators Elisa Corporation x GRI 306: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE (GRI 306, 2016 standard) 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method GRI indicators Elisa Finland x 306-3 Significant spills GRI indicators Elisa Finland x GRI 307: ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE (GRI 307, 2016 standard) 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations GRI indicators Elisa Corporation x GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT (GRI 401, 2016 standard) 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover GRI indicators Elisa Corporation x 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or partGRI indicators Elisa Corporation time employees GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY (GRI 403, 2016 standard) 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health and safety GRI indicators Elisa Corporation committees 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, GRI indicators Elisa Corporation, excluded and number of work-related fatalities Elisa Videra Italy, Elisa Videra UK, LNS kommunication, Santa Monica Networks Oy Responsibility report 28 Responsibility at Elisa Financial responsibility Digital responsibility Social responsibility Environmental responsibility GRI index UN Global Content Name Boundary Compact GRI 404: TRAINING AND EDUCATION (GRI 404, 2016 standard) 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee GRI indicators Elisa Corporation x 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs Personnel review Elisa Corporation, excluded Enia, Hong Kong ja LNR kommunications Oy 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development GRI indicators Elisa Corporation reviews x GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY (GRI 405, 2016 standard) 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees GRI indicators Elisa Corporation x GRI 406: NON-DISCRIMINATION (GRI 406, 2016 standard) 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken GRI indicators Elisa Corporation x GRI 410: SECURITY PRACTICES (GRI 410, 2016 standard) 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures GRI indicators Elisa Finland x GRI 415: PUBLIC POLICY (GRI 415, 2016 standard) 415-1 Political contributions GRI indicators Elisa Corporation x GRI 416: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY (GRI 416, 2016 standard) 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products GRI indicators Elisa Corporation and services GRI 417: MARKETING AND LABELING (GRI 102, 2016 standard) 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications GRI indicators Elisa Corporation GRI 418: CUSTOMER PRIVACY (GRI 418, 2016 standard) 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of GRI indicators Elisa Corporation customer data Responsibility report 29 Responsibility at Elisa Financial responsibility Digital responsibility Social responsibility Environmental responsibility GRI index Economic responsibility indicators 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2015 2016 2017 Net sales, EUR million 1 1,578 1,647 1,787 Suppliers and partners 776 802 881 Personnel remuneration 266 275 304 Dividends and interests 238 248 263 Taxes and other public oblications 56 60 65 Capital expenditure investments2 196 204 246 Taxes, EUR, million 368 392 408 Corporate tax 56 60 65 Value-added tax 199 207 215 Income tax and withholding tax 87 93 94 Public fees 15 20 19 Other taxes and public fees 11 11 16 1 Incl. financial income 2 Capital expenditure investments differs from GRI definition Responsibility report 30 Responsibility at Elisa Financial responsibility Digital responsibility Social responsibility Environmental responsibility GRI index 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change Risk Description Impact assesment Risk management/opportunity International The New Paris agreement strive for limit average temperature Estimated cost for Elisa of carbon pricing is 100,000-200,000 We have set Science based target, which is in line with Paris agreements to 1,5°C and to update national targets every five years to keep EUR. Estimated implications are less than 1% of operational costs agreement´s targets. We use renewable energy so that our raising ambition customers could use lowcarbon connections. Fuel/energy taxes and Changes caused either directly or indirectly by climate change in Average electricity price in Europe is expected to grow 18% Elisa manages the risk with group wide energy/carbon footprint regulations the taxation of electricity, taxation of transmission of electricity and to 2030 compared to 2010 levels mainly due regulation e.g. management system. Work is managed by energy efficiency any carbon dioxide tax requirements concerning renewal energy production shares. 12% working group. Our customers can act more energy efficient way increase in Elisa´s electricity cost is about 1,1 MEUR (36 EUR/ by using our services. For example based our studies, one virtual MWh). server is even 95% energy efficient than physical server. General environmental In Finland ´s new national Climate change act came into force in It will potentially increase the need for even more detailed We are constantly working on better measurement and regulations 06.01.2015 The law provides for climate policy planning system measurement and monitoring of energy consumption. This also calculations, using renewal energy and we we have set more and monitoring the achievement of climate change goals adds pressures to more ambitious carbon target setting and carbon ambitious middle – and long term target to our carbon footprint. pricing. Our customers can reduce their own carbon footprint by using digital services for example our virtual meeting services. Based our calculations one virtual meeting will save 25 kgCO2 per meeting. Extreme Climate change causes extreme weather phenomena that are a The increase in the number of disruptions causes higher personnel Elisa has in place a real-time, comprehensive monitoring weather threat for Elisa's mobile networks. Storms cause power failures and costs and costs incurred in replacing broken equipment.Estimated system for network disturbances. This enables identification phenomena interruptions in Elisa's services. costs are based on one actual severe disruption event. Cost may of disturbances and rapid repairs. The demand for real-time vary from 200,000 to 500,000 EUR, depending on overall measurement and monitoring services will increase in the future. circumstances. Changes in Rising average temperatures and heat waves will increase the need Costs will increase due to the increased electricity consumption Elisa has a data centre in Espoo that uses heat loss energy average for cooling in Elisa’s telecommunications and data centres and incurred from investments in cooling devices.We estimate that the generated by the data centre servers for district heating in the temperature facilities. implication could be about 1% growth in electricity consumption region. We have increased our heat loss energy usage also in our which equals about 90,000 EUR (36 EUR/MWh). office environments. Growing Climate change increases the environmental awareness of Elisa’s The risk impacts to the demand of Elisa´s services. According to Elisa's services make it possible to build a lower carbon society. environmental stakeholder groups. Reporting to stakeholders is increasing, as are Sustainable Brand Index report 2017 33% of the consumers are Growth in Elisa's business and may also create new business awareness the requirements for climate-friendly operations. willing to pay 10% more for sustainable products and services. If operations. For example our new Elisa remote measurement of our stakeholders Elisa fails to take advance of that potential, that could result 3.3 % service to asthma patients could save CO2 emissions 12% decline in future consumer business revenue (approximately it is 33 meanwhile monetary savings compared to old process are 20%. MEUR). Responsibility report 31 Responsibility at Elisa Financial responsibility Digital responsibility Social responsibility Environmental responsibility GRI index 203-1 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 2015 2016 2017 Capital expenditure, EUR million 1 196 204 246 CAPEX/revenue, % 12 13 14 1 Investments are mainly commerical investments Personnel GRI – Key figures Own indicator: Mobile works solutions and CO2 savings in Elisa 2015 2016 2017 Virtual meetings 211,024 227,556 268,586 Distance working days/person/year 75 77 75 Carbon dioxide savings (tCO2) 8,817 5,101 5,606 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 416-2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes No significant violations in 2017 417-3 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Elisa received one prohibition verdict from the Market Court about Elisa's marketing. Elisa has received in some individual cases notifications from the Data Protection Ombudsman concerning its’ direct marketing Responsibility report 32 Responsibility at Elisa Financial responsibility Digital responsibility Social responsibility Environmental responsibility GRI index 418-1 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Elisa has received in some individual cases notifications from the Data Protection Ombudsman concerning customer privacy LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK 102-8 Total Number of Employees by Employment Contract, Employment Type, Region and Gender 2015 2016 2017 Personnel in total, 31.12.2017 4,545 4,781 5,152 Permanent contract 4,410 4,475 5,008 Finland 3,705 3,838 4,009 Estonia 538 506 888 Other countries 111 131 111 Men 2,790 2,962 3,283 Women 1,564 1,513 1,725 Temporary contract 153 306 144 Finland 83 189 70 Estonia 65 112 71 Other countries 3 5 3 Men 77 192 80 Women 74 114 64 Fulltime employees 3,753 3,926 4,291 Finland 3,076 3,236 3,302 Estonia 538 563 888 Other countries 106 127 101 Men 2,387 2,570 2,773 Women 1,333 1,356 1,518 Part-time employees 792 855 861 Finland 130 791 777 Estonia 38 55 80 Other countries 8 9 4 Men 41 584 590 Women 135 271 271 Responsibility report 33 Responsibility at Elisa Financial responsibility Digital responsibility Social responsibility Environmental responsibility GRI index 102-41 Percentage of Total Employees Covered by Collective Bargaining Agreements 2015 2016 2017 95% 82% 78% 401-1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region 2015 2016 2017 New employee hires 1,139 1,224 1,396 Finland 887 922 1,123 Estonia 194 258 232 Other countries 58 44 41 Men 709 815 989 Women 430 409 407 Under 30 years 819 902 843 30-39 years 193 207 415 40-49 years 82 75 98 Over 49 years 45 40 40 Terminated employments 983 1,271 1,433 Finland 786 950 966 Estonia 193 201 400 Other countries 4 120 67 Men 558 807 863 Women 425 464 570 Under 30 years 659 748 832 30-39 years 166 276 316 40-49 years 81 125 164 Over 49 years 77 122 121 1 Elisa has reported the indicator its own way: Empolyee turnover is missing. 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation Based on collective agreements our occupational health, insurance, parental leave or pension benefits are not dependent on the duration or part-time nature of employment. 403-1 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs n/a 97% 98% Responsibility report 34 Responsibility at Elisa Financial responsibility Digital responsibility Social responsibility Environmental responsibility GRI index 403-2 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender 2015 2016 2017 Injury rate (IR) Finland Commuting injuries n/a n/a 8.0 Work time injuries n/a n/a 3.9 Estonia Commuting injuries n/a n/a 0.0 Work time injuries n/a n/a 0.0 Other Countries Commuting injuries n/a n/a 6.3 Work time injuries n/a n/a 0.0 Occupational disease rate (ODR) Finland n/a n/a 0.2 Estonia n/a n/a 0.0 Other Countries n/a n/a 0.0 Lost day rate (LDR) Finland n/a n/a 98.1 Estonia n/a n/a 0.0 Other Countries n/a n/a 0.0 Absentee rate (AR) Finland n/a 3,6% 3.7% Estonia n/a n/a 7.8% Other Countries n/a n/a 0.5% Commuting injuries 48 Finland n/a n/a 47 Estonia n/a n/a 0 Other Countries n/a n/a 1 Work time injuries 23 Finland n/a n/a 23 Estonia n/a n/a 0 Other Countries n/a n/a 0 Occupational diseases 1 Finland n/a n/a 1 Estonia n/a n/a 0 Other Countries n/a n/a 0 Responsibility report 35 Responsibility at Elisa Financial responsibility Digital responsibility Social responsibility Environmental responsibility GRI index Lost day incidents 72 Finland n/a n/a 72 Estonia n/a n/a 0 Other Countries n/a n/a 0 Absentees, days 50,416 Finland n/a n/a 32,055 Estonia n/a n/a 18,258 Other Countries 103 Work relate fatalities 0 Finland n/a n/a 0 Estonia n/a n/a 0 Other Countries n/a n/a 0 1 Reporting covers 98% of the Group's personnel. We will improve our reporting. For more information, see Description Of The Reportchapter. 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 2015 2016 2017 Gender Men 8.98 12.83 8.63 Women 10.86 16.38 8.89 Employee category Senior management 10.9 15.33 9.18 Middle management 8.8 19.92 15.48 Other employees 11.9 12.63 7.32 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category 2015 2016 2017 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 89% 78% 76% 1) Men 1,596 2,488 2,282 Women 844 1,223 1,304 Senior management n/a 169 124 Middle management n/a 757 754 Other employees n/a 2,785 2,708 1 Reporting covers 91% of the Group’s personnel. We will improve our reporting. For more information, see Description Of The Reportchapter. Responsibility report 36 Responsibility at Elisa Financial responsibility Digital responsibility Social responsibility Environmental responsibility GRI index 405-1 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity 2015 2016 2017 Elisa’s Executive Board 9 9 10 Women 2 2 2 Under 30 years 0 0 0 30-39 years 0 0 0 40-49 years 4 3 3 Over 49 years 5 6 7 Board of Directors 6 7 7 Women 2 3 3 Under 30 years 0 0 0 30-39 years 0 0 0 40-49 years 1 2 1 Over 49 years 5 5 6 Management teams of business units 79 79 75 Women 32 32 27 Under 30 years 1 0 0 30-39 years 10 8 11 40-49 years 43 42 37 Over 49 years 25 29 27 Managerial board for corporate responsibility 10 10 9 Women 4 4 4 Under 30 years 0 0 0 30-39 years 1 1 1 40-49 years 5 6 5 Over 49 years 4 3 3 Breakdown of personnel by gender Men 63.6% 66.0% 65.3% Women 36.4% 34.0% 34.7% Breakdown of personnel by age Under 30 years 25.3% 25.9% 26.3% 30-39 years 33.0% 31.5% 31.3% 40-49 years 24.8% 25.0% 24.8% Over 49 years 16.9% 17.5% 17.6% Responsibility report 37 Responsibility at Elisa Financial responsibility Digital responsibility Social responsibility Environmental responsibility GRI index HUMAN RIGHTS 406-1 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken No incidents in 2017 410-1 Precentage of security personnel trained in the oraganization´s human right policies or prosedures that are relevant to operations All security personnel working permanently in Elisa (100%) have conducted statutory training according to Finnish law and in addition they have been trained to Elisa Code of Conduct. 205-2 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 2015 2016 2017 Code of conduct training (share of employees who have conducted training) n/a 79% 72% 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken No incidents in 2017 SOCIETY 415-1 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary We have not made any political contributions in 2017 Responsibility report 38 Responsibility at Elisa Financial responsibility Digital responsibility Social responsibility Environmental responsibility GRI index Environmental reponsibility indicators 102-11 Whether and How the Precautionary Approach or Principle is Addressed by the Organization The precautionary principle has been taken into account in accordance with statutory requirements. 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization (GJ, gigajoule) Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 2015 2016 2017 Usage of diesel and petrol 2,435 2,261 2,174 Usage of oil 3,533 3,435 3,596 1) Total 5,968 5,696 5,770 Purchased renewal energy 0 0 0 1) Figure has been revised retrospectively to year 2015 Indirect energy consumption by primary sources 2015 2016 2017 Electricity 920,134 964,550 963,845 Heating 59,361 59,671 53,331 Cooling 16,797 18,021 23,977 Total 996,291 1,042,242 1,041,153 Renewable energy (electricity) 864,180 880,920 901,620 Responsibility report 39 Responsibility at Elisa Financial responsibility Digital responsibility Social responsibility Environmental responsibility GRI index 302-3 Energy intensity 2015 2016 2017 Mobile networks electricity consumption of transferred Gigabyte (kWh) 0.7 0.3 0.2 302-4 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements (GJ) 1) 2015 2016 2017 Ideal work office spaces (electricity and heating) 39,832 52,286 56,830 Energy efficiency in server environments (electricity) 26,010 37,955 47,421 Reuse of server generated heat (electricity) 16,913 17,950 18,669 Energy efficiency in mobile networks (electricity) n/a 24,630 23,666 Total 82,754 132,821 146,585 1) Additional information and calculation principles for Elisa’s environmental responsibility report are available at: http://corporate.elisa.com/responsibility/environmental-responsibility 302-5 Reduction in energy requirements of product and services (GJ) 1) 2015 2016 2017 Transfer to virtual servers (electricity) 85,026 73,975 75,799 1) Additional information and calculation principles for Elisa’s environmental responsibility report are available at: http://corporate.elisa.com/responsibility/environmental-responsibility 305-1 ja 305-2 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight (tCO2, ) 2015 2016 2017 Scope 1, Direct greenhouse gas emissions 409 391 409 2) Scope2, Indirect greenhouse gas emissions, market based 9,071 12,751 4,402 Scope 2, Indirect greenhouse gas emissions, location based 77,071 79,271 71,225 1) Additional information for Elisa’s environmental responsibility report are available at: http://corporate.elisa.com/responsibility/environmental-responsibility 2) Figure has been revised retrospectively to year 2015 Responsibility report 40 Responsibility at Elisa Financial responsibility Digital responsibility Social responsibility Environmental responsibility GRI index 305-3 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight (tCO2, tonnes of carbon diokside) 1) Sources of Scope 3 emissions 2015 2016 2017 Description Figure includes Purchased goods and services 86,338 85,195 73,431 Relevant, Elisa Finland and Elisa Estonia , paperand calculated e-bills and office paper; Elisa Oyj: purchased products to sell and services Capital goods 16,872 17,289 35,631 Relevant, Elisa Finland, Purchased basestations and other calculated network equipments Fuel-and energyrelated activities 5,228 5,787 3,146 Relevant, Elisa Finland and Elisa Estonia: Emissions of fuel calculated production of electricity used Upstream transportation and distribution 554 1,456 1,022 Not relevant, Transportation of goods to Elisa and to our calculated customers Waste generated in operations 612 868 683 Not relevant, Elisa Finland waste, Elisa sewage water calculated Business travel 1,579 1,998 1,201 Relevant, Elisa calculated Employee commuting 3,054 2,541 3,186 Relevant, Elisa calculated Upstream leased assets, 0 0 0 Not relevant, Consumption in rented sites is calculated in explanation Scope 2 provided Downstream transportation and distribution 0 0 0 Not relevant, Not relevant, Elisa is not selling transportation explanation services provided Processing of sold product 0 0 0 Not relevant, Not relevant, No processing of products explanation provided Use of sold product 11,483 13,935 8,211 Relevant Energy consuption of customer´s devices. calculated Electricity consuption of services is reported in Scope 2. End-of-life treatment of sold products 672 624 305 Relevant End of life treatment of Elisa´s sold products calculated Downstream leased assets 0 0 0 Relevant, Consumption of leased operators is calculated calculated in Scope 2. We purchase renewal electricity. Franchises 0 0 0 Not relevant, Not relevant, No franchies explanation provided Investment 0 0 0 Not relevant, Not relevant, No significant credit management explanation provided 1) Additional information for Elisa’s environmental responsibility report are available at: http://corporate.elisa.com/responsibility/environmental-responsibility Responsibility report 41 Responsibility at Elisa Financial responsibility Digital responsibility Social responsibility Environmental responsibility GRI index 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 2015 2016 2017 Scope 1 and 2 emissions per revenue (KgCO2/EUR) 0.006 0.008 0.003 305-5 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions1 (tCO2) 1) 2015 2016 2017 Emission reductions in service production 49,633 118,560 121,067 Ideal work solutions, scope 3 8,817 5,101 5,606 Computer rooms, scope 2 6,075 5,197 6,336 Reuse of products, scope 3 1,496 1,939 1,210 Electronic invoicing, scope 3 914 937 1,121 Emission savings in mobile network, scope 2 32,331 2,756 2,268 Usage of renewal energy, scope 2 n/a 102,630 104,526 1) Additional information and calculation principles for Elisa’s environmental responsibility report are available at: http://corporate.elisa.com/responsibility/environmental-responsibility 306-2 The overall weight of waste by type and disposal method (tonnes) 1) 2015 2016 2017 Total waste amount 2) 964 1,339 1,017 Hazardous waste 2) 102 257 177 WEEE (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment) 2) 275 397 302 Recycling % 83% 93% 99% Recovery % 17% 7.2% 0.7% Landfill % 0% 0.2% 0.0% 1) Elisa has used its own waste breakdown 2) Amounts not available for Elisa Estonia 306-3 Total number and volume of significant spills No spills in 2017 307-1 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations No non-compliances in 2017 Responsibility report 42
