Living Our Story EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT Table of Contents Section EDELMAN EDELMAN FY17 2017 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2 A Letter from Our CEO Our Clients Welcome to the stories that chronicle how we Page 3 Page 13 are living our Citizenship journey at Edelman. Dan Edelman’s Legacy Our People Page 4 Page 21 Living with purpose. Living up to the guiding principles imparted by our founder, Dan Edelman. Ideals that embody giving back and acting as Ruth Edelman’s Impact Our Communities Page 5 Page 26 responsible citizens of the world. Continuing the Citizenship Our World Since Edelman opened its doors 65 years ago, our narrative of corporate Heritage Page 37 responsibility has evolved through steady advances and innovation. At A Conversation with Richard, times, our journey has taken longer than anticipated. But the pace of John & Renée Edelman About this Report Page 6 Page 44 progress accelerates this year as we launch 10 new ambitious goals, including several leading initiatives. Just as we bring our expertise, FY17 Highlights GRI Content Index creativity, and fresh ideas to help our clients earn the trust of their Page 9 Page 45 audiences, we also apply these to the issues that our firm and our employees care about deeply. The 10 Citizenship Goals Page 10 Appendices Page 55 In this report, we relate the many distinct ways we live our Citizenship story with our clients, our communities, our colleagues, and our world. Our Alignment with the UN SDGs Page 11 A Letter from Our CEO EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 3 A Letter from Our CEO We live in a time of troubling distrust in societal institutions and a belief among people around the world that the system is failing to better their lives. Business We also are making progress internally. I’m happy to report that we continue to advance toward our goal, established in 2011, of 50:50 gender parity in senior “Edelman has been a participant in has a responsibility to fill this leadership void and work leadership positions at our firm by 2020. As of the end of the United Nations Global Compact since to restore people’s trust. In this context, I am pleased FY17, 41 percent of our most senior leaders are women. to present this report, which captures how we are doing In total, our overall giving, encompassing nearly 26,000 March 2001. I am proud to pledge our part through our Citizenship efforts. hours of professional and general volunteerism, 42 community investment grants, and our matching of Edelman’s continued support to Looking back at our fiscal year 2017 (FY17), I’m employee donations, reached $4.2 million. particularly proud of the vital role we played in helping companies and brands take a stand on pressing social concerns. Our annual Trust Barometer and Earned Brand We updated our sustainable procurement policy to better reflect our commitment to responsible purchasing the Compact and its goals. ” studies guide our clients to a better understanding of and supplier diversity. We also have aligned our what their audiences expect from them as social actors. Citizenship initiatives with UN Sustainable Development Goals, recognizing that Edelman is part of a global This past year, we worked with Heineken on its community with its own role to play in seeking positive “Worlds Apart” campaign to establish meaningful social change. dialogue on racial and ethnic issues. We continued our groundbreaking work with retailer REI, encouraging Every day, we approach these efforts with the same consumers to #OptOutside and enjoy nature instead of dedication and commitment that we bring to work we do shopping on Black Friday, the biggest shopping day in for our clients. Our Citizenship represents the very best the United States; and also helped KIND bars puncture of our people and our firm. people’s self-referring social media “bubbles,” among other exciting work. Richard Edelman President and CEO Dan Edelman’s Legacy EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 4 Dan Edelman’s 65-Year Legacy of Doing Good Public relations pioneer Dan Edelman began laying out – and living – our Citizenship principles practically from the day he established Daniel J. Edelman and Associates on Oct. 1, 1952. His credo of success, 10 core values that drive us today, underscored his deep interest in and forward thinking about sustainability and Citizenship. They encompass strong advocacy of volunteerism, business ethics, corporate responsibility, and of adopting a life of “we,” not “I,” as we strive to be a collective force for good. Early on, he advocated for and helped secure a stronger ethical code for the Public Relations Society of America, just one element of his lifelong effort to strengthen our profession. “ It’s great to be the biggest, but I always wanted to be the best. Dan Edelman Founder and Chairman (1920-2013) Ruth Edelman’s Impact EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 5 “ Dan’s desire for total integrity “ is one of the big reasons the company began to succeed. Dan’s story was also that of his wife, Ruth, an essential and ever-present life partner in living the values of good citizenship. Led by Ruth, the Edelmans supported numerous health, cultural and civic organizations as well as other nonprofits. Our Ruth Edelman Citizenship Award, introduced in fiscal 2016, recognizes the agency’s pro bono project that demonstrates our global social responsibility to the highest extent. Ruth Edelman Deputy Chairman (1929-2013) Continuing the Citizenship Heritage EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 6 Richard, John, and Renée Edelman continue the Citizenship journey of their parents, Dan and Ruth. Richard is our President and CEO, John is Managing Director of Global Engagement and Corporate Responsibility, and Renée is a Senior Vice President. Here, they discuss their family’s Citizenship heritage and the social responsibility path they lead – and live – today. Continuing the Citizenship Heritage EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 7 Living Our Story Continuing the Citizenship Heritage: A Conversation with Richard, John and Renée Edelman On how their parents implanted the importance of On the Citizenship elements in Dan Edelman’s 10 On the importance of a company being a leader giving back. Principles of Success. of change. Richard: From the age of four, I remember all the people Renée: They dominate his principles: volunteering, doing Richard: Our Global Trust and Earned Brand surveys my parents had over to the house – community leaders, what’s right, focusing on well-being. And I pass them along. illuminate the importance of standing up and being heard politicians, heads of charities, and others. Those indelible For instance, at their commencement, I urged Louisiana on societal issues. The 2017 Trust Barometer found that memories imbedded the importance of community State University’s communications school graduates to business is the last retaining wall of trust among major involvement and giving back. connect with their communities to stimulate action and help institutions, and our 2017 Earned Brand study underlines Renée: Our parents led by example. For example, my solve social issues. how belief-driven buyers will leave brands that don’t take a mother, who suffered from bipolar disorder, was an activist Richard: In my first 6 A.M. blog in 2004, I talked about stand on issues they care about and reward those that do. for mental health and lobbied successfully for mental health the new rules of engagement, and they included several John: Employees continuously favor Citizenship initiatives, research funds. of Dad’s principles, such as taking an ethical approach to especially relating to diversity, health & well-being, and John: Dad considered volunteerism to be a principle of sourcing and business. volunteerism. Eighty-one percent of our employees view success for a business. That involvement includes doing John: I became a veteran advocate in 2013 to honor the Edelman’s Citizenship program as an important reason pro bono work – and that work continues at Edelman as we legacy of my dad, a World War II veteran. Now, having seen for joining us. Because of strong employee interest, we provide every employee eight hours of paid time off annually the positive contributions the veterans we employ have relaunched our global Diversity & Inclusion Council in FY17 for pro bono and volunteer activities. made, I am even more positive about the importance of and included the leaders of our employee resource groups. hiring veterans at Edelman. They have the leadership, skills, Renée: We want to attract the best and brightest, and knowledge, and experience to help employers to continue our Citizenship initiatives – especially GWEN, our women’s to grow. resource group, and the other strong employee resource groups that help us succeed by engaging and recruiting diverse populations – help to distinguish us. Continuing the Citizenship Heritage EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 8 Living Our Story from the government, professional services firms, and other On the significance of establishing a formal Global On being a valuable partner with clients, others on stakeholders. The General Services Administration (GSA) Citizenship function. Citizenship-related issues. estimates the professional services sector accounted for $66.9 billion of federal spending in fiscal 2016. The NSF Richard: It’s essential. I applaud my brother and his team Richard: Helping companies navigate challenging social 391.1 standard was made available for public comment in for helping us put Citizenship in operation. Among other issues is a vital role for us. We’re proud to work with clients September 2017. things, we’re moving to achieve sustainable procurement such as Heineken on its “Worlds Apart” campaign to including supplier diversity, helping establish the firstestablish a dialogue on racial and ethnic issues. I’m also ever sustainability standard for the professional services very proud of the work our team in Washington, DC has On how each continues their parents’ Citizenship sector and contributing to a low-carbon future through the done in support of a new exhibition at Montpelier, home message. purchase of renewable energy credits. of James Madison, in Orange, Virginia. The provocative, Renée: I spread that message to young people as a John: Today, Citizenship is a strategic imperative and interactive, and emotional exhibition The Mere Distinction of member of the Board of Directors for the Children’s a “must have.” We’re embedding Citizenship and Color, explores how the legacy of slavery impacts today’s Museum of Manhattan. sustainability considerations in everything we do, as conversations about race, identity, and human rights. John: I am on the Student Veterans of America’s advisory reflected in our 10 new Citizenship goals for FY18 Renée: It’s heartening to see so many coalitions moving board and also a member of the United Nations Global and beyond. forward on societal and environmental issues, ranging from Compact action platform called “Reporting on SDGs.” This diversity and gender equality to climate change and other platform aims to leverage the GRI Standards and the Ten sustainability challenges. Several of our 10 new Citizenship Principles of the UN Global Compact to enable businesses goals reflect our desire to increase diversity among our to incorporate SDG reporting into their existing processes. employees and our suppliers. Richard: I am a commissioner of the Business and John: I have been involved in an American National Sustainable Development Commission. And as our parents Standards Institute multi-stakeholder voluntary consensus did, I try to pass along the Citizenship imperative to my process to develop NSF 391.1, the first-ever sustainability three daughters through witnessing it. I am proud that my standard for professional services firms. It is a points-driven daughter Amanda has joined Grameen, the microfinance and results-based standard developed with participation organization that makes small loans to the impoverished without requiring collateral. FY17 Highlights EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 9 FY17 6.5/10 Introduction of a sustainable UN Sustainable Development Highlights Citizenship Score procurement Goals alignment policy 112,695 “Best Places to Work for LGBT Equality” 7% $4,176,099 hours (Human Rights carbon intensity total giving of Training (tCO2e/FTE) reduction (time and cash Campaign Foundation) donations) Introduced Edelman Inclusivo, 25,760 hours 42 10 new our Employee Resource of pro bono and Community Investment Citizenship general volunteerism Grants awarded Group for Hispanic/ goals Latino employees Introduced Edelman Forward, 30 employees 41% Women 8 UN Sustainable participated in the in senior leadership Development Goals our Employee Resource Edelman Escape positions impacted by the Group for veteran program (50% target) Community Investment employees Grant program The 10 Citizenship Goals EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 10 Living Our Story The 10 Citizenship Goals Our formal Citizenship program has been an Environment 6. Sustainable Procurement: Edelman seeks to measure, evolutionary one. In FY17 the Edelman Executive 1. Carbon Footprint: Edelman aims to realize a 10 percent evaluate, and improve its spend with diverse suppliers in Committee signaled its desire to accelerate the decrease in carbon intensity emissions (tCO2e/FTE) in our the United States in FY18, including Minority-, Women-, program by approving 10 specific Citizenship goals. 15 Carbon Trust certified offices by 2020 (scope 1 + 2 LGBTQ-, Veteran-owned, Small Disadvantaged, and The initiatives cover environmental, economic, and emissions, compared to 2016 levels). small HUBZone businesses. social areas. Social 2. Carbon Footprint: Edelman commits to neutralize 100 percent of its US operations’ scope 2 emissions by 7. Learning & Development: Edelman seeks to implement purchasing Renewable Energy Credits (REC) for all US additional training modules, policies and investment in “With these goals, we are on our way to offices in FY18. the Edelman Learning Institute to communicate with our 3. Carbon Footprint: Edelman aims to maintain our Carbon employees on relevant corporate social responsibility Trust Certification worldwide by applying for recertification topics, such as sustainable procurement, diversity & inclusion, workplace behavior, and other topics. successfully embedding sustainability in in FY18. Economic 8. Diversity & Inclusion: Edelman’s goal is that by 2020, everything we do – and that has been our 4. Business Ethics: Edelman seeks to align its business women will hold 50 percent of senior leadership positions (level 5+) globally. ” practices and corporate social responsibility program to vision of living our Citizenship story, the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals in 9. Pro Bono: Edelman aims to deliver 50 percent of its FY18. pro bono hours against the following UN Sustainable John Edelman 5. Sustainable Procurement: Edelman will measure Development Goals as identified by our employees: Gender Equality, Quality Education, and Zero Hunger designated key business partners’ compliance with starting in FY18. its sustainable procurement policy, using leading independent third-party supply chain accountability and 10.Health & Well-being: Edelman will invest in a global transparency platforms, starting in FY18. culture of health & well-being that is intended to provide employees in all locations with access to a structured (local or regional) health & well-being program, supported by ongoing local initiatives. Our Alignment with the UN SDGs EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 11 Living Our Story Aligning Citizenship with UN Sustainable Development Goals Joining many other organizations, we are connecting Applying the SDGs enables us to: and aligning our corporate Citizenship efforts with the • Map our existing efforts against the SDGs for global United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). reporting purposes; The alignment generates a shared global framework for • Leverage the SDGs to evolve our own approach; addressing society’s biggest challenges, while also viewing our own activities in a broader context. • Help us extend their broad-reaching impact across our agency as well as to our clients and suppliers. Seventeen goals and 169 associated targets comprise the SDGs adopted as part of the UN’s 2030 Agenda for More broadly, it recognizes that Edelman is part of a global Sustainable Development. community with our own role to play in contributing to that community’s shared agenda for seeking positive social change. Edelman follows the SDG Compass process as developed by GRI, UN Global Compact, and WBCSD: Step 01 Step 02 Step 03 Step 05 Step 04 Understanding Defining Setting Integrating into Reporting & the SDGS Priorities Goals the business Communicating Our Alignment with the UN SDGs EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 12 Living Our Story Aligning Citizenship with UN Sustainable Development Goals The graph below shows how Edelman’s material Citizenship topics (covered in this report) impact the UN Sustainable Development Goals. UN SDG MATERIAL TOPIC Our Clients Business Ethics & Compliance l l Data Privacy & Information Security l Our People Employee Health & Well-Being l l l l l l Diversity & Inclusion l l l l l Learning & Development l l l Our Communities Pro Bono Initiatives l l l General Volunteerism Corporate Giving Our World Sustainable Purchasing l l l l l Supplier Diversity l l l l l l Green Office Policies l l l l l l l l l Carbon Footprint l l l l l l Section EDELMAN 2017 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 13 Our Clients Driving Change in Partnership with Our Clients The Edelman Trust Barometer captures the strong belief held by the general public worldwide that Citizenship matters. In the 2017 study, three-of-four respondents agreed that a company can take actions that both boost profits and improve economic and social conditions in the community where it operates. They want companies and their leaders to live Citizenship by actively addressing the critical issues that matter deeply to their employees and society. We work hard to demonstrate this belief within Edelman and to share it with our clients. In this section, we show how we assist clients with purpose-driven campaigns that make a real difference on many varied fronts. Our Clients EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 14 Our Clients The Social Role of Business Our intellectual property serves as a valued resource for Some highlights of the 2017 Edelman Trust Barometer THE 2017 EARNED BRAND STUDY our clients and others, encouraging them to think about and 2017 Earned Brand study: • Found that 57 percent of consumers worldwide will how they contribute to the greater good of our world. buy or boycott a brand solely because of its position 2017 GLOBAL TRUST BAROMETER on a social or political issue, with 30 percent making Working with our research arm, Edelman Intelligence, • Revealed the biggest drop in trust across the these belief-driven purchase decisions more often than we develop annually two major pieces of intellectual institutions of government, business media, and NGOs they did three years ago. property: the annual global Edelman Trust Barometer, in the study’s 17-year history. The research shows which studies trust in government, business, media, and • Found that 23 percent of consumers will pay at least that 20 out of the 28 countries we surveyed are now a 25 percent premium when a brand speaks out NGOs, now entering its 18th year; and our Earned Brand “distrusters” (under 50 percent trust in the mainstream study of consumer attitudes toward brands. and they agree with its stance, and 48 percent will institutions to do what is right). advocate for and defend the brand and criticize rivals. • As trust in institutions erodes, the basic assumptions • Revealed that belief-driven buyers are most active in The Trust Barometer sparks important conversations of fairness, shared values, and equal opportunity development countries, including China and India, in dialogues that we host in over 50 major markets. In traditionally upheld by “the system” are no longer and comprise around half of consumers in established 2017, our survey was the first to provide research that taken for granted. The 2017 research finds that only markets such as the US (47 percent). revealed a wide global disconnect in trust between the 15 percent of the general population believe the general public and our major institutions. present system is working, while 53 percent do not, and 32 percent are uncertain. Our global Earned Brand study surveys consumer attitudes toward brands. The 2017 Earned Brand study • Found that a lack of trust in the system is fueled by illustrates how consumer expectations of businesses can economic and societal fears that include corruption inform marketers’ strategies and how they think about (40 percent), immigration (28 percent), globalization purpose. One finding shows that it’s the new normal (27 percent), eroding social values (25 percent), and for global consumers to make belief-driven purchase the pace of innovation (22 percent). decisions. Our Clients EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 15 Our Clients CLIENT CASE: NEW YORK KIND: Pop Your Bubble The KIND Foundation created Pop Your Bubble, a first-of-its-kind social experiment featuring a tool to help people triumph using the power of technology. The secret was the “anti-algorithm” that matched users with people who were most different from them (rather than simply showing them more of what they already “like”). The tool was the centerpiece of the experiment, giving anyone access to a personalized array of strangers who would “pop their bubble.” To find these strangers, we analyzed a user’s Facebook profile (age, location, likes, shares, etc.) and served up people that were the most different from them. Once a user followed 10 new people, they could pop their bubble, populating their news feed with perspectives from outside their worldview. In the first two weeks, Pop Your Bubble resulted in more than 140 million earned media impressions – including coverage in The Washington Post, Fast Company, and CNN, among others – as well as 25 million Twitter impressions. The tone was overwhelmingly positive, positioning Pop Your Bubble as a solution to the problem everyone talks about. Within the same time period, users established over 40,000 new relationships, furthering the KIND Foundation’s mission to connect people from all walks of life. Our Clients EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 16 Our Clients CLIENT CASE: CALGARY Alberta Securities Commission: One Good Scam Across Canada, investment scams are on the rise, causing great financial hardship and emotional distress. This is especially true in the province of Alberta where the oil recession left many people desperate for supplemental income. The Alberta Securities Commission (ASC) partnered with Edelman to create a campaign to educate the public about how to protect themselves from investment fraud. During ASC’s annual Fraud Prevention Month, Edelman and ASC engineered an investment scam featuring a fictional financier, Jonathan Fisher, who worked for a fictional investment company, Maplestock Investments. Albertans were seduced to attend a lunch seminar to hear the investment pitch and midway through the seminar, the scam was revealed by an ASC representative who took the stage to explain the importance of vigilance when it comes to investing money. Through the fake seminar and subsequent earned media strategy, Edelman and ASC captured the attention of its key audience and secured 14 million earned impressions, 60 media hits, coverage by Vice, CBC, the Global Morning Show, and the National Post, and a 400 percent increase in traffic to the ASC’s investor education website during Fraud Prevention Month 2017. As Alberta struggles with a poor economy, the need for fraud awareness is great. By showing Albertans just how easy it is to get scammed, rather than just telling them, ASC created an emotional and resonating impact on its audience. Our Clients EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 17 Our Clients CLIENT CASE: STOCKHOLM Adidas: #InYourName Despite strong recent Olympic and World Cup performances by Sweden’s women’s national football team, 60 percent of Swedes cannot name a single female football player. Half of Swedish girls quit football by age 14. Adidas wanted to shift this inequality around the women’s national team and inspire young girls to believe in themselves and their aspirations. Each year, the Swedish Women’s Football Team debuts a new team jersey that usually goes unnoticed by the public. But the 2016 national team jerseys swapped the names of the players on the back with empowering Tweets along with the hashtag #IDittNamn (#InYourName). The jerseys debuted 10 days before they were to go on sale on International Women’s Day. Images of the jersey went viral, causing the women’s national team jerseys to sell out for the first time and the message #IDittNam (#InYourName) to earn more than 1 billion earned media impressions. More importantly, 76 percent of those exposed to the campaign considered the jersey to be a symbol of pride and 83 percent considered the women’s team members to be role models. Our Clients EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 18 Our Clients CLIENT CASE: SEATTLE Savers: “I Give a Sh!rt” Americans throw away roughly 26 billion pounds of clothing every year. Savers, the retailer best known for thrift shopping, tasked Edelman with helping to expose the clothing industry’s environmental impact and highlight ways to offset the clothing footprint. Our research showed that while socially engaged people love both fashion and the environment, they don’t weigh the impact their personal clothing decisions have on the world. Armed with this insight, our team – which spanned consumer, corporate, creative, and digital – brought the campaign to life on Earth Day in the most dramatic way possible: massive art installations that portrayed clothing as waste spills. We invited consumers to be part of the solution through a movement dubbed I Give a Sh!rt where we asked consumers to forgo one new t-shirt purchase and instead buy a thrifted one. We combined those efforts with Upworthy, Triple Pundit partnerships, and a first-of-its-kind paid campaign with Amazon that created a mock shopping page for the most sustainable shirt in the world: a used tee. We also drove conversations among policymakers and environmental stakeholders, launching the first-ever State of Reuse Report to shed light on reuse misconceptions. The campaign reached over 800,000 video views, 175,000 social engagements and 340 million overall impressions, including placements in The Huffington Post, The Seattle Times, and Seattle Magazine. The movement even expanded into Savers’ own stores with 22,000 employees creating custom T-shirts – prompting a new employee uniform program. Most importantly, 2 million people chose to purchase a used shirt and helped save over 1 billion gallons of water — surpassing our goals by 142 percent. Our Clients EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 19 Our Clients CLIENT CASE: LONDON Heineken: Open Your World 2016: a year where the world seemed to be closing down. Could a campaign with a simple message strike a chord to break down dividing barriers and prove there is more that unites than divides us? For more than 150 years Heineken has stood for openness, believing that the simple act of sitting down and having a conversation over a beer helps bring people together. But if your brand line is “Open Your World,” you have to do more than simply say it. You have to bring meaning to it. As human beings, we are never as open as we think we are. We look for views that correspond and reinforce our own, fuelling our preconceptions for the kind of people we’ll like and those we won’t. These pre-conceptions are the enemy – they stop us looking for what unites us and shut us down from each other. Our idea was to prove, with real people and real conversations, that there is more that unites than divides us and that despite our differences, we can always find something connecting us. The viral Worlds Apart film ignited consumers with a meaningful story about polar opposites finding something in common, proving that when you see past the labels, even the most divided can come together. The film served as the catalyst for a movement leading to internal events at Heineken where colleagues found common ground with people they would not normally interact with and external customer events in partnership with the Human Library – a global organization that uses conversation to challenge stereotypes. With 17.7 million views, 324,000 engagements, 138,000 shares across 150 countries, and more than 625 published articles, Worlds Apart inspired widespread global engagement with Heineken’s ongoing commitment to drive change by taking action both at a corporate and brand level. Our Clients EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 20 Our Clients Compliance & Ethics: Dan Edelman Embedded Ethics into Our Business When he founded our company 65 years ago, Dan Data Privacy, Information Security & Online Behavior Edelman established a strong code of business ethics Edelman is committed to focusing on data privacy, ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION TRAINING and conduct, recognizing that reputation is our most information security, and online behavior through the Goal: Results: valuable asset. We have a Client Portfolio Management lens of “doing the right thing.” We continually review Committee that oversees ethics issues as well as a Conflict Committee that works to resolve issues that and update our data privacy and information security practices to make sure we effectively safeguard personal 85% 86% of employees trained completion rate emerge. We also update our Digital Code of Conduct and business data for our clients and for ourselves. on Intro to Compliance biannually because of the fast pace of change across & Ethics the digital world. We have a Digital Code of Conduct that is updated annually, as our online behavior policies closely mirror the We understand the importance of making sure our dramatic pace of change that has occurred across the Goal: Results: employees gain the knowledge and support they need digital world. Our guidelines have been constructed to to address challenging issues and environments. All employees are expected to complete our workplace reflect the evolving norms of online community behavior, especially as it pertains to how corporations, and the 85% 71% required employees completion rate behavior training. In addition, new employees agencies acting on their behalf, comport themselves (All level 4+ and all complete an introductory compliance course while online. of finance) trained compliance & anti-corruption training is mandatory on Worldwide for all vice presidents and above and all Financial Anti-Corruption Group employees. In FY18, we are implementing a new platform for the Edelman Learning Institute which will enhance our monitoring and follow-up SDGs: capabilities to drive improvement in training results. Section EDELMAN 2017 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 21 Our People Creating a Better Future for Our Employees In living our Citizenship story, it is increasingly essential to recognize the role we play in creating a better tomorrow for our more than 5,500 employees and their families. This explains why we strive to take meaningful actions that improve their lives and well-being at work and, more broadly, at home and in their communities. Our People EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 22 Our People Strengthening Employee Trust Our employees worldwide are actively engaged with Citizenship. Our annual Citizenship survey shows that 81 Breakdown of Gender by Region FY17 CITIZENSHIP SURVEY RESULTS percent of our employees say that Citizenship is an important Female Male Total reason in choosing to work at Edelman. Edelman’s annual APACMEA 978 526 1,504 81% culture survey shows that 70 percent of our employees consider Citizenship as one of our key strengths. Yet only 51 Canada 156 79 235 of employees Europe & CIS 796 361 1,157 say that Citizenship is an important percent feel empowered to contribute to Citizenship, with 48 percent saying that they don’t have the time to participate. LatAm 255 97 352 reason in choosing to work at Edelman Fifty-eight percent want to receive more information on our U.S. 1,632 718 2,350 Citizenship activities, and the majority (51 percent) wants to Total 3,817 1,781 5,598 75% of employees agree hear from local office leadership. We believe that the success of our Citizenship approach Breakdown of Age by Generations as a firm, Edelman role models good can be measured by the level of engagement of our Silent Boomer Gen X Millennial Gen Z Total corporate citizenship by acting with a (Born before (1946-1965) (1966(1980(Born people. We are looking into new ways to connect with our 1946) 1979) 1995) after1995) social purpose and contributing to the global community. This includes the introduction of a local greater good. APACMEA 0 33 232 1,236 3 1,504 Citizenship team toolkit, featuring Citizenship (and how to Canada 0 11 58 166 0 235 get involved) more prominently in our onboarding programs, and interacting with local offices through our internal Europe & CIS 1 68 270 818 0 1,157 65% Workplace by Facebook platform. LatAm 0 8 50 290 4 352 of employees agree U.S. 3 154 556 1,637 0 2,350 Edelman encourages me to contribute In addition to listening to our employees, we follow the Total 4 274 1,166 4,147 7 5,598 to my community outside of work signal from our 2017 Edelman Trust Barometer that by empowering me to participate in responsible organizations must promote and strengthen Citizenship-related activities (e.g. pro trust in an increasingly distrustful world. This includes bono work, volunteering, green teams). treating our people well, delivering better professional training & development, and heeding our employees’ top survey priorities – enhancing their health & well-being and supporting diversity & inclusion initiatives. Our People EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 23 Our People Health & Well-Being: Creating a Culture of Well-Being, Tailored by Location We are committed to enhancing our health and well-being Key to our well-being pursuit is identifying the right balance programs – our employees’ most important Citizenship between our personal and working lives. Already, we offer Outdoor Office Day 2017 issue (with 47 percent of survey respondents ranking it health & well-being-related programs. Examples from In May we supported our client Unilever’s Dirt is Number one). Reflecting the increased interest in well-being, various locations include flexible work arrangements and Good Campaign by hosting our very own Outdoor in FY17 our Executive Committee pledged to invest and family leave, Edelman Escape and sabbatical programs, Office Day. Our 5,500+ employees around the develop a global culture of physical and emotional health health checks and free flu shots. In FY17, we extended globe were encouraged to take at least one that seeks to provide employees in all locations access to the “Well-Being Wednesday” program established by our hour outside during the working day: a walking a structured well-being program, either local or regional, UK office to our continental Europe network. This program meeting, a park-based brainstorm, or an and with ongoing local initiatives. In FY16, a task force ensures that our employees have access to regular alfresco client catch up. After all, fresh air fuels established by our Global HR, Wellness360, and Global wellness-related activities and resources like workshops fresh thinking! Citizenship teams determined what programs exist across and health checks. our network and made global policy recommendations for employee well-being to senior leadership. Offices across our network promote health & well-being in a wide variety of ways. Examples from various locations Consequently, in FY17, we improved our US parental include the rollout of an Employee Assistance Program leave offerings, nearly doubling the amount of paid time across the network, incentives to encourage physical and off provided to new parents. A birth mother with shortmental well-being, free healthy nutrition items, and access to term disability insurance will receive 12-14 weeks of paid free or discounted health services, athletic teams, and clubs. leave, and those not enrolled or eligible for short-term disability now will receive six weeks of paid leave. Spouses will continue to get three weeks of paid parental leave. In SDGs: FY18, we intend to introduce supplementary parental leave benefits in other markets. Our People EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 24 Our People Diversity & Inclusion: Continuing Progress Toward Our Diversity Goals Inclusion is an extension of our values and underscores a In FY17, we also: In FY18, we intend to: commitment to develop a diverse workforce and inclusive • Launched two new employee networks in the US – • Roll-out our new D&I training program throughout the US workplace. Our employees consider Diversity & Inclusion Edelman Inclusivo, our Hispanic/Latino network, and network. (D&I) to be our second most important Citizenship issue Edelman Forward, our veterans’ network – bringing the • Develop additional and deeper programming for our five (after health & well-being), and we continue to make total number of employee networks to five. employee network groups. progress while recognizing and seeking to surmount • Piloted a new company-wide four-hour D&I training • Build upon our partnership with HR, recruitment and challenges in meeting bold goals. program in multiple cities. account teams to increase diversity recruitment, In FY17, women in senior leadership roles around the globe • Began a company-wide pay equity analysis to identify retention, and inclusion efforts. increased to 41 percent and moves closer to reaching our and tackle potential challenges to underscore our • Launch a D&I mentoring program. goal of 50 percent by 2020. Currently our U.S. workforce is commitment to equal pay. • Enhance and formalize key organizational, university/ 24 percent racially and ethnically diverse. • Piloted a training program in Asia to address unintentional college and community partnerships to create a more unconscious gender bias. diverse candidate pipeline. • Included for the first time two D&I-related questions in our employee engagement survey. They identified the need to apply as much focus on inclusion as we do on diversity Edelman Recognized as Best Place to Work in our offices. It also reflected the desire for further Edelman Joins Legal Effort in Support of for LGBT Equality mentoring, leadership involvement and support, and Workplace Equality The Human Rights Campaign Foundation guest speakers to promote and foster improved diversity Edelman joined Freedom for All Americans and recognized Edelman for earning a top score & inclusion. many of our clients in signing an amicus brief of 100 percent on its 2017 Corporate Equality to support workplace equality for the LGBTQ Index relating to corporate policies and practices community by overturning an exclusionary pertinent to LGBT employees. Edelman was SDGs: 17-year precedent that discriminates based on among 515 businesses that made its roster of sexual orientation and that is being reviewed by “Best Places to Work for LGBT Equality.” a federal appeals court. Our People EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 25 Our People Learning & Development: A Culture of Continual Improvement In today’s dynamic workplace and marketplace, we offer In brief, learning and development builds knowledge and Formal Training Hours our employees learning & development opportunities skills through: Our goal is for employees to complete an average of that are essential to thrive. This generates an inclusive • E delman Learning Institute: This corporate “virtual 24 hours of training annually per employee, which also environment that celebrates every person’s contribution and campus” addresses personal and professional growth includes any learning that takes place outside the Edelman well-being, helping to enhance Edelman and our industry. through a robust, global training and development Learning Institute and the learning management system, learning management system that supports lifelong such as classroom training and external seminars. In FY17, We maintain a global learning management system that learning and builds meaningful careers. employees recorded a total of 112,695 hours of training; an regularly adds new online and in-class training modules average of 20 hours per employee. While this is short of our • Leadership Academy: This offers select client-facing that we design. Yet it’s the routine, on-the-job experiences 24 hours/FTE target, we are confident that better tracking leaders the unique, global opportunity to participate in an that make Edelman special. We estimate that employees systems will lead to more reliable and higher numbers in intensive educational three-day program conducted by learn about 70 percent of their knowledge on the job, which FY18. experts from both within and outside Edelman. underlines why our career development combines formal training and distinct professional experiences. • Regional Exchange Programs: As part of our commitment Edelman Leadership Academy Evolves to develop skills and experience through international Edelman’s longstanding Leadership Academy has been assignments, we have started a number of different updated to be even more client-centric. Participants include exchange programs designed to give employees working client-facing employees to provide them with specialized experience in other countries and with new colleagues. training & development to excel in managing global client • Mentor Programs: Most global offices offer a mentor relationships. In FY17, 68 of our top client-facing leaders, program with active partnerships that connect 20 faculty members, and several senior clients focused on experienced employees with junior colleagues. Other delivering an exceptional experience and developing the programs link minority talent with senior managers, newer best client-facing leaders in the industry. women employees with women leaders, and new parents with longtime Edelman parents. SDGs: • Performance Assessments: These annual reviews evaluate skills, provide strategic goal development, and career planning opportunities. Our Communities Contributing to Our Local Communities Edelman’s standard for leadership encompasses more than just talking about doing what’s right. We step up and seek to be a part of the solution. Our employees especially let us know they appreciate our efforts to let them live and experience their desire to help others. Four in five – 79 percent – say our volunteerism program helped attract them to Edelman. Our Communities EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 27 Our Communities Employee Giving and Volunteerism Our employees are passionate about giving back to their In FY17, nearly two-in-three employees participated in communities and supporting the causes and organizations volunteer work, completing more than 6,000 hours of FY17 CITIZENSHIP SURVEY RESULTS that matter to them. Whether building homes, making general volunteerism valued at $147,000. charitable gifts, serving on nonprofit boards, tutoring children, or raising funds through weekly snack carts at But our employees also told us that they are interested 58% say that they would like to receive more information work, Edelman employees actively give back. in learning more about volunteer opportunities in their 51% community and would like to receive this information from say that they would like to hear They tell us it improves their morale, enhances their skill a variety of sources. Fifty-eight percent say that they would from local leadership development, and generates a sense of community. That’s like to receive more information, and 51 percent say they why we provide each employee with eight hours of paid time would like to hear from local office leadership. To better off to participate in skills-based or general volunteerism. facilitate our employees and local leadership, Edelman will Our Citizenship Teams in local offices also help plan be implementing an online employee engagement platform and coordinate pro bono partnerships and general that will help identify local opportunities, better track General 6,024 Hours volunteerism projects. our time, simplify grant applications, and structure our matching programs. 25,761 Hrs Volunteerism Total Volunteerism Pro Bono 19,737 Hours The platform will also improve our reporting capabilities through visually engaging charts and dashboards, providing insights on global results and initiatives. As a result, we will be able to fully manage and report the extent of our social General $147,041 impact and overall employee engagement. Volunteerism $4,176,099 Sponsorships, Grants and Contributions $1,068,529 Total Giving Pro Bono $2,960,530 Our Communities EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 28 Our Communities Volunteerism Cases APACMEA LATAM KOREA/MUMBAI: The Street Store BRAZIL: CTC Digital Mentoring In Korea and India, Edelman volunteers organized “street After working on pro bono projects for CTC Digital, stores” in low-income neighborhoods and areas with high which combats high unemployment rates for recent prevalence of homelessness. These one-day pop-up stores high school graduates through free vocational courses, give homeless customers the opportunity to shop for free Edelman Significa (our Brazil business unit) furthered its items. The street location makes it accessible and the store involvement with the organization by creating a mentoring environment brings dignity to the experience. The concept program. The Citizenship team, in partnership with HR, began in Cape Town, South Africa to provide clothing matched Edelman employees with CTC Digital students, and boost confidence for the city’s homeless population, forming 13 pairs. Each pair met once a month over the quickly becoming a global effort. Edelman Korea’s street course of a semester and completed assignments meant store serviced the Jong-ro neighborhood while Mumbai to help prepare the students for entering the workforce EUROPE organized an office donation drive for their store. Edelman and life after school. FRANCE: Citizen Day India employees collected clothing, shoes, toys, jewelry, and toiletries for their store and serviced around 500 customers On June 28, 2017, Edelman Paris closed the office for in 2.5 hours. its first Citizen Day. Teams dispersed across the city to work with various nonprofits including The Nicolas Hulot Foundation, Europa Donna, and Action Froid. The Nicolas Hulot Foundation team worked with La Haie Magique to remove weeds and support biodiversity during the restoration of a peri-urban wetland. The Europa Donna team brainstormed ways to encourage women to get breast cancer screenings and the Action Froid team helped the organization identify ways to alleviate homelessness. Our Communities EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 29 Our Communities Volunteerism Cases USA WASHINGTON, DC: Refugee Day of Service with Catholic Charities Diocese of Arlington (CCDA) Edelman DC participated in a Refugee Day of Service with Catholic Charities Diocese of Arlington (CCDA). Thousands of refugees are relocated to the DC-MarylandVirginia area every year and CCDA’s migration and refugee service supports the transition to the US using a “jobfirst” approach. Many of the arriving refugees have never developed a resume, applied for a job, or conducted a job interview, so one-on-one mentorship is a critical success factor. Edelman volunteers worked with 12 refugees and together developed five resumes, six LinkedIn profiles, and conducted six interviews while speaking three different CANADA Edelman Calgary split its time with two non-profits fighting languages (Arabic, English, Spanish). 10th Annual Little Give against hunger, preparing over 350 lunches for the Calgary Drop-In & Rehab Centre Society and planting approximately Now in its 10th year, The Little Give dedicates time and 1,000 tomatoes at an urban farm that would eventually be energy to nonprofit organizations that make a difference in given to the Calgary Food Bank. the lives of local communities. Edelman Toronto focused all their efforts on the YWCA Toronto, preparing meals, Three Edelman Vancouver teams each volunteered time at completing renovations, and providing communications a Neighbourhood House seeking to improve the quality of planning and mentoring support for marginalized women community and family life, helping to make each location and girls. even more welcoming for its patrons by performing renovations, gardening, sandbox maintenance, and painting. The Edelman Montreal team helped organize the 25th . anniversary event for l’Ancre des Jeunes and organized Halloween activities for the children of La Maison Oxygène and the Carrefour Familial Hochelaga. Our Communities EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 30 Our Communities Corporate Giving For the past six years, Edelman has offered a Community In addition, for over a decade, our Edelman Escape Investment Grant program to further support employee program provides selected employees with funds – now COMMUNITY INVESTMENT GRANTS contributions to organizations that matter most to them. $1,500 – and a one-week mini-sabbatical to either Live In FY17, we awarded 42 grants – which generally provide $2,500 of funding each – raising the number of grants a Dream to achieve a personal or professional goal or to Give a Dream for philanthropy, a charity, or family. In FY17, 42 grants awarded since FY11 to over 700, totaling $970,000. Still, 30 employees were selected. Among them, one employee awarded in FY17 our Citizenship Survey revealed that nearly half – 47 percent will help her brother film their first-person story about being 8 UN Sustainable – of employees were unaware of the program, so we will undocumented immigrants in the US and another will help continue to seek ways to improve awareness. a nonprofit in India that helps educate underprivileged girls. Further, Edelman and its Foundation matched employee Development Goals Gender donations to help communities in need worldwide after impacted in FY17 Quality Quality Education a devastating event. Most recently, and through our 2 7 Zero Hunger partnership with the American Red Cross, we’ve raised nearly $40,000 for hurricane relief in the devastated 700+ total grants No 2 communities in and around the US. The impact of these awarded since FY11 Poverty employee donations will go even further since the Grants/SDG 4 $970,000 Daniel J. Edelman Family Foundation committed to make Alignment for FY17 Sustainable Cities & dollar-for-dollar matches up to $50,000. Communities Total 5 total awarded since FY11 41 Good Health & Well-Being 9 Peace & Justice Reduced Inequalities 1 7 Other 4 Our Communities EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 31 Our Communities Pro Bono: Volunteering Our Expertise to Drive Social Impact In addition to the many employees who sit on nonprofit In FY17, employees completed more than 18,500 hours of boards and the financial and in-kind contributions we make, general volunteerism valued at $2,778,797. Edelman provides pro bono assistance to nonprofits and causes. Going forward Edelman aims to deliver 50 percent of its pro bono hours against the top UN Sustainable Development We employ the same communications marketing approach Goals as identified by our employees: and mindset that we do for our work with clients. • Gender Equality Locally, our offices helped many organizations as well as • Quality Education municipalities, especially after a natural catastrophe or devastating event. • Zero Hunger Ruth Edelman Citizenship Award To honor our employees’ and offices’ work, we award the coveted Ruth Edelman Citizenship Award as part of our SDGs: annual internal Culture Awards, honoring the legacy of founder Dan Edelman’s wife and life partner and a major supporter of health organizations and nonprofits. The award recognizes the pro bono project that best illustrates how we can impact a specific societal issue in partnership with a nonprofit client. Our Communities EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 32 Our Communities PRO BONO: FY17 RUTH EDELMAN CITIZENSHIP AWARD WINNER HONG KONG: #MyRealCareerLine In Hong Kong, the colloquial Cantonese term “career Implementation of this approach began with the literally tearing apart the casual sexism invoked by the line” (事業線) refers to a woman’s cleavage. The phrase creation of a fake plastic surgery firm – Career Line term “career line.” Supporters were encouraged to is widely used across media and in casual conversation, Cosmetic Surgery – that advertised that better cleavage download their own copy of the illustration to rip in half legitimizing the objectification of women and diminishing leads to career advancement. The ads and storefront as they shared their real career lines. a woman’s professional achievement by attributing provoked outrage. On International Women’s Day, the Throughout the campaign, #MyRealCareerLine became success to her appearance. Casual sexism is so deeply Women’s Foundation revealed that the plastic surgery the top Google result for the search term, “career line,” embedded into local language that more than 60 percent firm was indeed fake and held a press conference. creating the opportunity to change the perception of the of locals fail to see the term as derogatory or harmful. There, Edelman Intelligence unveiled findings about the phrase. The campaign generated more than 100 pieces The Women’s Foundation sought to make people stop perceptions of the term “career line” and debuted a of positive to neutral coverage in Hong Kong, Taiwan, and rethink the use of the term “career line” and change promotional video featuring some of Hong Kong’s most China, and Canada; and 900 million unpaid media and attitudes about casual sexism in Hong Kong. recognizable women sharing their #MyRealCareerLine social media impressions in total. and tearing in half a printed illustration of cleavage – To make the campaign more relevant to Hong Kong residents, the team dug deeper to truly understand public perception of the issue. Edelman Hong Kong developed an integrated communications marketing approach – combining research and insights, brand narrative development, communications support, and digital amplification. Our Communities EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 33 Our Communities PRO BONO NEW YORK: Hetrick-Martin Institute The Hetrick-Martin Institute is the nation’s oldest and largest organization helping gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender, and questioning (LGBTQ) youth to reach their full potential. In 1979, Dr. Emery Hetrick, a psychiatrist, and Dr. Damien Martin, a professor at New York University, who are life partners and educators on gay and lesbian issues, heard the heartbreaking story of a homeless 15-year-old boy who had been beaten and thrown out of his emergency shelter because he was gay. The Institute believes all young people, regardless of sexual orientation or identity, deserve a safe and supportive environment to help achieve their potential. Through a comprehensive package of direct services and referrals, Hetrick-Martin seeks to foster healthy youth development. Its staff promotes excellence in delivering youth services and uses its expertise to create innovative programs that other organizations may use as models. In FY17, Edelman’s ongoing partnership with the Hetrick-Martin Institute (HMI) included LGBTQ youth engagement, executive thought leadership and strategic counsel. This included the creation of quarterly roundtables on important topics (e.g., LGBTQ youth in public education) with thought leaders, media, stakeholders and prospective donors. The Edelman team also advised the organization on its annual citywide youth initiative – funded by the New York City Council – that provides mental health and support services for LGBTQ youth in all five boroughs. Our Communities EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 34 Our Communities PRO BONO HAMBURG: Global Citizen Festival 2017 Hamburg The Global Citizen Festival 2017 united musicians, activists, and political leaders to celebrate a campaign urging leaders to work toward an equitable world for every person. The festival is organized by Global Citizen, a social action platform for the global generation trying to solve the world’s most pressing issues. In early 2017, Andrew Kirk, Global Citizen’s Global Director of Communications, contacted Edelman Hamburg for local media expertise. The office partnered with Global Citizen and its lead agency to build awareness around the festival’s ticketing policy (attendees must earn tickets by completing Global Citizen tasks), generate buzz before the festival, and provide on-site support. Edelman provided support for the launch, lead-up, and execution of the 2017 Global Citizen Festival in Hamburg with tactics that included CEO and spokesperson positioning, media training, on-site festival support, post festival follow-ups, and more. The team worked across agencies and continents to garner over 3,000 media clips and a reach of 103 billion impressions. Beyond producing some of the best media hits Global Citizen has seen, the crosspractice, multi-agency team broke through with positive G20 stories and highlighted the efforts anyone can make to be a true Global Citizen. Our Communities EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 35 Our Communities PRO BONO GLOBAL: G(irls)20 In June 2017, 24 young women from around the world met in Munich for the annual G(irls)20 Summit and called upon the G20 Leaders to reaffirm their commitment to bring 100 million women into the workforce by 2025 and reduce the gender gap by 25 percent. The Summit brought together one delegate from each G20 country plus representatives from the African and European Unions, Afghanistan, Pakistan, and the Middle East and North Africa region. Delegates attended skill-building workshops, participated in panel discussions, and presented a final communiqué with tangible, scalable solutions towards increased Female Labor Force Participation to Chancellor Angela Merkel ahead of the G20 Summit in Hamburg. As the official PR partner of G(irls)20, Edelman identified Summit sponsors in addition to securing speakers and media exposure. Each of the 24 delegates received media coaching from Edelman representatives. Messaging focused on illustrating the innovative solutions for making the economy more female-representative and highlighting the delegates’ diversity and abilities. Coaching sessions with the delegates centered on the importancae of genuine communication strategies rooted in credibility. Colleagues from across the Edelman network touched this project with 58 employees from 18 countries and 20 offices creating visibility for the Summit and working with the delegates. Overall, the event earned 46 pieces of coverage generating over 30,000 broadcast impressions, 900,000 print impressions, and 45 million online impressions. Our Communities EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 36 Our Communities PRO BONO WASHINGTON, DC: The Sentry: Combatting Genocide in South Sudan Over the past two decades, the area stretching from northeast to central Africa has been the deadliest war zone in the world. Countries such as Sudan, South Sudan, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo are often referred to as failed states, but in reality, they are hijacked states. Political, military, and commercial elites in these countries – often collaborating with neighboring governments – control and run the state and its institutions. They use their power to transfer a large fraction of society’s resources to enrich themselves, employing brute force and organized criminal activity to remain in power. Following a two-year investigation into the corruption plaguing South Sudan, The Sentry – a watch-dog organization co-founded by George Clooney and John Prendergast – with actor and activist Don Cheadle, released the findings of a report exposing the profiteers and wealth-motivated forces benefitting from prolonged conflict in South Sudan. The Sentry enlisted Edelman to develop a communications program to support the launch of their first report and raise awareness to these issues with key influential international audiences. The Edelman team developed a comprehensive media strategy that seeded the report and its findings with key journalists prior to launch, coordinated the breaking of the story internationally and across time zones, and drove coverage in top-tier print & broadcast throughout the launch day and beyond. In the early morning of the launch, the New York Times broke the news of the report. This was followed by an op-ed from Clooney and Prendergast landing in The Washington Post and substantive reporting by The Wall Street Journal, Bloomberg, and BBC, setting the day’s tone and driving interest in the press conference to come later that day. As a result of the overwhelming amount of coverage, the government of South Sudan was forced to acknowledge and deny the report, threatening legal action and further highlighting their illicit crimes against the people of South Sudan. Section EDELMAN 2017 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 37 Our World Partnerships Enhance Our Progress as a Responsible Business We increasingly recognize that as a responsible corporate citizen, we have a duty to help make our planet a better place to live for generations to come. Increasingly, we do this by partnering with other companies, organizations, NGOs, and governments to achieve progress on a myriad of fronts that encompass the environment & sustainability, society, economics, and governance. We actively assist in ensuring that strong international regulations are defended and maintained, whether the issue involves gender equality, especially as it applies to pay; human trafficking and slavery; or energy efficiency obligations. Our World EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 38 Our World Our Commitment to a Lower Carbon Footprint Increasingly, Edelman places its social and environmental As part of our Carbon Trust efforts, we will continue in FY18 returns on the same plane as financial returns, committing to add energy efficient lighting in US locations, including the on several fronts to improve sustainability on our planet. New York office. On other sustainability fronts, we issued a Our employees overwhelmingly desire that, with 95 percent green meeting guide to our offices and urged employees to of them surveyed saying that working in a “green” office is book “green” hotels, when possible. important. In FY17, our executive committee pledged the following goals for FY18 and beyond: To create more sustainable offices, our printers default to printing double-sided and in black & white, and we are • Maintain the Carbon Trust Certification we received strengthening programs to reduce energy use and waste in FY16 – the first in our industry – by demonstrating through recycling and composting. year-on-year reduction of our annual greenhouse gas emissions. We continue to support a concerted effort to manage our • Decrease by 10 percent our carbon intensity emissions asset inventory and lifecycles securely and responsibly. We (tCo2e/FTE) in our 15 Carbon Trust-certified offices by partner with third parties to ensure we dispose of end-of-life 2020 (scope 1 + 2 emissions, compared to 2016 levels). assets responsibly, recycling where appropriate under the Responsible Recycling Practices Standard (R2:2013). • Neutralize 100 percent of our US operations’ scope 2 We also continued to migrate key business applications emissions by purchasing renewable energy credits for all to the cloud, making our datacenter footprint smaller and our US offices; these credits act as a “proof of purchase” more efficient. for clean energy. In FY18 we will begin to apply managed print services in our SDGs: hub offices as we seek to reduce our overall environmental impact. Specifically, we will decrease our overall use of 95% 100% paper usage and wasted supplies and lower our electrical surveyed say that Neutralize our U.S. consumption by using fewer and more efficient printing working in a “green” energy use by devices. office is important purchasing renewable energy credits for all our U.S. offices Our World EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 39 Our World Environmental Sustainability 25,000 5.0 FY16 PERFORMANCE 4.04 3.94 Absolute Carbon Emissions Absolute (tCO Carbon e) Emissions (tCO2e) 3.91 20,000 4.0 Total GHG Emission (tCO2e) and 3.69 Carbon Intensity Trend Scope 1 Emissions e/FTE) Intensity (tCO2e/FTE) Carbon Intensity (tCO2Carbon This report includes our carbon emissions inventory and (mtCO2e/FTE) Scope 1 emissions remained stable from FY15 to FY16, material use data for the fiscal period from 1 July, 2015 3.14 15,000 3.0 to 30 June, 2016, henceforth referred to as FY16. There 25,000 2.50 5.0 and intensity decreased by 12 percent from FY15 to FY16. is a one-year delay for environmental data reporting due Edelman continued to reduce emissions from mobile to the timing of our publication and our fiscal year for 10,000 20,000 4.04 3.94 3.91 2.0 4.0 combustion by limiting company-owned cars globally. 3.69 environmental reporting. 2 5,000 3.14 1.0 Scope 2 Emissions 15,000 3.0 2.50 Our scope 2 emission intensity has decreased by 21 RESULTS percent from 4,464 tCO2e in FY15 to 3,526 tCO2e in FY16. In FY16, our absolute global carbon emissions decreased 0 10,000 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 2.0 The reduction was primarily driven by driven by energy by 7 percent compared to FY15. This reduction was driven Mobile Fuel Combustion Stationary Fuel Combustion Electricity Consumption efficiency and physical improvements at the office-level, and by our continuous efforts in energy efficiency and reducing Business Air Travel Paper Use Carbon Intensity 5,000 1.0 a revision of the electricity consumption proxy adopted for business air travel, as well as a revision of the proxy used to offices without electricity consumption data. estimate carbon emissions from electricity consumption for 0 offices that do not have access to actual metering data. FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 Scope 3 Emissions Mobile Fuel Combustion Stationary Fuel Combustion Electricity Consumption Scope 3 emission intensity decreased by 2 percent from Our carbon intensity per full-time equivalent (FTE) has Business Air Travel Paper Use Carbon Intensity 12,165 tCO2e in FY15 to 11,866 tCO2e in FY16. decreased year-on-year since FY11, reaching a 38 percent As business air travel is one of our most significant sources reduction in FY16 compared to FY11. This significant Emissions by Region (FY16 compared to FY15) of emissions, we established a Corporate Travel Policy to reduction is attributable to a reduction in absolute 10,307 better manage our travel emissions in a systematic manner. emissions, coupled with a growth of 25 percent in FTE 9,321 We invested in video-conferencing technologies to reduce headcount from FY15 to FY16. the need for travel, as well as to enhance work life balance for our employees. We aim to further engage our global 3,620 2,304 2,703 3,510 offices to encourage the use of video-conferencing in place 10,307 422 524 320 169 of business travel, when possible. 9,321 US Europe APAC Canada Latin America FY16 FY15 For more information on our performance and emissions reporting methodology, please see Appendix B and C. 3,620 2,703 3,510 2,304 422 524 320 169 Our World EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 40 Our World Sustainable Procurement Sustainable Procurement Supplier Diversity At Edelman, working in a socially responsible manner Also committing to supplier diversity, Edelman seeks to means treating people and the environment with respect measure, evaluate, and improve its spend with diverse US throughout our operations, and this extends to our supply suppliers in FY18. These would include minority-owned chain. We are dedicated to sourcing goods and services businesses as well as those owned by women, LGBTQs, from sustainable sources, and collaborating with partners veterans, small disadvantaged businesses, and small who share our values and commitments to sustainable HUBZone businesses. development. In this context, Edelman has updated its procurement policy to better reflect our commitment to Edelman will review its policies and procedures annually responsible purchasing. to ensure that sustainable procurement practices are integrated effectively in our culture and operations. One of our objectives is to monitor social and environmental performance in our supplier management process. In order to do this, we have selected a leading CSR monitoring platform that combines CSR assessment expertise and SDGs: data management tools. This monitoring process will be systematically integrated into our sourcing process, starting in the US in FY17 and expanding into additional global markets in FY18. Our World EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 41 Our World International Regulations & Partnerships With more than 65 offices across our global network, we In FY17, we filed our first annual statement as it relates to are diligent in compliance with the laws and regulations the United Kingdom Modern Slavery Act. The statement Edelman joins FReSH program to speed where we operate. As a signatory of the U.N. Global lays out the steps we have taken to prevent slavery and change in global food systems Compact, we support internationally accepted principles human trafficking in our supply chains and other parts of our U.K. business. Edelman joined the Food Reform for regarding human rights, labor standards, the environment, Sustainability and Health (FReSH) program, and anti-corruption, including the Universal Declaration of As for our partnerships, alliances developed with whose 35 leading global companies seek to Human Rights and the International Labour Organization’s countries and companies help us to address our shared accelerate transformational change in food Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. environmental and societal challenges. In FY17 we systems worldwide to create healthy, enjoyable, continued to partner with NSF International, government, and responsibly produced diets for all. The professional services firms, and other stakeholders to program was launched at the World Economic develop an American National Standards Institute draft Forum in Davos in 2017 under the combined NSF 391.1 standard, the first to apply to the professional leadership of the World Business Council for services industry. It is expected to become a public Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and the standard in 2018. EAT Foundation (EAT). A complete list of our partners and memberships can be found in the GRI Standards Index (page 45). Through our partnership with IWF, Edelman encourages its rising talent to become engaged with the IWF training programs and conferences. Pictured left to right: Yasmin Ramle (Singapore), Laura Furness (London), Amy Salloum (Atlanta), Carolina Gomez (Bogota) and Catherine Pouliot (Montreal). Our World EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 42 Our World Our Citizenship Approach C-score Our global Learning & Development team is working to Learning From Our Own Intellectual Property We apply a Citizenship Score, or C-Score, to our Citizenship launch a refreshed version of the Edelman Learning Institute We make sizeable investments annually to develop efforts. It uses uniform metrics to evaluate progress toward (ELI) that will bring an enhanced learning experience to significant intellectual property that establishes Edelman as our sustainability objectives over time for our entire business our employees and make reporting more streamlined a thought leader. We employ the insights from our research and individual offices. We calculate the overall score by and accurate. to help our clients develop strategies and to develop measuring each of our offices’ performance against more actionable programs that make a difference at our than a dozen key indicators. Our FY17 score of 6.5/10 While we fully recognize our shortcomings in FY17, we also own company. fell short of our goal of 8.0/10. The main reasons for this know that those shortcomings are primarily due to a lack year’s lower score are discrepancies in the reporting of of accurate reporting and are taking these active steps to volunteerism and trainings hours, and environmental data. ensure that we do not face these challenges in the future. In FY18 we will address these issues by implementing Citizenship Network systems and processes that improve our reporting Our core Global Citizenship team is assisted by a capabilities and ensure that all offices are capturing data Citizenship Advisory Group, a Local Citizenship Network centrally. We began this process in Q3 of FY17 with the with representatives in each office, and other Edelman transition to a new environmental management software. colleagues who collaborate to provide creative, media, This state-of-the-art software enhances the user experience editorial services, digital, and other specialty assistance. and makes the data collection process more streamlined and it will enable more effective reporting for our CDP Our Global Citizenship team closely monitors key submissions moving forward. developments and opportunities, and shares information and updates with our Local Citizenship Network and Looking ahead, we will be implementing a volunteerism and Citizenship Advisory Group on a monthly basis. We look at community involvement management software that will allow what other professional services firms are doing as points employees to find pro bono and volunteerism opportunities, of reference for considering the topics and issues we may track their time, and share their experiences all in one explore around the world. internal portal. This will ensure that all volunteerism hours are centrally located and will increase our reporting capabilities. Our World EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 43 Our World Materiality: Engaging Our Stakeholders on Significant Citizenship Issues We help guide our Citizenship journey by reviewing materiality with stakeholder input of what they consider the most significant Citizenship issues. In 2017, we conducted Pro Bono Initiatives a new materiality assessment with input from our senior leadership, employees, clients, NGOs, and academics. This Business Ethics gives us valuable insights into familiar as well as emerging issues, such as the sustainable purchasing policy we are Health & Diversity & Inclusion Well-Being implementing, among other relevant issues. Increasing Concern to External Stakeholders Employee Training & Volunteerism Development Compared to our last materiality assessment in 2015, we’ve Corporate Giving seen an increased focus from our stakeholders on pro bono initiatives, diversity & inclusion, data privacy & information Sustainable Purchasing security, and green office policies. Our stakeholders placed less emphasis this year on employee training & development, supplier diversity, and our carbon footprint. Data Privacy & Information Security Supplier Diversity The results of our 2017 analyses appear on the prioritization matrix, which shows the relative significance of each topic Green Offices Policies from these diverse perspectives. Carbon Footprint A detailed description our materiality approach can be found in Appendix A: Materiality & Management Approach. Increasing Concern to Edelman Our Clients Our People Our Communities Our World About this Report EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 44 About this Report Global Reporting Initiative This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. Reporting year Edelman’s fiscal year 2017, from July 1, 2016 through June 30, 2017, unless otherwise noted. Currency All amounts in this report are expressed in U.S. Dollars. More Information For more information please visit www.edelman.com/who-we-are/global-citizenship Contact For questions or to give feedback, please contact Citizenship@Edelman.com GRI Content Index EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 45 GRI Content Index GRI Standard Disclosure Title Page number(s), URL(s) and/or Direct Response General Disclosures GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-1 Name of the organization Daniel J. Edelman, Inc. (“Edelman” within this document) 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Please visit edelman.com/who-we-are/practices-specialties-dje 102-3 Location of headquarters Chicago & New York 102-4 Location of operations Edelman is actively operating in 65 cities in 28 countries. For more detail, please visit www.edelman.com/global-network. 102-5 Ownership and legal form Edelman is an independently owned firm that is part of Daniel J. Edelman Holdings, Inc. (“DJE Holdings”). Along with Edelman, DJE Holdings owns specialty firms such as Edelman Intelligence (research), Edelman Deportivo (creative), A&R Edelman (technology), BioScience Communications (medical communications) and agencies Edelman Significa (Brazil). For more information, please visit www.edelman.com/whowe-are/practices-specialties-dje. 102-6 Markets served Geographically, Edelman’s operations are managed through five regions: Europe & the Commonwealth of Independent States; Asia Pacific, Middle East and Africa (APACMEA); Latin America; Canada; and the United States. For more information, please visit www.edelman.com/global-network 102-7 Scale of the organization • Total number of employees: more than 5,658 employees • Total number of operations: active in 65 cities • Edelman Revenues for Fiscal 2017: $874.1 million • Quantity of products or services provided: 34 areas of expertise For more information, please visit www.edelman.com/what-we-do/expertise 102-8 Information on employees and other workers • Total number of employees: 5,658 • Total full time employees (Male: 1,765, Female: 3,731) • Total part-time employees (Male: 24, Female: 138) • Total level 1-2 (Male: 633, Female: 1,812) • Total level 3 (Male: 481, Female: 1,078) • Total level 4-5 (Male: 568, Female: 918) • Total level 6+ (Male: 107, Female: 61) • Total administrative (Male: 354, Female: 679) Updated gender breakdown by region (chart on page 22) Updated breakdown of age by generations (chart on page 22) 18 employees did not disclose their birth date GRI Content Index EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 46 GRI Content Index GRI Standard Disclosure Title Page number(s), URL(s) and/or Direct Response General Disclosures GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-9 Supply chain See ‘Our World Sustainable Procurement’ (page 40) 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain Closed office locations: none New office locations: none New affiliate locations in: none For more information, please visit www.edelman.com/who-we-are/practices-specialties-dje 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Edelman supports the precautionary approach as described in the United Nations Rio Declaration but, as a professional services firm, its application is not significant to our business. 102-12 External initiatives • Carbon Trust Standard • CDP • Chicago Minority Supplier Development Council • Clinton Global Initiative • Committee Encouraging Corporate Philanthropy • European Commission’s Energy Efficiency Directive • Ecovadis • Freedom for All Americans • Food Reform for Sustainability and Health (FReSH) • Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) • Human Rights Council Corporate Equality Index • Illinois Joining Forces • Points of Light (corporate service council) • Sedex AB Member • The Bunker • UN Food Security and Sustainable Agriculture • UN Global Compact • UN Global Compact Reporting on the SDGs Action Platform • UN World Food Programme • World Economic Forum GRI Content Index EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 47 GRI Content Index GRI Standard Disclosure Title Page number(s), URL(s) and/or Direct Response General Disclosures GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-13 Membership of associations • Boston College Center for Corporate Citizenship • Elite Service Disabled Veteran Owned Business Network • Impact 2030 • International Women’s Forum • National Gay & Lesbian Chamber of Commerce • NSF International • Partnering Against Corruption Initiative • Student Veterans of America • Sustainable Purchasing Leadership Council (SPLC) • Voting Member, US Mirror Committee, ISO 20400 • Women’s Business Development Council 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker See ‘Continuing the Citizenship Heritage’ (Page 6) 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior In 2015, we refreshed our values to ensure that they are relevant to our future direction, support a client-centric culture and inspire great client work. Our Values: • The Relentless Pursuit of Excellence • The Freedom to be Constantly Curious • The Courage to do the Right Thing. For more information on our principles, standards and ethics, please visit www.edelman.com/who-we-are/about-us 102-18 Governance structure In addition to Edelman’s board of directors the firm is managed by an Executive Committee who oversees the execution of the firm’s strategy. This group also enlists the support of individuals who serve in a variety of capacities whether via the Operations Committee or Strategy Committee. Members of these committees are responsible for Edelman’s citizenship performance in a variety of ways. Each region (please see GR102-4) operates under the leadership of its own president and chief financial officer. Managing directors oversee strategy, service and operations in 65 cities around the world. For more information, please visit www.edelman.com/who-we-are/people 102-40 List of stakeholder groups See Appendix A GRI 103: Materiality & Management Approach 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements No employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders See Appendix A GRI 103: Materiality & Management Approach GRI Content Index EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 48 GRI Content Index GRI Standard Disclosure Title Page number(s), URL(s) and/or Direct Response General Disclosures GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement See Appendix A GRI 103: Materiality & Management Approach 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised See ‘Our World -Materiality’ (p. 43) and Appendix A GRI 103: Materiality & Management Approach 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements a. Please visit www.edelman.com/who-we-are/practices-specialties-dje. b. This report is about Edelman and all of its affiliated companies, including certain specialty firms it owns, such as: Edelman Intelligence (research), Edelman Deportivo (creative), A&R Edelman (technology), BioScience Communications (medical communications) and agencies Edelman Significa (Brazil). 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries See ‘Our World -Materiality’ (p. 43) and Appendix A GRI 103: Materiality & Management Approach 102-47 List of material topics See ‘Our World -Materiality’ (p. 43) and Appendix A GRI 103: Materiality & Management Approach 102-48 Restatements of information None 102-49 Changes in reporting None 102-50 Reporting period Fiscal Year 2017 (July 1, 2016 June 30, 2017) 102-51 Date of most recent report November 2016 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Citizenship@edelman.com 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. 102-55 GRI content index This Index covers both the General Standard Disclosures as well as the Specific Standard Disclosures. 102-56 External assurance Edelman has not sought assurance for the data in the report, but we did certify our carbon data through the Carbon Trust Standard. We are the first public relations firm to achieve the Carbon Trust Standard certification worldwide. It certifies that we have reduced our carbon footprint and are committed to further annual reductions. 15 offices globally were involved in the certification process. These 15 offices account for over 75% of our global carbon emissions. Carbon Trust is an external party. Senior executives were involved in the process. GRI Content Index EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 49 GRI Content Index GRI Standard “Disclosure Title Individual disclosure items Page number(s), URL(s) and/or Direct Response (‘a’, ‘b’, ‘c’, etc.) are not listed here” General Disclosures GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary See ‘Our World -Materiality’ (p. 43) and Appendix A GRI 103: Materiality & Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components See ‘Our World -Materiality’ (p. 43) and Appendix A GRI 103: Materiality & Management Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach See ‘Our World -Materiality’ (p. 43) and Appendix A GRI 103: Materiality & Management Approach Material Topics Economic GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed The total global revenue of Edelman in FY17 was $874.1 million. See ‘Our Community Corporate Giving’ (page 27) for our community investments. 201-2 F  inancial implications and other risks and opportunities due Edelman reports financial implications and specific risks and opportunities as part of to climate change our annual CDP Supply Chain submission, including risks & opportunities • driven by changes in regulation • driven by changes in physical climate parameters • driven by changes in other climate-related developments Our CDP score is currently only available to clients that invited us to respond to CDP. 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans A majority of our benefits are tailored by location to meet the specific needs of our people, their families and their communities, but a few highlights can be found here: www.edelman.com/careers-and-culture/culture/employee-benefits GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Edelman made no significant infrastructure investments in FY17 Procurement Practices GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Edelman does not currently track proprotion of spending on local suppliers. Edelman has recently updated its procurement policy to better reflect our commitment to responsible purchasing and supplier diversity. One of our objectives is to monitor social and environmental performance in our supplier management process. In order to do this, we have selected the EcoVadis CSR monitoring platform. This platform combines CSR assessment expertise and data management tools which will allow you to demonstrate your sustainability best practices in the years to come.. GRI Content Index EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 50 GRI Content Index GRI Standard “Disclosure Title Individual disclosure items Page number(s), URL(s) and/or Direct Response (‘a’, ‘b’, ‘c’, etc.) are not listed here” Material Topics Anti-corruption GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption A full time compliance program assesses corruption-related risk in Edelman operations and provides support to the organization globally in mitigating such risks. 205-2 C  ommunication and training about anti-corruption policies 86% of employees completed the Intro to Compliance and Ethics training module and procedures (Goal is 85% of all employees). 71% of required employees completed the Worldwide Anti-Corruption training module. (Goal is 85% of Level 4+ employees and all Finance employees). Anti-competitive Behavior GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 2016 206-1 L  egal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and No legal actions are pending or were completed during the reporting period regarding monopoly practices anti-competitive behavior and violations of anti-trust and monopoly legislation in which Edelman has been identified as a participant. Materials GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Copy paper purchased for office use: 59 tonnes (Material weight estimated based on assumption that all paper weigh 80 gram/sq. meter, unless specified by local offices). Data for other non-renewable and renewable materials used is not available. 301-2 Recycled input materials used 60% of copy paper purchased was with post-consumer recycled content by weight. (Material weight estimated based on assumption that all paper weighs 80 gram/sq. meter, unless specified by local offices) Energy GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization See Appendix B: GHG Emissions Reporting Methodology and Environmental Metrics and Appendix C: Environmental Performance Data Table. 302-3 Energy intensity See Appendix C: Environmental Performance Data Table. 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption See Appendix C: Environmental Performance Data Table. GRI Content Index EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 51 GRI Content Index Material Topics Water GRI 303: Water 2016 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Water consumption data includes water purchase records from 5 Edelman offices, amounting to a partial water consumption footprint of 7,066 cubic meters in FY16. The lack of metering data and water purchase records from the majority of the offices imposed significant data limitation for the calculation of total water consumption. Emissions GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions See Appendix A GRI 103: Materiality & Management Approach 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions See Appendix C: Environmental Performance Data Table. 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions See Appendix B: GHG Emissions Reporting Methodology and Environmental Metrics and Appendix C: Environmental Performance Data Table. 305-4 GHG emissions intensity See Appendix B: GHG Emissions Reporting Methodology and Environmental Metrics and Appendix C: Environmental Performance Data Table. 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions See Appendix B: GHG Emissions Reporting Methodology and Environmental Metrics and Appendix C: Environmental Performance Data Table. Environmental Compliance GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 307-2 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Edelman has not identified any non-compliance with environmental laws and/or regulations. Supplier Environmental Assessment GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 308-1 N  ew suppliers that were screened using environmental In FY17 Edelman did not screen suppliers using social criteria. Edelman has recently 2016 criteria updated its procurement policy to better reflect our commitment to responsible purchasing and supplier diversity. One of our objectives is to monitor social and environmental performance in our supplier management process. In order to do this, we have selected the EcoVadis CSR monitoring platform. This platform combines CSR assessment expertise and data management tools which will allow you to demonstrate your sustainability best practices in the years to come. GRI Content Index EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 52 GRI Content Index GRI Standard “Disclosure Title Individual disclosure items Page number(s), URL(s) and/or Direct Response (‘a’, ‘b’, ‘c’, etc.) are not listed here” Material Topics Employment GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not providA majority of our benefits are tailored by location to meet the specific needs of our ed to temporary or part-time employees people, their families and their communities, but a few highlights can be found here: www.edelman.com/careers-and-culture/culture/employee-benefits 401-3 Parental leave • Total number of employees that were entitled to parental leave (Male: 877, Female: 1,987) • Total number of employees that took parental leave (Male: 30, Female: 102) • Total number of employees that returned to work in the reporting period after parental leave ended (Male: 29 Female: 70) • Total number of employees that returned to work after parental leave ended that were still employed 12 months after their return to work (Male: 2, Female: 7) • Return to work rate of employees that took parental leave (Male: 97%, Female: 69%) • Retention rate of employees that took parental leave (Male: 85%, Female: 90% Occupational Health and Safety GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 403-2 T  ypes of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost No injuries or work-related fatalities were reported. 2016 days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 403-3 W  orkers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related As a professional services firm our employees generally not involved in occupational to their occupation activities that have a high incidence of or high risk of specific physical diseases. However, we will increase our efforts to address and measure possible mental diseases (e.g. high stress levels). Training and Education GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee See ‘Our People Learning & Development’ (Page 25). In FY17, 112,695 training hours were completed globally; 20 hours/FTE. 404-2 P  rograms for upgrading employee skills and transition assisSee ‘Our People Learning & Development’ (Page 25). For more information, please tance programs visit: www.edelman.com/careers-and-culture 404-3 P  ercentage of employees receiving regular performance and All review-eligible, global employees receive performance reviews to provide them with career development reviews regular opportunities to assess career direction and receive feedback and direction. This is managed through a sophisticated career tracking software tool. GRI Content Index EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 53 GRI Content Index GRI Standard “Disclosure Title Individual disclosure items Page number(s), URL(s) and/or Direct Response (‘a’, ‘b’, ‘c’, etc.) are not listed here” Material Topics Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees See ‘Our People Diversity & Inclusion’ (Page 24). 2016 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Edelman is committed to equal pay and is conducting a company-wide pay analysis to identify and tackle any potential gaps. Local Communities GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 413-1 O  perations with local community engagement, impact as100%; All Edelman employees can take paid time off to volunteer and participate in sessments, and development programs community engagement in meaningful, locally relevant way. 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative Edelman operations do not have a negative impact on local communities. Around the impacts on local communities world, our business supports local economies through jobs that provide competitive pay and benefits, employee training anddevelopment, use of local subconsultants and suppliers, and volunteering and/or philanthropic support. Supplier Social Assessment GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria In FY17 Edelman did not screen suppliers using social criteria. Edelman has recently updated its procurement policy to better reflect our commitment to responsible purchasing and supplier diversity. One of our objectives is to monitor social and environmental performance in our supplier management process. In order to do this, we have selected the EcoVadis CSR monitoring platform. This platform combines CSR assessment expertise and data management tools which will allow you to demonstrate your sustainability best practices in the years to come. Marketing and Labeling GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing Edelman has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary communications codes. GRI Content Index EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 54 GRI Content Index GRI Standard “Disclosure Title Individual disclosure items Page number(s), URL(s) and/or Direct Response (‘a’, ‘b’, ‘c’, etc.) are not listed here” Material Topics Customer Privacy GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 418-1 S  ubstantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer Edelman assesses the success of management systems and procedures relating to privacy and losses of customer data data protection. Edelman has self-certified under the E.U. Privacy Shield in regards to the protection of personal information. The firm’s commitments and management approach in this regard are stated in its Global Privacy Principles (https://www.edelman. com/privacy-policy/global-privacy-principles/) and overseen by the firm’s Chief Privacy Officer and compliance team. Socioeconomic Compliance GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 419-1 N  on-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and Edelman has not identified any non-compliance with laws and/or regulations. economic area Appendix A EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 55 Appendix AGRI 103: Materiality & Management Approach The GRI Standard management approach disclosures enable us to explain how we manage Selection the economic, environmental, and social impacts related to our material topics. This Based on the results of the four research elements we identified the following topics (and provides narrative information about how Edelman identifies, analyzes, and responds to its boundaries) as being material to report on: actual and potential impacts. 1. Business Ethics (Internal/Global) This section covers: 2. Employee Health & Wellbeing (Internal/Global) • Disclosure 103-1 ‘Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary’; 3. Pro Bono Initiatives (Internal/Global) • Disclosure 103-2 ‘The management approach and its components’, and; 4. Diversity & Inclusion (Internal/Global) • Disclosure 103-3 ‘Evaluation of the management approach’. 5. Volunteerism (Internal/Global) 6. Corporate Giving (Internal/Global) DISCLOSURE 103-1: EXPLANATION OF THE MATERIAL TOPIC AND ITS BOUNDARY 7. Employee Training & Development (Internal/Global) The Global Citizenship team, with assistance from local Citizenship liaisons, regularly 8. Sustainable Purchasing (External/US) monitors key sustainability risks and opportunities and shares updates during monthly 9. Data Privacy and Information Security (Internal/Global) Local Citizenship Network and Citizenship Advisory Committee meetings. Following these ongoing dialogues, we benchmark our initiatives against other service providing firms, global 10.Green Office Policies (Internal/Global) trends, client and employee expectations and existing and new regulations. This is how we 11.Supplier Diversity (External/US) determine the relevant topics that our Citizenship program focuses on. In line with our commitment to maintaining our Carbon Trust Certification and submit our Prioritization carbon data to CDP, we will also report on our carbon footprint (Internal/Global). Although all of the topics that we address throughout the year are relevant for our ongoing Citizenship strategy, we only report on those topics that our internal and external stakeholders have pointed out as most relevant and, therefore, material. This prioritization process consisted of: • Senior leader interviews: Edelman’s top executives, including CEO, CFO, COO, were interviewed by the global Citizenship team • External stakeholder interviews: We interviewed 13 external stakeholders (Clients, Academics, NGOs) • Global Citizenship survey; We asked all 5,500+ colleagues around the world to rank topics that are most important to them in a global survey (1,501 responded). Appendix A EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 56 Appendix A GRI 103: Materiality & Management Approach The results of our 2017 analyses appear on the prioritization matrix, which shows the DISCLOSURE 103-2: THE MANAGEMENT APPROACH AND ITS COMPONENTS relative significance of each topic from these diverse perspectives. Business Ethics Our culture has evolved over the more than 60-year history of the firm, but we are still driven by Dan Edelman’s founding principles including entrepreneurship, independence and Pro Bono Initiatives the idea that everyone is an account executive. Core to our culture are our values. They Business Ethics guide our behavior and influence the way we work with each other, our clients, and the community. Excellence, curiosity, and courage are very much at the heart of who we are Diversity & Inclusion Health & Well-Being and drive our continued evolution as a firm. They describe us at our very best and ensure we remain distinctive to our clients and to the industry. Increasing Concern to External Stakeholders Employee Training & Volunteerism Development Edelman’s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct provides a uniform understanding as Corporate Giving to what is expected of Edelman employees and embodies our commitment to excellent Sustainable Purchasing counsel and service to all stakeholders. The code is supplemented by our Day-to-Day Situation Guide, which addresses issues specific to our industry. Data Privacy & Supplier Diversity Information Security We’re also committed to maintaining high ethical standards externally by the third parties that we engage. As a result, we developed a Code of Ethics for Suppliers and Service Green Offices Policies Providers to ensure that subcontractors, freelancers, suppliers, and other third parties Carbon Footprint understand and agree to comply with our expected standards in all business dealings related to Edelman. Edelman is committed to focusing online behavior through the lens of “doing the right thing.” Increasing Concern to Edelman We have a Digital Code of Conduct that is updated annually, as our online behavior policies closely mirror the dramatic pace of change that has occurred across the digital world. Our Clients Our People Our Communities Our World Our guidelines have been constructed to reflect the evolving norms of online community behavior, especially as it pertains to how corporations, and the agencies acting on their behalf, comport themselves online. For more information on our values, mission, and ethics, please visit www.edelman.com/ who-we-are Appendix A EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 57 Appendix A GRI 103: Materiality & Management Approach Employee Health & Well-being Pro Bono Initiatives, Volunteerism & Corporate Giving Finding the right balance between our personal and working lives is key to our well-being Giving back is part of our culture—and always will be. Around the world, employees assisted journey. At Edelman, we provide a safe and healthy workplace that promotes the health and those in need through pro bono campaigns and volunteering activities in every region. well-being of our employees. For more than 60 years, Edelman has helped employees make the most of opportunities to A majority of our benefits are tailored by location to meet the specific needs of our people, strengthen the communities where they live and work. Through service and donations, our their families, and their communities. Some examples of programs that focus on our generous employees are helping local communities around the globe. employees’ health & well-being include: Through strategic and creative storytelling, we seek to influence the conversation about • E  delman Escape: For more than a decade, our Edelman Escape program has provided society’s critical challenges and solutions, and we use our communications marketing select employees with a mini, one-week sabbatical and $1,500 to escape from their work principles to make an impact. Exemplifying our commitment to pro bono work was the duties to pursue a dream, goal, or experience that will enrich their lives. creation of the Ruth Edelman Citizenship Award. • Flexible Work Arrangements and Family Leave: Edelman offers flexible work time, telecommuting and reduced workweek arrangements in most of our offices. In addition, Diversity & Inclusion Edelman gives extended parental leave to new biological and adoptive parents, as well Edelman believes in and champions diversity in thought, perspective, and background. as family leave for eldercare emergencies. Edelman also has a child and pet adoption As pioneer thinkers, our success lies in the ability to innovate and identify solutions for our assistance program that provides financial support for the adoption process. clients. We are committed to providing the best counsel available. We can offer our clients rich and grounded counsel by including diverse counselors in our employee population, • Service Year Award and Sabbatical Program Edelman rewards employees who locally, regionally and globally. Further, a diverse workforce contributes to a richer, and more achieve tenure milestones, beginning at five years, with a monetary gift. In select offices enjoyable and innovative work environment. across the globe, we also offer a sabbatical program that includes up to six additional weeks of paid time off. Sabbaticals are offered when an employee has been with the We actively seek to hire and promote individuals representing a variety of heritages and company ten years and again at every five-year interval thereafter. experiences. Through proactive talent management and mentorship programs, we educate and help grow our employees by nurturing a culture where diversity and inclusion is • Community Investment Grants The Edelman Community Investment Grant program championed, valued, and expected. takes our employee’s involvement with nonprofit organizations one step further by making an investment in their causes and, in turn, an investment in our communities. Since this We aim to create an inclusive environment where equity of opportunity exists for all program began in 2011, Edelman has awarded more than $950,000 in grant funding employees, allowing them to maximize their talents and reach their full potential. We take to more than 300 organizations that support causes from education, to community advantage of their unique perspectives and celebrate all the things that make each person development, to health. In FY17 alone, we awarded $82,500 to 41 organizations worldwide. unique including race, religion, gender, gender identity or expression, nationality, sexual orientation, physical abilities, age, parental status, work and behavioral style. Our employee • Well-being Wednesday In FY17 Edelman extended the UK’s successful Well-being affinity groups include networks for LGBTQ, Veteran, African American, and Latino employees. Wednesday program to the rest of the European Region. ‘Well-being Wednesday’ is an initiative to ensure that our employees have access to various wellness-related activities Further, we aim to equip employees to help clients respond to an increasingly global and resources. As part of the updated Citizenship Scores, health and well-being activities society through inspired counsel and innovative solutions. Our diversity drives an should be organized by each office at least quarterly. inclusive environment wherein differences are valued and integrated into every part of our organization’s operation. Appendix A EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 58 Appendix AGRI 103: Materiality & Management Approach Employee Training & Development Data Privacy and Information Security Each year, every Edelman employee is required to complete 24 learning hours, with an Daniel J. Edelman Holdings, Inc. and its family of companies (collectively, Edelman) organizationwide goal of 120,000 learning hours per year. In addition to workshops, lunch understands the importance of fair information privacy practices and individual privacy. & learns and all-staff presentations, the Edelman Learning Institute (ELI) is the primary go-to Edelman helps its clients maintain and grow their relationships with stakeholders, and a source for all Learning & Development at the firm. key part of a brand’s relationship with its stakeholders involves a stakeholder’s confidence Continuously evolving, ELI is built to address both personal and professional growth through in the privacy practices associated with the brand. Privacy is good corporate citizenship, a robust, global training and development management system that enhances employees’ and Edelman has adopted privacy principles consistent with its leadership position in the skills, supports lifelong learning and helps build more meaningful careers. ELI encompasses industry and applicable laws and regulations. global online sessions, external development resources, and core in-house skills training. We continually review and update our data privacy and information security practices to make sure we effectively safeguard personal and business data for our clients and Sustainable Purchasing for ourselves. To Edelman, working in a socially responsible manner means doing business ethically, and treating people and the environment with respect throughout all our operations. These Green Office Policies & Carbon Footprint commitments also extend to our supply chain. We are dedicated to sourcing goods and With more than 5,500 employees in 65 cities, we are proud to be one of the largest services from sustainable sources, and collaborating with partners who share our values communications marketing firms in the world. With our size comes opportunity, but also and commitments towards sustainable development. Through the present policy, we responsibility. Responsibility to drive down our carbon footprint by making smart decisions request our suppliers to uphold these commitments, and engage with us in a process of about travel, office space, lighting, technology, office supplies, and furnishings. continuous improvement. Our climate change position and environmental statement guide our environmental As a professional services firm and a relatively small purchaser of goods and services, approach. To ensure our environmental policies and practices continue to reflect our Edelman has a limited purchasing footprint. However, we expect our suppliers to respect commitments, we’re taking a closer look at what’s working and what else we can do. We our Sustainable Procurement Policy and support our effort in making responsible purchasing anticipate focusing on business travel and employee commuting, making our office kitchen a way of doing business. practices more sustainable, implementing our green meeting policy globally and transitioning Our company’s value to act with the courage to do the right thing, drives the development a to green electricity in our US offices. responsible and sustainable supply chain that encompasses sustainable purchasing, supplier diversity, and supplier accountability. We embrace our responsibility as a business and seek to continue to operate our business in a manner that upholds our values and principles. Appendix A EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 59 Appendix AGRI 103: Materiality & Management Approach Supplier Diversity DISCLOSURE 103-3: EVALUATION OF THE MANAGEMENT APPROACH To align with U.N. Sustainable Development Goal #8 – which is focused on promoting The Global Citizenship team works in close collaboration with topical leadership teams (e.g. sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth as well as full and productive Diversity & Inclusion leadership team, global Compliance team, global Finance team, global employment and decent work for allEdelman is also committed to supplier diversity. HR) to manage and evaluate our material aspects. While some of the identified aspects are Inclusive growth includes supporting job creation in communities where we operate while mostly managed through these leadership teams (e.g. business ethics), all are evaluated on reinforcing human rights, fair wages for women and men, and capacity-building of local specific ‘Citizenship Score’ (C-score) KPIs. women-owned, minority-owned, LGBT-owned, disabled-owned, veteran-owned, and Through our C-Score we provide accountability on Citizenship-related policies and projects. disadvantaged HUBZone businesses. Our goal is to achieve an annual global C-Score of 8 out of 10. Citizenship Scores are updated quarterly and shared with the company’s senior leadership in order to update them about local office Citizenship progress. The C-Score KPIs are reviewed annually in partnership with the above-mentioned leadership teams, the Citizenship Advisory Committee, and the Local Citizenship Network. Appendix B EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 60 Appendix B: GHG Emissions Reporting Methodology and Environmental Metrics GHG Emissions Reporting Methodology GHG Quantification Methodology and Emission Factors Edelman’s carbon footprint was consolidated in accordance with the World Resources All carbon emissions include three of the seven greenhouse gases covered by the Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable Development’s The Greenhouse Gas Kyoto Protocol, namely carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O). Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, revised edition (March 2004), Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs), sulphur hexafluoride (SF6), and referred to as The Greenhouse Gas Protocol in this document. nitrogen trifluoride (NF3) are omitted from our reporting as they are not a material source of greenhouse gas for Edelman. Organizational Boundary and Reporting Period Carbon emissions are calculated by multiplying activity data with published emission factors. Edelman’s organizational boundary of its carbon inventory is determined by the operational Carbon emissions from multiple gases are standardized to a carbon dioxide equivalent control approach in accordance with The Greenhouse Gas Protocol. The inventory accounts (CO2e) by applying the corresponding Global Warming Potential (GWP). The general for 100% of carbon emissions of business activities and operations in which Edelman calculation formula and global warming potentials used are: has direct operational control and the full authority to introduce and implement operating policies. The current carbon inventory accounts for the carbon emissions of Edelman’s operations for FY16 (1 July 2015 – 30 June 2016). Total GHG emissions (tCO2e) = Σsources (Activity data x Emission factor x GWP) Edelman operates in over 30 countries with over 65 offices under five regions, namely the United States, Canada, Europe, Asia Pacific the Middle East and Africa (APACMEA), and GHG Global Warming Reference Potential (GWP) Latin America. Carbon emissions from 59 local offices were reported for FY161. Carbon Dioxide (CO2) 1 Fourth Assessment Report published by Operational Boundary Methane (CH4) 25 Intergovernmental Panel The carbon footprint includes Scope 1, Scope 2, and selected Scope 3 emissions that were on Climate Change reported for operations within the organizational boundary. Nitrous Oxide (N2O) 298 (IPCC AR4)2 1 There were six offices excluded as the data quality from these offices is deemed to be insignificant of Edelman’s global footprint. Operational boundary Emission source 2 As of FY16. Previously, Edelman referred to GWPs from IPCC AR2. Edelman conducted a materiality assessment to assess if base year carbon emissions should be recalculated. The change is insignificant and base year emissions do not need to Scope 1 Natural gas consumption for stationary combustion be recalculated as the transition from AR2 to AR4 results in a change in total carbon emissions inferior to 0.01%. Direct carbon emissions Diesel consumption for mobile combustion Petrol consumption for mobile combustion Scope 2 Office energy consumption Energy indirect carbon emissions Scope 3 Staff business air travel Other indirect carbon emissions Office copy paper use Appendix B EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 61 Appendix B: GHG Emissions Reporting Methodology and Environmental Metrics Published emission factors were identified for all emission sources. They specify the amount Carbon emissions data is reported in both absolute and normalized values. Full-time of emissions per unit of activity. equivalent (FTE) at fiscal year-end (i.e. 30 Jun 2016) is used to calculated carbon intensity (CO2e/FTE). FTE covers permanent full-time and part-time employees only (interns, Emission source Source of emission factor trainees, contractors and temporary employee are excluded). FTE also accounts for four offices that are excluded from the carbon inventory as the data quality of these offices are Scope 1 – Global GHG Protocol (March 2017). WRI Emission Factors from deemed to be insignificant of Edelman’s global carbon footprint. Cross-Sector Tools (March 2017 Defra (2015). 2015 Guidelines to Defra / DECC’s GHG Base Year GHG Emissions and Recalculation Conversion Factors for Company Reporting; Table 6a & 7a, Burning oil. The carbon emissions for FY11 were set as the base year for comparing our emissions performance over time. It is the suggested base year in which carbon emissions data Scope 2 – U.S. US Environmental Protection Agency eGRID2017. Most recent is available. The base year carbon emissions apply to Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3 year: 2014. emissions associated with staff business air travel and office copy paper use. Scope 2 – Other OECD/IEA (2016) World edition of CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion. The source of Emission Factor has switched from Defra to IEA Data Collection and Reporting Tools since Defra no longer provides publicly available data and Primary usage data is used to calculate carbon emissions through the application of suggested organizations to purchase directly from IEA. relevant emission factors. The primary data obtained from electricity bills, fuel and paper purchase records, and flight ticket information are collected via a web-based carbon data Scope 3 Air Travel – Global Defra GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (2015). management software. A proxy built from average office electricity usage is applied to In line with international good practice, a Radiative Forcing calculate carbon emissions for offices where actual metering data is not available. There are Index (RFI) multiplier of 1.9 is used to represent the impact of non-CO2 gases from aviation when calculating emissions 30 offices that have been applied a proxy, where the estimated electricity consumption is from flights. 7.50 kWh/month/m2. The electricity proxy is updated year-on-year. Scope 3 Paper Global Environmental Paper Network Paper Calculator Version 3.2.1. Edelman’s business air travel data comes from a combination of internal booking receipts, data provided by external travel agent as part of the company’s airline procurement process and flight itinerary records. A proxy built from average air travel emissions per employee is applied to calculate carbon emissions in cases where booking receipts are not available, data is from an external travel agent, or employees have booked travel on their own. Supporting documents such as copies of purchase invoices were maintained by local offices for internal data verifications. At the time of footprint calculations, invoices were checked against the input data based on sampling for electricity, fuel and paper purchase. Raw data and emissions calculation tool are properly documented and archived for future reference. Appendix C EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 62 Appendix C: Environmental Performance Data Table Environmental metric FY16 FY15 FY14 FY13 FY12 FY11 %Change FY15-16 Carbon emissions by source Tons of CO2 equivalent (tCO2e) Business air travel 11,745 11,981 13,665 13,946 13,044 12,135 -2% Office electricity 3,526 4,464 4,552 4,419 3,989 3,473 -21% Mobile fuel and stationary fuel combustion 594 582 754 832 364 289 1% Office paper use 120 184 209 200 304 341 -35% Total carbon emissions 15,986 17,212 19,180 19,398 17,701 16,238 -7% % change compared to FY11 -2% 6% 18% 19% 9% Carbon emissions by region Tons of CO2 equivalent (tCO2e) United States 9,321 10,307 12,030 13,112 11,962 11,225 -10% Europe 2,304 2,703 3,208 2,865 2,809 2,562 -15% APAC 3,620 3,510 3,295 3,005 2,541 2,074 3% Canada 422 524 509 279 238 237 -20% Latin America 320 169 139 137 150 139 89% Total carbon emissions 15,986 17,212 19,180 19,398 17,701 16,238 -7% Carbon emissions by scope Tons of CO2 equivalent (tCO2e) Scope 1 594 582 754 832 364 289 2% Scope 2 3,526 4,464 4,552 4,419 3,989 3,473 -21% Scope 3 11,866 12,166 13,874 14,146 13,348 12,476 -2% Total carbon emissions 15,986 17,212 19,180 19,398 17,701 16,238 -7% Appendix C EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 63 Appendix C: Environmental Performance Data Table Environmental metric FY16 FY15 FY14 FY13 FY12 FY11 %Change FY15-16 Carbon emissions intensity Tons of CO2 equivalent per full-time equivalent (tCO2e/FTE) Total carbon emissions per FTE 2.50 3.14 3.69 3.9 3.94 4.04 -20% % change compared to FY11 -38% -22% -9% -3% -2% Carbon emissions: percentage by source % of total Business air travel 73% 70% 71% 72% 74% 75% Office electricity 22% 26% 24% 23% 23% 21% Mobile fuel and stationary fuel combustion 4% 3% 4% 4% 2% 2% Office paper use 1% 1% 1% 1% 2% 2% Total 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Carbon emissions: percentage by region % of total United States 58% 60% 63% 68% 68% 69% Europe 14% 16% 17% 15% 16% 16% APAC 23% 20% 17% 15% 14% 13% Canada 3% 3% 3% 1% 1% 1% Latin America 2% 1% 1% 1% 1% 1% Total 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Carbon emissions: percentage by scope % of total Scope 1 4% 3% 4% 4% 2% 2% Scope 2 22% 26% 24% 23% 23% 21% Scope 3 74% 71% 72% 73% 75% 77% Total 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Appendix C EDELMAN FY17 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 64 Appendix C: Environmental Performance Data Table Environmental metric FY16 FY15 FY14 FY13 FY12 FY11 %Change FY15-16 Energy usage by source Gigajoules (GJ) Diesel 1,199 1,153 1,106 987 673 372 4% Petrol 2,037 3,501 6,050 5,908 3,732 2,443 -42% Electricity 31,947 34,384 34,525 34,163 31,189 27,477 -7% Natural gas 6,429 5,102 4,813 6,240 4,156 998 26% Total energy usage 41,611 44,140 46,943 47,297 39,751 31,290 -6% % change compared to FY11 33% 41% 50% 51% 27% Energy usage intensity Total energy consumption per FTE (GJ/FTE) 6.52 8.05 8.93 9.51 8.86 7.79 -19% % change compared to FY11 -16% 3% 15% 22% 14% Energy usage: percentage by source % of total Diesel 3% 3% 2% 2% 2% 1% Petrol 5% 8% 13% 12% 9% 8% Electricity 77% 78% 74% 72% 78% 88% Natural gas 15% 12% 10% 13% 10% 3% Total 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Note: 1 Some values may not sum exactly to total number due to rounding. 2 Detailed methodology for carbon emissions and energy usage calculations is available in Appendix B – GHG Emissions Reporting Methodology and Environmental Metrics. 3 The proxy applied to electricity consumption has been updated this year. For more details regarding the methodology, please refer to Appendix B – GHG Emissions Reporting Methodology and Environmental Metrics. 4 Carbon emissions classified as “Scope 2” and “Office Electricity” reflects a location-based carbon accounting approach. Following a review of the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance and emission factors in the United States, we decided to calculate emissions using national-level emission factors to ensure consistency and comparability over the years. Please note that data prior to FY16 are calculated using the location-based method. 5 The boundary of our inventory covers Edelman’s global operations a total of 59 offices in five operating regions. There were six offices excluded as the data quality from these offices is deemed to be insignificant of Edelman’s global footprint.
