COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) BASIC TEMPLATE Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: 4/9/2017 To: 4/9/2018 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (OWNER OR PRESIDENT IN THE CASE OF SMALL BUSINESSES) Please use the box below to include the statement of continued support signed by your company’s chief executive 17/8/2018 To our Stakeholders: It is of great privilege to reiterate and ensure to you that Kristie’s is committed and supportive of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas subsequently discussed concerning Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. We are very enthusiastic to reach defined goals in a short term/long term objectives and strategies always. We continuously aim to grow and develop our trust together. Sincerely yours, Christina Maria Khater CEO – Managing Partner 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of human rights. Examples include:  Support and respect the protection of international human rights within our sphere of influence  We recognize privacy as a human right  We make sure that we are not complicit in human rights abuse  We are committed to providing an inclusive and welcoming environment for all members of our staff, clients, volunteers, subcontractors, and vendors  All our employees get paid their salaries each month along with declaring it to the MOF and NSSF as well.  All our employees have the right to get all type of leaves as indicated in the Lebanese labor law  All employees have the right to have a half an hour lunch break.  Labour Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of labour. Examples include:  All employees are fully made aware of the objectives and contribution expected from them  We train and educate our employees about environmental issues that may affect their work and encourage them to work in an environmentally responsible manner  All employees gain way over the minimum wage based on their credentials and expertise.  All employees are submissive to the Lebanese labor law Environment Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of environment. Examples include:  Kristie's has put a safety environment procedure so their employees would be safe in their work place.  Kristie’s has been constantly working on green practices directly and indirectly. We have been promoting green practices in doing business through social media, and marketing. We have also focused on reducing energy consumption in our daily operations  Our offices have been chosen to include wide windows in order to save on lighting for energy efficiency  Our presentations are done using I-pads in order to save on paper consumption. We also use fuel efficient cars in our operations and have specifically chosen vehicles with low Carbon dioxide emission levels  We ensure to purchase renewable, reusable, recyclable and recycled materials    Anti-Corruption Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken to fight corruption. Examples include:  Kristie’s personnel are strictly prohibited from offering, paying, promising, or authorizing any payment or other thing of value to any person directly or indirectly through or to a third party  All types of bribery or illegal payments are prohibited in all business transactions, Kristie’s operation is always proceeded transparently and in alignment with related laws and regulations 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES In the box below, please include the most relevant indicators to measure outcomes. Examples include:  Kristie’s will not discriminate and will take affirmative action measures to ensure against discrimination in employment, recruitment, advertisements for employment, compensation, termination, upgrading, promotions, and other conditions of employment against any employee or job applicant on the bases of race, color, gender, national origin, age, religion, creed, disability, veteran's status, sexual orientation, gender identity or gender expression  Kristie’s is committed to providing a safe environment for all employees and members, promotes equal opportunities to all employees and members and prohibits all types of harassment, discrimination and abuse
