Energy drives sustainability. 2018 INTEGRATED REPORT Rogers at a Glance Our Group Stepping into its 120th year of operations, Rogers and Company Limited positions itself as a listed international services and investment company. We are acknowledged for our pioneering and leading contribution to the economic development in Mauritius and strive towards sustainability. We are also a prominent employer in the services sectors in Mauritius with a strong emphasis on the value of our social and natural capital. Our edge Our values Over the years, we have built a sound Leadership, Dynamism and Agility are asset base as well as a quality network the core values that are embedded in our of contacts and partners. The expertise every action. It is fundamental in the way of our united, competent and balanced we conduct business and engage with our team is widely recognised and our Group stakeholders. We uphold the belief that maintains a significant market share in Energy drives everything within our Group, each of our served markets. from Dynamism to Inspiration, Agility, Performance, Sustainability and Happiness. Our capabilities Our domestic and international operations are spread across four served markets: EBITDA* 2,065 FinTech, Hospitality, Logistics and Property. We have extensive specialist expertise in these markets and all the Rs m businesses within our different sectors have a strong leading industry position. ( 2%) 9,472 Total revenue 901 Rs m PAT* Rs m ( 9%) ( 6%) * Excluding exceptional items 4 Integrated Report 2018 40 Evolution of Share Price & Discount to NAV Market capitalisation of Rs 8,570m as at 30 June 2018 65% Total Assets Rs m 33,608 39 60% 38 37 55% 36 Rs 35.00 50% 35 Rs 34.00 34 45% 33 32 40% 31 35% ( 7%) 30 Rs 29.05 29 30% 28 25% 27 29% 26 20% 25 15% 24 17% 0.97 1.58 14% 23 22 10% DPS EPS* 5% 21 Rs Rs 20 0% Jul-17 Aug-17 Sep-17 Oct-17 Nov-17 Dec-17 Discount to NAV (Right Axis) Jan-18 Feb-18 Mar-18 Apr-18 May-18 RCL Share Price Jun-18 ( 5%) ( 20%) * Excluding exceptional items Demographics** 5,013 Employees 110 Workplaces 13 16 Nationalities 4 International 13% Female 39% Male 61% Mauritius 87% Countries Served Markets Managers 9% Geography Gender Operatives 52% Mauritius International Male Female 4,360 653 3,076 1,937 Staff 39% Category Managers Staff Operatives 461 1,943 2,609 ** Excluding associates Integrated Report 2018 5 International Presence France Morocco Kenya Comoros With just over 120 years of existence, Rogers Mayotte has a strong international presence.* Madagascar Mozambique The Rogers brand is present worldwide: • Rogers Capital has four overseas desks focusing on Africa, India, France and China and three representative offices in South Africa, Singapore and Seychelles; South Africa Reunion • VLH currently has sales teams in France, UK and Germany; • Rogers Aviation has six offices abroad: Comoros, Madagascar, Mozambique, Mayotte, Reunion Island and South Africa; and • Velogic’s offices are present in well-established strategic locations such as Reunion Island, Madagascar, Kenya, France, India and Singapore. Velogic has a franchise office in Bangladesh and it also represents the UPS brand through agents in Seychelles, Comoros and Mayotte. * Including associates 6 Integrated Report 2018 Bangladesh India Seychelles Singapore Mauritius Integrated Report 2018 7 Group Structure FI N TE CH HOSPITALIT Y • Operating under the Rogers Capital • The Hospitality served market brand, our FinTech platform provides provides a vertical integration of SERVED MARKETS services in three sectors. services which includes Hotels, Travel • Rogers also directly holds a 29.37% and Leisure. stake in Swan General and a 20% • Through our operations in VLH and a holding in Swan Financial Solutions. 22.98% equity investment in NMH, Rogers is a major player in the tourism industry, accounting for more than 20% of total rooms available in Mauritius. Corporate Services Hotels SECTORS Technology Services Travel Financial Services Leisure Rogers Capital Veranda Leisure & Hospitality MAIN Rogers Aviation COMPANIES Island Living KEY Swan General New Mauritius Hotels Swan Financial Solutions Air Mauritius INVESTMENTS Mautourco 8 Integrated Report 2018 LOGI S TI CS PROPERT Y • Our Logistics arm, Velogic provides • The property portfolio includes our an integrated logistics platform with 36.25% equity investment in Ascencia, services consolidated under Port and the largest property fund listed on the Haulage Services, Freight Forwarding, Stock Exchange of Mauritius, as well Shipping and Sugar Packaging. as our agricultural, property and leisure activities carried out in Heritage Bel Ombre. Logistics Solutions Property Investments Property Development & Agribusiness Velogic Ascencia Compagnie Sucrière de Bel Ombre Les Villas de Bel Ombre Moka City Le Morne Development Corporation (‘LMDC’) Integrated Report 2018 9 Shareholding Structure as at 30 June 2018 Société Caredas 59.6% L’Accord Limited 77.8% La Sablonnière Limited 71.8% ENL Limited 69.1% ENL Land Ltd 100% Rogers Consolidated Shareholding Ltd National Pensions Fund 6.7% 53% 5.5% Rogers and Company Limited 10 Integrated Report 2018 Integrated Report 2018 11 Value Creation Map Financial Human Intellectual • Equity raising • Strong leadership team • Culture shaping • Debt financing • Skills and career development • Brand and reputation • Reinvestment • Engaged workforce • Systems S T RAT EG IC MAP BUILDING A LEADING SERVICES AND INVESTMENT BUSINESS FOCUSED ON FOUR SERVED MARKETS Served Markets Strategic Objectives Achievements in 2017-18 Expand FinTech services with new Corporate Services Financial Services Technology Services credit offering and innovative • Acquisition of Globefin Management Services; • Successful go-to-market on Hire • Successful ERP systems integration in solutions. • Launch of a China desk; Purchase, Leasing & Loans; public sector; FinTech • Launch of French payroll and HR services. • Fund management of largest listed • National engagement survey powered property fund, Ascencia. by Rogers Capital Technology Services (‘RCTS’); • New digital capability. Enhance the customer experience Hotels Travel Leisure and scale-up of our Leisure & Hotel • Launch of new Heritage brand for Bel Ombre • Consolidation of ground handling • Creation of Leisure pole with acquisition of businesses. activities; activities in Mozambique and Island Living and its minority stakes in Voilà Hospitality • Renovations completed for Heritage Le Telfair, Madagascar; Hotel and Seafood Basket; Heritage Awali, Heritage Le Château and Veranda • Launch of the new online tour operating • Cap D’Abondance has now taken over the Paul et Virginie; concept, Islandian; management of Compagnie Sucrière de Bel • A successful beach erosion containment and • Turnaround of BlueSky Reunion; Ombre (‘CSBO’) and Case Noyale’s leisure lagoon protection in Bel Ombre; • New GSA representations in Mauritius activities; • Successful reopening and repositioning of and Mozambique. • Continued good performance of “Quick Veranda Paul et Virginie as a 4-star; Service Restaurant” (‘QSR’) brands; • Successful AfrAsia Bank Mauritius Open in • Year-on-year growth for select service, November 2017 at Heritage Resorts providing mid-scale Voilà Hotels brand. huge international visibility to Heritage Resorts, Bel Ombre and Mauritius. Improve performance of our Logistics existing service lines. • Completion of transition of the new regional courier representation; • Launch of freight forwarding business in Kenya. Logistics Re-invent our Agribusiness Property Investments Ascencia Property Development & Agribusiness operations. • Roll-out of new brand identity; • Launch of an umbrella brand for the Bel Ombre destination; • Opening of So’flo Mall in November 2017; • Execution of land sale; Property Consolidate Ascencia’s portfolio in • Entry of Atterbury Consortium (Pty) Mauritius into the share capital • Initiation of turnaround plan; the retail segment and secure new of Ascencia; • Transfer of leisure properties for management by Island Living. avenues of expansion. • Installation of photovoltaic farms with capacity of 3 MW at Phoenix Mall. STRATEGIC PILLARS: COMPETITIVENESS, PREDICTABILITY AND GROWTH GROUP LEVERAGE: BRANDING, CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, FINANCING, LEADERSHIP, RISK MANAGEMENT & VALUES Financial Human Intellectual • Access to competitive financial capital • Top-of-mind employer • Enabling organisation culture which drives • Optimisation of resources towards • People development (skilled and engaged Leadership, Agility and Dynamism served markets employee base) • Strong brand image • Delivering shareholder return • Positive and empowering climate • Robust systems supporting our operations 12 Integrated Report 2018 VAL UE IN O UT COMES Social & Natural • Customer relationships (Consolidated Value Added Statement) • Stakeholders’ confidence • Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 17% Rs4,263m Targets in 2018-19 Main Risks impacting objectives (Refer to page 75) 17% Corporate Services Financial Services • Representative offices in India and France; • Introduction of factoring services and A B C • Fully licenced management company in further digitalisation of consumer finance E G H Seychelles. offerings; 2017 • Launch of an electronic payment solution Technology Services (subject to regulatory approvals); I Rs 3,659m 52% • New commercial and development plan; • Corporate advisory for Global Business 27% • New high value offering in Information customers. Security; 26% Hotels Travel B C E 53% • Renovation (started April 2018) and relaunch • Opening of new territory for GSA; 4% of Veranda Tamarin (reopening 01 November • Repositioning of BlueSky lounge for leisure 2018); travel; G H J • Start construction of Heritage second 18-hole • Leverage on Amex franchise for corporate signature golf course and sales of memberships; travel; • Completion of inventory growth opportunities in • Revamping of experiences for boat 4% Mauritius and the region; activities; Rs m 2018 2017 • Experience enhancement projects at Heritage • Expansion of ground handling activities C Beach Club, Heritage Le Château, Heritage Le in Africa. Restated Telfair and Heritage Awali; Leisure Revenue 9,472 8,663 • Initiation of Bel Ombre Voluntary Marine • Launch of Domino’s Pizza brand; Conservation Area (‘VMCA’); Bought-in materials & services (5,209) (5,004) • Launch of Seeloy Island Clubs brand; • Creation of Heritage Hotel School in Bel Ombre; • Implementation of online bookings for Total value added 4,263 3,659 • Guest experience enrichment at Heritage Bel destination restaurants and leisure brands; Ombre with new activities, product offerings EMPLOYEES, 53% • Point of sale upgrade; and events. • Upgrading of digital dashboards. Wages, salaries, bonuses, pensions 2,253 1,908 Logistics & other benefits • Completion of turnarounds for the Haulage and France businesses; B C D • Expansion in East Africa; GOVERNMENT, 4% • Continued development of the regional courier business. G H I Income Tax 190 165 Property Investments Ascencia Property Development & Agribusiness PROVIDERS OF CAPITAL, 26% • Extension of Bagatelle Mall; • Accelerate the agricultural diversification B C D • Construction of mall at Beau Vallon programme; Dividends paid to: (projected 10,000 sqm); • Position Chamarel 7 Coloured Earth as a Geopark E G Shareholders of Rogers and 245 232 • Carry on with green mall campaigns. destination. Company Limited Outside shareholders of 291 215 Subsidiary Companies Banks & other lenders 550 539 Social & Natural REINVESTED, 17% • Sustainable protection of natural resources Depreciation & amortisation 424 353 • Focused support and monitoring of projects Retained Profit 310 247 • Caring community development VAL UE O UT Note: The above statement excludes any amount of Value Added tax paid or collected. Integrated Report 2018 13 Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholders Expectations Response Shareholders, • Sustainable growth in shareholders’ • An experienced Board of Directors consisting of Executive, Non-Executive Investors, equity; and Independent Non-Executive Directors to encompass the whole spectrum Regulatory • Responsible management with of the Group’s activities; bodies and transparency; and • An established Risk Management and Audit Committee (‘RMAC’) which Providers of • Sustainable interest cover and debt oversees the soundness of financial, operational, compliance and strategic risk Capital levels. management; • A Corporate Governance Committee (‘CGC’), also acting as Nomination and Remuneration Committees, ensures that the Group complies with the provisions of the National Code of Corporate Governance; • Rogers has no formal dividend policy. Payment of dividend is subject to the profitability of Rogers, its foreseeable investment, capital expenditure and working capital requirements; • Financial performance is reported in a timely manner to the authorities and to the public on a quarterly basis. Additional resources have been deployed in the Marketing and Communication Department to enhance communication through our website and other forms of media; • Rogers organises Investors Briefing twice a year to present analysts, stockbrokers, fund managers, bankers and other financial experts its halfyearly and yearly results and to discuss the Group’s strategy and outlook; and • An updated medium-term strategic plan that guides the resource allocation to sectors, both in terms of investment and working capital needs. Employees, • Career growth opportunities; • The Rogers Management model focuses on the performance and Trainees and • Professional development (Training, development of our People; Alumni coaching, mentoring and cross• Internal mobility and career progression philosophy; exposure); • Culture building programmes across sectors; • Job engagement and recognition; • Group-wide skills development initiatives; • Market-related terms of • Competitive remuneration and employment conditions; employment and benefits; • Pension benefits, Medical plan and Insurance cover provided to all employees; • Safe, sound and enabling work • Group code of ethics and personal conduct; environment; and • Annual Health and Wellness events; • Positive employee experience. • Group-wide engagement surveys and action plans; • A remuneration benchmarking is carried out every 2 years; • Rogers Leaders Award and sector specific recognition programmes; and • Executive directors are not remunerated for serving on the Board and its committees. Their remuneration package as employees of Rogers, including their performance bonus, which are aligned to market rate are disclosed in the table set out on page 37. Such package is reviewed and approved by the Corporate Governance Committee of Rogers on an annual basis. 14 Integrated Report 2018 Outcomes Capital Impacted Events during the year • Sep-17: Investors briefing (Presentation of 30 June 2017 results); • Oct-17: Annual Meeting of Shareholders; • Nov-17: Publication of first quarter results and declaration of Interim dividend (Rs 0.34 per share); • Dec-17: Payment of Interim dividend; • Feb-18: Publication of second quarter results and investors briefing (Presentation of half-yearly results for Financial financial year 2017-18); • May-18: Publication of third quarter results; • Jun-18: Approval by the Board of the budget plan for financial year ending 30 June 2019 and declaration of Final dividend (Rs 0.63 per share); and • Jul-18: Payment of Final dividend and Rogers re-integrated the SEM-10 Index. Committee meetings held in 2017-18 • 5 board meetings; • 5 RMAC; and • 3 CGC. Key Performance Metrics • An increase in Profit attributable to shareholders to Rs 554m (2017: Rs 479m); • A growth of 5% in total dividends paid (Rs 0.97 per share) representing a total of Rs 244m; • Share price appreciation of 17% to Rs 34.00 yielding a market capitalisation of Rs 8,570m as at 30 June 2018; • A debt to equity ratio of 0.56 against 0.52 last year; and • Interest cover of 3.0x against 3.1x in 2017. Human Capital Development and Value-add • 2,698 employees trained (2017: 2,480); • 3 man days per trained employee (2017: 2 man days); • Rs 31m training investment (2017: Rs 26m); • Training investment of Rs 11,587 per employee; • Investments in training covered 66% of employee base (2017: 55%); and • +2% on employee engagement survey. Human Intellectual Top 3 training areas • Technical skills; • Leadership skills; and • Customer service. Integrated Report 2018 15 Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholders Expectations Response Customers and • Strong brand image and reputation; • Enhance Rogers brand’s visibility locally and internationally; Clients • Representation of internationally • Focus on communication with coordination at all levels; recognised brands; • Establishment of a process to obtain useful information on brand image and • Customer satisfaction through customer loyalty; interacting processes; • Enlarged offering through our integrated services, such as a one-stop shop • Innovating capabilities; for Travel, Accommodation and Leisure provided for in the Hospitality served • Adherence to intellectual property market; rights such as Patents and Trade • Customer Relationship Management in place; and Marks; and • Investment in skills, processes and technology. • Staff competencies and skills. Suppliers • Favourable contract terms and • Regular communication with major suppliers; and Service timely payment; and • Develop sustainable business relationships; and Providers • Promoting joint growth • Opportunities for cross-selling across the Group. opportunities in a responsive and mutually respectful manner. Government • Support to Government initiatives; • Regular dialogues conducted with Ministers and relevant authorities; and Authorities • Consultative dialogue and • Participation in pre-budgetary consultations; propositions; and • Participation in Business Mauritius; • Participate in the development of • Contribution to national welfare and national events; the country in a sustainable way. • Responsible management with transparency; and • Engagement in Environmental, Social and Governance. Communities, • Responsible corporate citizenship • Cooperation and networking with the authorities and private sectors; Authorities and integral to the community and the • Commitment to finding beneficial solutions to identified social concerns like NGOs environment in which our businesses poverty and education; and operate; • Effective coordination of our CSR initiatives with the aim of improving the • Responsiveness to concerns and socio-economic conditions within neighbouring communities. impacts on social and environmental issues; • Operations conducted in a safe and lawful manner; • Investment in community infrastructure and development; and • Contributing responsibly and transparently to broader societal interests. 16 Integrated Report 2018 Outcomes Capital Impacted • Enhanced brand image through our “Energy drives everything” campaign; • Digitalisation of offerings to enhance customers’ experience; • Organisation and participation in Seminars, Conferences and Events (e.g. Rogers Aviation participated in the ‘Salon du Prêt-à-Partir’ and Rogers Capital in the ‘Salon de l’Automobile’); • Opening of new desks and offices (e.g. China and French desks for Rogers Capital); • Represent some 52 local and international brands (Refer to pages 32 and 33 for our main brands); and Financial Intellectual • Strong sub-brands that are closer to the market. • Roadshows organised with partners (e.g Rogers Business forum organised in Paris which looked at bringing together experts in financial services and luxury property); and • Communication through our magazines (such as Présence, Network and E-network) and our website. Financial Intellectual • Participated in the 50 years’ celebrations of independence through a dedicated campaign towards Sustainability; • Contributed to the Vision 2030 initiative of the Government; • The Group CEO is currently the President of the Sustainability and Inclusive Growth Committee which is focusing on a number of sustainability areas (Energy and Transport, Waste management, Lagoon and Coastal Beach preservation, Poverty alleviation through inclusion, Smart agriculture and Sustainable Cities and Communities) in Financial Human collaboration with the Government and relevant authorities; • Participation in the Festival of Contemporary Nature, Port Louis by Nature; • Tax contribution of Rs 190m for financial year 2017-18; and • Other initiatives are elaborated in the Energy drives sustainability on page 18 to 23. Social & Natural • Refer to the Energy drives sustainability section on page 18 to 23 for initiatives on social and natural capital. Financial Human Social & Natural Integrated Report 2018 17 Energy drives sustainability. When leading with the intention of making a meaningful As demonstrated by our actions, we firmly believe that our impact, the word ‘Sustainable’ is the one that comes to mind. deployed Energy truly ‘drives sustainability’ in the country. In this Over the years, we have realised that we would have to find vein it is heartening to observe the amount of effort currently new ways to protect our social and natural capital in order to driven by a wide variety of stakeholders. Indeed, amongst chart a future for the welfare of our citizens and businesses. others, the Business Mauritius Commission on Sustainability For us at Rogers, the increase in our stakeholders’ plea has and Inclusive Growth is succeeding in uniting towards reinforced added to our growing consciousness of the need for greater sustainable efforts. As part of these efforts, members of the sustainability and for the implementation of responsible business community are working together to make a difference in business practices. a pragmatic fashion. The UN Global Compact Yearbook 2017 featuring the Rogers Within this broader context of collaboration, I am proud to Group best practice article on sustainable mechanisms has present the environmental, social and cultural initiatives that captured the attention of observers worldwide. Indeed, our accompanied our Group’s business activities throughout this efforts for sustainable and integrated development in the Bel financial year. As we refine our diagnostic, further progress Ombre region have put the spotlight on us, while influencing towards enhanced sustainable and inclusive practices are the whole island. expected in the forthcoming financial year. Philippe Espitalier-Noël At Rogers, we take into account three important dimensions; Environmental, Social and Cultural that all intertwine to meet the present needs of our stakeholders without compromising future Energy drives sustainability. generations ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL CULTURAL 18 Integrated Report 2018 CSR & Sustainability initiatives 2017-18 ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL • Educational awareness on • Ongoing community support to “Lovebridge” 18 Marine and Coastal environment “Bis Lamer” Cité Sainte Catherine 26,945 with Bis Lamer • Fund and support to a Rugby club • Rogers Capital cleans-up in Bel Ombre by Heritage Villas ‘Les Salines’ in Port Louis Valriche • Our CEO as Chairman of the marine and coastal • Aid to poverty alleviation families accompanied Business Mauritius Commission awareness programmes through Lovebridge on Sustainability and Inclusive (Adults & Students) • Support to “‘La Boul’ du Kap”, • Continuous support to Centre Growth pétanque club in Bel Ombre by d’Éveil, Bel Ombre • 9 Eco-schools received awards Heritage Villas Valriche for their green attitude “ Centre d’Éveil food • Supporting Beekeepers in • Earth Hour movement at • Heritage Resorts obtains Green programme” Rodrigues Key accreditation 2nd year in a 50 students 12,160 Heritage Le Telfair • Partnership between Velogic and row • Rogers CSR & Sustainability Caritas for a community garden Manager sets an example with • Social and Environmental Responsibility engagement • Social needs analysis by Veranda 100 % electric car Resorts to identify social issues of Ascencia through a Green market at Bagatelle Mall free meals in Tamarin region “Renault Zoë” 100% • CSBO produces its first smart agriculture vegetables • “The Last Straw” campaign at Ocean Basket and ‘Refuse the CULTURAL Straw’ initiative at Heritage electric autonomy 400Km Resorts • “One swing, one piece of waste “Tikoulou” 6,000 collected” sums up the “We • Watercolor drawings on “Nature, • Support to NGO called Project Art & Science” by Malcy de Rescue Ocean Mauritius for Swing for our Coast” campaign Chazal-Moon sponsored by Rogers regular beach cleans-up around • Integrated Annual Report 2018: Foundation Mauritius reduction of 30% of printed • Electrical and electronic waste pages as compared to 2017 • Tikoulou reprint of “The Legend of free copies recycling initiative by Rogers “We Swing for our Coast” Bel Ombre” 3,000 845 kgs Group sold 50 • 2,000 in-room copies of Lagoon “Ti SOLO Grand Héros” Directories for Heritage Resorts Guests • “TI SOLO Grand Héros” supported • 2 ‘plogging’ initiatives in Port Louis of waste collected at the by Rogers Foundation foot of Chamarel Waterfall • Beach rehabilitation at Heritage Resorts children from • Rogers sponsors European Tour for Patyatann • “Hip Hip Hip, No Waste” Rodrigues illustrated campaign & 50 Eco-moves the story Integrated Report 2018 19 Energy drives sustainability. HIGHLIGHTS FOR 2017-18 “HIP HIP HIP, NO WASTE” CAMPAIGN We marked the 50th anniversary of the Independence of Mauritius through a series of green initiatives running from March to December 2018. Striking a patriotic chord among the Mauritian people, the “Hip Hip Hip, No Waste” campaign has five different strands: ‘plogging’ (jogging while picking up trash) in the streets of Port Louis to raise awareness and sensitise the public on waste disposal; an interactive website displaying 50 simple eco-moves; a short clip on waste and energy management, awareness raising and resolution through concrete actions; nature preservation; and energy efficiency and sustainable natural resource use. The initiatives include the launch of an electrical and electronic waste Energy drives Sustainability recycling programme across the Group, in line with the recommendation of the Business Mauritius Commission on Sustainability and Inclusive Growth. The three Ocean Basket outlets in Mauritius also decided to discontinue the use of plastic straws since May 2018. The restaurants joined ‘The Last Straw’ campaign’s fight against plastic straws to cement their status as responsible ocean citizens. SWINGING FOR OUR COAST Rogers launched the “We Swing for our Coast” campaign in September 2017 ahead of the AfrAsia Bank Mauritius Open. Our employees were invited to practice their swing by hitting a golf ball into a special net. For each 20 swing made, Rogers Foundation engaged to collect pieces of trash from the beaches and rivers of the South-West of Mauritius. This project, which ran from September to December 2017, was also used to create awareness on marine conservation in each subsidiary of the Group. The 27-year-old inspirational speaker, coach and World Blind Golf Champion Jeremy The 27-year-old inspirational speaker and World Blind Golf Champion Jeremy Poincenot kick-started the “We Swing for our Poincenot was the ambassador for the Coast” campaign campaign. ‘Plogging’ in the streets of Port Louis 20 Integrated Report 2018 INNOVATIVE COASTAL PROTECTION MEASURES For the first time in Mauritius, four hotels joined efforts in restoring the Bel Ombre coastline, after a lagoon and beach survey carried out in 2016 showed substantial erosion in the area. The initiative benefited from the contribution of the oceanographer Professor Kerry Black and the international marine ecologist Iain Watt. The restoration work carried out between May and September 2017 consisted in stabilising the beach shoreline and reducing the impact of wind and currents. The innovative and sustainable approach comprised the modernisation of storm water outfalls, introduction of artificial reef structures, replenishment of beach sand and educating and engaging the local communities. The Reef Conservation NGO will conduct environmental monitoring and reporting on a quarterly basis over the next three years. On 28 October 2017, via the “We Swing for our Coast” campaign we collected 845 kgs of trash accumulated at the Chamarel Waterfall in The restoration work carried out on the Bel Ombre coastline consisted in stabilising the beach shoreline Chamarel 7 Coloured Earth Geopark. Several partners participated in this project including the Groupe d’Intervention de la Police Mauricienne (‘GIPM’), volunteer trekkers from Rando Trail & Nature, Belle-Verte and Institut du Bon Pasteur staff and employees of companies forming part of the Esprit de Chamarel Association. CLEANING UP MAURITIUS On 04 August 2017, employees of Rogers Capital took part in a halfday activity to clean up waste that had accumulated around the Robert Edward Hart garden in Les Salines, Port Louis. Employees of Veranda Leisure & Hospitality (‘VLH’), Heritage Resorts and volunteers from the surrounding communities in Grand Gaube, Grand Bay and Pointe aux Biches teamed up during the weekend of 03 and 04 March 2018 to tidy up the beaches, roadsides and villages in the vicinity of the hotels. The VLH organised the collection of used household appliances and a sustainable development awareness campaign in schools. The Group also supports Project Rescue Ocean, an association whose aim is to raise awareness among the public, especially the youngest, about the state of the coasts. The actions of the association include regular beach clean-ups around the island. Cleaning up at Chamarel Waterfall Integrated Report 2018 21 Energy drives sustainability. GIVING A BOOST TO ARTS AND SPORTS After sponsoring the launch of Patyatann’s first album in 2016, Rogers continued its support to the homegrown music band by funding their air tickets to participate in festivals in Switzerland and France. The Rogers Foundation sponsored the publication of “Nature, Art & Science”, in 2017 by Nelly and David Ardill. This compilation of 162 botanical drawings, by the 19th century Mauritian-born watercolourist Malcy de Chazal-Moon, has strong literary and educational values and is in line with the Foundation’s mission to raise awareness about regional environmental issues. In the sports area, Heritage Villas Valriche provides funding and support to the U11 and U13 rugby teams in Bel Ombre and helped “‘La Boul’ du Kap”, a Rogers had a hand in Patyatann’s tour in Switzerland and France by funding their air tickets pétanque club in the same region. TAKING THE SUSTAINABILITY COMMITMENT FURTHER In March 2017, our Group CEO was appointed Chair of Business Mauritius Commission on Sustainability and Inclusive Growth. Electronics are donated Items are dismantled Materials are recycled The committee focuses its efforts on the areas of energy and transport, waste management, lagoon and beach preservation, poverty alleviation through inclusion, smart agriculture and sustainable cities and communities. It also strives to encourage private sectors’ participation in community development and ensures coherence and coordination between the private and public sectors on these matters. This appointment is in line with the Group’s commitment to sustainability and environment protection. Private information Items are upcycled Upcycled items is destroyed are sold or donated for re-use 22 Integrated Report 2018 SUPPORTING BEEKEEPERS IN RODRIGUES In March 2018 Sukpak Ltd, Velogic’s subsidiary specialising in sugar packing for export, shipped 400 kgs of sugar sweepings to the Care-Co Rodrigues beekeepers, intended to feed honey bees to compensate for the shortage of pollen outside the flowering period. This is a good example of circular economy as the sweepings, a waste in sugar packing, are turned into raw material in the production of honey. Sukpak Ltd is also a member of the Sedex platform, which promotes ethical and socially responsible business practices. REWARDING YOUNG ECO-CITIZENS Celebration of World Environment Day at Bagatelle Mall 9 out of the 99 schools in Mauritius and Rodrigues taking part in the GREEN MARKET AT BAGATELLE MALL Eco-Schools programme have been awarded the Green Flag status for achieving a series of environmental and educational criteria. Ascencia celebrated the World Environment Day by holding its first Green Market from 08 to 10 June 2018 at Bagatelle Mall. Visitors had This programme created by the Foundation for Environmental Education the opportunity to discover the many facets of organic and all-natural is led in Mauritius by the Reef Conservation NGO, with the support of products, the benefits of recycling and herbal cosmetics, among others. the Indian Ocean Commission and the Rogers Foundation. Twenty-five other schools that made significant progress received the Silver Award The Mauritian Wildlife Foundation seized the opportunity to sensitize on and 22 others the Bronze Award. the damages caused by plastic waste. WORKING TOWARDS POVERTY ALLEVIATION Rogers has continued its contribution to poverty alleviation through various programmes including its support to Lovebridge, an NGO involved in the fight against extreme poverty under the aegis of Business Mauritius. Rogers also helps “Les Tilous”, a pre-school in Bel Ombre managed by the Caritas NGO, which welcomes children aged between 2 to 3 years old. In the same region 50 school children from Bel Ombre and Baie du Cap are offered a free meal daily through social workers from Caritas, to assist their healthy development and encourage school attendance. An ongoing three-year community enhancement project is cosponsored by Rogers, Eclosia and ENL Foundation at Cité Sainte Catherine, Saint Pierre. Velogic is backing a community vegetable garden project launched by Award ceremony for the Eco-Schools programme Caritas in Roche Bois to promote backyard gardening. For further information on our sustainable initiatives, please visit our website www.rogers.mu Integrated Report 2018 23 Leadership Board of Directors Executive Team Organisational Chart Board of Directors’ Report Governance Financial Reporting Council – Statement of Compliance Secretary’s Certificate Interview with the Chief Executive Officer Chief Finance Executive Report 24 Integrated Report 2018 Board of Directors ADAM, GUY (GA) ESPITALIER-NOËL, ERIC (EEN) (Born in 1950) (Born in 1959) Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director APPOINTMENT APPOINTMENT 05 October 1994 02 February 1994 Member of Corporate Governance Member of Corporate Governance Committee Committee since 18 January 2012 since 18 January 2012 Member of Risk Management and Audit Committee since 26 April 2017 QUALIFICATIONS • Doctor of Medicine (MD) QUALIFICATIONS • Fellowship of the Royal College • Bachelor’s degree in Social Sciences of Surgeons (FRCS) (University of Natal, South Africa) • Master’s degree in Business Administration CONTINUING PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT (University of Surrey, UK) • Corporate Governance Seminar organised by CIEL 2016 • The National Code of Corporate Governance for Mauritius (2016) workshop – Dr Chris Pierce ESPITALIER-NOËL, GILBERT (GEN) ESPITALIER-NOËL, HECTOR (HEN) (Born in 1964) (Born in 1958) Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director APPOINTMENT APPOINTMENT 15 July 1999 22 December 1987 QUALIFICATIONS QUALIFICATIONS • BSc (University of Cape Town, South Africa) Member of the Institute of • BSc (Hons) (Louisiana State University, USA) Chartered Accountants in • MBA (INSEAD Fontainebleau, France) England and Wales DIRECTORSHIP LIST For full directorship list of the Directors, please refer to link below: https://rogers.mu/content/board-directors Integrated Report 2018 25 Board of Directors ESPITALIER-NOËL, PHILIPPE (PEN) HUGNIN, THIERRY (TH) (Born in 1965) (Born in 1966) Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director Independent Director APPOINTMENT APPOINTMENT 06 February 2004 12 February 2018 Member of Corporate Governance Committee Member of Risk Management and Audit since 18 January 2012 Committee since 10 May 2018 QUALIFICATIONS QUALIFICATIONS • BSc in Agricultural Economics (University of • Master’s Degree in Computer Science Natal, South Africa) and Management, University of Paris • MBA (London Business School) Dauphine, France • Institute of Chartered Accountants England and Wales ICAEW CONTINUING PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT • Various professional qualifications in Investment Management • The National Code of Corporate Governance for Mauritius (2016) industry, including IMC, UK workshop – Dr Chris Pierce POSITION STATEMENT Please refer to the link below As Chief Executive Officerhttps://rogers.mu/content/board-directors MAKOOND, DEONANAN (MD) MAMET, DAMIEN (DM) (Born in 1952) (Born in 1977) Independent Director Executive Director and Chief Finance Executive APPOINTMENT APPOINTMENT 02 May 2018 10 May 2017 QUALIFICATIONS QUALIFICATIONS • BA (Hons) in Economics • Member of the Institute of Chartered • MSc in Tourism Planning Accountants in England & Wales CONTINUING PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT • The National Code of Corporate Governance for Mauritius (2016) workshop – Dr Chris Pierce POSITION STATEMENT Please refer to the link below As Chief Finance Executive https://rogers.mu/content/board-directors DIRECTORSHIP LIST For full directorship list of the Directors, please refer to link below: https://rogers.mu/content/board-directors 26 Integrated Report 2018 MASSON, VIVIAN (VM) MONTOCCHIO, JEAN PIERRE (JPM) (Born in 1956) (Born in 1963) Independent Director Chairman and Non-Executive Director APPOINTMENT APPOINTMENT 10 September 2015 25 March 2002 Member of Risk Management and Audit Chairman since 25 March 2002 Committee since 10 December 2015 Chairman of Corporate Governance Acting Chairman of Risk Management and Committee since 19 January 2012 Audit Committee QUALIFICATIONS QUALIFICATIONS Notary in Mauritius • Masters in Economics (University of Paris-Assas) • Diplôme d’Etudes Comptables Supérieures (DECS, France) POSITION STATEMENTS Please refer to the links below CONTINUING PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT As Chairman of the Board https://rogers.mu/content/board-directors • Consulting in MedTech industry As Chairman of the CGC https://rogers.mu/content/governance POSITION STATEMENT Please refer to the link below As Acting RMAC Chairman https://rogers.mu/content/governance RADHAKEESOON, ARUNA (AR) RUHEE, ASHLEY COOMAR (ACR) (Born in 1970) (Born in 1977) Executive Director, Chief Legal and Compliance Executive Director and Chief Executive Executive and Company Secretary Officer FinTech APPOINTMENT APPOINTMENT 18 October 2012 20 July 2017 QUALIFICATIONS QUALIFICATIONS • BA (Hons) in Jurisprudence (Balliol • First Degree – Mathematics and Physics College, Oxford University) (Faculté des Sciences de Luminy, Marseilles) • Solicitor of England and Wales (NP) • Masters in Engineering – Automatic Control, • Attorney-at-law (Mauritius) Electronics and Computer Engineering with specialisation in Real Time Engineering and Systems (Institut National des CONTINUING PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT Sciences Appliquées, Toulouse) • The National Code of Corporate Governance for Mauritius (2016) workshop – • Executive education programmes at London Business School and INSEAD Dr Chris Pierce • GDPR IJLS POSITION STATEMENT • Bitcoin and Blockchain for the financial services industry Please refer to the link below • Defining your Distribution Strategy as a Monopoly As Chief Executive Officer – FinTech https://rogers.mu/content/boarddirectors POSITION STATEMENTS Please refer to the links below As Company Secretary https://rogers.mu/content/governance As Chief Legal Executive https://rogers.mu/content/board-directors DIRECTORSHIP LIST For full directorship list of the Directors, please refer to link below: https://rogers.mu/content/board-directors Integrated Report 2018 27 Executive Team 4 6 2 5 3 1 28 Integrated Report 2018 1 COTRY, ERIC 5 EYNAUD, FRANÇOIS Head of Internal Audit & Risk Management Chief Executive Officer Hotels Eric is a fellow member of the Association of Chartered Certified He holds a “Diplôme d’école de commerce”. He started his career with Accountants (FCCA) with over 16 years’ experience in the audit field. Sagem (France) as Export Director and was subsequently appointed He started his career as external auditor with De Chazal du Mée in successively as Country Manager of Sagem in the Caribbean Islands and in 1997 and has an extensive audit experience in various sectors such as England. property investments, hotels, sugar, retail, logistics and financial. He returned to Mauritius in 1991 to join Ciel Textile as Marketing Director and Eric has also worked in Rwanda as acting CFO in a commercial bank in Bernuda and was promoted as Executive Director of Tropic Knits in 2000. He was appointed Guernsey in the hedge fund industry. Managing Director of Veranda Resorts in August 2008 and Chief Executive Before joining Rogers, Eric was a Senior Manager at BDO in the audit division. He was Officer of VLH Group in October 2010. François was President of l’Association appointed Head of Internal Audit & Risk Management of Rogers Group in April 2017. des Hoteliers et Restaurateurs de l’Ile Maurice (AHRIM) in 2013 and 2014. 2 KOENIG, RICHARD 6 RUHEE, ASHLEY COOMAR Chief Projects and Development Executive Real Estate portfolio Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer FinTech He holds a BSc in Electronic Engineering as well as an MBA. He started Please refer to page 27 his career as Management Information Consultant with Andersen Consulting in South Africa and moved to Mauritius in 1993. He joined the ENL Group in 1994 as a Corporate Executive and was subsequently appointed Chief Executive Officer of South West Tourism Development in July 7 STEDMAN, RICHARD* 2009. He was appointed Chief Projects and Development Executive in July 2017. Chief Executive Officer – Leisure Richard graduated from the “Ecole Hotelière de Lausanne” in 1983 and 3 ESPITALIER-NOËL, PHILIPPE had a 21-year career with Hyatt International. After holding various senior operational positions, he became a General Manager, specialising in openings as well as Resort management under the Hyatt brand. Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director Please refer to page 26 Richard joined the Food and Allied group in 2004 as the opening General Manager for Le Telfair Golf & Spa Resort. As from 2008, he joined ENL Property as a Development Manager. From 2011 up to now, Richard has spearheaded the development and growth of Island Living Ltd, an operational cluster that manages 4 RADHAKEESOON, ARUNA 13 Lifestyle, Leisure & Hospitality Brands (including Voilà Hotels, Ocean Basket, Savinia Bistrot, MOKA’Z, Domino’s Pizza, Chamarel 7 Coloured Earth Geopark, Le Chamarel restaurant and Heritage Nature Reserve etc). Executive Director, Chief Legal and Compliance Executive and Company Secretary Please refer to page 27 * Absent from the photo Integrated Report 2018 29 Executive Team 8 FAYD’HERBE DE MAUDAVE, ALEXANDRE 11 BUNDHUN, MANISH Chief Executive Officer Travel Chief Human Resources Executive He holds a BCom (Hons) and is a qualified Chartered Accountant from He holds a Masters in Business Administration and a BSc (Hons) the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants. Management. He started his career in the Human Resources field, with a varied exposure in Telecommunications, ICT, and Aviation industries. He joined Rogers Aviation in 2001 as General Manager Finance & Administration. Prior to joining Rogers, he worked in South Africa for a period of 7 years with He joined Rogers in the Logistics sector in January 2006 as Division Manager Arthur Andersen. He was appointed Managing Director of Rogers Aviation in Human Resources and was subsequently appointed Chief Human Resources October 2006 and Chief Executive Officer in October 2010. Executive of Rogers in September 2008. He holds a Certified Masters in NLP (Neuro Linguistic Programming) and in Neuro Semantics, and is a certified Agility Coach and Trainer. Manish is also a Co-active Coach from the Coach Training Institute (CTI). He acts as an Executive Coach and delivers executive leadership and 9 PILOT, MICHEL team coaching workshops. Manish also practices as adjunct professor in Human Resources Management and Organisation Development at post graduate level. Senior Manager – Agribusiness Michel holds a Bcom in Finance and Management and a Master of 12 CURÉ, KARINE Finance from Curtin University (Australia). In 2014 he also obtained an Chief Marketing and Communication Executive MBA from INSEAD. Karine holds an Executive Master (MSc) in Marketing (Hons) from He started his career in the financial service industry and was Portfolio Manager the University of Paris-Dauphine (France) and a BSc. She started for High Net Worth Individuals before joining Rogers in 2016 as Corporate her career in the field of communication in Paris and has worked in Manager. He is now Senior Manager of the group Agribusiness activities. Mauritius in the tourism, leisure and hotel sectors. She joined the Group’s Hotels sector in February 2008 as Marketing and Communication Manager and was subsequently appointed Corporate Manager at Rogers in October 2015 and Chief Marketing and Communication Executive in July 2016. 10 NUNKOO, NAYENDRANATH Chief Executive Officer Logistics 13 TYACK, FRÉDÉRIC He holds an MSc in Engineering from the Odessa Technological Institute Chief Executive Officer Ascencia of Food Industry and a Master’s degree in Business Administration from the University of Mauritius. He also followed Executive Training Frédéric Tyack is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants Programs, at the London Business School and INSEAD. in England and Wales and holds a BSc (Hons) degree in Accounting and Finance from the London School of Economics. He joined the Rogers He joined Rogers in 1993 and has since been involved in a number of business Group from 1997 to 2004 and was appointed Managing Director of activities in the Group which allowed him to develop a wide-ranging managerial capability. He has worked as Project Manager, Deputy General Manager of RIDS the Logistic Sub Cluster. Madagascar, General Manager of EIS Ltd, the IT subsidiary of the Rogers Group, and Corporate Manager Strategic Planning. In July 2011, he was appointed Chief He joined Plastinax Austral Ltd in 2004 as General Manager before moving to ENL Executive Officer of Velogic which is a logistics company employing 1500 people Property Ltd in 2008 and was later appointed Managing Director of EnAtt, the in Mauritius, Reunion Island, Madagascar, Mozambique, Kenya, India and France. Asset and Property Management Company of the ENL Group, in 2011. Frédéric Tyack is an Executive Director of ENL Property Ltd and is the Chief Executive Officer of Ascencia since July 2015. 14 MAMET, DAMIEN Executive Director and Chief Finance Executive Please refer to page 26 30 Integrated Report 2018 9 11 13 14 10 12 8 Integrated Report 2018 31 Organisational Chart CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Philippe Espitalier-Noël F INT E CH H OS PI TALI T Y ROGERS EXECUTIVE TEAM HOTELS TRAVEL CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Ashley Coomar Ruhee François Eynaud Alexandre Fayd’herbe de Maudave CHIEF FINANCE EXECUTIVE CHIEF FINANCE CHIEF FINANCE OFFICER CHIEF FINANCE OFFICER & INVESTMENT OFFICER Thierry Montocchio Cédric Poonisami Damien Mamet Marc Ah Ching CHIEF LEGAL AND COMPLIANCE EXECUTIVE Aruna Radhakeesoon CHIEF HUMAN RESOURCES EXECUTIVE Manish Bundhun CHIEF MARKETING AND COMMUNICATION EXECUTIVE Karine Curé HEAD OF INTERNAL AUDIT & RISK MANAGEMENT Eric Cotry CHIEF PROJECTS AND DEVELOPMENT EXECUTIVE Richard Koenig 32 Integrated Report 2018 SERVED MARKETS LO G IS TIC S P ROP E RT Y LEISURE PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT & PROPERTY INVESTMENTS AGRIBUSINESS CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER SENIOR MANAGER CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Richard Stedman Nayendranath Nunkoo Michel Pilot Frédéric Tyack CHIEF FINANCE OFFICER CHIEF FINANCE OFFICER FINANCE MANAGER FINANCE MANAGER Reshmee Boodhooa Naveen Sangeelee Yashinn Bhoyroo Ashvin Chatoorsing FUND MANAGER ROGERS AND COMPANY LIMITED Rep. by Robert Boullé PROPERTY & ASSET MANAGEMENT EnAtt Ltd Rep. by FrédéricTyack Integrated Report 2018 33 Board of Directors’ Report Dear Shareholders, • Revised terms of reference for the CGC and RMAC (https://www. rogers.mu/content/governance) We believe that this year’s Annual Report provides our most comprehensive and integrated report yet, reflecting what Rogers does • Category of Directors and Balance of Skills and how it operates. (https://www.rogers.mu/content/board-directors) The Board of Rogers assumes responsibility for leading and controlling • Nomination Process and Appointment of Directors the organisation and meeting all legal and regulatory requirements. (https://www.rogers.mu/sites/default/files/nomination_process_0. Rogers is headed by a unitary Board comprising of 12 Directors. The pdf) profiles of Directors and their full directorship lists are available on: • Terms and Conditions relating to the appointment of Non-Executive https://www.rogers.mu/content/board-directors. and Independent Non-Executive Directors (including contents of The National Code of Corporate Governance for Mauritius Induction pack) (2016) (https://www.rogers.mu/content/board-directors) The Board has set up a Corporate Governance Committee (‘CGC’) and • Related Party Transactions approval process a Risk Management and Audit Committee (‘RMAC’) to assist in the (https://www.rogers.mu/content/board-directors) discharge of its duties. The governance, risk and audit issues relating to Post 30 June 2018, the Board also approved the following documents: the businesses of the subsidiaries of Rogers operating in the Fintech, Hospitality, Logistics and Property (excluding Ascencia Limited) are • Revised Code of Ethics (https://www.rogers.mu/content/policies) overseen by the CGC and RMAC. The membership and terms of • Overview of the Information Technology Policy (https://www.rogers. reference of these committees are available on: https://www.rogers. mu/content/policies) mu/content/governance. On 14 August 2018 and 06 September 2018, the CGC and RMAC reviewed their terms of reference and noted that The Rogers policies are available on: https://www.rogers.mu/content/ they had met their objectives. policies. The material clauses of the Constitution of the company are available on https://www.rogers.mu/content/governance. On 23 February 2018, the Directors attended a training workshop facilitated by Dr Chris Pierce on The National Code of Corporate The Board resolved that no board evaluation be conducted for the Governance for Mauritius (2016) – (the ‘Code’). financial year ended 30 June 2018. Such exercise will be carried out in the second quarter of financial year 2018-19. Furthermore, the Board With regard to the implementation of the Code, the Board adopted the is in the process of looking for an experienced external consultant to key principles associated with Effective Reporting relating to Principle conduct the individual director evaluation. 6 and the following documents relating to Principles 1 to 8 of the Code were adopted: The Board further resolved not to adopt a Board Charter for the financial year ended 30 June 2018 as it is of the view that its content is already • Position Statements of Senior Governance Officers found in the Company’s constitution, the prevailing legislation, rules and (https://www.rogers.mu/content/board-directors) regulations. (https://www.rogers.mu/content/governance) (https://www.rogers.mu/content/organisational-chart) Upon appointment to the Board and/or its committees, the new director receives a comprehensive induction pack and an induction programme • Organisational Chart (https://www.rogers.mu/content/ and orientation process is supervised by the Senior Executives of the organisational-chart) Company. • Statement of Accountability (https://www.rogers.mu/content/groupFor the year under review, dealings in the shares of Rogers by Directors structure) and Associates of Directors are set out in table below: 34 Integrated Report 2018 Dealings in the Shares by Directors and Associates of Data Protection Directors In keeping with the Data Protection Act 2017, Rogers has reinforced Names No. of shares No. of shares the safety and security measures in place to protect the personal data it acquired disposed collects, stores and processes. It has revised its Data Protection Policy and adopted a Data Protection Notice, which sets out the rights of data Hector Espitalier-Noël 23,800 subjects and a Data Protection Compliance Manual, which describes Vivian Masson 28,800 out the comprehensive approach of Rogers to personal data protection. Regular audits of all sectors will be carried out to ensure compliance with Minor Juliette Espitalier-Noël* 5,500 the said Manual. Minor Lucie Espitalier-Noël* 5,500 Having taken into account all the matters considered by the Board and brought to its attention during the year, we are satisfied that the *Associate of Philippe Espitalier-Noël Annual Report and accounts taken as a whole are fair, balanced and A Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance policy has been subscribed understandable. to and renewed by Rogers. The policy provides cover for the risks We would like to extend our deepest gratitude to our Shareholders for arising out of the acts or omissions of the Directors and Officers of their constant support and trust in our vision and our ability to deliver Rogers Group. The cover does not provide insurance against fraudulent, value. We would like to thank Messrs Ziyad Bundhun and Philippe Forget, malicious or wilful acts or omissions. who have resigned as Directors, for their valuable contribution to the For the year under review, instances where Directors were conflicted Group. We are pleased to welcome two new members, Messrs Thierry were duly noted and conflicts of interest arising from transactions Hugnin and Deonanan Makoond, to our ranks. were effectively managed using the same process as for Related Party The Board expresses its unreserved appreciation to the Chief Executive Transactions process. Officer, Philippe Espitalier-Noël, the management team and all The Related Party Transactions approved by the Board using the Related employees of Rogers for their continued dedication and hard work. Party Transaction process for the year under review were as follows: Sincerely yours, • Sale of a 20 % stake held by Compagnie Sucrière de Bel Ombre (‘CSBO’), a subsidiary of Rogers in Espral Ltd to ENL Property Ltd (‘ENLP’). Rogers and ENLP are subsidiaries of ENL Land Ltd (‘ENLL’); Your board of directors. and • Sale of a 100% stake held by Rogers Corporate Services Ltd, a subsidiary of Rogers, in Motor City Limited to The Old Factory Limited, a subsidiary of ENLP. Rogers and ENLP are subsidiaries of ENLL. Integrated Report 2018 35 Governance 1. Category of Directors and Balance of Skills as at 30 June 2018. Knowledge of the Fintech Served Market Knowledge of the Hospitality Served Market Knowledge of the Logistics Served Market Knowledge of the Property Served Market Name of Director Appointment date Governance Skills Risk & Audit Issues Communication skills Entrepreneurial skills Strategic Dimension International Exposure CATEGORY Accounting Board Matters Business Skills Financial Skills Legal Skills HR skills ACR 20/07/2017 ED / / / / / / / / / DM 10/05/2017 ED / / / / / / / / / / GA 05/10/1994 NED / / / / / / / HEN 22/12/1987 NED / / / / / / / / / / / / / / JPM 25/03/2002 NED / / / / / / / / / MD 02/05/2018 INED / / / / / / / / / / EEN 02/02/1994 NED / / / / / / / / / / / / / GEN 15/07/1999 NED / / / / / / / / / / / / / VM 10/09/2015 INED / / / / / / / / / / AR 18/10/2012 ED / / / / / / / / / / / PEN 06/02/2004 ED / / / / / / / / / / / / / TH 12/02/2018 INED / / / / / / / / / / ED – Executive Director NED – Non-Executive Director INED – Independent Non-Executive Director N.B: • The independence test was based on the criteria of Principle 2 of the Code. • All Directors reside in Mauritius. • Size of the Board is in line with s.79 of the Constitution of Rogers (i.e. not less than 12 and not more than 15). 36 Integrated Report 2018 2. Composition and attendance at Board, Committee meetings and Annual Meeting of Shareholders, Remuneration and Benefits. Directors Category Board Corporate Risk Annual Remuneration Governance Management Meeting of and benefits Committee and Audit Shareholders (in Rs) (‘CGC’) Committee (‘RMAC’) Dr Guy Adam NED 5/5 2/3 n/a 1/1 500,000 Ziyad Bundhun1 ED 3/3 n/a n/a 1/1 231,136 Eric Espitalier-Noël NED 5/5 3/3 4/5 1/1 781,250 Gilbert Espitalier-Noël NED 4/5 n/a n/a 1/1 340,000 Hector Espitalier-Noël NED 3/5 n/a n/a 1/1 457,502 Philippe Espitalier-Noël ED 5/5 3/3 n/a 1/1 20,193,397 Philippe Forget 2 INED 3/3 n/a 3/3 1/1 358,181 Thierry Hugnin3 INED 2/2 n/a 1/1 n/a 157,500 Damien Mamet4 ED 5/5 n/a 1/1 1/1 7,436,108 Jean-Pierre Montocchio NED 5/5 3/3 n/a 1/1 880,000 (Chairman of the Board and CGC) Deonanan Makoond5 INED 2/2 n/a n/a n/a 110,000 Vivian Masson INED 5/5 n/a 5/5 1/1 819,000 (Acting Chairman of RMAC) Aruna Radhakeesoon ED 5/5 n/a n/a 1/1 7,797,569 Ashley Coomar Ruhee ED 5/5 n/a n/a 1/1 8,257,694 1 Resigned as director on 10 February 2018 2 Resigned as director and RMAC member on 10 February 2018 3 Appointed as director and RMAC member on 12 February 2018 and 10 May 2018 respectively 4 Co-opted to attend the RMAC meeting of 30 October 2017 5 Appointed as director on 02 May 2018 INED: Independent Non-Executive Director NED: Non-Executive Director ED: Executive Director Remuneration of INED and NED (was last reviewed in December 2012) is composed of a basic monthly fee and an attendance fee. The Committee members are paid a monthly fee only and the Chairman of the Board and Chairmen of Committees are paid a higher monthly fee. For remuneration of ED, please refer to Stakeholder Engagement’s section. Integrated Report 2018 37 3. The Nomination Process and Appointment of Directors. STEP 1. CGC of RCL in its capacity of Nomination Committee ALTERNATIVE 2 Screens and ALTERNATIVE 1 Constitution – Board can Screens and recommends Normal Nomination Process appoint Director to fill in recommends appointment of casual vacancy appointment of new Director(s) to new Director(s) to STEP 2. STEP 2. The Board The Board Further to consideration, the Board recommends the appointment of the new Director to the Shareholders of RCL for approval STEP 3. Appointment on Board and hold office until next AMS STEP 3. Approval of Shareholders of RCL by ordinary resolution (at AMS) STEP 4. Approval of the Shareholders of RCL by ordinary resolution (at AMS) FINAL STEP Directors/Newly Appointed Directors stand for re-election/election to hold office until next AMS Whereas: 1) ‘RCL’ means Rogers and Company Limited; 2) ‘CGC’ means Corporate Governance Committee; 3) ‘Board’ means board of directors of RCL; and 4) 'AMS' means Annual Meeting of Shareholders. 38 Integrated Report 2018 Financial Reporting Council – Statement of Compliance Name of Public Interest Entity: Rogers We, the Directors of Rogers confirm that to the best of our knowledge, Rogers has complied with all its obligations and requirements under the principles of the National Code of Corporate Governance for Mauritius (2016). With regard to the Board Charter, the Board is of the view that its content is already found in the Company’s constitution, the prevailing legislation, rules and regulations. Hence, the duplication is not necessary. The Board has consequently resolved not to adopt a charter for the financial year ending 30 June 2018. The Board resolved that no board evaluation survey be conducted for the financial year 2017-18 and that such exercise be carried out in the second quarter of the financial year 2018-19. The Board is looking for an experienced external consultant to conduct the individual director evaluation. It is expected that the succession planning will also be addressed during this exercise. Management is working on a full fledge conflict of interest policy which will be tabled before the Board for approval. The Board has approved an overview of the Information Policy, which includes aspects relating to Information Security and Technology Policy (the ‘IT Policy’). Management is currently working on the details of such IT Policy which will be tabled before the Board for approval. Jean-Pierre Montocchio Philippe Espitalier-Noël Chairman Director & CEO 13 September 2018 Secretary’s Certificate In my capacity as Company Secretary of Rogers, I hereby confirm that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, Rogers has filed with the Registrar of Companies, for the financial year ended 30 June 2018, all such returns as are required of the Company under the Companies Act 2001. Aruna Radhakeesoon Company Secretary 13 September 2018 Integrated Report 2018 39 Interview with the Chief Executive Officer Philippe Espitalier-Noël We, at Rogers, firmly believe that sustainability is not just a trendy catch-phrase 40 Integrated Report 2018 The CEO of Rogers and Company Limited, Philippe Our Leisure sector has also taken a significant turn with the acquisition of Island Living, previously known as ENL Lifestyle. The leasing of the leisure Espitalier-Noël gives some insight on the Group’s activities carried out by Compagnie Sucrière de Bel Ombre and Case Noyale developments in the 2017-18 financial year and its Limited, such as Le Chamarel Restaurant, Seven Coloured Earth and Frederica commitment to the sustainability agenda. Nature Reserve, to Island Living has brought added depth to the services offered. The latter underwent a rebranding and were renamed Le Chamarel What are the major developments and initiatives that have Panoramic Restaurant, Chamarel 7 Coloured Earth Geopark and Heritage been carried out within the Group in 2017-18? Nature Reserve respectively. Throughout 2017-18, we continued to build on the momentum created Ascencia has rolled out a new brand identity and has also expanded the Gross previously and we implemented new initiatives to support the Group’s Lettable Area of its mall portfolio by 7,395 sqm with the opening of So’flo strategy across our different served markets. Mall in November 2017. The mall currently boasts a 89% occupancy rate In the wake of the launch of the Rogers Capital brand, we have added with an average monthly footfall of 124,410 visitors. yet another dimension to our FinTech operations with the successful introduction, in November 2017, of new disruptive consumer finance What are the strategic priorities mapped out to keep up the solutions, including hire purchase, leasing and loan facilities. The acquisition momentum? of Globefin Management Services in October 2017 also drove further The main focus of our energies and efforts going forward will be to achieve a consolidation in the Corporate Services line of business. more balanced contribution from our different served markets. During the year, the Group’s courier operations underwent a significant In order to attain this objective, we have broadened our offer in the FinTech change with the representation of UPS for the Indian Ocean being secured, served market with the launch of new consumer finance and an electronic whilst TNT was being taken over by the FedEx acquisition worldwide. After payment solutions to come, in the domestic sphere. A strategic partnership a delicate transition, the Group is emerging stronger than before with an sealed in May with BlockCerts International, a private blockchain platform exciting coverage of markets extending beyond Mauritius. developed by Finaeos, will also boost the activities of Rogers Capital in this In the Hospitality served market, Heritage Bel Ombre was established ecosystem of the future, namely in the Indian Ocean and African region. With in October 2017 as the umbrella brand for our Resorts, Property, Golf, all these developments, this served market is poised to grow into a major Leisure & Events activities in Bel Ombre, inviting guests to “Embrace the profit contributor in the coming years. Extraordinary” experience. Between May and September 2017, the two As for our Hospitality served market, our Hotels sector should deliver a Heritage Resorts also spearheaded an innovative beach rehabilitation project significant leap in profitability in 2018-19 with the completion of renovation in the area. works. The Leisure sector made a landmark move with the signing of Throughout the financial year, we continued to invest in the upgrading of a Master Franchise Agreement with the world’s No. 1 pizza company, our properties to ensure we are exceeding guests’ expectations. Heritage Le Domino’s Pizza International Franchising Inc. Island Living is now planning to Telfair was closed for renovation in mid-May 2017 and reopened in early roll out the brand in Mauritius by end-2018. The opening of Seeloy Island September 2017 with a strengthened positioning in the luxury marketplace. Club at La Balise Marina and of a new B&B establishment in Bel Ombre will Over the same period, extensive renovation was carried out at Heritage Le further consolidate our operations. Château by Perrot & Richard Architects. Two months’ work was completed in We are forever shaping fresh ambitions for Bel Ombre, which carries our late August 2017 at Heritage Awali to enhance the connection and cohesion vision and our dreams for the future. The sustainable development of with three properties, Heritage Le Château, Heritage Golf Club and Heritage Heritage Bel Ombre is a long-term project that requires continuous effort Le Telfair. and long-standing ambitions. In our endeavour to showcase Heritage Bel At Veranda Resorts’ level, Veranda Paul et Virginie reopened as a 4-star Ombre as a well-thought-out development, we are taking special care to adult-only hotel in September 2017 after three months’ renovation. Veranda preserve the precious historical value as well as the abundant fauna and flora Tamarin is also undergoing a makeover since April 2018 and is set to reopen that the destination is blessed with. We intend to take our time and adopt in November 2018 with increased room capacity and a 3-star plus status. a holistic and inclusive approach for further development of the estate. The completion target for another phase of development encompassing Integrated Report 2018 41 Interview with the CEO a number of projects in the social, property, hospitality, leisure and decided this year to completely review the prevailing cultivation mix and sustainability areas has been set for end 2022. land use; and we are actively looking at a number of alternative agricultural activities. The leisure component of the estate is likely to be strengthened At the level of Ascencia, the mall’s portfolio will be strengthened with in the process together with a refined version of our property development 33.33% participation in the construction of a new shopping venue with a strategy. Gross Lettable Area of 10,000 sqm at Beau Vallon in the South. Ascencia has an option to purchase the remaining 66.66% over the years. Construction You are the President-in-office of the Business Mauritius works which started in August 2018 are due to be completed in September Commission on Sustainability and Inclusive Growth. Could you 2019. The extension work starting off in parallel at Bagatelle will expand the explain what the objectives of the Commission are? portfolio by another 5,000 sqm. Firstly, it is worth mentioning that Business Mauritius is an association of In your view, what are the key challenges ahead for Rogers? more than 1,200 local businesses with a total workforce of 120,000 people, representing 25% of the working population and contributing to roughly There are indeed a number of economic and industry-level challenges that 50% of the country’s GDP. Rogers and other operators will have to overcome. The Commission on Sustainability and Inclusive Growth showcases the Rogers Capital Corporate Services has a wide service offering and a commitment of members of the Association to community development. It diversified geographical client base which reduces dependency on treaty boasts a coordinated action which engages with the Government, relevant business. However, the renegotiation of the tax treaty with India and removal authorities and the public in general. The environment remains a major of the automatic effective tax rate of 3% on the foreign source income of concern with the World Risk Report 2017 ranking Mauritius 13th among the Global Business companies have somewhat weakened the attractiveness of most vulnerable countries to climate change. We therefore wish to draw our jurisdiction. attention to the various environmental issues that are threatening to hit us Despite being included on the OECD White List, Mauritius has been described with full force if we do not tackle them, such as land, sea and air pollution, in an unfavourable light by one of its peers in the ESAAMLAG (Eastern and depletion of natural resources, beach erosion and loss of biodiversity. To Southern Africa Anti-Money Laundering Group) mutual evaluation reports. that end, the business community is focusing on the areas of inclusive Our country has continued to thrive towards an improvement of its already economic development, lagoon and coastal beach preservation, sustainable robust anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist-financing framework by cities and communities, waste and waste management, carbon emission and the addition of new provisions in its existing laws. We are confident that the alternative energy production, smart agriculture and the financing of projects recent amendments brought about by the Finance Act 2018 will rectify that make an effort to protect our environment. any remaining deficiency pointed out by the report and that the country’s One of the objectives of Business Mauritius is to frame a circular economy reputation as an IFC will help to overcome adverse impacts. At operational model which gives a second life to things, especially since 1,300 tonnes of level, we have a defined structure in place with a zero-tolerance policy and a waste are generated daily in Mauritius. The aim is to improve and modernise Risk Management & Corporate Governance Framework in place. the waste collection logistics while promoting new recycling channels, the Our Hospitality served market, and especially the Hotels sector is faced with safe disposal of E-waste, green-job creation, and the proactive support of the problem of high employee turnover in specific positions in the industry. SMEs focusing on waste management and recycling. We have developed a human capital strategy focused on capacity building, Our country celebrated its 50th Independence Anniversary this year and as talent attraction and engagement as well as the establishment of a strong we so successfully took responsibility for the development of our island state, service culture. We are creating a Heritage Academy to promote human we need to mobilise now on the emerging exigencies of the next fifty years capital development and retention. The first six months of our financial year and beyond. are likely to deliver excellent results, but current visibility on the second half of the financial year remains weak with likely increases in ticket prices in the How is the Group’s commitment to sustainability reflected in wake of significant rise in petrol prices at international level. the way you operate your business? With regard to the Property Development & Agribusiness sector, the Our long-standing sustainability commitment and CSR tradition tie in with challenging climate in the sugar industry remains a concern for us. We have the objectives of the Business Mauritius Commission on Sustainability and 42 Integrated Report 2018 Inclusive Growth. While continuing with our existing programmes, we have Another noteworthy contribution to environmental protection is the “Hip taken a number of steps to reinforce our sustainable practices this past year. Hip Hip, No Waste” campaign to mark the 50th Independence Anniversary of Mauritius. A number of actions were taken to support this campaign such as Our ongoing waste reduction initiatives include a better disposal process. two ‘plogging’ initiatives to clean up the streets of Port Louis, an interactive We have paid particular attention to E-waste with the launch of a recycling website promoting simple eco-moves, a video on waste and energy programme across the Group, stemming from a recommendation of the management, awareness-raising and resolution through concrete actions, Commission. Ascencia has also stepped up progress towards using renewable nature preservation as well as energy efficiency and sustainable natural energy sources in its malls, hence reducing its carbon footprint with the resource use. This campaign running from March through December 2018 installation, in July 2018, of a first photovoltaic farm at Phoenix Mall. appeals to the patriotic spirit of the Mauritian people. On the inclusive development front, our response includes a renewed A Green Market was also held at Bagatelle Mall and VLH scheduled a cleaning commitment towards coastal management through our ‘Respect Our Coast’ week to sensitise employees, the community and school children about programme launched in 2013 and concentrating on the Bel Ombre region. E-waste management and recycling. Rogers has carried out major beach rehabilitation and coastal management Six of our hotels, namely Heritage Awali, Heritage Le Telfair, Veranda Grandinitiatives in Bel Ombre, including the projected setting up of a Voluntary Baie, Veranda Palmar Beach, Veranda Paul et Virginie and Veranda Pointe aux Marine Conservation Area to protect the lagoon and the implementation Biches, participated in the Programme National d’Efficacité Energétique. This of a sustainable development strategy by Heritage Resorts in conjunction audit pointed out a potential energy saving from our six hotels, amounting to with other hoteliers operating in the region. Another priority area is the Rs 31 million per year and a reduction of CO2 of 3,987 tons/year. development of smart agriculture. Compagnie Sucrière de Bel Ombre has already started to implement this model on the estate, one of its components Ascencia also embarked on sustainable energy initiatives, launching a being the supply of products coming out of the smart agriculture programme photovoltaic farm at Phoenix Mall, powered by EnVolt’s technical knowto Heritage Resorts guests and Heritage Villas Valriche homeowners. We also how. The project, which was set-up under the Medium Scale Distributed show great care and attention to architectural quality and well-thought-out Generator (MSDG) Scheme of the Central Electricity Board, has a production urban development. capacity of 730 kWp (kilowattpeak). Thanks to the solar farm, the mall could potentially benefit from a carbon footprint reduction of 440 tons/year and What explains the Group’s decision to focus its communication supply some 28 % of the mall’s electricity need. on Energy drives sustainability? Velogic took the commitment to dispose responsibly of used oil, in We, at Rogers, firmly believe that sustainability is not just a trendy catchaccordance with Mauritian legislation and had recourse to an external phrase but a responsibility. There is also increasing stakeholders’ demand for company, namely Virgin Oil. The latter is one of the two recyclers for crude greater sustainability and implementation of best environmental practices in oil that are approved and recommended by Government. Recycled oil is business. reused for fuelling industrial machines. CSR and responsible development are now an important element of our Rogers also provides support to “Les Tilous”, a pre-school in Bel Ombre, strategy, and the triple bottom line approach of financial performance, social managed by the non-profit organisation Caritas, which welcomes children and environmental responsibilities has become mainstream practice across aged 2 to 3 years old. the Group. We attach equal importance to social, environmental and cultural dimensions through various widespread actions. We welcome our shareholders and the public to go through our ‘Energy drives sustainability’ section on pages 18 to 23 and to access our website, We have placed a special focus on the environment in the year under review. www.rogers.mu for further information on our sustainability initiatives. The issue of plastic pollution has become a significant challenge and we have engaged our subsidiaries to look into ways of raising awareness in order to As we forge ahead with our journey of integrating sustainability into value make their activities greener and contribute to eliminate this global threat. creation, we remain steadfast in the pursuit of our strategic objectives, At Ocean Basket for instance, a no-straw policy has been implemented as driven and inspired by the passion and dedication of our management team, part of the “Last Straw” campaign while Heritage Resorts has launched the employees and stakeholders at large. We take additional comfort from the “Refuse the Straw” initiative. unwavering encouragement and trust that our shareholders and Board of Directors place in our effort to build a better quality of life for all Mauritians. Integrated Report 2018 43 Chief Finance Executive Report Since 2015, the Group’s total assets expanded by 48% to reach Rs 34bn Group Performance Highlights 2017-18 • Revenue for the Group improved by 9% to Rs 9,472m and was mainly driven by the acquisition of Island Living, and increased revenue from VLH; • EBITDA, excluding exceptional items, for the year was Rs 2,065m against Rs 2,022m in 2017; • PAT, excluding exceptional items, was lower at Rs 901m compared to Rs 962m in 2017. The Hospitality served market recorded a very good set of results. On the other hand, Ascencia booked lower fair value gains and Rogers Capital Financial Services incurred pre-operational and launching costs; • Earnings per share, excluding exceptional items, improved to Rs 1.58 (2017: Rs 1.32); • An exceptional profit of Rs 221m was realised in 2018 (2017: Rs 151m) and was principally made up of a sale of bare land by CSBO of Rs 106m and a profit on amalgamation of Mall of Mauritius into Moka City for Rs 79m; • Attributable Earnings grew by 16% to Rs 554m mainly on the back of better contribution from the Hospitality served market; • Dividends per share increased by 5% to Rs 0.97; Damien Mamet • Return on Equity, excluding exceptional items, was Chief Finance Executive and 3.8% (2017: 3.2%); and Executive Director • Share price for the year improved by 17% to Rs 34.00 with a market capitalisation of Rs 8,570m as at 30 June 2018. 44 Integrated Report 2018 Served Market Highlights 2017-18 Movement in Group Revenue by Served Market (Rs' m) • FinTech: 832 (67) (68) 9,472 (32) 37 -Revenue for Rogers Capital Corporate Services (‘RCCS’) improved by 40% driven by both organic growth and the acquisition of Globefin Management Services; 107 -The improvement in profitability for RCCS to Rs 104m (2017: Rs 8,663 83m) was offset by pre-ops expenses relating to the launch of new offering in the credit management space; and -Contribution from the associate companies, Swan General and Swan Financial Solutions improved by 6% to Rs 95m. 2017 FinTech Hospitality Logistics Property Corporate Group 2018 • Hospitality: Office Elimination EBITDA excluding exceptional items (Rs' m) Hotels 1,268 -VLH recorded an increase of Rs 342m in Revenue on the back of 1,149 improvement in Occupancy rate, Guest Night Spending and Total Revenue per available room; -In spite of four hotel renovations carried during the year, the PAT for the hotel group improved by 16% to Rs 208m; and 568 -Last year’s results included an exceptional negative year-end adjustment of Rs 152m relating to NMH September 2016 321 297 292 year-end. 192 125 (56) (69) Travel -PAT for Travel more than doubled to Rs 42m on the back of an FinTech Hospitality Logistics Property Corporate excellent performance of the Ground Handling activities. Office 2017 Restated 2018 Leisure -Island Living which was acquired on 01 July 2017 yielded a PAT excluding exceptional items by Served Market (Rs' m) contribution of Rs 496m to the Group’s Revenue; and -The new Leisure sector recorded a PAT of Rs 26m. FinTech 139 • Logistics: 56 -The good results in the overseas freight forwarding activities were mitigated by lower volumes and reduced rates on the container 50 depot operations, and a decrease in transportation activities. Hospitality 247 • Property: 114 Property Investments Logistics -Ascencia improved its operational profit which was achieved on the 103 back of better renewal rental rates, an increase of 10% in footfall and the opening of So’flo in November 2017; and 851 Property -Overall PAT was reduced by lower fair value gains of Rs 496m 697 (2017: Rs 629m). (192) Property Development & Agribusiness -Property Development reported losses due to lower revenue from (202) Corporate Office Les Villas de Bel Ombre; and -Agribusiness activities were impacted by lower revenue from the 2017 Restated 2018 sugar activities and a drop in livestock results. Integrated Report 2018 45 Chief Finance Executive Report Financial Management and Group Treasury Total Borrowings (Rs m) and Debt to Equity (x) • Group Borrowings increased by 11% to Rs 11bn mainly 0.56 on the back of: 0.53 0.52 -Additional loans contracted by Rogers Capital for the acquisition of Globefin Management Services and launch of new services; and -Increase in loans taken by VLH for the renovation of its hotels. 7,153 7,576 9,594 • Finance costs amounted to Rs 550m reflecting a growth of 2% over the last financial year. The Group 1,650 1,916 benefitted from a reduction in repo rate of 50 basis 933 points in September 2017. Hence, the effective interest 2016 2017 2018 rate (simple average) was lower at 5.5% (2017: 5.9%). Long Term Borrowings ShortTerm Borrowings Debt to Equity • During the financial year, our subsidiaries have generated excess cash which will be used for development purposes at a later stage. In order to maximise the benefits for the Group and as part of the treasury management function, the excess cash has Coverage Ratios been deposited on an at call basis at the level of Rogers 3.8 3.8 and Company Limited (Corporate Office). Hence for 3.3 the financial year ended 30 June 2018, the Company’s current liabilities exceeded its current assets by 3.1 Rs 702 m (2017: Rs 1,100m). 3.0 2.7 • The Group is exposed to foreign currency loans, 1.39 mainly EUR and USD, for the FinTech, Hospitality and 0.81 0.82 Property served markets. These loans have been 2016 2017 2018 contracted on a medium term to hedge against currency fluctuation. On a shorter term basis, currency forward Cash Cover Ratio Interest Cover (EBITDA*/Finance Costs) contracts are entered into and as at 30 June 2018 the Debt Service Cover Ratio Group’s net exposure was Rs 2bn (2017: Rs 1bn). (EBITDA/short term borrowings plus finance costs) * Excluding exceptional items 46 Integrated Report 2018 Cash Generation and Utilisation Outlook Cash flow generated from operations amounted to Rs 934m and Over the last three years, the Group has taken a number of initiatives was utilised as follows: geared towards strengthening and consolidating its position in its • Rs 553m was used to service the cost of debt; four served markets, which has resulted in a more than 30% increase in Group Revenue to Rs 9.5bn. Since 2015, the Group’s total assets • Dividends paid to shareholders, net of dividends received, amounted expanded by 48% to reach Rs 34bn as at 30 June 2018. These has to Rs 340m; been achieved while maintaining a reasonable debt level of 56%, and • An outflow of Rs 410m was required mainly for the acquisitions of delivering an average dividend yield above 3%. Island Living and Globefin Management Services, in the Hospitality and FinTech served markets respectively; Based on our 2018-19 budget exercise, we expect a gradual rebalancing of the Group’s profitability away from the Property served • An inflow of Rs 297m was received from the disposal of Gardens of market with greater contribution expected from the Hospitality and Bagatelle, EnAtt and other financial assets; FinTech markets over the medium to long-term. In 2018-19, we will • Net contracted loans amounted to Rs 869m and was partly used to revisit our strategic plan for the next 3 years to incorporate a new finance the renovation of hotels and Heritage Le Château, with some digital and marketing approach. We are also in the process of embarking Rs 400m remaining in cash and cash equivalents for forthcoming on a digitalisation initiative with the first step comprising of the capital commitments. implementation of a management analytics tool, which will assist us in sharper measurement, and monitoring of our budget and strategic plans. I would like to thank all our stakeholders, including my colleagues, for their unflinching commitment and partnership in contributing to our NAV by Served Market (Rs m) Group’s success. 1,238 FinTech Hospitality 3,589 Logistics Property Discount to NAV fell to 17% (2017: 30%) 4,713 902 Integrated Report 2018 47 Risk Management Report and Other Statutory Disclosures 68 Integrated Report 2018 Other Statutory Disclosures DIRECTORS A list of Directors of the subsidiary companies of Rogers is given on pages 80 to 85. CONTRACT OF SIGNIFICANCE During the year under review, there was no contract of significance to which Rogers, or one of its subsidiaries, was a party and in which a director of Rogers was materially interested either directly or indirectly. DIRECTORS’ SERVICE CONTRACTS None of the Directors of the Company and of the subsidiaries has service contracts that need to be disclosed under Section 221 of the Companies Act 2001. 30 June 30 June In Rs million 2018 2017 DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION & BENEFITS Remuneration and benefits paid by the Company and subsidiary companies to: Directors of Rogers and Company Limited Executive full time 43.7 33.9 Non-executive 4.6 4.4 Directors of subsidiary companies 47 executive full time (42 in 2017) 191.3 172.5 87 non-executive (80 in 2017) 2.6 0.3 GROUP COMPANY 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June In Rs million 2018 2017 2018 2017 DONATIONS Donations made during the year Political 1.3 1.6 1.3 1.6 Corporate Social Responsibility Statutory 6.5 7.9 0.9 Voluntary 2.7 0.3 1.0 Number of institutions 20 33 11 8 AUDITORS' REMUNERATION Audit fees paid to: BDO & Co 12.0 10.4 0.8 0.8 Other firms 7.8 7.6 Fees paid for other services provided by: BDO & Co 2.2 3.1 0.2 0.2 Other firms 11.8 7.0 Fees paid for other services to BDO & Co are in respect of taxation and consultancy services. Integrated Report 2018 69 Risk Management Report 1 Overview 2 Managing our Risks 3 Principal Risks Leveraging on an established risk management framework and with the appropriate culture, the Risk Management and Audit Committee believes that Rogers is well equipped to address and manage the risks and challenges faced by the Group in the Vivian Masson Acting Chairman diverse served markets Risk Management and Audit Committee 70 Integrated Report 2018 1. Overview The Risk Management and Audit Committee (‘RMAC’) has continued to play a key oversight role for the Board of Directors. During this financial year significant emphasis was laid on enhancement of the risk management process, principal risks and uncertainties that may impact the Group’s strategic Meetings held 5 objectives. Leveraging on an established risk management framework and with the appropriate culture, the Risk Management and Audit Committee believes that Rogers is well equipped to address and manage the risks and challenges faced by the Group in the diverse served markets. 1.1 Risk Management and Audit Committee Members of the RMAC are financially well-versed and expert in their field of work. The composition of the committee and attendance to meetings are disclosed on page 37. The committee met during the financial year to acknowledge/review/discuss the following: Review of principal • Principal risks and uncertainties which impact Rogers were reviewed by the risks/uncertainties RMAC and discussed with the Group Chief Executive Officer (‘CEO’) including: -Financial performance of some activities such as agribusiness, livestock and property development (IRS villas); Reports reviewed -Political interference/legislations in the global business sector; -Liquidity, credit and interest rate risks; -Unpredictable events such as natural calamities; and -Cyber threats and fraud. during the year Review of risk 31 • The risk reporting process was identified as an area where the Group can management process improve and be more efficient. Implementation is under way. and RMAC charter • RMAC charter and risk management process were reviewed in light of The National Code of Corporate Governance for Mauritius (2016). Risks were identified by management of each sector and incorporated in the budget/ strategic plan to ensure decisions are based on proper risk assessment. • Internal audit plan for the next 3 years has been reviewed in line with Group risks. Review of internal • An exercise involving management of all sectors is being carried out with controls in all sectors the main objective to review and create a user-friendly Group policy manual. The latter includes the whole spectrum of the Group’s businesses and focuses on the internal controls and risks associated with the different activities of the sectors. Independent • Reports from the Head of Internal Audit & Risk Management on risk areas Directors 2/3 and internal controls were reviewed. External audit • Critical policies, judgements, estimates, significant issues were discussed and reviewed with the Group Chief Finance Executive (‘CFE’) and external auditor. • During the year the Chairman of the RMAC met with the external auditors without the presence of management. • The existing external auditor was reappointed at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders and has been in tenure for more than seven years. The tendering process for audit services is in progress and is in line with prevailing legislations. Integrated Report 2018 71 Risk Management Other matters • A new member of the RMAC was appointed. • Review of quarterly abridged financial statements and reports from the Group CFE. • Review of Related Party Transactions. • The existing malpractice policy sets out the process whereby information relating to questionable practices within the Group is disclosed in good faith by employees. Employees are encouraged to raise such questionable practices to their direct reporting manager or Group Chief Human Resources Executive at Rogers. The latter will consequently report to the Group CEO who will approve any required investigations. I would like to thank our former member Mr Philippe Forget for his involvement and valuable contribution to the RMAC. Mr Thierry Hugnin has since then been appointed as our new member to consolidate the skills, knowledge and experience of the RMAC. Last but not least, a special thank you to the RMAC members as well as the Group’s Chief Executive Officer, the Group’s Chief Finance Executive, management team, external auditors and the Risk & Audit department for their constant support and commitment throughout the year. Vivian Masson Acting Chairman Risk Management and Audit Committee 72 Integrated Report 2018 2. Managing our Risks Since last year, Rogers has adopted an integrated risk management approach. The integrated risk management process, four lines of defence and the risk governance structure at Rogers are as follows: 2.1 Integrated Risk Management Process How we identify, analyse and evaluate risks at Rogers Identify Operational & • Through regular management meetings held in sectors whereby emerging/ Compliance risks new and other risks are identified as well as activities and processes that gave rise to the risks. • During audits carried out by internal and external auditors or appointed specialist consultants. Analyse & Evaluate Financial & • At time of preparation of the annual budget and three-year strategic plan by Strategic risks Chief Finance Officers (‘CFOs’) and CEOs. • Through risk workshops organised in some sectors involving Directors, CEOs, top and middle management and Head of Internal Audit & Risk Management. A business intelligence software is used for voting/assessing inherent and residual risks based on their potential financial impact and the likelihood of Treat occurrence. Principal risks are then derived. • During audits carried out by internal and external auditors or appointed specialist consultants. Treatment, monitoring and reporting Monitor • Management in sectors devise appropriate mitigating strategies in light of their business model and set risk appetite. The implementation of remedial actions and monitoring is performed by management. • Principal risks are reported by management to Group CEO, Board of Directors (‘Board’) of sectors Report and Rogers’ Board. The Group CFE and the Risk & Audit department report risks and other findings to the RMAC and to all Boards. A follow up on the progress made on the implementation of the recommendations is performed at a later stage by the Risk & Audit department. Integrated Report 2018 73 Risk Management 2.2 Our four lines of defence At Rogers, our four lines of defence are as follows: People, Process and Management and Internal Audit External Assurance Technology Oversight • Controls are operated by employees involved in day-to-day activities. 1ST LINE • The adequacy and relevance of internal controls is supported by the Rogers Guidelines and Policies Manual. People, Process and Technology • Management teams of sectors meet on a regular basis for the assessment, identification, and escalation of new/emerging events. 2 LINE ND • Monitoring of risk and control effectiveness are performed and reported to the respective sectorial boards. Management and Oversight • Internal audit is an independent in-house function with the Head of Internal Audit & Risk Management reporting to the Chairman of the RMAC. • The audit focus during this financial year was on higher risk areas and completion of the three-year audit plan which 3RD LINE excludes joint ventures and associates. Key areas of focus were on: -operational controls; Internal Audit -safety and health controls; -financial controls; -human resources management; and -legal, regulatory and internal compliance. • Internal audit findings and progress on implementation of recommendations were reported to the RMAC and the Board of sectors. There were no major limitations or restrictions in the audit scope, access to records, management and employees. The structure and qualifications of the key members of the department is detailed on the Rogers website. Assurance from independent external consultants and auditors is obtained on: -Valuation of investment properties and retirement benefit obligations; 4TH LINE -Financial statements; and -Safety risks. External Assurance 74 Integrated Report 2018 2.3 Risk Governance The Board of Directors (‘Board’) of Rogers and sectorial Boards are responsible for the governance of risks and the RMAC ensures that risks are managed effectively within the Group. Our risk governance structure is as follows: Board of Rogers Board of RMAC other sectors Board of (Rogers) Ascencia Limited RMAC (Ascencia Limited) 3. Principal Risks 3.1 Risk Heat Map The Risk Heat Map provides an overview of the 10 principal residual risks identified and how these risks have evolved over the financial year under review. A Political  Mega Projects development, strategic B partnerships and acquisitions Significant substantial A C Stakeholder engagement  D Financial sustainability (Industry Risk) F D E E IMPACT Liquidity/Interest Rate/Foreign exchange Moderate B C G F Business continuity H I J G Information Technology Minor H Skills performance and retention I Insignificant Theft, fraud and corruption J Legal and regulatory compliance Impossible Remote Improbable Occasional Probable Frequent KEY: LIKELIHOOD Risk has increased No movement in risk level Emerging risk Integrated Report 2018 75 Risk Management 3.2 Principal risks, mitigating actions and opportunities The principal risks, mitigating actions/opportunities and their corresponding capital/strategic objectives impacted were identified. Principal Risks Description & Risk Context Strategic risks • International political interference which impacts future changes in law, regulations and international tax agreements A (FinTech served market). • Political instability in some African countries in which Rogers has operations (Travel sector and Logistics served market). Political • Interference of the Government of Kenya on legislation around the introduction of the railway which impacts the transport activity in Kenya (Logistics served market). • Inadequate due diligence/feasibility study on acquisitions and project development. B • Inefficient or ineffective alliance with strategic partners. Projects development, strategic partnerships and acquisitions • Inadequate relationship management and conflict with stakeholders. C • Inability to meet clients’ expectations. Stakeholder engagement Financial risks • Changes in conditions that threaten the attractiveness or long-term viability of industries in which the sectors operate: D -Loss-making activities (Property Development & Agribusiness sector); -Low sugar prices on the international market (Property Development & Agribusiness sector); Financial sustainability -Decrease in volumes of sugar and sugar cane transported (Logistics served market); and (Industry Risk) -Gradual degradation of the environment beach erosion and marine pollution (Hotels sector). • Inability of the Group to meet financial obligations. E • Delay in receiving money from debtors. • Significant changes in interest rates. Liquidity/Interest Rate/ • Adverse fluctuation in exchange rates. Foreign exchange 76 Integrated Report 2018 Strategic / served market Mitigating Actions and Opportunities Capital Impacted objectives impacted • Close monitoring of impact of changes of legislations and amended treaties to identify potential opportunities. • Joining the financial services community to lobby on laws and amendments. • Broadening client-base in other geographies. • Fleet reorganisation to tap into business opportunities around the railway. • Carrying out due diligence checks to review the financial, technical, risk and legal aspects of each acquisition. Investment is based on strict Key Performance Indicators. • Partnership with reputed international brand “Domino’s Pizza”. • Requiring feasibility study for all projects and carefully selecting strategic partners. • Ensuring proper contractual agreements between all parties involved. • Use of external independent experts for valuations. • Ongoing relationship management with clients, suppliers and authorities. • Organising regular briefings for investors and employees. • Launch of common brand for activities in Bel Ombre. • Roll-out of new brand identity for Ascencia Limited for improved communication. • Reviewing loss-making activities through implementation of Turnaround plans (Property Development & Agribusiness sector). • Appointment of a new Head and focus approach on Property Development & Agribusiness sector. • Reopening of refurbished Heritage Le Château and its surroundings in Bel Ombre. • Disposal of non-core assets. • Innovative coastal rehabilitation of the beaches and reefs in Bel Ombre. • Taking advantage of any consolidation (Logistics served market). • Reassessment of treasury function. • Improving recoveries and reduction in arrears through stringent debtors’ management. • Ongoing negotiations with bankers to secure favourable rates for the Group. • Opting for fixed rate borrowings/instruments instead of variable rate. • Monitoring level of gearing. • Use of currency hedging. KEY: Financial Capital Human Capital Intellectual Capital Social & Natural Capital FinTech Hospitality Logistics Property Integrated Report 2018 77 Risk Management Principal Risks Description & Risk Context Operational risks • Cessation of activities due to: F -Unforeseen natural calamities; -Uncontrollable events, for example fire, cyclone, flooding, tsunami, violence and terrorism attacks; and Business continuity -Major health and safety incidents/accidents. • No proper business continuity plan. Innovation & Technology G • Not leveraging on innovation to sustain competitive advantage. • Inability to adapt to disruptive technology. Information Technology IT Security • Cyber threats. • IT system failure. • Inadequate security of data. • Data privacy issues and financial losses resulting from cyber-attacks and fraudulent phishing attempts. • Low staff engagement. H • Limited availability of adequate skills and talents (Hotels sector). • Scarcity of experienced resources in new and disruptive technologies for development, for example, Artificial Skills, performance and Intelligence and Blockchain. retention • Misappropriation of assets. I • Inability to implement and communicate policies and procedures, for example malpractice reporting policy and internal compliance procedures. Theft, fraud and corruption • Fake bank transfer instructions received by email and illegal transactions not detected (FinTech served market). Compliance Risks • Non-adherence to existing or new legislation and regulations such as Data Protection Act, General Data Protection J Regulations and The National Code of Corporate Governance for Mauritius (2016). • Changes to laws and regulations not communicated and training not provided. Legal and regulatory • Not systematically applying enhanced due diligence with respect to high risk clients (FinTech served market). compliance 78 Integrated Report 2018 Strategic / served market Mitigating Actions and Opportunities Capital Impacted objectives impacted • Procedures in place in case of cyclones and fire. • Review of business continuity plan is under way and its completion is targeted for next year. • External safety assessment done, recommendations implemented and monitoring ongoing (Property Investments sector). • Adequate insurance coverage against major risks. Innovation & Technology • Focus on digital transformation through the technology arm of Rogers. • Introduction of cloud services. • Launch of digital services (FinTech served market). • Founding partner of the Mauritius Blockchain Centre of Excellence (FinTech served market). • Improvement to management information system through the implementation of the corporate business analytic system (Corporate Office). • Successful go-to-market on Hire Purchase, Leasing and Loans (FinTech served market). IT Security Measures reinforcement • Regular IT audits. • Regular upgrade in information security. • Yearly engagement surveys. • Management Development Programme course. • Rogers Leaders Award. • Excellence Awards for employees of the Hotel sector. • Continuous training provided to employees. • Implementation of employer value proposition with emphasis on talent management and human capital development (FinTech served market). • Full remuneration survey to align to market and retention plan in place. • Review and implementation of ethics policy. • Ensuring proper segregation of duties. • Implementation of recommendations on internal controls made by internal and external auditors. • Zero tolerance policy on risk of errors and fraud (FinTech served market). • Review and update of Rogers Guidelines and Policies Manual. • Seminars and workshops organised for Directors and management with respect to The National Code of Corporate Governance for Mauritius (2016). • Compliance with General Data Protection Regulations and Data Protection Act. • Monitoring implementation of new legislations. • Recruitment of key staff to reinforce compliance function (FinTech served market). KEY: Financial Capital Human Capital Intellectual Capital Social & Natural Capital FinTech Hospitality Logistics Property Integrated Report 2018 79 PRINTED ON RECYCLED PAPER Rogers and Company Limited 5th floor, Rogers House, 5 President John Kennedy Street, PO Box 60, Port-Louis, Mauritius Tel. (230) 202 6666 Fax. (230) 208 3646 www.rogers.mu
