2017 Report Introduction This report showcases the main initiatives and performance of investment holding company Votorantim S.A. (VSA) from January 1 to December 31, 2017, as measured by the key indicators monitored by us. |GRI 102-1, 102-50| This report was prepared based on the IIRC integrated reporting framework, and in accordance with the GRI Standards for sustainability reporting: Core option. It also considers the principles of the UN Global Compact, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), and the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). |GRI 102-54| Detailed information on each investee can be found in the annual reports of Votorantim Cimentos, Nexa Resources, Companhia Brasileira de Alumínio (CBA), Votorantim Energia, Fibria, Citrosuco, and Banco Votorantim. The PDF version of this document is available at www.votorantim.com/relatorio and includes our consolidated financial statements and the GRI Content Index. Comments, doubts, and suggestions about this report can be forwarded by e-mail to votorantimri@votorantim.com. |GRI 102-53| Click on the Contents items (page 8), and on the page references of the GRI Content Index (page 7) to navigate this report. Click on any page’s header to return to the Contents page. Use the links throughout the report to access additional information. INTRODUCTION 2017 Report 2 2017 Highlights NET REVENUE COMPLIANCE WEEK VOTORANTIM R$27.2 billion, A week of PARTNERSHIP FOR up 5% year-on-year compliance-related EDUCATION activities for all investees 707 schools and over 170,000 students in the program ADJUSTED EBITDA R$4.8 billion, up 12% year-on-year WIND POWER VOTORANTIM Construction of Ventos do INSTITUTE Piauí wind farms Monitored investments completed, adding installed of over R$120 million in LEVERAGE capacity of 206 MW in an nearly 750 projects 2.60x net investment of debt/adjusted EBITDA R$1.2 billion Votorantim INTRODUCTION 3 NEW LOGO ENVIRONMENTAL TECH FAIR Translates Votorantim’s STEWARDSHIP Nearly 3,000 people aspiration towards setting R$485 million invested by participated in the event corporate goals for the next Votorantim 100 years CENTER OF ORGANIZATIONAL NEXA’S IPO EXCELLENCE ENVIRONMENT Largest IPO in the metals Unification of the One of the Best Companies and mining sector of the operations of the Shared to Start a Career and Best Americas in the last decade Solutions (CSC), Real Estate Companies to Work For, Solutions (CSI), and according to Você S/A Information Technology magazine Proficiency (CCTI) centers MESSAGE FROM THE BOARD 2017 Report 4 Dynamic portfolio management |GRI 102-14| In our 100th anniversary, we want to adapt and anticipate changes, looking to the future and to businesses that will help perpetuate our company W e went through a very We have made material investnewable sources in Brazil. complex year in 2017, ments over the past few years. Even In August 2017—before the exbut even so our results though the Brazilian GDP contracted in pected deadline—Fibria completed reflect the diversification of our busi2015 and 2016, we have maintained all its Horizonte 2 project after having ness portfolio and how we prepare our approved projects, in such diverse fields invested R$7.3 billion, and consolicompany to move forward in different as mining, cement, pulp, and energy. dated its leading position in the globscenarios. Votorantim celebrated its Most important, we met the budget al pulp market. Also, Banco Votoran100th anniversary in early 2018—an targets of the projects we invest in: we tim prioritized digital transformation unusual milestone in Braand a new organizational zil’s corporate history—in a culture to diversify its optrajectory that has taught With a very mature governance level, we erations. us that an entrepreneurial remained disciplined in our capital Given the complexity of mindset makes for a pemanagement and new initiatives improved the Brazilian economic scerennial business. our internal controls and compliance nario, our more domestic Large economies market-oriented businesshave been thriving globally. The delivered in terms of deadlines, cost, es, such as the cement operation, were United States recorded growth of and quality. Our investments have affected. Our businesses abroad, on 2.3% in 2017, above the World strengthened the position of each the other hand, including the cement, Bank’s forecast of 2.1%; the Eurocompany in their relevant markets, thus pulp and orange juice operations, benpean Union has recovered well, with making them more competitive. efited from a more favorable foreign GDP growth of 2.4%; and China has We have already become one of exchange rate. transitioned to a more service-centhe largest private energy traders in This has also occurred at Nexa Retered economy and recorded growth Brazil, and invested R$1.2 billion in sources, where its flagship product, of 6.9%. In Brazil, the political crisis the construction of wind farms in the zinc, recorded an excellent and timely deepened, with its developments afstate of Piauí, with installed capacity recovery in prices during the consolifecting the economy. The passing of of 206 megawatts/year. This investdation of the company’s operations in the labor reform and the setting of ment marks Votorantim Energia’s Brazil and Peru, becoming one of the a ceiling for government expenses debut in the wind power generation five largest mining companies in the were not enough to promote a sigsector. By the end of 2017, the comworld and ranking among the first nificant economic pickup. In spite of pany also announced a joint venture quartiles in production cost. The the growth recorded in some secwith the Canada Pension Plan Investcompany has gone public with an IPO tors, most industries showed no ment Board (CPPIB) to boost busiin the United States and Canada that signs of recovery. nesses in energy generation from rewas well received by investors. Votorantim MESSAGE FROM THE BOARD 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS. Left to right, sitting – José Roberto Ermírio de Moraes, Raul Calfat, and Marcelo Pereira Lopes de Medeiros; standing – Sergio Eraldo de Salles Pinto, Oscar de Paula Bernardes Neto, Luis Ermírio de Moraes, and Cláudio Ermírio de Moraes Companhia Brasileira de Alumínio states of Florida and California—and ruptive business models to ensure (CBA) was adversely impacted by the prepaid some debt facilities. In early our investees remain competitive, low demand for aluminum in the do2017 we also entered into an agreeleading to our company’s perpetuity. mestic market, but good internationment to merge Votorantim SiderurgOne century ago we were born a al prices ensured better results than ia’s and ArcelorMittal’s long steel optextile company that has ever since in prior years. erations in Brazil in exchange for a mievolved into a huge industrial conOn the other hand, the cement innority interest in the new company. glomerate, and more recently into an dustry saw a decrease in demand in On the governance front, we have investment holding company with a Brazil for the third consecutive year, taken on a series of initiatives to imlong-term vision. During this first with the cumulative drop reaching prove our internal controls and comcentury of life, we have kept up with nearly 28% in three years, according pliance, including the Compliance the changes in the business universe to data by the Brazilian cement assoWeek event to discuss ongoing isand we are ready to continue to grow ciation SNIC. In this scenario, Votoransues and reaffirm our stance to comin a structured manner and perpetutim Cimentos has relied upon its geopanies’ leaders. Our governance level ate our businesses, supporting our ingraphic diversification strategy—with is very mature and in line with the vestees, always based on clear stewgood results in North America, Europe best practices of publicly-held comardship standards. The entrepreneurand Africa—and cost structure ratiopanies, even though several of our ial mindset is in our DNA, and we nalization to boost its performance. businesses, including the holding itknow it is key for perpetuating our At Votorantim S.A., we remained self, are privately-held companies. business and paving the way for the disciplined in how we allocate capital. In January 2018, we celebrate next 100 years. We influenced our investees into sellVotorantim’s 100th anniversary. In Raul Calfat ing non-core assets—such as the cethe upcoming years we will further Chairman of the Board of Directors ment units in China, Chile, and the U.S. focus on new technologies and disVotorantim S.A. MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 2017 Report 6 100 years ahead |GRI 102-14| We reaffirm our commitment to doing business respecting the legacy that has brought us this far—we create value with social and environmental responsibility, contribute to people’s development, and anticipate the demands from society W e closed 2017 celebrating over R$1 billion in 2016 to a net pension fund CPPIB for investments the fact that we managed profit of R$810 million; our net debt/ in renewable energy, Nexa’s IPO in to rise to great challenges adjusted EBITDA ratio, which had rethe U.S. and Canada, and the expanposed in a year when the Brazilian marmained close to 4.00x throughout sion of Fibria’s pulp mill in Três Laket was significantly impacted by politthe year, closed 2017 at 2.60x. Our goas (state of Minas Gerais). ical instability. Companies operating in financial management was prudent Our investees’ leaders have been the country faced stagnation or retracas usual, and we maintained a robust paying attention to the faster-paced tion in their industries, foreign changes in technology and exchange volatility, and the Focusing on what we can control how they can radically transabsence of significant advancand on process, service, and product form our businesses in the es in the passing of economic near future, both in terms of innovation positively impacted our reforms. opportunities and risks. consolidated results During this period, at Our portfolio of investees Votorantim we focused on mostly concentrates on basic what we can control— value drivers, cash position and an extended debt industries, and they continually inmeasures to gain efficiency and cut amortization schedule. vest in innovation and are aware of costs, and getting even closer to our Even in a turbulent year, we how digital transformation may imclients so we can be part of the solumoved forward because we had pact their activities. We believe digitions to their problems. To that end, planned in advance. We kept the intal innovation and deep knowledge our companies have innovated provestments that had already been apof our businesses will drive our comcesses, services and products. proved, and our credit metrics conpanies’ competitiveness. Focusing on what we can control verged to adequate levels. We also In addition to digital transformacoupled with the good performance saw important developments in our tion, human expertise will always be of metal commodities positively importfolio in 2017; the highlights were an edge, and we will continue to inpacted our consolidated results— we the joint venture between Votoranvest in our people, encouraging their managed to go from a net loss of tim Energia and Canada’s largest development. We believe the human Votorantim MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 7 EXECUTIVE BOARD. Left to right, back – João Schmidt, Sergio Malacrida and Luiz Marcelo Fins; front – Luiz Caruso and João Miranda factor will always be the key capital Votorantim Institute program called way for citizens to express their deof any company. Votorantim Partnership for Educasire for change and support the Our leaders’ vision of innovation tion (PVE), which has effectively causes they believe in. This is acting adds to another commitment we rehelped improve public school stewas a socially responsible business, affirmed in the year of our centenniardship in the cities where it was adand this is what we believe in. al: we do business respecting the opted. The PVE program stays four In these first 100 years, we have legacy that has brought us this far. years in each city and improves the managed to adapt to different crisis On our journey, we have incorBasic Education Development Index scenarios and navigate out of each porated the way we do business in(IDEB) by up to 45%. In 2017, we inone of them in stronger shape. Our to the Votorantim DNA—we concreased the number of cities in the portfolio of companies has gone tribute to people’s development, program from 17 to 51; in 2018, we through transformations, our culture create value with social and enviwill reach more than 100 cities. has evolved, and we have preserved ronmental responsibility, and anticThe year 2018 may become a our corporate DNA. ipate the legitimate demands from milestone in Brazil’s recent history. In the next 100 years we are consociety. We take these matters into The country will hold general elecfident that our company will continconsideration in all investment detions after almost four years of ue to adapt even in an increasingly cisions we make, because this is fiercely fighting corruption. more complex and ambiguous scehow Votorantim does business. As one of the largest priv­atelynario, and we will continue to help In our first centennial, we chose held companies in Brazil, Votorantim build a fairer, more ethical and incluEducation and the exercise of Citibelieves a company can and should sive society. zenship as the themes of our celehave a voice in issues that matter Votorantim will keep on doing bration. most for society. We have therefore its part. We believe quality education decided, as a non-partisan entity, to transforms society. Two years ago, advocate for voter awareness in João Miranda we substantially increased our in2018, because we understand voting CEO vestments in education through a is the most effective and democratic Votorantim S.A. CONTENTS 2017 Report 8 INTRODUCTION THE RIGHT WAY 2 2017 Highlights MESSAGE FROM THE BOARD 22 Evolution in governance 4 management Dynamic portfolio 24 Ethics as a core value MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 26 Calculated risk appetite 6 100 years ahead 27 Partnership with nature WHO WE ARE 28 Beyond conservation 10 Votorantim S.A. 30 awareness Climate-change 13 Our legacy to society 31 Side by side with our communities 16 More modern, revamped logo 32 Social intelligence 33 a cause United in AT THE RIGHT TIME WITH THE RIGHT PEOPLE 18 Innovative mindset 35 High-performance culture 39 Engaged team Votorantim CONTENTS 9 BUSINESS PORTFOLIO FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Votorantim Cimentos 40 Effective diversification 56 D  iscipline drives results Nexa Resources 42 Stronger and more connected ABOUT THIS REPORT Companhia Brasileira de Alumínio 60 Consolidated information 44 One step ahead Votorantim Siderurgia GRI 46 Joining forces to grow 61 GRI Disclosures 76 GRI Votorantim Energia content 48 Tailwinds index Fibria 94 assurance report Limited 50 New possibilities on the horizon FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Citrosuco 52 Natural and sustainable 96 I ndependent auditor’s report Banco Votorantim 102Cstatements onsolidated financial 2017 54 Focusing on new businesses WHO WE ARE 2017 Report 10 Votorantim S.A. Building on our own history to perpetuate operations in an ever more volatile world W e are an investthe investment holding com­ Verdes do Cerrado). |GRI 102-7| ment holding com‑ pany in charge of allocating As an investor, we keep a pany with busicapital. |GRI 102-9| low number of employees nesses in key economic sectors We closed 2017 with con(147) at VSA’s headquarters in in Brazil and 19 other counsolidated net revenue of São Paulo, working in the Innotries. By the end of 2017, our R$27.2 billion, and consolidatvation, Sustainability, Commuinvestment portfolio was highed adjusted EBITDA of R$4.8 nication, Legal, Human and ly diversified both in terms of billion. Globally, our businesses Organizational Development, geography and industries—cedirectly employed more than Financial Management, and ment, mining, smelting, long 40,000 people, in addition to Governance, Risks, and Comsteel, pulp, o­ range juice, elecover 20,000 contractors workpliance areas. We also manage tric power, and finance. Our ining in 536 operating and adinvestments made by the Ervestees serve clients in several ministrative units. Our assets mírio de Moraes family, the different segments, from fiinclude the largest private Atcontrolling shareholders of nancial service customers to lantic Forest reserve in Brazil— VSA. 671 other employees large manufacturers. |GRI 102Legado das Águas/Reservas work for our Center of Excel2, 102-4, 102-6| Votorantim, a 31,000-hectare lence (CoE), which has units in We have evolved from a texarea in the state of São Pauthe cities of São Paulo and Cutile company to a conglomerate lo—and another 31,000-hectritiba in Brazil, and in Lima, of businesses, and today VSA is are reserve in Goiás (Legado ­Peru. |GRI 102-3| A century of history 1918 – The beginning: Antonio Pereira Ignacio, a Portuguese immigrant, acquires the bankruptcy estate of 1936 – Cement: 1937 – Long steel: 1955 – Aluminum: Banco União, which included, Inauguration of the Santa Beginning of operations Companhia Brasileira de among other properties, a Helena plant near Sorocaba, of steelmaker Siderúrgica Alumínio (CBA) was set up fabric factory near the city of São Paulo; this is the Barra Mansa in the state near Sorocaba, São Paulo, Sorocaba, in the state of São first cement unit built by of Rio de Janeiro, at a time which became a milestone Paulo. Votorantim is born under Votorantim, and takes when the Brazilian industrial in Votorantim’s history. the name Sociedade Anonyma the Votoran brand to the activity was undergoing Fabrica Votorantim. market. diversification. Votorantim WHO WE ARE 11 |GRI 102-2| OUR PORTFOLIO 100% 64% cement, concrete, mortar & aggregates zinc, lead & copper 100% 100% bauxite, aluminum & alumina long steel 100% 29% electric power generation & trading pulp 50% 50% orange juice finance 1957 – Electric power 1969 – Zinc: Beginning of 1988 – Pulp: Foundation of 1989 – Orange juice: generation: Inauguration operations of Companhia Votorantim Celulose e Papel Beginning of operations of the first hydroelectric Mineira de Metais, (VCP), which consolidated of Citrovita—producer power plant—the França Votorantim’s first zinc its position as a player in and trader of orange unit on the Juquiá River, producer. With units in the the market with 80,000 juice and byproducts— in the Ribeira Valley region cities of Vazante and Três hectares of eucalyptus with a manufacturing unit (state of São Paulo). The Marias, in the state of Minas forests in the state of São in the city of Catanduva plant serves CBA and was Gerais, the first activities Paulo. and a company-owned the first of seven units built are dedicated to producing orange farm in the city of in the region over three electrolytic zinc. Itapetininga, both in the decades. state of São Paulo. WHO WE ARE 2017 Report 12 Votorantim DNA has its own idiosyncrasies. VOTORANTIM S.A. |GRI 102-16, 102-27| Therefore, the investees themAT A GLANCE We have transcribed our best selves set their own targets and practices developed over the strategic planning, and make 100% years into a document we call their own day-to-day decisions. LOCALLY OWNED Votorantim DNA, which is Our role is to influence their based on: strategic, sustainability and in818 ■■ Values and beliefs – the way novation-related decision-makEMPLOYEES we are and how we act ing—and keep on fostering new ■■ Governance principles – the businesses. 41% MEN way we manage our compaIn 2017 we completed the 59% WOMEN nies transition of the activities that ■■ Stewardship pillars – what were still managed by Votorantim 8 INVESTEES we focus on for managing our S.A. to the investees, increasing companies their autonomy and allowing Over the last few years we them to see their businesses 1 CENTER have accelerated our transition from a broader perspective. OF EXCELLENCE into a long-term investment We are very proud of celeholding company able to consisbrating 100 years of history. PORTFOLIO tently yield superior financial reFew Brazilian companies have turns while making a positive reached this milestone. Looking 536 social and environmental impact. back, we have learned the fuUNITS We have considerable leverage ture happens at the right time with our investees as we have if we constantly foster innovaOPERATIONS IN representatives in their boards tion; the right way if we respon20 COUNTRIES and advisory committees who sibly manage the social and enhelp disseminate and preserve vironmental impacts of our 40.922 the Votorantim DNA. businesses; and with the right EMPLOYEES Each business is unique and people, i.e. inspiring and influ1991 – Bank: Banco 1996 – Energy: Foundation 2001 – 2001 – Corporate Votorantim—previously a of Votorantim Energia— Internationalization: We governance: We securities broker created company dedicated to took our first step towards implemented a new in 1988—starts offering managing Votorantim internationalization with governance model capital investment and companies’ energy assets the acquisition of cement where family controlling funding services to external and providing them with manufacturer St. Marys shareholders can only be clients. energy management and Cement in Canada. Today, members of the boards energy efficiency solutions. we have operations in 20 of Votorantim S.A. and countries. investees. Votorantim WHO WE ARE 13 Our legacy to society Centennial celebration’s activities and campaigns reflect our beliefs and commitment to the country W hen planning for tions, and we created tens of the celebration of thousands of quality jobs. our 100th anniverOur commitment to Brazil SIX GENERATIONS sary in early 2018, we deeply has led us to choose Education Votorantim’s founder, Antonio Pereira reflected on what could be our as a legacy, not only because Ignacio, migrated as a child from Portugal most significant contribution there is a huge educational to Brazil, where he built his life and laid the cornerstones for our businesses. He had two to society. Two years ago we deficit in the country but also sons and a daughter; but early in the 20th discussed with our shareholdbecause quality education is century he chose his son-in-law José Ermírio ers and leaders about how we the bedrock of a fairer and de Moraes as his successor, in what would be should celebrate our centennial more egalitarian society, one later known as meritocracy. A son of sugar and what legacy we would like that creates more democratic producers from Pernambuco, José diligently to leave to the country. opportunities for individual pushed the businesses forward into different These discussions considgrowth. It is education that areas of operation. ered the way we do businesses empowers new generations, Today, Antonio Pereira Ignacio and José and the commitments we have broadening their repertoire Ermírio de Moraes are considered the made throughout our history. and making them aware of the family’s first and second generations, One of them is to Brazil’s deimportance of exercising citirespectivelly. The family currently has more velopment—we pioneered zenship. It is the key driver of a than 140 members—out of which 34 are some sectors where we operbetter future for all. shareholders—and is in its sixth generation. ate, several cities were built With that in mind, we in(See page 22 in chapter “The right way” for and grew around our operacreased our investment in the further details.) ▼ 2002 – Votorantim 2004 – Peru: Votorantim 2004 – CSC: Set-up, in 2007 – IT Governance: The Institute: Votorantim Metais, now Nexa the city of Curitiba, of Information Technology Institute is created to be a Resources, acquires the the Shared Solutions Proficiency Center (CCTI) social strategy hub for our Cajamarquilla refinery Center (CSC)—a service is set up with the goal portfolio companies, aiming in Peru, raising the zinc excellence center in the of seeking synergies and to bolster the outcomes of production by 67% and areas of accounting and enabling economies of external social investments marking the beginning of controllezrship, among scale in IT systems and made in the communities our mining and production others. In 2017, it was infrastructure management. where we operate. Today, the activities in the country. merged into the Center of It owns one of Brazil’s largest Institute operates out of 144 Excellence (CoE). ERP operations. In 2017, it cities in four countries. was merged into the CoE. WHO WE ARE 2017 Report 14 Votorantim Partnership for Education (PVE) program of the Votorantim InDEVELOPING stitute; 17 cities were in the program LEADERSHIP in 2016, figure that rose to 51 in 2017. In 2018, we will have over 100 The 18.18 Program has been challenges of the future to our dayBrazilian cities participating in the prodriving transformation at to-day operations. (See pages 35 gram as a token of our centennial. The Votorantim, helping us plan our next and 18, in chapters “With the right PVE operates through consulting firms 100 years. The idea is to make our people” and “At the right time” for specializing in public primary educacompanies leaders in implementing further details on these two themes.) tion stewardship, providing tools and new models that meet new market Employees can access the program’s training to the technical body of the demands; to systematically align platform at cities’ departments of education. In our purpose for and vision of the www.votorantim1818.com.br the cities where it has already been future; and to foster environments, and through the mobile app. Both implemented, the program improves behaviors and processes that interfaces enable access to articles, the Basic Education Development Inbolster collective intelligence, podcasts and videos that help our dex (IDEB) by up to 45%. The program considering each of our businesses’ employees stay connected to future stays for up to four years in each city scenarios. trends and disruptive moves in the to ensure the achievements consoliThe theme for the program’s business scenario. date. (See page 33 in chapter “The first activities in 2016 was The visual identity of the program right way” for further details and the High Performance Culture, and reflects its goal: the first “18” is program’s outcomes.) we discussed autonomy and filled, referring to the first 100 In addition to Education, we will innovative behaviors through years of Votorantim’s history. inspirational work and governance The second “18” remains unfilled, foster the exercise of Citizenship in models. In 2017, the theme meaning we are yet to build our the year of our centennial, considerwas Emerging Technologies and next 100 years. ▼ ing that 2018 is also a milestone for New Consumption, Production the Brazilian society—the country and Interaction Standards, and will hold general elections for the it brought the technological first time since the fight against corruption gained momentum. 2009 – Fibria: Fibria— 2012 – Citrosuco: 2012 – Legado das Águas: 2014 – Real estate assets: the world’s largest pulp Votorantim’s Citrovita and In partnership with the São The Real State Solutions producer—is created after Fischer Group’s Citrosuco Paulo state government, we Center (CSI) is created to the merger between VCP merge and create the created the largest private manage Votorantim’s real and Aracruz. world’s largest orange juice Atlantic Forest reserve in estate assets. In 2017, it producer. The new company Brazil—Legado das Águas— was merged into the Center keeps the Citrosuco name protecting 31,000 hectares of Excellence (CoE). and is jointly controlled by of forestland. The area has Votorantim and the Fischer been protected since 1950 Group, each holding a 50% to secure water supply for interest in the company. hydroelectric power plants in the Ribeira Valley, São Paulo. Votorantim WHO WE ARE 15 We believe voter awareness is the most democratic and legitiInspirational videos mate tool for political transformation, and we will support this exerDuring our research to organize with us; or another employee whose cise of citizenship in a non-partiour centennial celebration, we grandfather and father worked at san way, focusing on our internal came across some emblematic the same Votorantim unit. stakeholders as potential engagers and inspirational stories from We unveiled these stories to of other social actors. Votorantim’s employees and from encourage people to share their people whose lives have been own experiences. In 2017, our Throughout our history, we have positively impacted by our social employees spontaneously shared always respected the institutions, projects. We made videos of some of over 100 stories with us. These and we believe this is a mandatory these stories, such as the one from videos and other activities relative condition for doing business. This an employee who used to come to to Votorantim’s centennial right way of doing business is in our work with his father as a child and celebration are available at DNA. We therefore have internal later fulfilled his dream of working www.votorantim100.com. ▼ compliance policies and controls in place as well as an anti-corruption system that is adopted across all our companies. (See page 24 in chapter “The right way” for further details.) This is the legacy we want to leave to society in our centennial. The first step towards a better society is quality education for all, ensuring greater awareness for future generations. We believe a prosperous country cannot be built without the participation of all social agents, starting with choosing good government representatives through vote.  ▼ 2016 – Portfolio 2017 – Nexa: Nexa 2017 – Energy platform: Check our full time line using management: We Resources (previously Beginning of wind the QR code above or at streamlined our holding Votorantim Metais) goes farm operations in the www.votorantim100.com structure with the creation public in an IPO on the Northeast of Brazil, and of Votorantim S.A.— stock exchanges of New announcement of the the investment holding York, United States, and joint venture between company owning interest Toronto, Canada. Votorantim Energia and in our investees. VSA the Canada Pension Plan substituted our previous Investment Board (CPPIB). holding companies Votorantim Participações and Votorantim Industrial. WHO WE ARE 2017 Report 16 More modern, revamped logo With a new look, logo translates Votorantim’s aspiration towards setting corporate goals for next 100 years W hat is the Votorantim we shareholders, executives and board be used in the logos of our investees, want for the next 100 members, in addition to journalists, creating a unique visual identity and years? Searching for an investors, clients and suppliers. We serving as endorsement of our brand. answer to this question, we realized also spoke with over 3,000 employEveryday we strive towards a future something: we had to go a step further. ees in Brazil and abroad to find out that innovates, influences, transforms; Take a step towards the future. In order what our essence is. a future we shape. This is why we beto do so, we would have to rise to two This research resulted in a new lolieve we can create a future based on challenges: prepare our brand to foster go: VOTORANTIM is now written in all the decisions we make today, paying value creation and decide what the recapital letters, designed with exclusive close attention to the present. Our vilation would be between the institutypography and a new shade of blue sion embeds a sense of continuity and tional brand and our investees. that makes it even more lively and reflects a real future of practical, atWe interviewed more than 50 striking. Our own typography will also tainable and sustainable results. ▼ TODAY, TOMORROW, AND ALWAYS |GRI 102-16, 102-17| The future we shape happens: At the right time The right way With the right people The right time is the one For us, there is only one We have made a firm we do not miss. Everyday way of doing things: commitment: we will we remember the the right one. Our invest in our people decisions we make today will drive corporate DNA carries our unique because we believe in them and in future results, and that we have to way of behaving and operating. We what they are capable of delivering. think fast and act in a structured, treat our investees, employees and We are always moving forward, strategic and assertive manner. society with respect, and we act towards what is new. We positively Our mindset is innovative—we are ethically. We have great expertise influence our people through our always looking ahead. But when we in investments and the necessary inspired leaders. ▼ look to the future we have to be knowledge to always perform better ready for challenging what happens and more responsibly. now. We also have to be prepared to respond to changes in the different sectors and countries where we operate. Votorantim WHO WE ARE 17 1919 1968 1972 2001 2008 2018 AT THE RIGHT TIME 2017 Report 18 Panel during the Innovation Day: innovation is the watchword at the CoE Innovative mindset Betting on digital transformation, fostering culture of innovation are key for shaping future O ne of our key goals is to inspecific needs of each operation. Throughout 2017, we carried out clude the innovation factor The goal of the CoE is to deliver several educational activities, includin our high performance products and services at a competiing 16 workshops, and the 150 seats culture, because we believe this is tive cost (find examples of projects available for enrollment were filled in the best way to perpetuate our and initiatives carried out during 2017 less than one hour. 88% of the embusinesses. Our role is to foster this on the following pages.) ployees of the CoE participated in initiative in all departments and all At the CoE, innovation is the the initiative that featured: our investees. watchword. Our multidisciplinary team ■■ 3 panels, with nearly 400 particiIn 2017 we merged the operameets every week to discuss this pants tions of the Shared Solutions (CSC), theme. Last November we held our ■■ 12 stands for startups Real Estate Solutions (CSI), and Infirst Innovation Day with the mission of ■■ 154 innovative ideas introduced by formation Technology Proficiency bringing more than 500 employees professionals—one of them was (CCTI) centers into the Center of Excloser to startups, universities and chosen for a pilot project during cellence (CoE), which has become ­research centers, who were invited to the Innovation Day even more specialized in providing talk about what they do best: new ■■ 3 pilot projects with startups at the integrated solutions for demands technologies, 3D printers, robotics, etc. CoE: Overmediacast (videobots), shared by our investees, capturing The idea is to translate innovative Cedro (chatbots) and Aquarella synergies without losing sight of the ideas into innovative actions. (tax and analytics) Votorantim AT THE RIGHT TIME 19 One of the CoE’s attributions is develop to get there. This process artificial intelligence, etc. to be a catalyst for the digital has led us to design a roadmap for Our greatest challenge is doing transformation of supporting serthe next three years (see infographbusiness in a world where disrupvices to our investees. We continuic below), based on what is most tion is increasingly more normalally challenge ourselves; we are alprominent in the market in terms of ized. We are confident that our ways seeking ways to improve our digitization, involving concepts and digital transformation is taking businesses and what we need to technologies, startup ecosystems, place at the right time and through DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION AT THE CoE 2017 2018-19 2020 ssets Data office ONE OFFICE DATA AND INTELLIGENCE Digital Data converted into a Business intelligence Analytics Data science / business analytics tools models on businesses’ value chain Service Center es s at nt’ cre lie Process CoE on cork Loss prevention e valunetw mining model Self-services and mobility Di git al wo Broad rkf orce ecosystems c o n n ec t i vit y n sig Other platforms de API ce rvi Smart Se automation Endpoint People, sensing and processes management and systems Digital governance Platform Co USER EXPERIENCE for interface design using in-memory gn computing iti ve pla tfo rm s Digital governance New scenari o responsiveness Know-how Robotic In-memory Cloud computing acceleration labs transaction automation computing strategy architecture AUTOMATONS FLEXIBLE ARCHITECTURE AT THE RIGHT TIME 2017 Report 20 suitable technology. In 2017, the CoE invested in robotics. Machines are faster and make fewer mistakes, increase productivity and capture synergies at all investees, paving the way for us to open new jobs that require more sophisticated skills in the future. Voto Talks Voto Talks is a VSA initiative where investees engage to create a critical mindset around the culture of innovation, making more people aware of the top matters in this field. We held four Voto Talks editions in Presentation at Voto Talks: yielding insights 2017— two at our headquarters in São Paulo, one in Curitiba, and one employees watched the live preseninsights, and encourage discussions at Votorantim Energia, also in São tation. The idea is to bring about a about themes that matter for the Paulo. At the Curitiba event, 170 change of pace for employees, yield businesses.  ▼ THE IMPACTS OF EMERGING TECHNOLOGIES In April 2017, we held the Tech Fair gave 42 talks featuring 33 projects Votorantim investees. to introduce our employees to the or technologies. Free to enter and open to the latest technological innovations Nearly 3,000 employees and public, the Tech Fair was one of the in the market. Our goal was to guests attended the event activities in our 18.18 Program, showcase the evolution of various and were able to interact with which bolsters new opportunities emerging technologies and their prototypes and learn more about for our organization’s continuity tremendous impact on businesses projects developed by startups, over the next 100 years. ▼ and society. In all, 20 companies top innovative companies, and More than 3,000 people visited the Tech Fair in April 2017 Votorantim AT THE RIGHT TIME 21 Monitoring large areas The Smart Territories Challenge services that could be provided The Challenge is part of a strategy was an open-innovation project to our investees relative to their we set in motion two years ago: run in partnership with the 100 territories and that delivered evolving in the management of our Open Startups platform, and led synergy and scale. assets. Inspecting transmission lines by the CoE’s Innovation teams and 38 of the 55 startups that applied and farmland, for example, used Real Estate Solutions Center. This for the challenge were preselected to take two to three weeks; using project’s goal was to explore new for being in compliance with drones, though, we realized it could solutions and technologies for the theme, and nine of them be done in just a few days and with monitoring large areas, inspecting were selected for a demo day at greater accuracy and effectiveness. transmission lines, mapping Votorantim. By the end of the It would also minimize work safety data on the use and occupation year, four were already developing risks, as employees would no longer of land, etc. We also selected prototypes for the projects. need to inspect the whole line. ▼ Innovation: drones reduce inspection time and increase accuracy Accelerated revitalization at Vila Leopoldina Cities are ever-changing organisms. and modeling; we have engaged with from neighboring communities With that in mind, in 2017 we moved the local government and other local ■■ adding new plans for renovating forward with our plans to revitalize stakeholders to implement a broad existing buildings, creating new a 300,000 square meter area agenda of interventions of public public and private spaces that surrounding our properties located interest. The positive impact of the attract visitors and create income in the Vila Leopoldina neighborhood program has also increased: and jobs in the city of São Paulo, which has ■■ breathing new life into the The scale and complexity of this been faced with the paradox of neighborhood—over 1,800 project demand long-term planning, development combined with urban employees and new occupants in but we are very responsive in seeking and social degradation for years. one of our properties to make it viable. ▼ Our Urban Intervention Program ■■ promoting art and engagement— (UIP) has evolved based on studies walls were painted by youngsters THE RIGHT WAY 2017 Report 22 Evolution in governance |GRI 102-27| With investees responsible for operations, our role is to lead the way, allocate capital and preserve our DNA O ur work structure is very Family – Currently in its sixth shareholders and three independent clear. We are a private famigeneration and with over 140 memmembers. Day-to-day business is ly company that has been bers (34 of which are shareholders), managed by the Executive Board, managing a business portfolio since it is represented by the Family Board, which in 2017 had one CEO and four 1918. Designed in early 2000, our formed in 2001. This board has sevofficers. |GRI 102-23| governance model has been enen family members—currently five Each investee has a board of dihanced over time. We have recently women and two men—including rectors responsible for strategic increased our investees’ autonomy to spouses, representing the family’s planning and business execution, and enable more in-depth discussions fourth and fifth generations. (See the for approving the necessary investand faster decision-making. Through box below to learn more about the ments for meeting strategic goals. this process, we realized we should Family Board.) Members of these boards include diexplicitly separate our governance Businesses – This is the goverrectors and officers of Votorantim and controlling structure into three nance sphere where the Board of DiS.A.; at Fibria, Votorantim Cimentos, spheres: |GRI 102-5, 102-18| rectors of Votorantim S.A. operates. Companhia Brasileira de Alumínio, Ownership – The Hejoassu holding By the end of 2017 and following a Nexa Resources and Banco Votorancompany is our core governance body. restructuring, it had seven memtim, the boards also have indepenIts board gathers shareholders reprebers—one chairman who exclusively dent members. ▼ senting four family holding companies. serves this function, three family Values inspire the family The Family Board’s strategies On the occasion of Votorantim’s ■■ Integrity involve developing, supporting and centennial, the family reviewed its ■■ Generosity forming sustainable leaderships Values and committed to remaining ■■ Impact and shareholders for family and united in its investments and to business succession at Votorantim, ensuring the company’s perpetuity. ■■ Courage while preserving the family’s legacy ■■ Unity and values. It is responsible for Revisiting the past and Votorantim’s ■■ Passion ▼ ▼ managing the business information history, the family has found new flow among family members, and inspirations to define our values for for communicating family decisions the present and the future: and relations. Votorantim THE RIGHT WAY 23 HEJOASSU Family Board Votorantim S.A Board of Directors Votorantim  Reservas Institute Votorantim CEO CFO and Corporate Risks, Compliance Chief Legal Investor Relations Development & Shared Officer Officer Officer Solutions Officer Votorantim Nexa Companhia Votorantim Brasileira de Cimentos Resources Alumínio Siderurgia Votorantim Banco Fibria Citrosuco Energia Votorantim BOARD MANDATES Ownership – Hejoassu: Family – Family Board: Business – Votorantim S.A Sets out long-term guidelines and Responsible for the development of Ensures compliance with the shareholder investment targets, family members, for communication guidelines set out by Hejoassu, and oversees the group’s financial among members, for protecting and manages the business portfolio and policy, risks, and talents. It is also guarding the family’s legacy, and capital structure, and sets out the responsible for watching over promoting family integration. policies to be adopted by VSA and Votorantim’s culture and DNA. its investees. THE RIGHT WAY 2017 Report 24 Compliance Ethics as a core value Week: engagement |GRI 103-2, 103-3| and awareness of ethics and integrity issues Our relations with internal and external stakeholders are clear and transparent E thics is one of the valeign Corrupt Practices Act (FCin place to make our negotiaues that have always PA), whose purpose is to fight tions safer. The first step is to governed our way of transnational corruption by inensure their awareness. All doing business. Our Code of dividuals or businesses that suppliers receive a video exConduct is a modern, live dochave any relation with the plaining integrity is non-negoument that is continually upUnited States. tiable for us: We do not accept dated with examples (ethical any type of corruption and we dilemmas and controversial isThird-party due expect the same from them. sues) that are specific to our diligence |GRI 205-2| fields of operations. The last We try our best to influence The second step is a more edition was published in 2016 our business partners and enproactive approach to moniand is aligned with both the sure their compliance and intoring the integrity of business Brazilian ­a nti-corruption law tegrity while they work with us. partners seeking to do busiand the provisions in the ForTo that end, we have a strategy ness with Votorantim. We vet Votorantim THE RIGHT WAY 25 the suppliers of our subsidiaries and Fibria, revising each cluding a week dedicated to compliance issues—this inCOMPLIANCE vendor onboarding and applyvolved the top management of WEEK ing a specific checklist of inall our investees. For the first time, we held a week of tegrity issues. We assess them compliance-related activities in allusion for involvement in lawsuits, inDonations and to the International Anti-Corruption Day dependence from the governsponsoring (9 December). Executives of the holding ment, political exposure of exIn 2017, we designed a new company and of all investees attended ecutives or relatives, issues remodel to organize, analyze, and lectures and debates about anti-corruption lating to possible acts of cordecide on donation requests laws, including international examples ruption, and their practices made to Votorantim S.A.. All and other relevant themes. Among the regarding health and safety, requests are reviewed by our speakers were State’s Attorney Rodrigo slave labor, and environmental Compliance and Legal departde Grandis and Federal Inspector General Antônio Carlos Vasconcellos. Activities were issues. This system is managed ments. Through the new model also organized at each investee to discuss by the CoE and relies on a risk we verify whether the governthemes such as digital compliance, trade curve that triggers system ment agency has issued a pubcompliance, compliance culture, donations, warnings to the contracting lic call and if the potential doetc. Our goal was to engage our employees department and escalates the nation is in line with our social on and raise their awareness of ethics and issue to the appropriate funcstrategy. The same applies to integrity issues. State’s attorneys Deltan tions. Our goal for 2018 is to requests made by individuals Dallagnol and Carlos Fernando dos Santos extend this control system to and associations or non-govLima closed the thematic week speaking at all contracts. ernmental organizations. the CoE in Curitiba. ▼ The departments that transact with high-risk suppliGovernment ers can now access the ComInteraction Record pliance team and request that Another project that reafonline. Before the new algodue diligence be performed for firms out commitment to dorithm, the purchase and sale the relevant third party. ing things the right way is our process could have flaws as it Government Interaction Reinvolves different departments, Resilience testing cord (RIG). Devised by our activities and people. In 2017 we started testing our Government Relations and We were the first company employees on resilience issues, Compliance departments and to use this system—which is based on our anti-corruption implemented in 2017, the widely adopted by banks and policy. Before that, they would RIG documents and ensures credit card issuers—in the be trained on the theme and transparency in all interacmanufacturing industry. The do a test. We have inverted this tions between our employees system’s algorithm identifies process, which now starts with and government agencies, intrends in real time and warns the test presenting some ethicluding government-conabout possible errors based on cal dilemmas (day-to-day castrolled companies. a “fraud library”. We adjusted es to measure how inclined the the system’s parameters in person is to not comply with Loss prevention 2017, and beginning in January what we expect them to), and Throughout 2017, we devel2018 we will have customized subsequently the employee oped a loss prevention algosolutions for each investee. ▼ undergoes training. rithm at the CoE to increase efTo continue the work we ficiency, reduce errors and prebegan in 2016, we provided vent fraud by monitoring all on-site training in 2017, inpurchase and sale transactions THE RIGHT WAY 2017 Report 26 Calculated risk appetite Impact scale classifies risk as low, medium, high or critical |GRI 102-20, 102-15, 103-2, 103-3, 102-11| I n line with international risk being replicated for each inaspects we have been including management standards, vestee, using the same methin our risk analyses since Votorantim’s risk appetite od but considering their own 2013—environmental, image, model is informed by research financial and business indicareputation, social impact, and established by the Board of tors. The model has to be aphealth and safety, and corrupDirectors. The model—reviewed proved by each investee’s tion factors, etc. It uses as on a yearly basis—is based on board. This model supplequantitative rationale to inform core financial indicators and is a ments another process we a qualitative discussion. key development in our portfohave been continually improvVSA’s board discusses busilio risk analysis. The risk appeing: in 2016 we reviewed our ness risks at least twice a year. tite value is the benchmark risk and compliance practices Each investee assesses its own against which tolerance levels and designed an in-depth business risks more frequently, are determined for an impact roadmap for quantifying risks including social-environmental scale that classifies risks as low, and triggering risk governance. risks, and submits its analysis medium, high or critical. This approach has a finanto its relative board at least Our risk appetite model is cial bias but also considers the twice a year. ▼ FROM ANALYSIS TO INVESTMENT 3. Maximum risk the Risk organization is willing appetite to take within its global capacity 2. Risk appetite percentage Risk determined by the tolerance organization that triggers governance (impact scale) 1. Quantitative and Risk qualitative analysis portfolio of risk event impacts – individual measurement Votorantim THE RIGHT WAY 27 Partnership with nature Our concern for the environment dates back to our Preserving the environment: foundation, and we will improve our environmental stewardship is part of our performance even further history W e are committed Each investee is responsible solidated in the online version to managing and for the stewardship of its speof this report (GRI indicators). reducing any adcific environmental factors in Each investee’s report provides verse impact of our investees’ its day-to-day operations, and details on its specific impacts operations regarding resource has teams specializing in each and the main environmental use (water, energy, materials), factor. Water and energy conprograms developed to address interference in biodiversity, and sumption, and emissions indithese issues. ▼ emissions. |GRI 102-15| cators for all investees are conTHE RIGHT WAY 2017 Report 28 Fauna and flora: the Cerrado is home to traditional activities but also to the new economy Beyond conservation Reservas Votorantim manages Legado das Águas and Legado Verdes do Cerrado, areas where biodiversity is core asset O ne example of our the area and ensuring water ments. Classes and activities historic commitment availability. on the environment and ecoto the environment In 2012, a partnership with tourism have been available in was the acquisition of several the São Paulo state governthe reserve since 2016. Legahectares of forestland in the ment made it possible for us to do das Águas also sells native Ribeira Valley, in the Southcreate the largest private Atseedlings produced in a tree ern São Paulo region, belantic Forest reserve in Brazil— nursery covering 1,500 square tween 1920 and 1950, where Legado das Águas—protecting meters—45,000 seedlings we installed seven hydroelec31,000 hectares of forestland were planted in 2016 and tric power plants that serve spanning across the cities of 43,000 in 2017. The whole Co m p a n h i a B ra s i l e i ra d e Juquiá, Miracatu, and Tapiraí. operation is managed by ResAlumínio (CBA). Almost one Commercial operations ervas Votorantim, company century ago we were already started in 2017 under Legado founded in 2015 that also concerned with conserving das Águas’s foundation documanages the Legado Verdes Votorantim THE RIGHT WAY 29 TOURISM AND DEVELOPMENT Based on biodiversity conservation, Reservas Votorantim has launched several initiatives to drive tourism and economic development in communities surrounding its reserves. Partners offer ecotourism package tours at Legado das Águas; throughout the year over 500 people went trekking and biking along the reserve’s trails, and kayaking in the reservoirs along the Juquiá River. Reservas Votorantim Kayaking on the Juquiá River: promoting tourism in the region also coordinates the Legado Experience: visitors spend the day projects to enhance public watching, recreational fishing, in the reserve, and go trekking and stewardship and increase tourist and animal monitoring—including birdwatching, take a boat ride and interest in the region, which muriquis, or woolly spider visit the orchid greenhouse and the positively affects tax revenue monkeys, the largest primates of tree nursery. and job creation. We have also the Americas; cougars and snakes Social engagement with local partnered with universities (over 80 different species have communities is supported by to bolster research projects already been identified). Research is the local governments of Juquiá, in biotechnology, plant DNA voluntary and not conditional upon Miracatu and Tapiraí, and involves sequencing, bird and butterfly any operational permit. ▼ do Cerrado, created in Februmerce, which recognizes commy-related activities. The othary 2017. panies that adopt socially-­ er hub is the native tree nursLegado das Águas offers us responsible practices. ery, which produced 40,000 another opportunity, the comseedlings during tests in 2017. pensation mechanism provided Legado Verdes do The project also promotes scifor in the Brazilian Forest Act Cerrado entific research of water reenacted in 2008—producers In 2017, CBA entered into a sources, fauna and flora of the that have not preserved part partnership with the Goiás Cerrado; and environmental, of the original area must comstate government and created ecotourism and apiculture acpensate for land misuse. BeLegado Verdes do Cerrado—a tivities. The remaining hectcause this can be done private sustainable developares are allocated to traditionthrough other areas, we own ment reserve covering the al-economy activities such as 28,000 hectares of intact forlargest stretch of preserved livestock farming, soybean estland allocated to compensavanna in Brazil. Covering production, and forestry. sation actions. 31,000 hectares, the reserve is Two other projects were Such innovations in stewlocated in the city of Niquelânalso initiated in 2017 to reardship granted Legado das dia, Goiás, near the Chapada cover water sources located Águas the 2017 National Biodos Veadeiros National Park. outside our reserve; and we diversity Award by the Brazilian The area has two hubs: the partnered with a public school Ministry of the Environment; Engenho hub is a 23,000 hectto create a community vegeand the 2017 ECO Award for are area that hosts Legado table garden incorporating the Process Sustainability by the Verdes do Cerrado’s headconcepts of inclusion and American Chamber of Comquarters and new econoeco-friendly construction.  ▼ THE RIGHT WAY 2017 Report 30 Climate-change awareness Study to broaden knowledge of climate change and its impact on investees I n 2017 we started doing bulletin; and the 2015 publicaphysical (acute and chronic) research on how we can intion of the Task Force on Cliand transition (policy and legal, crease awareness of climate-related Financial Disclotechnology, market, and repumate-change and of its finansure by the Financial Stability tation) risks, as well as opporcial risks and opportunities for Board (FSB), which provides a tunities (resource efficiency, the current portfolio and fuframework for disclosures that energy source, products and ture investment decisions. The support informed investments. services, markets and resilscope of this study was asBased on this study, our Susience) for our investees. sessed and determined based tainability and Corporate DevelIn this initial stage our main on the Carbon Disclosure Projopment teams prepared our first goal is to influence the compaect’s guidelines and databases; Climate-related Risks and Opnies and incorporate this new the Sustainable Accounting portunities report. |GRI 102-15| factor into the investment deStandard Board’s climate risk In this report, we address cisions of Votorantim S.A..  ▼ Drought: A physical risk addressed in our climate change report Votorantim THE RIGHT WAY 31 Side by side with our communities Community relations: Activities prioritizing education and local development investees’ strengthen bond with communities initiatives are supported by |GRI 103-2, 103-3| the Votorantim Institute G iven the nature of their ingly stronger, more present supported by the Votorantim operations, several inand independent in order to Institute and developed based vestees have an impact drive positive and mitigate adon studies, consultations and on their territories. They usualverse impacts. assessments on each commuly become an important—or This is why they build very nity’s aspirations and needs, even the largest—local ecoclose relationships with the and on an analysis of the social nomic agent, driving job crecommunities and cities where and economic impacts of our ation, and GDP and income inthey operate, and support inioperations. We want to bring crease. Sometimes they cause tiatives primarily on education lasting, substantial social benesignificant change in local urand local development. The fits to our communities, creatban policy, as operations tend teams in charge of sustainabiling more opportunities for deto increase infrastructure use ity and social responsibility-­ velopment and an atmosphere and create new demands. Local related themes at our investthat favors the sustainable opinstitutions have to be increasees implement social programs eration of our businesses.  ▼ THE RIGHT WAY 2017 Report 32 Social intelligence Votorantim Institute helps investees create mutual value social risks already mapped. It then triggered mitigation actions and worked to improve the investees’ know-how and make them more mature regarding social issues in order to offer the best solutions in terms of cost and quality. Votorantim Institute prefers the expression “social action” to “social investment” because it believes it is broader in meaning—and better reflects what it does. The Institute— being a technical adviser and supplier of social technologies—wants Social action: continually improving our social legacy our investees to continually improve their social legacy. This reF ounded in 2002, the VotoranOne of the strategies pursued in quires addressing ways to minimize, tim Institute reports directly 2017 was improving the social risk mitigate and offset our activities’ to the board of Votorantim stewardship at four investees: Votoadverse impacts; and ways to create S.A. and its mission is to improve the rantim Cimentos, Companhia Brasilemore value to society based on social performance of our investees. ira de Alumínio, Votorantim Siderurgeach business’s processes, products In 2017, the Institute oversaw inia and Votorantim Energia. Throughand relations. The Institute does so vestments of more than R$120 milout the year, the Institute worked by sharing specialized knowledge lion in nearly 750 projects in Brazil, with executives from different deand technical capacity to design Peru, Argentina and Colombia—and partments (Sustainability, Operaprojects in such a way that investdirectly managed the implementations, Risks, Logistics, Legal, etc) to ments always yield the best return. tion of 156 of these projects. understand existing processes and |GRI 102-15|  ▼ ACTION AND REACTION When it comes to the social legacy of our businesses, the Votorantim Institute considers three impacts: 1) Value chain: Is our production 2) Community: Projects focusing on 3) Products and markets: How can chain sustainable? Do we create community relations currently make our strategies, and product and serjobs for our communities and up 80% of Votorantim Institute’s vice portfolios in and of themselves local suppliers? Do our operations portfolio. Their goal is to make create social value? This factor has promote women, disability, and sure our operations have a positive been recently incorporated into racial inclusion? impact on territory development, Votorantim Institute’s and investees’ therefore being welcomed and strategies, and we believe it will soon admired by local communities. yield benefits given its high transformational potential and alignment with our business strategy. ▼ Votorantim THE RIGHT WAY 33 United in a cause Cities in Votorantim Partnership for Education up to 51 from 17; over 170,000 students impacted W PVE 2017 AT A GLANCE e have chosen Edcompetence using a four-level ucation and Citiscale: fragile, ongoing consoliWe have closed the fourth cycle of the zenship as the dation, consolidated, and roVotorantim Partnership for Education theme for the celebration of bust. We expect cities to gradprogram. It is time to celebrate the Votorantim’s centennial. The ually advance, and to reach at year’s achievements! Throughout 2017, Votorantim Partnership for Edleast the consolidated level in we engaged teachers, students, local ucation (PVE) gained momenfour years. To facilitate their departments of education and communities. tum in 2017—the number of development, the PVE offers Some of PVE’s numbers are as follows: cities in the program increased local departments of educafrom 17 to 51, and the number tion, schools and mobilization 51 cities of schools, from 252 to 707. groups training on educain the program We already have more than tion-related matters. 400 representatives of cities’ The PVE has already been 707 schools departments of education, and externally assessed for its imover 1,000 principals and edupact on the Basic Education 1,000+ school principals and cation coordinators involved in Development Index (IDEB). education coordinators the program, which now imBased on data ranging from pacts more than 170,000 stu2007 to 2015 and compared 170,000+ students directly dents, directly or indirectly. to all Brazilian cities, the PVE and indirectly impacted By strengthening stewardimproves a city’s IDEB by 38% 400+ public managers ship and school management for primary schools (grades and educators from local competences, and through so1–5) and by 45% for middle departments of education trained cial mobilization, PVE leverages schools (grades 6–9). in the program the quality of education in the cities where it is implemented. Of the 53 cities that entered the PVE, 51 completed their activities—and 94% of these reported an evolution in the competences assessed. The Votorantim Institute administered two tests in each city to measure this result, one in the beginning and one by the end of the year. Over 6,000 questionnaires were responded by local education secretaries, educators, school principals, and community leaders. This methodology classifies each A school in the program: assessment shows positive impact on education THE RIGHT WAY 2017 Report 34 ReDes Program Public Stewardship partments’ works and make it easier With the goal of fostering sustainSupport (AGP) for citizens to oversee them. able development, this program ofThis program enhances local stewfers technical and financial support ardship and qualifies public managVolunteering Challenge to bolster collective entrepreers for broadening their role as local This scavenger hunt-like program neurism, especially cooperatives, in development agents in the cities involves our investees and the Votothe communities our investees opwhere our investees operate. Crerantim Institute. Organized in teams, erate. This program has been in ated in 2012, in another partneremployees donate their time to any place since 2010, as a partnership ship with the BNDES, it implementsocial and community initiative they with the Brazilian Development ed 20 projects in 16 cities in 2017. choose and score points according Bank (BNDES). 30 businesses have The most outstanding project was to the actions carried out. In 2017, completed the ReDes supporting that which assisted with the prepa50 Votorantim units participated in cycle so far, 16 of which are considration of Multi-year Plans (PPAs) in the program through 4,856 volunered fully sustainable. eight cities, seven of which have esteers—including employees and tablished targets and drawn up community invitees—totaling stewardship contracts to govern de15,400 hours of volunteer work. ▼ EXAMPLES OF SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT Below are some of the successful cases of community engagement by our investees. ■■ Because water is a scarce resource, ■■ A project to use babassu nuts continual improvement in water as an energy source at the stewardship creates a tremendous cement plant in Sobral, Ceará, social impact. At the Cerro Lindo has engaged the community for mining field in Peru, for example, the creation of mutual value. In Nexa desalinizes seawater and addition to cutting emissions pumps it to the mine, thus and costs, this project creates avoiding withdrawing water locally. income for families of gatherers. ■■ Reservas Votorantim uses ■■ The construction of Fibria’s the AGP public stewardship Horizonte 2 project in Três supporting tools to help local Lagoas, Mato Grosso do Sul, governments in the Ribeira has been completed with no Valley develop integrated downtime whatsoever. tourism plans. That was possible because Fibria has built a very respectful relationship with all agents involved in the project. ■■ Citrosuco’s program for the ■■ Fibria’s Territorial Rural inclusion of people with Development Program has disabilities, named Para Todos managed to engage the (“For All”), has transformed the community to such an extent company’s culture. that even a few people who subsisted on stealing timber ■■ Nexa has set social agendas for from the company have become local development based on partners and now protect the the United Nations Sustainable company’s forests. Development Goals (SDGs). ▼ Votorantim WITH THE RIGHT PEOPLE 35 High-performance culture |GRI 103-2, 103-3| Employees in our office in São Paulo: Attracting and engaging talents, fostering our people make professionals’ development, grooming successors the difference in all our companies W e believe what and engaging talents, advancgrated processes to foster, makes the differing our professionals’ developsustain and advance the develence is the human ment, and planning their own opment of our employees in factor. This is why we always succession. Our goal is to fosthree spheres: individual, team, take our people into considerter a high-performance culture and organization. Assessments ation when mapping out our that supports our strategic deand self-assessments help pinstrategies, enhancing our orgacisions and influences our inpoint positive performance nizational culture, and working vestees through cutting-edge factors and aspects that need on perpetuating our business. human capital practices. further development, in addiOur investees’ leaders, in Our Votorantim Develoption to helping our employees line with our values and beliefs, ment System (SDV) is a model build their own individual deare responsible for attracting that gathers a series of intevelopment plan. WITH THE RIGHT PEOPLE 2017 Report 36 Meeting at the CoE: engaged Another SDV process englobally—out of which 82% nearly 800 candidates to parteams, sures our management, inwere men and 18% were ticipate in the 2018 Internship focused on cluding executives, have a sucwomen—and had more than Program. results cession plan in place including 20,000 contractors by the We also offered our first inpotential candidates. Not only end of 2017. tersession internship in 2017. does it speed up job filling for The participants selected for key positions but it also enInternship Program this program were the winners sures our executives are conVSA’s Internship Program in of the Votorantim Experience stantly networking with talSão Paulo’s headquarters has pilot project, carried out by the ents from our investees and become the front door for Potenciar 2016 group, where the market. young talents, breathing new 16 students in the finance field Our people management life into the workplace through were challenged to solve a real targets are very clear: to imnew ideas and new ways of dobusiness case. These students prove work climate bearing in ing things. This new model also were invited to spend one day mind that our personal life and benefits our relationship with at Votorantim S.A., where they professional life are becoming universities, connecting our got to know our business and increasingly mixed together, and company to a younger audiinteract with leaders and young to enhance experience and inence. Over the course of one employees. formation sharing among differyear, internees have the best ent areas. This helps us ensure possible work experience Votorantim Academy our people engage with the through a close relationship The Votorantim Academy is our company, are happy with their with qualified professionals, department in charge of trainjobs and deliver better results. and learn about our values and ing and developing our profesVSA and our investees embeliefs. In 2017, nine undersionals. In 2017, it widened its ployed over 40,000 people graduates were selected from horizons to support our Votorantim WITH THE RIGHT PEOPLE 37 high-performance culture. The Academy has become a hub, etc.) Some training classes are taught by employees, who VOTORANTIM ACADEMY’S and its actions started focusing share their own knowledge and ACTIVITIES on connecting people, inforexperience. In all, 3,052 employees participated in the mation and trends in order to Content: Traditional manAcademy’s activities during the year, divided into foster the development of our agement and technical themes 79 groups. employees and prepare them are no longer emphasized; inINSPIRATION AND for future challenges. Changes stead, themes are now more PROVOCATION were made in three spheres: comprehensive and focus on 2,569 EMPLOYEES IN Format: More interactive today’s demands from people 53 GROUPS and self-training activities, and and companies. Our training fewer on-site classes, following programs are now separated PERSONAL JOURNEY the 70:20:10 learning and deinto three categories: Inspira450 EMPLOYEES IN velopment model, according to tion and Provocation, Personal 24 GROUPS which individuals obtain 70% Journey, and Votorantim DNA. of their knowledge from Scope: The activities used VOTORANTIM DNA job-related experiences and to be more focused on leaders, 33 EMPLOYEES IN practice; 20% from interacbut are now available to all em2 GROUPS tions with colleagues and leadployees. In some cases they ers, and feedback received; are also open to the public, in and only 10% from formal edan attempt to democratize and ucation (classes, workshops, spread knowledge. Internship program: the front door for young talents WITH THE RIGHT PEOPLE 2017 Report 38 OUR ATTRIBUTES Working at Votorantim means experiencing our attributes every day. We established our company’s employee value proposition in 2016, and consolidated all the information we gathered during research for this project. By the end of this process, we realized our seven attributes are as follows: Challenge Potenciar group: training includes a business game Embrace transformation Potenciar these talents with new corpoPotenciar is a Votorantim rate trends, helping us transform Impact Academy program that recogour businesses. The 2017 edinizes, promotes and invests in tion of the program lasted 12 our talents, fostering their months, including four weeks of Top level employees learning through technical and training and a business game behavioral training focusing on that simulated the management the company’s strategy for of a company. 49 young employLearning processes, people and busiees participated in the program, nesses. This program connects including four from VSA. ▼ Commitment to excellence Values More brand ambassadors and Alumni In 2017, we created employees Ambassadors. group’s engagement with engagement activities. a volunteer group They participate in universities; in 2017, this We started sending them of employees who events, company days, figure rose to 15%. newsletters with company deliberately see and initiatives involving Our Alumni program information, and they were themselves as the college students. This has also gathered all invited to participate key advocates of our initiative has positively momentum. Its goal is to in company events and to attributes, especially when impacted our hiring maintain a relationship access the contents of the it comes to spreading the numbers: in 2016, 13% with former employees 18.18 Program. ▼ word at universities. We of new employees were or young talents that named this group of 29 hired following the have participated in our Votorantim WITH THE RIGHT PEOPLE 39 Engaged team New survey also measures employee engagement AMONG THE BEST We continue to be one of the best companies to work for in Brazil. We were included in Você S/A magazine’s ranking for the second consecutive year in 2017, this time ranking second in ­Other Services; and our workplace happiness score went up from 71.5 in 2016 to 81.3 in 2017. Also for the second straight year we ranked among the Engagement: 93% of eligible employees took part in the survey best companies to start a career, according to the I n another step towards putage, the first survey using this same magazine, based on the ting together highly enmethodology engages 81% of perception of employees aged gaged teams, we have eligible employees. The En18 to 26. In 2017 we moved broadened the scope of our gagement Index classifies emup to the 14th position, up annual survey to measure the ployees in three groups: enfrom the 34th place in 2016. engagement level of our emgaged, not engaged, and acWe ranked sixth in career portal Love Mondays’ survey of the most loved companies in Brazil, ployees. tively disengaged. In our case, with a score of 4.39 (on a scale of 0 to 5) and a Traditional analysis takes inthe numbers were 47%, 47% 98% approval rate among our employees. to consideration employee and 6% respectively. Our overFinally, we are one of the top ten dream “satisfaction”. all average engagement was companies for young people according to Brasil When measuring team en4.05, in a scale that ranges Júnior, confederation that represents junior gagement, our new survey atfrom 0 to 5. enterprises in Brazil. ▼ tempts to determine each perBefore the new survey, we son’s emotional bond with the used to carry out an annual company, and the relationship work climate survey, which had Lidermais between work engagement until then shown a positive In 2017, we launched our Liderand performance. evolution in different indicators mais program whose core goals In 2017, we applied the ensuch as overall employee satisinclude developing our profesgagement survey at Votoranfaction, leadership index, recsionals to promote innovation, tim S.A. (São Paulo office), Heommendation index, and parbuilding high-performance joassu, Votorantim Institute, ticipation in the survey itself— teams, and preparing our next and Reservas Votorantim. 93% in 2016, 99.5% of the employgeneration of managers. The of eligible employees particiees in our offices in São Paulo program will last 18 months and pated in the survey—on averparticipated in the survey. impact all leaders of the CoE.▼ BUSINESS PORTFOLIO 2017 Report 40 Effective www.vcimentos.com.br diversification |GRI 102-10| VOTORANTIM CIMENTOS Internationalization, product portfolio AT A GLANCE expansion, prudential financial management and operational efficiency 329 UNITS add value to year’s results 198 CONCRETE 33 CEMENT 58 AGGREGATES PLANTS UNITSUNITS 12 MORTAR 18 CEMENT 10 LIME UNITS GRINDING MILLS UNITS OPERATIONS IN 12 COUNTRIES V otorantim Cimentos (VC) has prioritized its internationalization and geographic Product portfolio diversification was also crucial, emphasizing lower environmental impact, diversification strategy, which higher added value products. VC in 2017 had a positive outexpanded the mortars supply, come. Operations in Europe, introduced a concrete family Asia and Africa, South America, (Hi-Mix), and bolstered its agriand particularly North America cultural inputs operations in made good contributions and Brazil. In the United States, VC partially offset the weaker than introduced Contempra—lower expected performance in Braclinker cement that reduces CO2 31.8 MILLION t zil, where the political and ecoemissions by nearly 10%. In TuOF CEMENT PRODUCED nomic crisis directly affected nisia, VC started offering specif7.8 MILLION m3 the company’s markets. VC inaugurated a new line at ic products for oil companies; in Turkey, a type of cement to be OF CONCRETE PRODUCED the plant in Sivas, Turkey—the used in gold mining; and in 23.0 MILLION t company’s largest investment Spain, new special mortars. OF AGGREGATES PRODUCED outside the Americas—and it VC takes a rigorous aphas already achieved optimal proach to financial manage11,372 productivity levels. The Yacuses ment, and in 2017 it continued EMPLOYEES unit in Bolivia was completed by to focus on the prudential the end of 2016 and became management of its liquidity 89% MEN fully operational in 2017. In the and debt ratio. VSA injected 11% WOMEN next few years, VC will focus on R$1.7 billion into the company expanding the Charlevoix unit in 2017. These proceeds plus R$11.7 MILLION in the United States, planned those from divestitures were IN SOCIAL INVESTMENTS for 2018, and two units in Arallocated to the prepayment of R$7.2 MILLION  R$4.5 MILLION gentina in 2018 and 2019. Foloans with original maturities COMPANY FUNDS INSTITUTO VOTORANTIM cusing on these strategic marranging from 2018 to 2022.  & OTHERS kets, VC completed its nonVC reported net revenue of R$83.2 MILLION core asset divestment plan in R$11.1 billion, and adjusted IN ENVIRONMENTAL 2017, by selling assets in China, EBITDA of R$1.8 billion for STEWARDSHIP Chile, and the U.S. states of 2017, down 7% and 26% reR$45.5 MILLION  R$37.7 MILLION Florida and California. spectively year-on-year. CAPEX  OPEX Votorantim BUSINESS PORTFOLIO 41 VC has also broadened its of the plant’s power demand, suppliers, startups, investment co-processing initiatives to reand of the system retrofit in funds, research centers and place petcoke with alternative India’s plant to improve its stauniversities, helping VC find asnon-fossil fuels in all operability and average generation. sertive, responsive proposals tions in Brazil and abroad. CoOn the innovation front, the with lower costs for the comgeneration using waste heat Digital Cement project has pany’s demands. 107 startups recovery—a process that rebrought VC even closer to its joined The Digital Open Innocovers and transforms the heat clients and suppliers, with vation initiative, and seven from production lines into smartphone apps that enable were selected to work on proelectric power—was expanded online purchasing, or calculatposed challenges such as digiwith the installation of a coming costs of and planning contal territory management, enpletely new system in Tunisia struction works. The platform ergy efficiency, and use of vircapable of meeting over 30% has also connected employees, tual and augmented reality. ▼ HIGHLIGHTS ■■ 1st place in Transparency ■■ Investment in the Charlevoix ■■ Social investment amounted to International’s ranking of the unit in the U.S. to increase the R$11.7 million in 435 initiatives top 100 Brazilian companies; production capacity by 600,000 in Brazil, North America, Europe scored 10 in Anti-Corruption and tons/year. and Africa. Organizational Transparency. ■■ 65.5% of purchase orders in ■■ Focus on co-processing and ■■ New line launched in the Sivas Brazil came in through the VC energy efficiency in all regions. plant (Turkey), bringing the Online e-commerce portal. ■■ Net debt down by R$2.8 billion; production capacity up from ■■ Digital strategy brings VC average maturity extended to 10 600,000 to 1.8 million tons/year. closer to its clients, with new years. ▼ smartphone apps for purchasing materials and planning construction works. BUSINESS PORTFOLIO 2017 Report 42 Stronger and more www.nexaresources.com connected |GRI 102-10| NEXA IPO in the United States and Canada AT A GLANCE paves the way for Nexa’s new enterprises in upcoming years 15 UNITS 5 POLYMETALLIC  3 ZINC MINES 7 OFFICES REFINERIES T he year 2017 was marked with significant achievements for Nexa. The name maturity of its debt to seven years. The project to automate OPERATIONS IN change from Votorantim Memines and smelting units has 6 COUNTRIES tais to Nexa Resources and the advanced, promoting signifisuccessful IPO on the stock excant gains in efficiency and imchanges of New York, United proving security. One example States, and Toronto, Canada on is distance detonation and auOctober 27, 2017, consolidattomated machinery operation ed Nexa as a global mining inside underground mines. The business. This was the largest Mining Lab—launched in 2016 IPO of the Americas’ metals to help drive forward projects and mining industry in the last that contribute to an even decade. smarter mining production— 570.3 THOUSAND t Nexa’s financial results were supported five start-ups that OF ZINC-EQUIVALENT PRODUCED IN MINING¹ driven by the rise in zinc and are now developing technologother metal commodities’ pricical innovations for the indus593.9 THOUSAND t es at the London Metal Extry. OF ZINC PRODUCTS SOLD AT change (LME), and to efficiency Nexa currently has growth THE REFINERIES initiatives such as the underprojects at different stages of ground connection between development, including open5,446 the El Porvenir and Atacocha ing new mining fields and exEMPLOYEES mines in Peru, and the eliminatending the useful life of existtion of bottlenecks in the ing mines. 89% MEN smelters’ production lines in The changes seen in 2017 11% WOMEN Brazil. Nexa reported net revehave not prevented Nexa from nue of US$2.4 billion and adpreserving its identity and its US$14.8 MILLION justed EBITDA of US$668 milconnection with Votorantim.▼ IN SOCIAL INVESTMENTS lion for 2017, up 25% and US$7.3 MILLION  US$7.5 MILLION 65% respectively year-on-year. COMPANY FUNDS INSTITUTO VOTORANTIM In order to support its growth  & OTHERS strateg y, Nexa issued a US$61.5 MILLION US$700 million 10-year bond, IN ENVIRONMENTAL which was very well accepted in STEWARDSHIP the market and enabled the US$35.3 MILLION  US$26.2 MILLION CAPEX OPEX company to extend the average 1 Includes copper, lead, silver, and gold production translated into tonnes of zinc Votorantim BUSINESS PORTFOLIO 43 HIGHLIGHTS ■■ The process to integrate the ■■ The Aripuanã greenfield project ■■ 247,000 hours dedicated to Brazil-Peru operations moved advanced and is expected to training, including in health and forward with team collaboration add up to 101,000 tons of zincsafety issues, anti-corruption and sharing of best practices. equivalent production per year policies, human rights, etc. beginning in 2020. ■■ Proceeds of US$570.4 million ■■ Social agendas and local from the IPO—US$328 million in ■■ 5 startups supported by the development plans were a primary offering and US$242.4 Mining Lab innovation project. established for all units in million in a secondary offering. Brazil. ▼ ■■ Water collection reduced by 14%. ■■ US$197.6 million invested in mining and smelting projects. BUSINESS PORTFOLIO 2017 Report 44 One step ahead |GRI 102-10| www.aluminiocba.com.br With robust strategy and cultural CBA AT A GLANCE evolution program, CBA undergoes transformation to remain industry 13 UNITS benchmark OPERATIONS IN 6 STATES IN BRAZIL I n 2015, CBA designed a new strategy that sees the company as three different busito create business opportunities. More than selling aluminum, CBA offers solutions and nesses: electric power generaservices co-developed with tion and trading, primary aluclients. minum production, and manuA more responsive managefa c t u r i n g o f p ro c e s s e d ment and cost reductions to products. It also established make the business more comCBA’s strategic markets and petitive have resulted in more 417 THOUSAND t that the company should focus consistent gains for the comOF ALUMINUM PRODUCED IN on providing solutions and serpany. In spite of the challenges DIFFERENT FORMATS vices developed in collaboraposed by the Brazilian econo1.3 MILLION t tion with customers. my, CBA’s transformation and OF BAUXITE PROCESSED CBA created the “CBA of better aluminum prices on the the Future” (CBA do Futuro) London Metal Exchange (LME) 4,833 project in 2017 based on that were key to the good results EMPLOYEES strategy designed two years and improved profitability seen before plus important addiin 2017. CBA reported net rev94% MEN tions in the fields of sustainenue of R$4.7 billion and ad6% WOMEN ability, technology, competijusted ­EBITDA of R$449 million tiveness, customers, and orgafor 2017. nizational climate and culture. The nickel operation reR$3.4 MILHÕES IN Future goals and the drivers to mains temporarily suspended. SOCIAL INVESTMENTS achieve them are also estabMaintenance activities continR$2.5 MILLION  R$0.9 MILLION lished in the strategy. ue, and operations will likely be COMPANY FUNDS INSTITUTO VOTORANTIM Building on this, CBA imresumed when the price of this  & OTHERS plemented a new transformacommodity stabilizes at a highR$102.8 MILLION tion process to speed up the er level. We have remained IN ENVIRONMENTAL actions relative to economic committed to the social and STEWARDSHIP value creation drivers to imeconomic development of the R$25.7 MILLION  R$77.1 MILLION prove competitiveness. The city of Niquelândia—which has CAPEX OPEX company has also made the always been part of our stratedecision to become a service gy—since the operation was provider, focusing on the desuspended.  ▼ velopment of customized projects that foster innovation Votorantim BUSINESS PORTFOLIO 45 HIGHLIGHTS ■■ Project to foster corporate ■■ At the three units in the state ■■ In the Processed Products culture, focusing on leadership of Minas Gerais, after bauxite is division, CBA is getting even qualification and development, mined, farmers get the land back closer to clients, focusing and on actions to structure in even better condition—with on responsiveness and coorganizational processes. restored native forests or with development of products. the soil in good condition for ■■ Partnership with Nexans farming. Brasil S.A for synergies in the production of rods. ▼ BUSINESS PORTFOLIO 2017 Report 46 Joining forces to www.vsiderurgia.com.br grow |GRI 102-10| VOTORANTIM SIDERURGIA AT A GLANCE Merger of Votorantim Siderurgia’s and ArcelorMittal’s operations in Brazil to 9 UNITS capture synergies in long steel market OPERATIONS IN 3 COUNTRIES G iven the challenging scenario seen in the global steel market for the past few Some highlights in VS’s consolidated results for 2017 were: ■■ Colombia: First half-year was years, in February 2017 we challenging, but an increase of agreed on the merger of Voto22.4% in steel prices in the rantim Siderurgia’s (VS) and second half partially cushArcelorMittal’s operations in ioned the impact on the finanBrazil. After a technical and cial result. There were signifieconomic feasibility analysis, cant improvements in work the Brazilian Antitrust Board safety, with a 30% decrease in 1.6 MILLION t OF LONG (CADE) approved the merger in accidents with days lost. STEEL PRODUCED February 2018. The transac■■ Argentina: Operations re­por­ tion includes a 50% holding in ted good production vol­S iderúrgica Três Lagoas (Siumes and price, contributing 4,702 trel), and excludes Acerías to a positive cash generaEMPLOYEES PazdelRío in Colombia and tion; and an exceptional Acerbrag in Argentina, which positive result of zero acci89% MEN remain in the portfolio of dents with days lost. 11% WOMEN Votorantim S.A.. The merger Regarding the consolidated will not be completed until operations in Argentina and R$3.2 MILLION IN conditions precedent enforced Colombia, VS’s results came in SOCIAL INVESTMENTS by CADE are met, which is exas planned—net revenue of pected to occur during 2018. R$1.7 billion and adjusted R$2.2 MILLION  R$1.0 MILLION COMPANY FUNDS INSTITUTO VOTORANTIM Until then, both companies will EBITDA of R$272 million.  & OTHERS continue to operate separately. Even though the operations The combination of both in Brazil are part of the deal R$39.1 MILLION IN ENVIRONMENTAL companies’ long steel busiwith ArcelorMittal, throughout STEWARDSHIP nesses in Brazil aims to capture 2017 costs were tightly conR$12.7 MILLION  R$26.4 MILLION synergies, benefit clients, and trolled and VS’s expenses in CAPEX OPEX improve operations. As the Brazil returned to the same mills are located in places that level reported in 2011. In addisupplement each other geotion, the electric furnace and graphically, the new company rolling mill at the Resende unit will be even closer to clients, in Rio de Janeiro set new proimproving service quality. duction records in 2017. ▼ Votorantim BUSINESS PORTFOLIO 47 HIGHLIGHTS ■■ Merger of Votorantim ■■ Over 1.5 million tons of scrap Siderurgia’s and ArcelorMittal’s recycled in the production operations in Brazil. process. ■■ Energy intensity down by 27% in ■■ Zero accidents with days lost at rolling processes to 1.34 GJ/t. Acerbrag (Argentina). ▼ BUSINESS PORTFOLIO 2017 Report 48 Tailwinds |GRI 102-10| www.venergia.com.br Completion of wind farms in Piauí, new VOTORANTIM ENERGIA joint venture improve outlook for AT A GLANCE Votorantim Energia’s operations 39 UNITS 23 HYDROELECTRIC POWER PLANTS IN CONSORTIA 9 HYDROELECTRIC POWER PLANTS T wo a cco m p l i s h m e n t s marked the year of 2017 at Votorantim Energia (VE). The Araripe III (Ventos III). Together, they add 565 MW of generation capacity and nearly all 7 WIND FARMS company completed the contheir production is already sold struction of Ventos do Piauí in the regulated electricity OPERATIONS IN wind farms, adding 206 MW of market for 20 years. 8 STATES IN BRAZIL generation capacity in an investThe CPPIB—which has ment of R$1.2 billion; and in DeUS$400 billion in assets under cember it agreed on a joint venmanagement and 20 million ture with the Canada Pension members and beneficiaries— Plan Investment Board (CPPIB). made an initial investment of Investing in wind power genR$690 million. In the long run, eration is a major step towards the joint venture will invest an diversifying the energy matrix additional R$3 billion in existing from a cutting-edge, innovative assets and in the development 486 renewable source. Throughout of this industry in the country. EMPLOYEES our 100 years of history, we The new joint venture is part have consistently invested in of our strategy of accelerating 83% MEN power generation to supply our VE’s growth, including through 17% WOMEN own operations. We founded the expansion of existing wind Votorantim Energia in 1996 to farms in the Northeast at a time manage these energy assets— when this source is proving its R$4.9 MILLION IN by the end of 2017, we had 23 value to Brazil’s energy matrix. SOCIAL INVESTMENTS hydroelectric power plants and VE has also been looking for R$2.1 MILLION  R$ 2.8 MILLION 9 other plants owned through new opportunities in other reCOMPANY FUNDS INSTITUTO VOTORANTIM consortia. Through these 32 newable sources, believing the  & OTHERS plants, plus our 6 cogeneration discussion around investments R$12.6 MILLION plants (including Fibria and Citin this arena will gather momenIN ENVIRONMENTAL rosuco) and the Ventos do Piauí tum in the upcoming years. STEWARDSHIP wind farms we own 3,045 MW VE is also one of the counR$3.5 MILLION  R$ 9.1 MILLION of generation capacity (proportry’s largest power providers—it CAPEX  OPEX tionate interest considered for currently ranks second—and consortia). serves clients in different secThe joint venture acquired tors of the Brazilian economy. In two existing wind farms in Bra2003, VE started selling part of zil’s Northeast: Ventos do Piauí the surplus generation of our I, built by VE; and Ventos do investees. It is also becoming Votorantim BUSINESS PORTFOLIO 49 HIGHLIGHTS ■■ Early completion of ■■ Acquisition of the Ventos of more specialized in generating construction works and Araripe III wind farm. and selling electric power to difbeginning of opera tions of ferent client profiles. VE report■■ Consolidation of VE’s the Ventos do Piauí wind ed net revenue of R$4.1 billion position as second-largest farm. energy trading company in and negative adjusted EBITDA ■■ Joint venture between Brazil. ▼ of R$73 million for 2017. ▼ Votorantim Energia and CPPIB. BUSINESS PORTFOLIO 2017 Report 50 New possibilities on www.fibria.com.br the horizon |GRI 102-10| FIBRIA Três Lagoas’s R$7.3 billion expansion AT A GLANCE delivered ahead of schedule, below budget 17 UNITS 6 FORESTRY 3 MANUFACTURING & F FORESTRY ibria—company in which from eucalyptus bark and black 3 LOGISTICS 5 OFFICES TERMINALS we hold a 29.4% interest— liquor—with a surplus 130 MW completed an ambitious projdelivered to the grid—and a OPERATIONS IN ect in 2017, reaffirming its polower volume of water con5 COUNTRIES sitioning as the eucalyptus pulp sumption per ton produced— producer with the lowest proon average 28 m3 per air-dry duction costs in the world. metric tonne (ADMT), a benchNamed Horizonte 2, the exmark for eco-efficient projects. pansion project received inIn addition, social and envivestments of R$7.3 billion (inronmental mitigation actions cluding 40% in company funds) were prioritized by the comto transform the Três Lagoas munity, and city and state govunit in Mato Grosso do Sul into ernment agents, and received 5.6 MILLION t OF PULP one of the world’s largest mills, R$8.1 million to be invested in PRODUCED with capacity of 3.25 tons per the renovation of schools, hosyear, outranking the Aracruz pitals and daycare centers, 4,857 unit in Espírito Santo. among other projects. EMPLOYEES This was an unparalleled Fibria goes beyond pulp and remarkable project in evproduction alone. Its strategy is 86% MEN ery aspect—it was completed to use forestland as a source 14% WOMEN ahead of schedule, below budfor new products, such as bioget and without any major incimaterials and biofuels, moving dent, reaffirming Votorantim’s towards a low carbon economy. R$33.3 MILLION IN model of doing things right. Fibria reported net revenue of SOCIAL INVESTMENTS1 Horizonte 2 not only adds a R$11.7 billion and adjusted R$30.4 MILLION  R$2,9 MILLION new high-capacity production EBITDA of R$5 billion for 2017. COMPANY FUNDS INSTITUTO VOTORANTIM  & OTHERS line, but also brings innovaIn March 2018, the contion, a competitive edge, and trolling shareholders of Fibria R$147.5 MILLION eco-efficiency to the business. and Suzano Papel e Celulose IN ENVIRONMENTAL The new automated eucalyptus executed an agreement to STEWARDSHIP tree nursery relies on artificial merge both companies’ operaR$57.8 MILLION  R$89.7 MILLION intelligence and is one of a kind tions. The transaction is pendCAPEX  OPEX in the world. ing approval by the shareholder 1 Includes only investments overseen by the Regarding environmental meetings of both companies, Votorantim Institute stewardship, some highlights and are subject to the fulfillwere on-site power generation ment of conditions precedent Votorantim BUSINESS PORTFOLIO 51 HIGHLIGHTS ■■ Three projects stand out in open ■■ The company was listed in the innovation platform Fibria Insight: Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE) two involve nanocellulose (one is of the B3 stock exchange (former the development of paint capable BM&FBOVESPA) for the 13th year of conducting electricity, and the in a row. other is an adhesive application), ■■ Company of the Year in the Época and the third is the use of pulp as Negócios 360° yearbook. raw material for packaging in the and to regulatory approvals, inProject in the Paraíba Valley pharmaceutical industry. ■■ cluding by the Brazilian Antiand in Capão Bonito increased trust Board (CADE). Businesses ■■ The Colmeias apiculture chain the Atlantic Forest coverage in development program completed will continue as usual and the the state of São Paulo by 4,500 15 years in 2017 and produced companies will operate sepahectares. 2,000 tons of honey, becoming rately until the transaction is the largest private initiative honey ■■ Leverage reduced to 2.41x (net completed.  ▼ production program in Brazil. debt/adjusted EBITDA, in USD). ▼ BUSINESS PORTFOLIO 2017 Report 52 Natural and www.citrosuco.com.br sustainable |GRI 102-10| CITROSUCO Rise in not-from-concentrate orange AT A GLANCE juice production, assertiveness in investments, innovation make 47 UNITS Citrosuco industry benchmark 4 PLANTS 29 FARMS 2 STORAGE  5 LOGISTICS OPERATIONSTERMINALS 7 OFFICES OPERATIONS IN 7 COUNTRIES C itrosuco increased its notfro m co nce ntrate (NFC) orange juice production São Paulo, which together helped reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 6%. by 11% in the 2016-2017 seaThe number of Fair Trade cerson year-on-year. The compatified family farms rose 11% in ny’s investments totaled US$87 the season, and Citrosuco’s ormillion, up 64% compared to ange suppliers were audited using the 2015-2016 season, and fothe SAI Platform assessment cused primarily on orange grove tool. Part of the c­ ompany-owned maintenance and on increasing farms are now Rainforest Alliance production and logistics capaciCertified and score Gold in SAI ty and efficiency. Jointly conPlatform’s Farm Sustainability NEARLY 1 MILLION t trolled by Votorantim S.A. and Assessment (FSA); the remaining OF ORANGE JUICE AND INGREDIENTS SOLD the Fischer group, Citrosuco farms kept the Silver score obwants to become the best protained in the previous season. ducer of juices and natural fruit This means a considerable por5,339 ingredients of the global food tion of all processed fruit is EMPLOYEES industry. sourced from farms that adopt One of the company’s innosustainable farming practices. 77% MEN vation initiatives is the plan to In an effort to control citrus 23% WOMEN digitize agricultural, manufacturgreening in its groves, which is ing and logistics processes, inteone of the major threats to the R$0.6 MILLION IN SOCIAL grating big data, industry 4.0 and global citrus industry, Citrosuco INVESTMENTS1 the internet of things. Analysis of introduced the Tamarixia radiaR$0.3 MILLION  R$0.3 MILLION weather, production, disease ta (a type of wasp) to inhibit COMPANY FUNDS INSTITUTO VOTORANTIM  & OTHERS control, and transportation data the disease’s vector. It was the will feed cognitive learning, imfirst company to ever use this R$11.6 MILLION proving processes and products. technique. This strategy has IN ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Seeking for a clean and sushelped maintain the rate of intainable energy matrix, Citrofected plants at 1%, way below R$3.6 MILLION  R$8.0 MILLION CAPEX  OPEX suco has replaced natural gas the average of 17% in the São with sugarcane bagasse, and Paulo citrus belt. Over three 1 Includes only investments overseen by the renovated one of the three million Tamarixias were released Votorantim Institute boilers at the Matão plant in during the season. Votorantim BUSINESS PORTFOLIO 53 HIGHLIGHTS ■■ 57% of the power consumed ■■ Connectivity technologies make Citrosuco also develops a socame from renewable sources. fleet more productive and cial and educational program with economical. rural migrant workers, addressing ■■ Greenhouse gas emissions fell health, safety and quality of life by 6%. ■■ Technical training provided by raising awareness to healthy to 100% of fruit suppliers, in ■■ 17,534 hectares of preserved habits and disease prevention. an effort to strengthen citrus areas, including native and farming. Citrosuco reported net revrestored forestland. enue of US$1.3 billion and ad■■ Leverage reached 0.91x (net debt/ ■■ R$12 million invested in social and justed EBITDA of US$330 miladjusted EBITDA, in USD), by the environmental projects. lion for 2017. ▼ end of the season. ▼ BUSINESS PORTFOLIO 2017 Report 54 Focusing on www.bancovotorantim.com.br new businesses |GRI 102-10| BANCO VOTORANTIM AT A GLANCE Digital transformation, innovative organizational culture are Banco 67 UNITS Votorantim’s bets to diversify operations OPERATIONS IN 2 COUNTRIES B anco Votorantim is jointly controlled by VSA and Banco do Brasil, and its retail sumer credit partnership, 100% of the processes are digital, and credit analysis is banking business is representfast, offering competitive rates. ed by the BV brand. The bank In another digital initiative, launched a digital transformathe bank invested R$1 million in tion project in the retail bankfintech startup for online debt ing market in 2017, after renegotiation and financial eduspending two years working incation QueroQuitar!. The in57 BILLION COMPREHENSIVE LOAN ternally on it. This project has vestment was made through PORTFOLIO digitized all operations, from the BR Startups fund, created back-office to sales force, inby Microsoft. This fund has R$ 8.9 BILLION cluding car dealers. Banco Votorantim as an “anchor NET EQUITY In order to support this diginvestor” in the financial sector. ital transformation strategy— In an innovative format, Quero6TH LARGEST which demands a faster reQuitar! works as a debt collecPRIVATE BANK IN BRAZIL sponse and new behaviors tion marketplace. In addition to from teams—the bank has inthe financial investment, the 3,887 novated its organizational culbank will also support the startEMPLOYEES ture by introducing multidisciup’s growth and management. plinary teams and a more inThe bank has also launched formal dress code, and by a credit facility for the acquisi53% MEN adopting an open office space tion of residential solar panels 47% WOMEN concept with no divisions. The with Portal Solar—the indusbank has also hired technology try’s largest digital marketEQUATOR PRINCIPLES and design talents. place—and consolidated partSIGNATORY In line with its diversificanerships for student loans with t i o n s t ra te g y, t h e b a n k Ideal Invest and Kroton. The launched new products with bank closed 2017 with total prominent Brazilian fintech assets of R$93.5 billion—rankstartups, like GuiaBolso—the ing sixth among the largest primost downloaded personal fivate banks in Brazil—and its nance app in the country, with loan portfolio amounted to 3.5 million users. In this conR$57 billion, down 6.3% yearVotorantim BUSINESS PORTFOLIO 55 on-year. Net income totaled R$582 million, with a 6.8% reHIGHLIGHTS turn on equity, which closed ■■ Best Fixed Income Fund Specialist ■■ The online platform used by car the year at R$8.9 billion. The Manager according to Guia Exame dealers was fully revamped, cutting bank’s good financial health Onde Investir. by half the number of customer translated into a 15.5% capital registration fields required for adequacy ratio (capital-to-risk ■■ 6th largest Private Manager in the credit decision-making. weighted assets ratio), above country according to Investidor the minimum 10.5% ratio set Institucional magazine. ■■ In early 2017, there were four by the Central Bank of Brazil teams working under the Agile ■■ 1st place in the Central Bank of methodology; by December there and the 8% established by the Brazil’s ranking of Ombudsman were 11. ▼ Basel Committee. ▼ Quality, introduced in 2017. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2017 Report 56 Discipline drives results Business diversification, portfolio transformation translate into 12% rise in adjusted EBITDA and net income pickup Operating results Metal Exchange (zinc, +38%; lead, ond half of 2017. Our results were positive in 2017— +24%; copper, +27%; aluminum, Adjusted EBITDA rose 12% yeareven against an adverse economic +23%) and higher electric power on-year to R$4.8 billion, driven by backdrop in the country—owing to rates and volumes traded had a posbetter metal prices on the LME, our financial discipline, our business itive impact on this result. higher electric power rates in Brazil, diversification, and the initiatives to Even though the cement market and the temporary suspension of the transform our portfolio. retracted in Brazil, causing prices and nickel operation, which had reported In 2017, net revenue rose 5% our operations’ sales volumes to fall, a negative result in 2016. year-on-year to R$27.2 billion. The some regions in the country started The rise in adjusted EBITDA was rise in metal prices on the London to show a positive trend in the secnot sufficient to prevent the negaChanges in net revenue (R$ million) By segment 1,442 (4) 90 818 (266) 27,225 25,965 (820) 14% Votorantim 38% Cimentos 6% Nexa Changes in net revenue (R$ million) By 16% segment CBA Votorantim 1,442 (4) 90 818 (266) 27,225 26% Siderurgia 25,965 (820) Votorantim Energia im exa A* im im er Votorantim 2016 ant CB ant a ant Oth 2017 14% tor tos N tor rgi tor a 38% Cimentos Voimen Voideru Vo ergi 6% C S En Nexa *Results from nickel operations incorporated into CBA 16% CBA Votorantim 26% Siderurgia tiveChanges impact from inthe adjusted EBITDAof(R$electric drop in cement million) power that had been By segment sold power distributorsVotorantim to return part of Energia prices2016 and sales nti m volume exa in ABrazil, * nor tim intimthethe2014 r auction. The latter was the power contracted in the auction. 2017 orantos N CB 191 ran ia (61) (32) rana O212 4,760 4,253 Voit(610) the adverse eeffect 807 of partial Votoerurg Votorgdriven return i by surplus contracting, leading Cm Sid Ene 4% Votorantim 37% Cimentos *Results from nickel operations incorporated into CBA 6% 9% Nexa CBA Changes in adjusted EBITDA (R$ million) By segment Votorantim 44% Siderurgia 191 (32) (61) 212 4,760 Other 4,253 (610) 807 2016 im a A* im im er 2017 4% Votorantim antos Nex CB ant a ant Oth 37% o or t ent o torrurgi otorgia 6% Cimentos V im V ide V er C S En 9% Nexa *Results from nickel operations incorporated into CBA CBA Votorantim 44% Siderurgia Other 2016 im xa A* im im er 2017 ant Ne CB ant a ant Oth tor tos tor rgi tor a Voimen Voideru Vo ergi C S En *Results from nickel operations incorporated into CBA Votorantim FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 57 Changes in net income (R$ million) 454 (775) 2,747 (520) 155 810 (1,251) 2016 Operating EquityFinancial Income Discon2017 result method result tax and tinued investsocial operments security ations Cash flow (R$ million) Net income and US$/R$ 3.31; 2016 US$/R$ 3.26) We recognized positive cash flow 4,760 (479) cash generation caused (688) a negative impact 3,877 of(1,536) R$775 from operations of R$481 million in Net income totaled R$810 million in million on(3,112) our financial result. In 2016, 2017, down 74% versus 2016, driven 2018, compared to a net loss of the real had appreciated by 16% versus32 by 2,854 changes in working capital and R$1.3 billion in 2016, mainly driven the dollar (2016 US$/R$ 3.26; 2015 other items. by higher metal prices and electricity US$/R$ 3.90). Lower financial income This decline mainly reflects the 481 rates. Another factor driving this redriven by the decrease in the CDI intersilver streaming agreement (contract sult was the impairment reported in est rate from 14.06% to 10.05% p.a. for continued production) executed Adjusted Working Taxes CAPEX Operating InvestFinancial Other Free 2016, relative to the temporary susEBITDA capital/also reflected oncash our results. flow ment/ result flow by the end of 2016, resultMilpo bycash 2017 other 2017 divest2017 pension of the nickel operation, and The income tax and ment social securiing in cash generation of US$250 the sale of the long steel business in ty (IR/CS) loss of R$520 million was million. Another negative impact Brazil—the agreement with Arcelormainly driven by a higher taxable bacame from the non-cash effect of Mittal involving Votorantim SiderurgChanges sis in 2017 in net(net income income) compared (R$ million) to the reversal of a tax provision—ex454 (775) ia’s operations in the country was exa net loss reported in 2016. Net inclusion of the ICMS sales tax from 2,747 ecuted in February 2017. come from operations abroad (520) also afthe PIS/COFINS social contribution Profit from equity-method infected this result. 155 810tax base. vestments reflects the increase in Discontinued operations refer to Free cash flow amounted to R$2.9 (1,251) net income from recognized investthe long steel operations in Brazil, recbillion, an increase of R$2.0 billion ees, especially Citrosuco and Banco ognized as available for sale, and the compared to 2016, driven by the Votorantim. sale of non-core assets by Votorantim proceeds from Nexa’s initial public ofThe Brazilian real depreciation of Cimentos in China, Chile, and the U.S. fering (IPO) and the sale of non-core 2016 Operating EquityFinancial Income Discon2017 2% against the dollar in 2017 (2017 states resultof Florida method and result California. tax and tinued assets by Votorantim Cimentos. investsocial operments security ations Cash flow (R$ million) 4,760 (479) (688) 3,877 (1,536) (3,112) 32 2,854 481 Adjusted Working Taxes CAPEX Operating InvestFinancial Other Free EBITDA capital/ cash flow ment/ result cash flow 2017 other 2017 divest2017 ment FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2017 Report 58 Liquidity and indebtedness Changes in gross debt (R$ billion) By the end of 2017, Changes in gross debt (R$ billion) consolidated 24.4 (0.5) (1.6) 1.6 0.6 24.6 debt totaled R$24.6 billion, up a 0.6 24.6 24.4 (0.5) (1.6) 1.6 slight 1% compared to 2016 due to the depreciation of the Brazilian real against the dollar. Cash, cash equivalents and financial investments totaled R$12.5 billion, 49% of which denominated in Brazilian currency. Our cash balance 12/31/2016 Borrowing/ Interest Interest FX/ 12/31/2017 is sufficient to cover more than five amortization payment provision other 12/31/2016 Borrowing/ Interest Interest FX/ 12/31/2017 years of debt amortization. amortization payment provision other Changes in gross debt (R$ billion) Debt amortization schedule (R$ billion) 24.4 (0.5) (1.6) 1.6 0.6 24.6 Debt amortization schedule (R$ billion) 16.5 16.5 4.0 Revolving Credit Facilities 4.0 Revolving Credit Facilities 12.5 Cash* Average debt maturity: 7.6 years 12.5 Cash* Average debt maturity: 7.6 years 3.0 3.3 2.6 2.5 1.5 1.5 1.94.3 3.3 3.8 3.0 0.1 0.1 2.6 2.5 12/31/2016 1.5 Borrowing/1.5 Interest Interest 1.9 FX/ 12/31/2017 amortization payment provision other 2018 2019 0.1 2020 20210.1 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 *Includes cash, cash equivalents 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 ... 2041 Debt amortization schedule (R$Net billion)debt *Includes cash, cash equivalents and financial investments (R$ billion) Net16.5 debt (R$ billion) Net debt / Adjusted EBITDA Debt by type and curren Net We4.0and our /investees debt RevolvingAdjusted have EBITDA two Throughout15.8 Debtour 2017, 16.0 type and by investees 15.9 currency Net debt totaled R$12.4 billion, a 4% Export credit Credit facilities Facilities amounting 14.7 BNDES 10% revolving credit 15.8 16.0 15.9 carried out a series of liability mandecrease of 16% year-on-year. Export credit 4% 14.7 Cash* 12.4 to US$1.2 12.5 billion; along with cash, agement transactions order in 3.89x BNDES to re10% Leverage (net debt/adjusted EBITDA) Bank loans Average debt maturity: 3.89x 7.6 years 3.85x 10% 4% our liquidity position totals R$16.5 duce3.46x gross debt and refinancing 12.4 Bank loans risk reached 2.60x, compared to 3.46x in 12% Other 3.89x 3.89x 3.85x 4% Euro 10% Bonds 52 3.46xThese facilities expire in billion. in upcoming years. 12% December Other 2017, 58% i.e. a decrease of Dol Euro 2.60x4.3 2020, remain available, and have not 3.0 Our debt amortization 3.3 schedule is 0.86 points, 52% 3.8 driven by the proceeds 32% 2.6 2.5 Dollar Real* been used. 1.5 1.5 long,2.60x 1.9 and our average maturity 32% from Nexa’s IPO and the sale of non0.1 0.1 18% Real* closed 2017 at 7.6 years. core assets by Votorantim Cimentos. Debentures 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 18% 2025 2026 2027 ... 2041 Debentures Dec/16* Mar/17* *Includes June/17* cash, cash Sept/17equivalentsDec/17and financial investments *4131 bilateral loans considered a *Restated value due to the cross-currency swap Net Dec/16*debtMar/17* (R$ billion) June/17* Sept/17 Dec/17 *4131 bilateral loans considered as BRL Net *Restateddebt value/ Adjusted EBITDA Debt dueby type to the and currency cross-currency swap 15.8 16.0 15.9 Export credit 4% 14.7 BNDES 10% 12.4 Bank loans 3.89x 3.89x 3.85x 10% 4% Other Bonds 3.46x 12% 58% Euro 52% 2.60x Dollar 32% Real* 18% Debentures Dec/16* Mar/17* June/17* Sept/17 Dec/17 *4131 bilateral loans considered as BRL *Restated value due to the cross-currency swap Votorantim FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 59 CAPEX having executed 95% of the predeton cement capacity in the region We invested R$3.1 billion in 2017, up termined budget of R$1.2 billion, i.e. per year. 3% year-on-year. within budget as well. Nexa continued to deepen the Expansion projects represented Votorantim Cimentos’s projects mine in Vazante. This project began 50% of our investments, including received 29% of all investments in in 2015 and will increase the mine’s the construction of Ventos do Piauí’s expansion. After completing an inuseful life by 10 years (2026), securseven wind farms, adding an installed vestment round in Europe and Latin ing the zinc supply. The project is excapacity of 206 MW. This project America, the company invested in pected to continue through 2022, alone corresponded to 61% of all inthe expansion of its plant in Charlevand the first stage is expected to be vestments in expansion. This project oix (United States), which is expected completed by December 2018.  ▼ by Votorantim Energia was fully deto start operating in the first half of livered in 2017, on schedule and 2018. This project will add a 600,000 CAPEX 2017 2016 Non-expansion Non-expansion 61% 48% 50% 29% Votorantim Cimentos R$ 3.0 BILLION R$ 3.1 BILLION Expansion projects Nexa Votorantim Energia 10% 52% 50% Expansion Expansion Wind farm: investing in new renewable sources ABOUT THIS REPORT 2017 Report 60 Consolidated information T his annual report presents de Alumínio (CBA), Votorantim SiderIn an attempt to improve this the operating model, the iniurgia, Votorantim Energia, Citrosuco, process, in 2016 we contracted U.S. tiatives and key financial and Fibria, and Banco Votorantim. Data consulting firm Cornerstone Capital non-financial results of Votorantim contained herein is relative to the reto identify sustainability themes and S.A., as well as consolidated data of porting period beginning January 1 indicators aligned with VSA’s strateour investees—Votorantim Cimentos, and ending December 31, 2017; exgies and our reporting practices. This Nexa Resources, Companhia Brasileira cept for Citrosuco, whose data is relastudy was presented in our 2016 retive to the crop year beginning July port and was also used for determin2016 and ending June 2017. |GRI ing materiality for the 2017 report. OUR 5 102-45, 102-50, 102-52| The change in VSA’s positioning— STEWARDSHIP This report was prepared based on the GRI Standards for sustainability from an industrial holding to an investor holding— has impacted, since PILLARS reporting (Core option) and the IIRC 2014, the reporting model and indiintegrated reporting framework. We cators reported each year. We no FINANCIAL also considered the United Nations longer report on the operating indiMANAGEMENT Sustainable Development Goals as cators of our investees—they now Ensures financial reference to determine the contents prepare their own reports—and indiscipline to enable the desired risk-return and indicators included in this docustead focus more on our business profile ment. model, governance, and engagement based on our strategic planning, risk VALUE CREATION Sets out our vision, Materiality |GRI 102-46, management, and investment allocaand identifies the 102-21| tion. |GRI 102-47| business’s potential The process to determine materiality Beginning this reporting season, value, translating it into concrete plans that began in 2012, and involved a survey the preparation of our annual report align and mobilize the of our stakeholder groups, including is a responsibility of our Investor Reorganization institutional investors, government, lations department. We believe this OPERATIONAL media, and third sector organizations. falls in line with the market’s best disEXCELLENCE After the survey, materiality is disclosure practices, and ensures we Seeks to constantly cussed internally to choose the ismeet the increasing demand for enviimprove processes sues that will be reported on. |GRI ronmental, social and governance inthrough practices and key synergies among the 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44| formation. companies Material issues are directly conPwC audited the financial data nected to our stewardship model. We and limitedly assured non-financial PEOPLE AND use internal documents as referencdata in this report. This document is ORGANIZATION Preserves Votorantim’s es, such as the Votorantim DNA—it available in Portuguese and English. culture through sets out the five strategic pillars for The printed version of this report leadership that our businesses and governs our reladoes not include our investees’ conincorporates our values and beliefs tions as a holding company and as an solidated indicators, which are availinfluencer of our investees. We not able for online consultation. |GRI IMAGE AND only pay attention to our businesses’ 102-56|  ▼ REPUTATION Protects and promotes financial results, but also to how we Votorantim’s image and impact and are impacted by economreputation with our ic, social and environmental aspects. stakeholders VOTORANTIM GRI DISCLOSURES 61 GRI Disclosures General disclosures INFORMATION ON EMPLOYEES AND OTHER WORKERS |GRI 102-8| 2017 Region Other Brazil Total countries Employees Monthly salary contracts 26,278 8,931 35,209 Hourly wage contracts 6,150 370 6,520 Trainees 10 20 30 Total employees 32,310 9,321 41,759 Interns and Apprentices Interns 781 77 858 Apprentices 764 54 818 Total Interns and Apprentices 1,536 131 1,676 Contractors Contractors (Permanent contract) 14,803 6,422 21,225 Total Contractors 14,803 6,422 21,225 Total Workforce 48,649 15,874 64,660 COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS |GRI 102-41| 92% of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. GRI DISCLOSURES 2017 Report 62 Environmental disclosures ENERGY CONSUMPTION WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION (GJ) |GRI 302-1| 2017 Total fuel consumption from non-renewable sources 110,765,249 Total fuel consumption from renewable sources 150,510,896 Total energy consumption within the organization 264,170,043 NOTE: Consolidated information of the investees; Votorantim S.A. does not report on this disclosure. ENERGY INTENSITY (GJ/t) |GRI 302-3| Company Main product 2015 2016 2017 Fibria Pulp 21.980 20.760 20.910 Votorantim Cimentos Cement 3.410 3.170 2.666 Aggregate 0.040 0.028 0.031 Concrete 0.070 0.145 0.143 Mortar 0.070 0.074 Clinker 3.350 Nexa Resources Aluminum 12.300 Zinc 12.630 13.610 14.490 Nickel 300.470 Votorantim Siderurgia Steel (bar) 2.870 2.920 2.860 Steel (rolled) 1.810 1.840 1.340 Companhia Brasileira de Aluminum 78.620 4.192 Alumínio Processed bauxite (Miraí) 0.048 0.072 Nickel carbonate 26.720 113.477 Electrolytic nickel (production up to May/16) 29.270 57.38 Molten aluminum 81.91 NOTES: -V  otorantim Energia, Citrosuco, and Votorantim S.A. do not report on this disclosure. Includes renewable and non-renewable sources, and operations within and outside the organization. VOTORANTIM GRI DISCLOSURES 63 WATER WITHDRAWAL BY SOURCE (m3) |GRI 303-1| Total volume of water withdrawn by source 2016 2017 Surface water (wetlands, rivers, lakes, and oceans) 64,603,511.9 222,401,322.0 Ground water 116,992,500.9 106,930,958.5 Rainwater collected directly and stored by the organization 11,913,401.9 8,524,679.7 Waste water from another organization Water utilities 524,132.3 827,914.0 Total 194,033,546.8 338,684,874.3 NOTES: -T  otal volume of rainwater collected reported by Citrosuco refers to reuse. -V  otorantim S.A. and Banco Votorantim do not report on this disclosure. HABITATS PROTECTED OR RESTORED 2017 |GRI 304-3| Areas where the success of restoration measures was Total area approved by independent Biome (km2) external professionals, or that comply with external standards/protocols Amazon 28.72 28.72 Caatinga 3.82 3.82 Savanna (Cerrado) 2,240.8 581.7 Atlantic Forest 2,693.1 662.1 Tropical wetland (Pantanal) 1.68 1.68 Pampa 4.2 4.2 Other 1,072.8 1,072.8 TOTAL 6,045.2 2,355.02 Total area by company (km2) 2015 2016 2017 Votorantim Siderurgia 1,542.3 1,796.8 1,848.2 Fibria 184.3 3,102.6 3,128.6 Citrosuco 134.8 175.4 175.3 Nexa Resources 271.7 14,056 58.35 Reservas Votorantim 310 308.04 308.04 Companhia Brasileira de Alumínio 236.5 351.64 Votorantim Cimentos 117.2 117.2 Votorantim Energia 43.5 57.8 TOTAL 2,443.1 19,836.14 6,045.2 NOTES: Habitats protected or restored are located in Brazil (in the states of Bahia, Ceará, Distrito Federal, Espírito Santo, Goiás, Minas Gerais, Mato Grosso do Sul, Mato Grosso, Pará, Pernambuco, Paraná, Rio de Janeiro, Roraima, Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina, Sergipe, São Paulo e Tocantins), and Colombia (Boyacá province). -B  anco Votorantim does not report on this disclosure. GRI DISCLOSURES 2017 Report 64 DIRECT (SCOPE 1) GHG EMISSIONS |GRI 305-1| Gases Company included in 2016 Gases included in the 2017 the calculation calculation CO2 – CH4 – N20 – PFCs – Votorantim Siderurgia CO2 – CH4 – N20 1,501,904 HFCs – SF6 – NF3 1,503,440 CO2 – CH4 – N20 – PFCs – Fibria CO2 – CH4 – N20 1,036,182 HFCs – SF6 – NF3 1,180,432 Citrosuco CO2 – CH4 – N20 457,053 CO2 – CH4 – N20 431,964 Nexa Resources CO2 – CH4 – N20 189,143 CO2 – CH4 – N20 – CF4 165,354 Votorantim Cimentos CO2 – CH4 – N20 22,679,560 CO2 – CH4 – N20 21,883,318 Companhia Brasileira de CO2 – CH4 – N20 CO2 – CH4 – N20 – PFCs – Alumínio – PFCs 1,524,979 HFCs – SF6 1,387,085 TOTAL 27,388,821 26,551,593 NOTES: -V otorantim Siderurgia does not include mining operations in Colombia. -B anco Votorantim, Votorantim Energia and Votorantim S.A. do not report on this disclosure. GHG EMISSIONS INTENSITY RATIO – tCO2eq/t |GRI 305-4| Company Main product 2015 2016 2017 Fibria Pulp 0.34 0.34 0.32 Votorantim Cimentos Cement 0.63 0.6329 0.6333 Aggregates 0.0018 0.00142 0.0015 Concrete 0.0053 0.0103 0.0100 Mortar 0.00228 0.0019 Lime 0.0878 Nexa Resources Aluminum 0.9 Zinc 0.77 0.779 0.82 Nickel 23.27 Votorantim Siderurgia Bar (billets) 0.91 1.0936 1.02 Finished products 0.96 Companhia Brasileira de Processed bauxite 0.0027 0.0043 Alumínio Molten aluminum 4.9912 3.7136 Nickel carbonate 8.4779 6.5150 Electrolytic nickel 2.5846 1.6875 Aluminum 0.2291 NOTES: Includes renewable and non-renewable energy sources, and emissions within and outside the organization. -V  otorantim Siderurgia does not include mining operations in Colombia. -C  itrosuco, Votorantim Energia, Banco Votorantim, Reservas Votorantim, and Votorantim S.A. do not report on this disclosure. VOTORANTIM GRI DISCLOSURES 65 OTHER SIGNIFICANT AIR EMISSIONS (t) |GRI 305-7| Category 2017 NOX 64,092 SOX 18,985 Persistent organic pollutants (POP) 0 Volatile organic compounds (VOC) 1,502 Hazardous air pollutants (HAP) 0 Particulate matter (PM) 6,917 Other standard categories of air emissions identified in relevant regulations 89 NOTES: -V  otorantim Energia, Banco Votorantim, Reservas Votorantim, and Votorantim S.A. do not report on this disclosure. -C  itrosuco only includes the Matão and Araras units. WATER DISCHARGE (m3) |GRI 306-1| Total water discharge 2016 2017 Total discharge 321,117,049 319,043,106.64 NOTE: -B  anco Votorantim, Reservas Votorantim, and Votorantim S.A. do not report on this disclosure. GRI DISCLOSURES 2017 Report 66 WASTE BY TYPE AND DISPOSAL METHOD |GRI 306-2| Total weight of non-hazardous waste (tons) 2016 2017 Composting 58,264 56,981 Reuse 543,179 989,736 Recycling 205,652 852,786 Recovery, including energy recovery 16,210 4,272 Incineration (mass burn) 30 440 Landfill 25,302 257,663 Deep well injection On-site storage 191,464 161,995 Other 722,467 1,852,468 Total 1,762,569 4,176,341 Total weight of hazardous waste (tons) 2016 2017 Composting Reuse 2,191 2,645 Recycling 23,183 19,373 Recovery, including energy recovery 416 15,170 Incineration (mass burn) 443 2,430 Landfill 10,407 12,762 Deep well injection On-site storage 805 60,832 Other 23,704 13,365 Total 61,149 126,577 NOTES: -B anco Votorantim only reports recycling. -N exa Resources aggregates recycled and reused waste. -V otorantim S.A. and Reservas Votorantim do not report on this disclosure. VOTORANTIM GRI DISCLOSURES 67 NEW SUPPLIERS THAT WERE SCREENED USING ENVIRONMENTAL CRITERIA |GRI 308-1| New suppliers that were screened using 2015 2016 2017 environmental criteria Total number of new suppliers 5,245 4,559 10,244 Total number of new suppliers screened using environmental 790 669 1,544 criteria Percentage of new suppliers screened 15.10% 14.7% 15.0% NEGATIVE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN AND ACTIONS TAKEN |GRI 308-2| 2015 2016 2017 Total number of suppliers 140,769 78,990 99,284 Number of suppliers assessed for environmental impacts 4,653 4,299 7,120 Percentage of suppliers assessed for environmental impacts 3.3% 5.4% 7.1% NOTE: -A ssessments informed by audits, contractual reviews, two-way engagement, and complaint and grievance mechanisms. GRI DISCLOSURES 2017 Report 68 Social disclosures NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES AND EMPLOYEE TURNOVER |GRI 401-1| Gender Age group 2017 Under 30 30–50 years Over 50 Men Women years old old years old New hires 4,838 1,656 3,351 2,860 283 Employees 34,657 6,918 8,158 27,202 6,188 Termination of employment 4,913 1,471 2,165 3,296 939 Percentage of new hires 14% 23.9% 40.9% 10.5% 4.6% Turnover 14.2% 21.3% 26.5% 12.1% 15.2% OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY |GRI 403-2| Occupational health 2015 and safety Global Brazil Fatalities 0 1 Hours/men worked (employees and contractors) 44,140,004 124,779,042 Number of injuries (Level 1) 289 756 Number of injuries (Levels 2–3) 245 312 Number of injuries with lost days (Levels 4–6) 60 100 2016 Occupational health Employees Contractors and safety Global Brazil Global Brazil Hours/men worked 21,160,298 79,147,034 Number of injuries 283 442 Number of fatalities 0 4 5 3 Number of lost days 2,426 11,478 2017 Occupational health Employees Contractors and safety Global Brazil Global Brazil Hours/men worked 35,203,822 87,792,421 Number of injuries 291 356 Number of fatalities 3 0 6 11 Number of lost days 2,501 6,620 VOTORANTIM GRI DISCLOSURES 69 AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER YEAR PER EMPLOYEE |GRI 404-1| Average hours of Total Period training per employee hours of training Employee category Gender 2015 2016 2017 Senior management Women 27.3 6.2 32 Men 31.1 9.0 359 Middle management Women 43.7 5.5 833 Men 37.8 8.5 2,363 Coordinator/Adviser Women 31.8 5.1 4,065 Men 28.1 7.4 6,699 Technician/Analyst/ Women 30.6 0.7 3,779 Supervisor Men 20.5 2.3 5,080 Trainee Women 111.1 Men 151.7 Operational Women 19.2 0.1 641 Men 13.7 0.2 803 Intern Women 13.9 Men 13.3 Apprentice Women 71.1 Men 20.8 NOTES: -2 017 data refers to absolute training hours provided by the Votorantim Academy, as described on page 37 of this report. 2017 “Operational” data includes all employees in salary groups equal to or below GS-27, i.e. it also includes apprentices and interns. Trainees are included in the technician/analyst/supervisor category. Banco Votorantim does not participate in the Votorantim Academy program. GRI DISCLOSURES 2017 Report 70 DIVERSITY OF GOVERNANCE BODIES AND EMPLOYEES |GRI 405-1| Organization’s minority groups 2016 2017 Employees over 50 years old 6,660 6,188 Women 7,872 6,918 Governance members – gender 2016 2017 Men 112 134 Women 6 12 Governance members – age group 2016 2017 Under 30 years old 0 12 30–50 years old 50 994 Over 50 years old 68 361 EMPLOYEES IN EACH CATEGORY, BY GENDER Position Men % Women % Senior management 91.8 8.2 Middle management 83.0 16.5 Coordinator/Adviser 72.1 27.3 Technician/Analyst/Supervisor 71.5 27.9 Trainee 63.3 36.7 Operational 88.3 12.0 Intern 45.3 55.2 Apprentice 58.9 41.1 Total 82.1 17.9 VOTORANTIM GRI DISCLOSURES 71 NEW SUPPLIERS THAT WERE SCREENED USING SOCIAL CRITERIA |GRI 414-1| 2015 2016 2017 Labor practices Total number of new suppliers 5,245 4,559 10,244 New suppliers screened using criteria relative to labor practices 2,832 1,653 2,601 Percentage of new suppliers screened 54.0% 36.3% 25.0% Impacts on society Total number of new suppliers 5,245 4,559 10,244 New suppliers screened using criteria relative to impacts on society 795 728 1,097 Percentage of new suppliers screened 15.2% 16.0% 11.0% Human rights Total number of new suppliers 5,245 4,559 10,244 New suppliers screened using human rights criteria 2,096 1,490 1,261 Percentage of new suppliers screened 40.0% 32.7% 12.0% NEGATIVE SOCIAL IMPACTS IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN AND ACTIONS TAKEN |GRI 308-2| 2015 2016 2017 Labor practices Total number of suppliers 140,769 78,990 99,284 Suppliers assessed for labor practices 11,163 4,065 6,646 Percentage of suppliers assessed 7.9% 5.1% 7.0% Impacts on society Total number of suppliers 140,769 78,990 99,284 Suppliers assessed for impacts on society 3,296 3,963 5,827 Percentage of suppliers assessed 2.3% 5.0% 6.0% Human rights Total number of suppliers 140,769 78,990 99,284 Suppliers assessed for human rights issues 11,792 5,582 19,535 Percentage of suppliers assessed 8.4% 7.1% 20.0% GRI DISCLOSURES 2017 Report 72 OPERATIONS WITH LOCAL COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT, IMPACT ASSESSMENTS, AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS |GRI 413-1| 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total operations 650 728 565 436 Operations with local community engagements 72 111 93 142 Percentage of operations with local community engagements 11.1% 15.0% 16.0% 33.0% NOTES: -F ibria does not include international offices, since all its manufacturing operations are in fact located in Brazil. -B anco Votorantim does not report on this disclosure. INCIDENTS OF DISCRIMINATION AND CORRECTIVE ACTIONS TAKEN |GRI 406-1| Incidents of discrimination 2015 2016 2017 Harassment and abuse of power 14 15 53 Other incidents (discrimination) 16 12 12 Other incidents (discrimination and retaliation) 43 49 118 Total incidents of discrimination 73 76 183 Total incidents of discrimination 2015 2016 2017 Complaints received by the ombudsman 73 76 183 Complaints with grounds 54 64 67 OPERATIONS AND SUPPLIERS AT SIGNIFICANT RISK FOR INCIDENTS OF CHILD LABOR, AND MEASURES TAKEN TO CONTRIBUTE TO THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOR |GRI 408-1| Operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents of child labor and/ 2014 2015 2016 2017 or young workers exposed to hazardous work Votorantim S.A. (Banco Votorantim, Companhia Brasileira de Alumínio, Citrosuco, Fibria, Nexa, Reservas Votorantim, 0 0 0 0 Votorantim Siderurgia, Votorantim Cimentos and Votorantim Energia) VOTORANTIM GRI DISCLOSURES 73 OPERATIONS AND SUPPLIERS AT SIGNIFICANT RISK FOR INCIDENTS OF FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR |GRI 409-1| Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 2014 2015 2016 2017 incidents of forced or compulsory labor Votorantim S.A. (Banco Votorantim, Companhia Brasileira de Alumínio, Citrosuco, Fibria, Nexa, Reservas Votorantim, Votorantim Siderurgia, Votorantim Cimentos and 0 0 0 0 Votorantim Energia) OPERATIONS THAT HAVE BEEN SUBJECT TO HUMAN RIGHTS REVIEWS OR IMPACT ASSESSMENTS |GRI 412-1| Country 2014 2015 Brazil 19 32 2016 2017 Total operations (Brazil and abroad) 565 413 Operations subject to reviews 74 73 Percentage of operations subject to reviews 13% 18% Banco Votorantim 2017 Total operations (Brazil and abroad) 3,434 Operations subject to reviews 1,034 Percentage of operations subject to reviews 30% NOTES: -V otorantim Siderurgia has no longer submitted operations to human rights reviews because it understands it does not have any operation at risk for incidents of child labor and/or slavery. -F ibria does not include international offices, since all its manufacturing operations are in fact located in Brazil. -B anco Votorantim includes the number of new clients in 2017 subject to social-environmental review. The bank reports the total number of clients reviewed in 2017 by the social-environmental risk team whose activity falls into sectors at risk for compulsory labor. GRI DISCLOSURES 2017 Report 74 Economic disclosures DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED |GRI 201-1| Value added breakdown (R$/million) 2015 2016 2017 DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED Revenue Sales of products and services 37,006 30,383 31,362 Other operating income (expense), net (159) 581 894 Estimated loss on doubtful accounts (74) (4) – Total revenue 36,773 30,960 32,256 Inputs acquired from third parties Cost of goods sold and services provided (20,233) (17,738) (19,062) Impairment of assets (658) (2,151) 94 Gross value added 15,882 11,071 13,288 Depreciation, amortization, and depletion (2,754) (2,603) (2,360) Net value added generated by the Company 13,128 8,468 10,928 Value added received through transfers Equity in the results of investees 311 768 1,222 Finance income and foreign exchange losses 7,392 5,097 2,279 Total value added received through transfers 7,703 5,865 3,501 Total value added to distribute 20,831 14,333 14,429 Value added breakdown (R$/million) 2015 2016 2017 DISTRIBUTION OF VALUE ADDED Personnel and payroll charges 4,644 4,173 4,016 Direct remuneration 2,939 2,553 2,469 Benefits 602 597 600 Social charges 1,103 1,023 947 Taxes, and contributions 5,984 4,269 4,516 Federal 2,750 2,217 2,491 State 2,951 2,904 2,604 Municipal 25 18 13 Deferred taxes 258 (870) (592) Third-party capital remuneration 9,821 7,142 5,087 Finance costs and foreign exchange losses 9,404 6,814 4,771 Rentals 417 328 316 Own capital remuneration 382 (1,251) 810 Dividends 159 89 (499) Non-controlling interest (5) 45 220 Reinvested profits (offset losses) 238 (1,085) 1,234 Loss on discontinued operations 20,831 (300) (145) Value added distributed 20,831 14,333 14,429 VOTORANTIM GRI DISCLOSURES 75 CONFIRMED INCIDENTS OF CORRUPTION AND ACTIONS TAKEN |GRI 205-3| 2015 2016 2017 Total number of confirmed incidents of corruption 0 8 0 Employees dismissed or disciplined 0 3 2 Termination or non-renewal of contracts with business partners 0 4 0 NOTE: -U  nder “Employees dismissed or disciplined” in 2017, both cases were received in 2016. LEGAL ACTIONS FOR ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR, ANTI-TRUST, AND MONOPOLY PRACTICES |GRI 206-1| Number of legal actions for anti-competitive 2015 2016 2017 behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices Citrosuco 0 0 0 Votorantim Energia 0 0 0 Votorantim Cimentos 0 0 35 Nexa Resources 0 0 0 Votorantim Siderurgia 0 0 0 Fibria 0 0 0 -B  anco Votorantim does not report on this disclosure. GRI CONTENT INDEX 2017 Report 76 GRI content index |GRI 102-55| This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. |GRI 102-54| GRI Standards Disclosure Page and/or link GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General Organizational profile disclosures 2016 102-1 Name of the Introduction; 1 organization 102-2 Activities, brands, Who we are; 10, 11 products, and services 102-3 Location of Who we are; 10/Corporate information; 244 headquarters 102-4 Location of Who we are; 10 operations 102-5 Ownership and legal Governance; 22 form 102-6 Markets served Who we are; 10 102-7 Scale of the Who we are; 10 organization 102-8 Information on General disclosures; 61 employees and other workers 102-9 Supply chain Who we are; 10 For information on investees, please refer to the annual and sustainability reports of each company. 102-10 Significant changes Highlights; 2 to the organization and its Business portfolio; 40, 42, 44, 46, 48, 50, supply chain 52, 54 102-11 Precautionary The right way; 24 Principle or approach 102-12 External initiatives We have been, since 2011, signatories to the United Nations Global Compact initiative, which mobilizes businesses worldwide to adopt fundamental and globally accepted values on human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption. Information on each investee’s external initiatives can be found on their own reports. 102-13 Membership of ANA PAULA DE MEDEIROS CARRACEDO associations – Deputy Chair of Amcham’s Compliance and Risk Management Committee; member UN Global Compact’s Advisory Council and Anti-Corruption Work Group; Member of the Corporate Governance Congress Commission of the IBGC (Brazilian Corporate Governance Institute); member of the Global Anti-Corruption and Corporate Responsibility Commission of the ICC (International Chamber of Commerce) DAVID CANASSA – Member of the São Paulo Federation of Industries (Fiesp) Superior Council for the Environment (COSEMA) VOTORANTIM GRI CONTENT INDEX 77 Global Compact SDGs OECD Assurance GRI CONTENT INDEX 2017 Report 78 GRI Standards Disclosure Page and/or link GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General Strategy disclosures 2016 Statement from senior Messages; 4, 6 decision-maker Key impacts, risks, and The right way; 26, 27, 30, 32 opportunities Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, Who we are; 12, 16 standards, and norms of behavior Governance 102-18 Governance The right way; 22 structure 102-20 Executive-level The right way; 26 responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 102-21 Consulting About this report; 60 stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics 102-22 Composition of the Corporate information; 244 highest governance body and its committees 102-23 Chair of the highest Corporate information; 244 governance body 102-27 Collective knowledge Who we are; 12 of highest governance body Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder About this report; 61 groups 102-41 Collective bargaining General disclosures; 36 agreements 102-42 Basis for identifying About this report; 61 and selecting stakeholders with whom to engage 102-43 Approach to About this report; 61 stakeholder engagement 102-44 Key topics and About this report; 61 concerns raised through stakeholder engagement Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in About this report; 61 the consolidated financial statements VOTORANTIM GRI CONTENT INDEX 79 Global Compact SDGs OECD Assurance GRI CONTENT INDEX 2017 Report 80 GRI Standards Disclosure Page and/or link GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General Stakeholder engagement disclosures 2016 102-46 Defining report About this report; 60 content and topic Boundaries 102-47 List of material About this report; 60 topics 102-48 Restatements of The area covered by Legado Verdes do Cerrado information was restated from 32,000 hectares to 31,000 hectares 102-49 Changes in the list There was no change in the reporting period of material topics and topic Boundaries 102-50 Reporting period Introduction; 1 About this report; 60 102-51 Date of most recent 2016, published in March 2017 previous report 102-52 Reporting cycle About this report; 60 102-53 Contact point for Introduction; 1 questions regarding the report 102-54 Claims of reporting Introduction; 1 in accordance with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index Contents 102-56 External assurance Assurance; 94 VOTORANTIM GRI CONTENT INDEX 81 Global Compact SDGs OECD Assurance GRI CONTENT INDEX 2017 Report 82 GRI Standards Disclosure Page and/or link Material topics GRI 200 Standards Economic Series Economic performance GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of Discipline drives results; approach 2016 the material topic and its 56, 57, 58, 59 Boundary 103-2 The management Discipline drives results; approach and its components 56, 57, 58, 59 103-3 Evaluation of the Discipline drives results; management approach 56, 57, 58, 59 201-1 Direct economic value Economic disclosures; 74 generated and distributed Anti-corruption GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of Ethics as a core value; 25, 26 approach 2016 the material topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management Ethics as a core value; 25, 26 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the Ethics as a core value; 25, 26 management approach GRI 205: Anti-corruption 205-3 Confirmed incidents Economic disclosures; 75 2016 of corruption and actions taken Anti-competitive behavior GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of Ethics as a core value; 25, 26 approach 2016 the material topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management Ethics as a core value; 25, 26 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the Ethics as a core value; 25, 26 management approach GRI 206: Anti-competitive 206-1 Legal actions for Economic disclosures; 75 behavior 2016 anti-competitive behavior, antitrust, and monopoly practices GRI 300 Standards Environmental Series Energy GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of This report consolidates energy consumption approach 2016 the material topic and its and intensity of all investees. For detailed Boundary information, please refer to the annual and sustainability reports of each investee. 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption Environmental disclosures; 62 within the organization 302-3 Energy intensity Environmental disclosures; 62 VOTORANTIM GRI CONTENT INDEX 83 Omission Global SDGs OECD Assurance Part Reason ExplaCompact omitted nation P.10 VII. Combating bribery, bribe Yes solicitation and extortion 16 X. Competition XI. Taxation 7, 8, 12, 13, Yes 14, 15 P.7, P.8, P.9 7, 8 VI. Environment GRI CONTENT INDEX 2017 Report 84 GRI Standards Disclosure Page and/or link GRI 300 Standards Environmental Series Water GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of This report consolidates water withdrawal approach 2016 the material topic and its by source of all investees. For detailed Boundary information, please refer to the annual and sustainability reports of each investee. 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI 303: Water 2016 Water withdrawal by source Environmental disclosures; 63 Biodiversity GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of A partnership with nature; 27, approach 2016 the material topic and its Beyond conservation; 28, 29 Boundary 103-2 The management A partnership with nature; 27, approach and its components Beyond conservation; 28, 29 103-3 Evaluation of the A partnership with nature; 27, management approach Beyond conservation; 28, 29 GRI 304: Biodiversity 304-3 Habitats protected or Environmental disclosures; 63 2016 restored Emissions GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of Climate-change awareness; 30 approach 2016 the material topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management Climate-change awareness; 30 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the Climate-change awareness; 30 management approach GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Environmental disclosures; 64 emissions 305-4 GHG emissions Environmental disclosures; 64 intensity 305-7 NOx, SOx, and other Environmental disclosures; 65 significant air emissions Waste and effluents GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of This report consolidates total water discharge approach 2016 the material topic and its and total waste by type and disposal method Boundary of all investees. For detailed information, please refer to the annual and sustainability 103-2 The management reports of each investee. approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI 306: Effluents and 306-1 Water discharge by Environmental disclosures; 65 Waste 2016 quality and destination 306-2 Waste by type and Environmental disclosures; 66 disposal method VOTORANTIM GRI CONTENT INDEX 85 Omission Global SDGs OECD Assurance Part Reason ExplaCompact omitted nation 6 Yes P.7, P.8, P.9 6, 13, 14, VI. Environment Yes 15 3, 12, 13, Yes 14, 15 P.7, P.8, P.9 13, 14, 15 VI. Environment 3, 13, 14, 15 3, 6, 12 Yes 3, 6, 12, Yes GRI CONTENT INDEX 2017 Report 86 GRI Standards Disclosure Page and/or link GRI 300 Standards Environmental Series Supplier environmental assessment GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the This report consolidates supplier environmental approach 2016 material topic and its Boundary assessment data of all investees. For detailed information, please refer to the annual and 103-2 The management sustainability reports of each investee. approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI 308: Supplier 308-1 New suppliers Environmental disclosures; 67 environmental that were screened using assessment 2016 environmental criteria 308-2 Negative Environmental disclosures; 67 environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken GRI 400 Standards Social Series Employment GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the High-performance culture; 35, 36, 37, 38, 39 approach 2016 material topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management High-performance culture; 35, 36, 37, 38, 39 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the High-performance culture; 35, 36, 37, 38, 39 management approach GRI 401: Employment 401-1 New employee hires Social disclosures; 68 2016 and employee turnover Occupational health and safety GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the This report consolidates occupational health approach 2016 material topic and its Boundary and safety data of all investees. For detailed information, please refer to the annual and 103-2 The management sustainability reports of each investee. approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI 403: Occupational 403-2 Types of injury and Social disclosures; 68 health and safety rates of injury, occupational 2016 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Training and Education GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of Votorantim Academy; 36 approach 2016 the material topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management Votorantim Academy; 36 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the Votorantim Academy; 36 management approach GRI 404: Training and 404-1 Average hours Social disclosures; 69 education 2016 of training per year per employee VOTORANTIM GRI CONTENT INDEX 87 Omission Global SDGs OECD Assurance Part Reason ExplaCompact omitted nation P.7, P.8, P.9 P.7, P.8, P.9 VI. Environment P.3, P.6 8 V. Employment and industrial relations P.3, P.6 3 V. Employment and industrial Yes relations, VI. Environment P.3, P.6 4, 5, 8 V. Employment and industrial Yes relations, VI. Environment GRI CONTENT INDEX 2017 Report 88 GRI Standards Disclosure Page and/or link GRI 400 Standards Social Series Diversity and equal opportunity GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of High-performance culture; 35, 36, 37, 38, 39 approach 2016 the material topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management High-performance culture; 35, 36, 37, 38, 39 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the High-performance culture; 35, 36, 37, 38, 39 management approach GRI 405: Diversity and 405-1 Diversity of Social disclosures; 70 equal opportunity governance bodies and 2016 employees Non-discrimination GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of This report consolidates incidents of approach 2016 the material topic and its discrimination and corrective actions taken by Boundary all investees. For detailed information, please refer to the annual and sustainability reports 103-2 The management of each investee. approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI 406: Non406-1 Incidents of Social disclosures; 72 discrimination discrimination and corrective 2016 actions taken Child labor GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of This report consolidates operations and approach 2016 the material topic and its suppliers at significant risk for incidents Boundary of child labor of all investees. For detailed information, please refer to the annual and 103-2 The management sustainability reports of each investee. approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI 408: Child labor 2016 408-1 Operations and Social disclosures; 72 suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor Forced or compulsory labor GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of This report consolidates operations and approach 2016 the material topic and its suppliers at significant risk for incidents of Boundary forced or compulsory labor of all investees. For detailed information, please refer to the annual 103-2 The management and sustainability reports of each investee. approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI 409: Forced or 409-1 Operations and Social disclosures; 73 compulsory labor suppliers at significant risk 2016 for incidents of forced or compulsory labor VOTORANTIM GRI CONTENT INDEX 89 Omission Global SDGs OECD Assurance Part Reason ExplaCompact omitted nation P.3, P.6 5, 8 V. Employment and industrial relations P.1, P.2, P6 5, 16 IV. Human rights Yes V. Employment and industrial relations P.1, P.2, P.5 8, 16 IV. Human rights, V. Employment and industrial relations P.1, P.2, P.4 8 IV. Human rights, V. Employment and industrial relations GRI CONTENT INDEX 2017 Report 90 GRI Standards Disclosure Page and/or link GRI 400 Standards Social Series Human rights assessment GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of This report consolidates operations that have approach 2016 the material topic and its been subject to human rights reviews or impact Boundary assessments of all investees. For detailed information, please refer to the annual and 103-2 The management sustainability reports of each investee. approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI 412: Human rights 412-1 Operations that Social disclosures; 73 assessment 2016 have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments Local communities GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of Side by side with our communities; 31, 32, 33, 34 approach 2016 the material topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management Side by side with our communities; 31, 32, 33, 34 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the Side by side with our communities; 31, 32, 33, 34 management approach GRI 413: Local 413-1 Operations with local Social disclosures; 72 communities community engagement, 2016 impact assessments, and development programs Supplier social assessment GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of This report consolidates supplier social approach 2016 the material topic and its assessment data of all investees. For detailed Boundary information, please refer to the annual and sustainability reports of each investee. 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI 414: Supplier social 414-1 New suppliers that Social disclosures; 71 assessment 2016 were screened using social criteria 414-2 Negative social Social disclosures; 71 impacts in the supply chain and actions taken VOTORANTIM GRI CONTENT INDEX 91 Omission Global SDGs OECD Assurance Part Reason ExplaCompact omitted nation P.1, P.2 IV. Human rights P.1, P.2 V. Employment and industrial Yes relations, VI. Environment P.1, P.2, P.3 5, 8, 16 IV. Human rights, V. Employment and industrial relations, VI. Environment, VII. Combating bribery, bribe solicitation and extortion, X. Competition P.1, P.2, P.3 IV. Human rights, V. Employment and industrial relations, VI. Environment, VII. Combating bribery, bribe solicitation and extortion, X. Competition GRI CONTENT INDEX 2017 Report 92 GRI Standards Disclosure Page and/or link GRI 400 Standards Social Series Public policy GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of Donations and sponsoring; 25 approach 2016 the material topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management Donations and sponsoring; 25 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the Donations and sponsoring; 25 management approach GRI 415: Public policy 415-1 Political contributions There were no political contributions in the 2016 reporting period UN Global Compact Principles Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. VOTORANTIM GRI CONTENT INDEX 93 Omission Global SDGs OECD Assurance Part Reason ExplaCompact omitted nation P.10 VII.Combating bribery, bribe solicitation and extortion Sustainable Development Goals 1. No Poverty 2. Zero Hunger 3. Good Health and Well-being 4. Quality Education 5. Gender Equality 6. Clean Water and Sanitation 7. Affordable and Clean Energy 8. Decent Work and Economic Growth 9. Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure 10. Reduced Inequality 11. Sustainable Cities and Communities 12. Responsible Consumption and Production 13. Climate Action 14. Life Below Water 15. Life on Land 16. Peace and Justice, Strong Institutions 17. Partnerships to achieve the Goals EXTERNAL ASSURANCE 2017 Report 94 (A free translation of the original in Portuguese) Independent auditor’s limited assurance report on information related to sustainability included in the 2017 Votorantim Report To the Board of Directors Votorantim S.A. São Paulo SP Introduction We were contracted by Votorantim S.A. (“VSA” or “Company”) to present our limited assurance report on the compilation of the information related to sustainability included in VSA’s 2017 Votorantim Report for the year ended December 31, 2017. Responsibilities of the Company’s management The management of VSA is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the information included in the 2017 Votorantim Report, in accordance with the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI Standard), and for such internal control as it determines is necessary to enable the preparation of information free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Independent auditors’ responsibility Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the information related to the 2017 Votorantim Report, based on our limited assurance engagement carried out in accordance with the Technical Communication CTO 01, “Issuance of an Assurance Report related to Sustainability and Social Responsibility”, issued by the Brazilian Federal Accounting Council (CFC), based on the Brazilian standard NBC TO 3000, “Assurance Engagements Other than Audit and Review”, also issued by the CFC, which is equivalent to the international standard ISAE 3000, “Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial information”, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB). Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements, including independence requirements, and perform our engagement to obtain limited assurance that the information included in the 2017 Votorantim Report, taken as a whole, is free from material misstatement. A limited assurance engagement conducted in accordance with the Brazilian standard NBC TO 3000 and ISAE 3000 mainly consists of making inquiries of management and other professionals of the entity involved in the preparation of the information, as well as applying analytical procedures to obtain evidence that allows us to issue a limited assurance conclusion on the information taken as a whole. A limited assurance engagement also requires the performance of additional procedures when the independent auditor becomes aware of matters that lead the auditor to believe that the information taken as a whole might present significant misstatements. The procedures selected were based on our understanding of the aspects related to the compilation and presentation of the information included in the 2017 Votorantim Report, other circumstances of the engagement and our analysis of the areas in which significant misstatements might exist. The following procedures were adopted: (a) planning the work, taking into consideration the materiality and the volume of quantitative and qualitative information and the operating and internal control systems that were used to prepare the information included in the VSA ‘s 2017 Votorantim Report; VOTORANTIM EXTERNAL ASSURANCE 95 (b) understanding the calculation methodology and the procedures adopted for the compilation of indicators through interviews with the managers responsible for the preparation of the information; (c) applying analytical procedures to quantitative information and making inquiries regarding the qualitative information and its correlation with the indicators disclosed in the information included in the 2017 Votorantim Report; (d) comparing the financial indicators with the financial statements and/or accounting records. The limited assurance engagement also included the application of procedures to assess compliance with the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI Standard) applied in the compilation of the information related to sustainability included in the 2017 Votorantim Report. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our limited assurance conclusion. Scope and limitations The procedures applied in a limited assurance engagement are substantially less detailed than those applied in a reasonable assurance engagement, the objective of which is the issuance of an opinion on the information presented in the 2017 Votorantim Report. Consequently, we were not able to obtain reasonable assurance that we would become aware of all significant matters that might be identified in an assurance engagement, the objective of which is the issue of an opinion. Had we performed an engagement with the objective of issuing an opinion, we might have identified other matters and possible misstatements in the information included in the 2017 Votorantim Report. Accordingly, we do not express an opinion on this information. Non-financial data is subject to more inherent limitations than financial data, due to the nature and diversity of the methods used to determine, calculate and estimate this data. Qualitative interpretations of the relevance, materiality, and accuracy of the data are subject to individual assumptions and judgments. Furthermore, we did not consider in our engagement the data reported for prior periods, nor future projections and goals. Conclusion Based on the procedures performed, described herein, no matter came to our attention that causes us to believe that the information included in the 2017 Votorantim Report of Votorantim S.A. has not been compiled, in all material respects, in accordance with the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI Standards). São Paulo, March 29, 2018 PricewaterhouseCoopers Contadores Públicos Ltda. CRC 2SP023173/O-4 Eliane Kihara Contadora CRC 1SP212496/O-5 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 2017 Report 96 Independent auditor’s report (A free translation of the original in Portuguese) To the Board of Directors and Stockholders Votorantim S.A. Opinion We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Votorantim S.A. and its subsidiaries (“Consolidated”), which comprise the consolidated balance sheet as at December 31, 2017 and the consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income (loss), changes in equity and cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Votorantim S.A. and its subsidiaries as at December 31, 2017, and their financial performance and their cash flows for the year then ended, in accordance with accounting practices adopted in Brazil and with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Brazilian and International Standards on Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Company and its subsidiaries in accordance with the ethical requirements established in the Code of Professional Ethics and Professional Standards issued by the Brazilian Federal Accounting Council, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. Emphasis of matter Reissuance of the financial statements We draw attention to Notes 2.1(b) and 36(e) of the financial statements, which refers to the update and reissuance of the financial statements due to the subsequent event related to the corporate reorganization of the joint venture Fibria Celulose S.A. We issued our original report dated March 2, 2018 on the previously issued financial statements. Due to the update described in the notes above, we are providing this new audit report on the reissued financial statements. Our opinion is not qualified in respect of this matter. Votorantim INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 97 Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were Matters of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a Why it is a Key Audit separate opinion on these matters. Matter Our audit for the year ended December 31, 2017 was planned and executed considering that the operations of the Company and its subsidiaries did not had any How the significant changes in relation to the to the prior year. In this context, the Key Audit matter was addressed Matters, as well as our audit approach, have remained substantially aligned with prior year, except for the exclusion of the matters related to the securitization of receivables from the Company’s indirect subsidiary, and assets held for sale – Votorantim Siderurgia S.A., as they were related to events of the year ended on December 31, 2016. Assessment of impairment of goodwill (Notes 16, 17 and 18) Why it is a Key Audit Matter During 2017, the economic scenario of the main countries in which the Company and its subsidiaries operate remained challenging. At December 31, 2017, goodwill based on expected future profitability from business combinations occurred in prior years amounted to R$ 6,141 million (of which R$ 4,862 million in “Intangible assets”, and R$ 1,279 million in “Investments”), and property, plant and equipment totaled R$ 25,855 million. We considered this an area of focus in our audit, since the test of impairment of assets involves critical judgments by the Company’s management. The determination of the recoverable value depends on the materialization of the projections for economic and market conditions in Brazil, and in the several countries where the Company operates, and is susceptible to changes in assumptions related to the growth rates of prices, volume of sales, expenses and discount rates established by management, among other assumptions used in management’s valuation models. Adverse economic conditions may result in significant changes in these assumptions. How the matter was addressed in the audit In this respect, we obtained an understanding of the existing key controls for this area and tested them. We also assessed the methodology that management used to identify the CGUs. In addition, we assessed the reasonableness of the Company’s main assumptions, including the discount rate used to determine the value in use or the fair value less cost to sell, when applicable, and the growth rates for prices and volumes, by comparing them with available economic and industry-related estimates. Furthermore, with the support of our experts, we tested the mathematical accuracy of the calculations and data for the main assumptions used in the cash flow estimates. We used sensitivity analyses involving the main assumptions used in order to assess whether the individual or cumulative changes would lead to impairment losses that significantly exceeded those recorded by the Company. INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 2017 Report 98 After performing these audit procedures, we considered that the assumptions and methodology used by management are reasonable, and the disclosures are consistent with the data and information obtained in our procedures. Realization of deferred income tax and social contribution tax assets (Notes 21) Why it is a Key Audit Matter The Company and its subsidiaries record deferred taxes arising from temporary differences and income tax and social contribution losses, as well as credits from income tax and social contribution recoverable. These credits were recorded to the extend management considers that the Company will generate future taxable profit that is sufficient for the utilization of these credits. We considered this an area of focus in our audit since the Company’s assessment of the realization of these credits involves important and subjective judgment to determine the future taxable bases for the utilization of these amounts. How the matter was addressed in the audit In this respect, we obtained an understanding of the key controls that the Company uses to calculate and record the tax credits and tested these controls, as well as the templates used to estimate the future taxable profits, which were subject to Company’s Board of Directors approval. We counted on the support of our specialists in tax matters and in company valuations to test the calculations of the credits in relation to the templates and critical assumptions used by management. We compared these assumptions with macroeconomic information available in the market and compared the information from these projections with budgets approved by the Company’s governance bodies. In addition, we analyzed the realization periods considered in the Company’s and its subsidiaries historical data and studies in order to test the adequacy and the consistency of these realization estimates in relation to those used in prior years. Finally, we assessed the disclosures related to the recognition of these tax credits. We consider that the criteria and assumptions that management adopted to determine the tax credits are reasonable in all relevant aspects in the context of the financial statements. Provisions and contingent liabilities (Note 23) Why it is a Key Audit Matter At December 31, 2017, the Company and its subsidiaries had recorded provisions calculated based on probable losses estimated in the respective proceedings. The Company and its subsidiaries also have tax, civil, and labor proceedings in progress for which no provisions were recorded in the financial statements because management considered the likelihood of losses arising from these proceedings as only possible, based on the opinion of the Company’s internal and external legal advisors. Management applies critical judgments to determine the likelihood of positive outcomes for proceedings in progress as well as to estimate the probable losses, since these matters depend on future events that manageVotorantim INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 99 ment is not able to control. In this context, the progress of these proceedings in the different applicable levels can differ from the results estimated by the Company and its internal and external legal advisors, taking into account that changes in court directives or in case law may significantly affect management’s estimates. How the matter was addressed in the audit In this respect, we determined whether the procedures adopted by management to calculate the provisions and their related disclosures were in compliance with the related accounting policy. Furthermore, we obtained confirmation from the external legal advisors regarding the likelihood of loss for the major proceedings and the quantification of the amounts estimated as possible and probable losses. We counted on the support of our tax specialists to assess the reasonableness of estimates prepared by management and its internal and external legal advisors for certain proceedings, considering their progress and the existing case law, when applicable. We consider that the criteria and assumptions used by management to determine the provisions and the disclosures in the related explanatory notes are consistent with the information received during our audit. Other matters Statements of Value Added The consolidated Statement of Value Added for the year ended December 31, 2017, prepared under the responsibility of the Company’s management and presented as supplementary information for IFRS purposes, was submitted to audit procedures performed in conjunction with the audit of the Company’s consolidated financial statements. For the purposes of forming our opinion, we evaluated whether this statement is reconciled with the financial statements and accounting records, as applicable, and if its form and content are in accordance with the criteria defined in Technical Pronouncement CPC 09 – “Statement of Value Added”. In our opinion, this Statement of Value Added has been properly prepared in all material respects, in accordance with the criteria established in the Technical Pronouncement, and is consistent with the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole. Other information accompanying the parent company and consolidated financial statements and the auditor’s report The Company’s management is responsible for the other information that comprises the Management Report, which is expected to be received after the date of this report. Our opinion on the parent company and consolidated financial statements does not cover the Management Report, and we do not express any form of audit conclusion thereon. In connection with the audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the Management Report, when made available to us, and, in doing so, consider whether this report is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 2017 Report 100 Responsibilities of management and those charged with governance for the parent company and consolidated financial statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting practices adopted in Brazil and with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the financial reporting process of the Company and its subsidiaries. Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with Brazilian and International Standards on Auditing will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. As part of an audit in accordance with Brazilian and International Standards on Auditing, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also: ■■ Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. ■■ Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the internal control of the Company and its subsidiaries. ■■ Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management. Votorantim INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 101 ■■ Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the ability of the Company to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern. ■■ Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether these financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. ■■ Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. Curitiba, March 27, 2018 PricewaterhouseCoopers Auditores Independentes CRC 2SP000160/O-5 Maurício Colombari Contador CRC 1SP195838/O-3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 102 Consolidated balance sheet As at December 31 All amounts in millions of reais (A free translation of the original in Portuguese) Note 2017 2016 Assets Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 9 8,960 6,946 Financial investments 10 3,562 3,190 Derivative financial instruments 6.1.1 52 136 Trade receivables 11 2,421 2,001 Inventory 12 3,526 3,381 Taxes recoverable 13 1,317 1,527 Dividends receivable 14 148 180 Financial instruments – firm commitment 15 210 317 Other assets 784 580 20,980 18,258 Assets classified as held-for-sale 34 2,199 2,125 23,179 20,383 Non-current assets Long-term receivables Financial investments 10 25 39 Derivative financial instruments 6.1.1 138 232 Taxes recoverable 13 1,784 1,586 Related parties 14 143 535 Deferred income tax and social contribution 21 (b) 4,079 4,055 Judicial deposits 23 (b) 765 420 Financial instruments – firm commitment 15 154 371 Other assets 667 858 7,755 8,096 Investments 16 (c) 13,372 12,949 Property, plant and equipment 17 25,855 25,091 Intangible assets 18 12,443 13,013 Biological assets 65 66 59,490 59,215 Total assets 82,669 79,598 Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 103 Consolidated balance sheet As at December 31 All amounts in millions of reais (A free translation of the original in Portuguese) Note 2017 2016 Liabilities and equity Current liabilities Borrowing 19 2,573 1,775 Derivative financial instruments 6.1.1 299 401 Confirming payables 20 1,070 968 Trade payables 3,353 2,723 Salaries and payroll charges 895 848 Taxes payable 617 422 Advances from clients 408 174 Dividends payable 14 188 48 Use of public assets 24 76 67 Financial instruments – firm commitment 15 1 Deferred revenue – performance obligations 22 246 244 Deferred revenue – silver streaming 104 146 Other liabilities 643 649 10,473 8,465 Liabilities related to assets held-for-sale 34 1,526 1,522 11,999 9,987 Non-current liabilities Borrowing 19 22,057 22,644 Derivative financial instruments 6.1.1 83 342 Deferred income tax and social contribution 21 (b) 1,965 1,983 Related parties 14 25 22 Provision 23 (a) 2,587 2,346 Use of public assets 24 1,056 1,119 Pension plan 31 317 317 Financial instruments – firm commitment 15 207 10 Deferred revenue – performance obligations 22 272 515 Deferred revenue – silver streaming 630 669 Other liabilities 656 821 29,855 30,788 Total liabilities 41,854 40,775 Equity Share capital 25 (a) 28,656 28,656 Revenue reserves 6,569 6,254 Carrying value adjustments 25 (e) 733 1,255 Total equity attributable to the owners of the Company 35,958 36,165 Non-controlling interests 4,857 2,658 Total equity 40,815 38,823 Total liabilities and equity 82,669 79,598 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 104 Consolidated statement of income Years ended December 31 All amounts in millions of reais unless otherwise stated (A free translation of the original in Portuguese) Note 2017 2016 Reclassified (Note 2. Continuing operations Net revenue from products sold and services rendered 26 27,225 25,965 Cost of products sold and services rendered 27 (20,649) (20,010) Gross profit 6,576 5,955 Operating income (expenses) Selling 27 (1,666) (1,639) General and administrative 27 (2,018) (2,091) Other operating expenses, net 29 (536) (2,616) (4,220) (6,346) Operating profit (loss) before equity results and finance results 2,356 (391) Results from equity investments Equity in the results of investees 16 (c) 1,219 724 Realization of other comprehensive income on disposal of investments 3 44 1,222 768 Finance results, net 30 Finance income 1,155 1,397 Finance costs (2,710) (2,643) Result of derivative financial instruments (213) (1,006) Foreign exchange losses, net (724) 535 (2,492) (1,717) Profit (loss) before income tax and social contribution 1,086 (1,340) Income tax and social contribution 21 (a) Current (723) (481) Deferred 592 870 Profit (loss) for the year from continuing operations 955 (951) Discontinued operations Loss for the year from discontinued operations 34 (c) (145) (300) Profit (loss) for the year attributable to the owners of the Company 810 (1,251) Profit (loss) attributable to the owners of the Company 590 (1,296) Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 220 45 Profit (loss) for the year 810 (1,251) Weighted average number of shares – thousands (to the owners of the Company) 18,278,789 18,278,789 Basic and diluted earnings (loss) per thousand shares, in reais 32.28 (70.90) From continuing operations Basic and diluted earnings (loss) per thousand shares, in reais 40.21 (54.49) From discontinued operations Basic and diluted loss per thousand shares, in reais (7.93) (16.41) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 105 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Years ended December 31 All amounts in millions of reais (A free translation of the original in Portuguese) Note 2017 2016 Profit (loss) for the year 810 (1,251) Other components of comprehensive income to be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss Attributable to the owners of the Company Foreign exchange variations attributable to the owners of the Company 25 (e) 473 (4,537) Hedge accounting for net investments abroad, net of 6.1.3 e 25 taxes (e) (163) 2,033 Hedge accounting for the operations of subsidiaries 25 (e) (101) 52 Fair value of financial assets available-for-sale of the non-consolidated investments 25 (e) 39 227 Realization of comprehensive income on the disposal of investments 25 (e) (555) (25) Share in other comprehensive income of investees 25 (e) (84) Attributable to non-controlling Foreign exchange variations attributable to noncontrolling interests 94 (711) Hedge accounting for the operations of subsidiaries 17 Realization of comprehensive income on the disposal of investments (19) Share in other comprehensive income of investees 60 23 (136) (3,041) Other components of comprehensive income that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Attributable to the owners of the Company Remeasurement of retirement benefits, net of taxes 25 (e) (37) Attributable to non-controlling Remeasurement of retirement benefits, net of taxes (4) Other comprehensive income (loss) for the year (136) (3,082) Comprehensive income (loss) from Continuing operations 674 (3,934) Discontinued operations (399) 674 (4,333) Comprehensive income (loss) attributable to Owners of the Company 283 (3,667) Non-controlling interests 391 (666) 674 (4,333) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 106 Consolidated statement of changes in equity Years ended December 31 All amounts in millions of reais unless otherwise stated (A free translation of the original in Portuguese) Share Note capital Tax incentives At January 1, 2016 21,419 6 Comprehensive income for the year Profit (loss) for the year Other comprehensive income (loss) Comprehensive income for the year Increase in share capital 7,237 Fair value on interest variation – Nexa Resources S.A. (“Nexa”) Repurchase of shares of Nexa Resources Perú S.A.A. (“Nexa Peru”) Reversal of dividends Allocation of net income for the year Legal reserve 4 Dividends Profit retention Total contributions and distributions to shareholders 7,237 4 At December 31, 2016 28,656 10 Comprehensive income (loss) for the year Profit for the year Other comprehensive income (loss) Comprehensive income (loss) for the year Increase of non-controlling shareholders – Nexa – dilution of interest 1.1 (f) Increase of non-controlling shareholders – Nexa – sale of interest 25 (f) Allocation of net income for the year Legal revenue Dividends 25 (b) Profit retention Total contributions and distributions to shareholders At December 31, 2017 28,656 10 Demonstração consolidada condensada dos fluxos de caixa Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 107 Attributable to the owners of the Company Revenue reserves NonTotal Profit Retained Carrying controlling equity Legal value Total interests retention earnings adjustments 654 6,776 2,952 31,807 4,176 35,983 (1,296) (1,296) 45 (1,251) (2,371) (2,371) (711) (3,082) (1,296) (2,371) (3,667) (666) (4,333) 7,237 7,237 572 572 (572) 102 102 (191) (89) 114 114 114 (4) (89) (89) (1,300) 1,300 (1,186) 1,296 674 8,025 (852) 7,173 654 5,590 1,255 36,165 2,658 38,823 590 590 220 810 (307) (307) 171 (136) 590 (307) 283 391 674 (215) (215) 1,075 860 957 957 30 (30) (135) (140) (275) (224) (499) 420 (420) 30 285 (590) (215) (490) 1,808 1,318 684 5,875 733 35,958 4,857 40,815 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 108 Consolidated statement of cash flows Years ended December 31 All amounts in millions of reais (A free translation of the original in Portuguese) Note 2017 2016 Cash flow from operating activities Profit (loss) before income tax and social contribution 1,086 (1,340) Loss for the year from discontinued operations (145) (300) Adjustments to items that do not represent changes in cash and cash equivalents Discontinued Operations Realization of other comprehensive income from the sale of the China operations 34 (c) (133) (44) Net gain on sale of investments in China, California and Florida 34 (c) (118) Goodwill decrease on sale of operations – China 34 (c) 228 Realization of other comprehensive income – other operating income (expenses), net 29 (753) Realization of other comprehensive income – financial income 331 Result on the sale of investment in Nexa 29 161 Gain on sales of investments, net – Cement and Metals Operations 29 (33) (312) Provision (reversal) of impairment of investments – long steel Brazil 34 (a) (71) 988 Gain on sales of fixed and intangible assets, net 29 (4) (149) Provision (reversal) for the impairment of fixed, 16, 17 and intangible assets and investments 18 (23) 1,164 Depreciation, amortization and depletion 27 2,360 2,603 Equity in the results of investees 16 (c) (1,219) (724) Interest, indexation and foreign exchange variations 2,042 1,052 Allowance for doubtful accounts 11 (c) 4 Discount on repurchase of bonds 30 (173) Constitution (reversal) of provision (273) 384 Derivative financial instruments 6.1.1 (319) 791 Financial instruments – firm commitment 15 522 253 Fair value adjustment – Resolution 4131 19 (b) 47 (26) Change in fair value of biological assets 8 (2) 3,694 4,169 Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 109 Note 2017 2016 Decrease (increase) in assets Financial investments 225 1,754 Derivative financial instruments (202) (72) Trade accounts receivable (420) 522 Inventory (130) 322 Taxes recoverable 12 171 Related parties 395 320 Other accounts receivable and other assets (358) (111) Increase (decrease) in liabilities Trade payables 630 (300) Salaries and social charges 47 (20) Use of public assets (84) 105 Taxes payable 160 (102) Other obligations and other liabilities 171 304 Cash provided by operating activities 4,140 7,062 Interest paid on borrowing and use of public assets (1,558) (1,779) Income tax and social contribution paid (688) (491) Net cash provided by operating activities 1,894 4,792 Cash flow from investment activities Proceeds from disposals of fixed and intangible assets 178 379 Public offering capture – Nexa 1.1 (f) 1,009 Sale of Nexa shares 753 Proceeds from sales of investments – Sirama 566 Sale of investments in China, California and Florida 1,937 82 Dividends received 540 245 Acquisitions of property, plant and equipment 17 (3,108) (3,026) Increase in biological assets (4) (5) Increase in intangible assets 18 (174) (181) Net cash provided by (used in) investment activities 1,131 (1,940) CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 110 Consolidated statement of cash flows Years ended December 31 All amounts in millions of reais (A free translation of the original in Portuguese) Note 2017 2016 Cash flow from financing activities New borrowing 19 (b) 5.399 6.162 Repayment of borrowing 19 (b) (5.881) (7.376) Derivative financial instruments 6.1.1 (561) (371) Dividends paid (359) (105) Net cash used in financing activities (1.402) (1.690) Cash increase resulting from incorporation 177 Reduction of cash resulting from reclassification to assets held-for-sale Effect of fluctuations in exchange rates 391 (1,042) Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 6,946 6,649 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 8,960 6,946 Main non-cash transactions Increase in non-cash assets resulting from incorporation 7,060 Adoption of debts in Special Tax Regularization Program (“PERT”) without cash effect (259) Transfer of assets classified as held-for-sale 2,125 Transfer of liabilities related to assets classified as heldfor-sale (1,522) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 111 Consolidated statement of value added Years ended December 31 All amounts in millions of reais (A free translation of the original in Portuguese) Note 2017 2016 Revenue Sales of products and services 31,362 30,383 Estimated loss on doubtful accounts 11 (c) (4) Other operating income, net 894 581 32,256 30,960 Inputs acquired from third parties Raw materials and other production inputs (18,545) (17,225) Materials, energy, outsourced services and others (517) (512) Impairment of assets 29 94 (2,152) Gross value added 13,288 11,071 Depreciation, amortization and depletion 27 (2,360) (2,603) Net value added generated by the Company 10,928 8,468 Value added received through transfers Equity in the results of investees 1,222 768 Finance income and foreign exchange losses 2,279 5,097 3,501 5,865 Total value added to distribute 14,429 14,333 Distribution of value added Personnel and payroll charges 28 Direct remuneration 2,469 2,553 Social charges 947 1,023 Benefits 600 597 4,016 4,173 Taxes and contributions Federal 2,491 2,217 State 2,604 2,904 Municipal 13 18 Deferred taxes (592) (870) 4,516 4,269 Third-party capital remuneration Finance costs and foreign exchange losses 4,771 6,814 Rentals 316 328 5,087 7,142 Own capital remuneration Non-controlling interests 220 45 Dividends (499) 89 Reinvested profits (offset losses) 1,234 (1,085) Loss on discontinued operations (145) (300) 810 (1,251) Value added distributed 14,429 14,333 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 112 Notes to the consolidated financial statements at December 31, 2017 All amounts in millions of reais unless otherwise stated 1. GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS Votorantim S.A. (the “Company”, the “parent company”, or “VSA”), formerly known as Votorantim Industrial S.A., is a privately held company, fully controlled by the Ermírio de Moraes family, and is the holding company of the Votorantim Group. With its headquarters in the city of São Paulo, Brazil, the Company’s purpose is to manage assets and companies, as well as to invest in other companies in order to further its objectives. The Company, through its subsidiaries and associates, operates in the following segments: cement, zinc and byproducts, aluminum, electrical energy, steel, wood pulp, agribusiness and finance. 1.1. MAIN EVENTS THAT OCCURRED DURING THE YEAR 2017 (a) Corporate transactions in the long steel segment On February 22, 2017, ArcelorMittal Brasil S.A. (“AMB”) and VSA entered into an agreement under which Votorantim Siderurgia S.A. (“VS”) will become a subsidiary of AMB and VSA will hold a minority interest of 15% in the capital of AMB (Note 34 (a)). Votorantim’s long steel operations in Argentina (Acerbrag) and Colombia (PazdelRío) were not included in the transaction. (b) Sale of assets and liabilities in the Cement segment (i) China operations In June 2017, the indirect subsidiary Votorantim Cimentos EAA Inversiones SL (“VCEAA”) carried out the sale of assets and liabilities related to the operations of Suzhou Nanda Cement Co. Ltd., Hua Wo Cement Co. Ltd. – (Shandong) and Hua Wo Cement Co. Ltd. – (Huai’an), located in China. In October 2017, VCEAA sold all the shares representing Hua Wo (Zaozhuang) Cement Co. Ltd. and Liyand Dongfang Cement Co Ltd., with both companies held by Votorantim Cimentos (“VCSA”) indirectly. As a result, the VCEAA recorded a loss related to the sale of the investment in the amount of R$ 139 and exchange variation of the realization of the other comprehensive income – the exchange variation on these foreign investments in the amount of R$ 60, both recorded under “Discontinued Operations” (Note 34 (c)). As a result of the sale of this investment, VCSA also carried out proportionally the reduction of goodwill and exchange variation of the realization of other comprehensive income on these investments abroad, in the amount of R$ 228 and R$ 73, respectively, recorded under “Discontinued operations “(Note 34 (c)). Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 113 (ii) Florida and California operations The indirect subsidiary Votorantim Cement North America Inc. (“VCNA”) and the Anderson Columbia Group (“Anderson Columbia”) entered into a contract for the sale of all the shares representing the capital stock of the operations in the states of Florida and California (USA), which includes VCNA Prestige Concrete Products Inc., VCNA Prestige Gunite Inc. (including its wholly-owned subsidiary Sacramento Prestige Gunite Inc.) and its 50% interest in Suwanee American Cement LLC (“SAC”) and Sumter Cement Co LLC. In November 2017, the operation was completed and VCSA recorded net gain related to the sale of the investment in the amount of R$ 257, recorded under “Discontinued operations” (Note 34 (c)). (c) Reversed a provision referring to the exclusion of State Value Added Tax on Sales and Services (“ICMS”) from the basis of calculation of the PIS and COFINS contributions In the second quarter of 2017, the investees reversed a provision referring to the exclusion of ICMS from the basis of calculation of the PIS and COFINS contributions, based on the judgment of the Federal Supreme Court (“STF”) with general repercussions. The net result of this reversal represented a gain effect, in the amount of R$ 327, in the income for the year. (d) Adoption the Special Tax Regularization Program In 2017, the subsidiaries adopted the Special Tax Regularization Program (“PERT”), including debits with the Brazilian Federal Revenue (“RFB”) in accordance with the Provisional Executive Act (“MP”) 783/2017, converted into Law 13,496, on October 24, 2017. The amount included in the program was R$ 374, of which R$ 117 had already been provisioned. Accordingly, there was an impact on the result for the year, in the amount of R$ 257, of which R$ 122 was recorded under “Other operating income (expenses), net” (Note 29), R$ 79 in financial income and R$ 56 in tax income and social contribution. Of the total included in the program, R$ 259 was paid with tax loss and negative basis, and the rest will be settled in cash. (e) Mato Grosso State Credit Recovery Program – (“REFIS – MT Program”) The subsidiary VCSA joined the REFIS-MT and signed an agreement with the Public Ministry of the State of Mato Grosso with the purpose of adjusting and ratifying the ICMS tax benefits related to the construction of the Cuiabá plant. Under the agreement, it was recognized that VCSA made investments higher than those provided for in the respective terms of concession of tax benefits. However, divergences in legal interpretation led to tax assessments, which led to the need to resolve pending tax issues through a payment in the amount of R$ 237 to the State in September 2017. VCSA also pledged to increase investments of R$ 15, of which R$ 13.5 was paid in September 2017, for a state development fund for the promotion of small entrepreneurs, and R$ 1.5 for the municipality of Nobres, which will benefit from projects in the area of ​​health, developed in partnership with the Votorantim Institute, which includes the construction of two service stations for the population. To settle this agreement, the Company adhered to the Mato Grosso State Credit Recovery Program – REFIS-MT Program. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 114 (f) Public offering of shares Nexa Resources S.A. (“Nexa”) On October 27, 2017, the subsidiary Nexa announced its initial public offering and began trading its shares on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) and the Toronto Stock Exchange (“TSX”), under the ticker name “NEXA”. On October 31, 2017, Nexa announced the closing of its initial public offering of 35,650,000 common shares of the Company at a price of USD 16.00 per share, which included a total of 15,150,000 shares sold by VSA, in which 4,650,000 shares are included in the additional purchase option held by VSA. As a result, Nexa’s shareholders’ equity increased by R$ 1,009 (USD 306). In primary funding, the VSA share was diluted from 89.35% to 75.61%, resulting in a reduction of R$ 215 in investment and this was reflected in shareholders’ equity (Note 25). The sale of shares by VSA corresponded to 15.57% of Nexa’s remaining balance, with the Company holding 64.25%. As a reflection of the operation, VSA recognized a net gain of R$ 258, of which R$ 589 was recorded under “Other operating income (expenses), net” (Note 29) and a loss of R$ (331) recorded in financial income, whit the following effects: Effects sale of investment in Nexa Net income from sale of investment (Note 29) (161) Realization of other comprehensive income from sale (Note 29) 750 Hedge Net Investment – Exchange rate variation (331) Gain on the sale of investment in Nexa 258 (g) Sale of interests in Cementos Bio Bio S.A. (“Bio Bio”) and in Guanaco Inversiones Ltda. (“Guanaco”) In October 2017, the subsidiary Votorantim Cimentos Chile S.A. (“VCC”) was partially spun-off, aiming at the creation of a new company named Guanaco Inversiones Ltda., which received through the spinoff the 13.1% interest held by VCC in Bio Bio. In November 2017, the Company sold all the shares of Guanaco and recognized a net gain of R$ 16. In the same period, VCC also sold the remaining shares it held in Bio Bio, equivalent to a 3.6% interest in such company, and recognized a net gain of R$ 4 (Note 29). (h) Joint venture in energy operation On December 13, 2017, the subsidiary Votorantim Geração de Energia SA (“VGE”) signed an investment agreement with Canada Pension Plan Investment Board (“CPPIB”) to set up a joint venture serving as an investment platform related to acquisition and development of new renewable energy generation assets in Brazil. On the same date, as an initial investment strategy, VGE and CPPIB entered into an agreement to buy and sell shares with Casa dos Ventos Energias Renováveis S.A., aiming at the acquisition by the joint venture of the wind farms of Ventos do Araripe III. As part of the constitution of the joint venture, VGE will contribute its wholly-owned subsidiaries of Ventos do Piauí I wind farms and CPPIB will contribute approximately R$ 690. The completion of the operation is subject to verification of some previous conditions. Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 115 (i) Change of corporate name In the fourth quarter of 2017, due to the repositioning in the market, the main companies that are part of the Nexa corporate structure, changed their corporate name. The amendments are still under review by the bodies responsible for approval. Here are the changes that were made: From To Compañía Minera Milpo S.A.A. Nexa Resources Perú S.A.A. Votorantim Metais Zinco S.A. Nexa Recursos Minerais S.A. Votorantim Metais – Cajamarquilla S.A. Nexa Resources Cajamarquilla S.A. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 116 2. PRESENTATION OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.1. BASIS OF PREPARATION (a) Consolidated interim financial statements The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting practices adopted in Brazil effective up to December 31, 2017, including the pronouncements issued by the Brazilian Accounting Pronouncements Committee (“CPC”), as well as according to the International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”) and their interpretations (“IFRIC”), and show all relevant information pertinent to interim financial statements, which is consistent with that used by the management in carrying out its duties. The Company voluntarily discloses its consolidated statement of value added, according to the accounting practices adopted in Brazil, applicable to public companies and presented as an integral part of these financial statements. To international practice, this statement is presented as additional information. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements considered the historical cost basis, which in the case of certain financial assets and liabilities, including derivative instruments, is adjusted to reflect the fair value measurement. The financial statements require the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires management to exercise judgment in the process of applying the Company’s accounting policies. The areas involving a higher degree of judgment or complexity or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed in Note 4. (b) Approval of the financial statements The issuance of these financial statements was originally approved by Management on February 28, 2018 and subsequently re-approved on March 21, 2018, due to the disclosure of the subsequent event related to the corporate reorganization of the jointly-controlled subsidiary Fibria Celulose S.A. (Note 36 (e)). 2.2. CONSOLIDATION (a) Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Company. Transactions, balances and unrealized gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Unrealized losses are also eliminated, unless the transaction provides evidence of impairment of the asset transVotorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 117 ferred. Accounting policies of acquired subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Company. (b) Transactions with non-controlling interests The Company treats transactions with non-controlling interests as transactions with equity owners of the Company. For purchases from non-controlling interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the proportion acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity. Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded directly in equity, in “Profit retention reserves”. (c) Loss of control of subsidiaries When the Company ceases to have control, any retained interest in the entity is re-measured to its fair value, with the change in carrying amount recognized in profit and loss. The amounts previously recognized in carrying value adjustments are reclassified to profit and loss. (d) Associates and joint arrangements Joint operations are accounted for in the financial statements in order to represent the Company’s contractual rights and obligations. Therefore, the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses related to its interests in joint operations are individually accounted for in its financial statements. Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method and are initially recognized at cost. The Company’s investments in associates and joint ventures includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment loss. Dilution gains and losses on investments in associates and joint ventures are recognized in the statement of income. 2.3. RESTATEMENT OF COMPARATIVE FIGURES (a) Assets classified as held-for-sale In accordance with IFRS 5 / CPC 31 – “Non-current assets held-for-sale and discontinued operations”, the Company reclassified certain cement operations from China and the states of Florida and California (USA) from continuing operations to discontinued operations, consequently, the result balances were subject to changes in the amounts previously presented in the financial statements as at December 31, 2016. Thus, the effects of these reclassifications are as follows: CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 118 2016 Impacts of As prior reclassifiRestated presented cation of cement Continuing operations Net revenue from products sold and services rendered 26,738 (773) 25,965 Cost of products sold and services rendered (20,773) 763 (20,010) Loss of profit 5,965 (10) 5,955 Operating income (expenses) Selling (1,667) 28 (1,639) General and administrative (2,112) 21 (2,091) Other operating income (expenses), net (2,605) (11) (2,616) (6,384) 38 (6,346) Operating profit (loss) before equity results and finance results (419) 28 (391) Results from equity investments Equity in the results of investees 737 (13) 724 Realization of other comprehensive income on disposal of investments 44 44 781 (13) 768 Finance results, net Finance income 1,397 1,397 Finance costs (2,666) 23 (2,643) Income from derivative financial instruments (1,006) (1,006) Foreign exchange, net 544 (9) 535 (1,731) 14 (1,717) Profit (loss) before income tax and social contribution (1,369) 29 (1,340) Income tax and social contribution Current (482) 1 (481) Deferred 868 2 870 Profit (loss) for the year from continuing operations (983) 32 (951) Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 119 2016 Impacts of As prior reclassifiRestated presented cation of cement Discontinued operations Loss for the year from discontinued operations (268) (32) (300) Loss for the period attributable to the owners (1,251) (1,251) Loss attributable to the owners of the Company (1,296) (1,296) Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 45 45 Loss for the year (1,251) (1,251) Weighted average number of shares – thousands (to the owners of the Company) 18,278,789 18,278,789 Basic and diluted loss per thousand shares, in reais (70.90) (70.90) From continuing operations Basic and diluted earnings per thousand shares, in reais (56.24) 1.75 (54.49) From discontinued operations Basic and diluted loss per thousand shares, in reais (14.66) (1.75) (16.41) 2.4. FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION (a) Functional and presentation currency of the financial statements The functional currency of the Company is the Brazilian Real (“R$”, “Real” or “reais”). (b) Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into reais using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions or the dates of valuation when items are re-measured. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognized in the statement of income, except when deferred in equity as net investment hedges. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 120 (c) Subsidiaries with a different functional currency The results and financial positions of all the Company entities (none of which has the currency of a hyper-inflationary economy) that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: (i) Assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet; (ii) Income and expenses for each statement of income are translated at average exchange rates; (iii) All resulting exchange differences are recognized as a separate component of equity, in “Carrying value adjustments”. The amounts presented in the cash flow are extracted from the translated movements of the assets, liabilities and profit or loss, as detailed above. On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations, and of borrowings and other foreign currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to equity. When a foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences that were recorded in equity are recognized in the statement of income as part of the gain or loss on sale. Goodwill and fair value arising from the acquisition of an entity abroad are treated as assets and liabilities of the entity abroad and converted at the closing rate. Below are the functional currencies defined for the significant foreign subsidiaries: Company Country Functional Main currency activity Votorantim Cement North America Inc. Canada US Dollar Holding Votorantim Cimentos EAA Inversiones, S.L. Spain Euro Holding Nexa Resources Cajamarquilla S.A. Peru US Dollar Zinc US Zinc Corporation EUA US Dollar Zinc Nexa Resources Perú S.A.A. Peru US Dollar Mining Acerías Paz del Río S.A. Colombia Colombian Peso Steel Acerbrag S.A. Argentina Argentine Peso Steel Nexa Resources S.A. Luxembourg US Dollar Holding Votorantim GmbH Austria US Dollar Zinc Votorantim FinCO GmbH Luxembourg US Dollar Trading Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 121 3. CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND DISCLOSURES 3.1. NEW STANDARDS NOT YET ADOPTED The following standards have been published and are mandatory for accounting periods starting from January 1, 2018. There was no early adoption of these standards by the Company. Standard IFRS 15 – “Revenue from contracts with customers” Validity January 1, 2018 Main points introduced by the This standard introduces a comprehensive framework for standard determining the measurement of revenue and when revenue should be recognized. In accordance with IFRS 15, revenue must be recognized when: (i) there is a written or oral contract; (ii) the obligation to perform the contract is identified; (iii) it is possible to determine the price of the transaction and allocate by performance obligation; and (iv) the performance obligation is met. IFRS 15 replaces current revenue recognition standards, including CPC 30 (IAS 18) – “Revenue”, CPC 17 (IAS 11) – “Construction Contracts” and CPC 30 – Interpretation A (IFRIC 13) – “Loyalty Programs with the client”. Impacts Management evaluated the principles and amendments introduced by the new standard and concluded that its adoption will not impact the Company in relation to the time for recognition of revenue from customer contracts, as well as its measurement, presentation and disclosure in the financial statements. The observed impacts are related to the review of internal documents and the creation and / or change of procedures, in order to ensure that the new contracts with clients are adequately evaluated and accounted in accordance with IFRS 15. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 122 Standard CPC 48 / IFRS 9 – “Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement” Validity January 1, 2018 Main points introduced by the This standard addresses three aspects of accounting for financial standard instruments: classification and measurement, impairment and hedge accounting. IFRS 9 is intended to replace IAS 39 – “Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement”. (i) Classification and measurement The standard provides a new assessment for the classification and measurement of financial instruments, which will be defined based on the contractual cash flow and the entity’s business model, and introduces a new classification of financial assets at fair value through other entities results. (ii) Impairment IFRS 9 defines that an entity shall measure an expected credit loss from the initial recognition of the financial asset. The standard allows the Company to make this estimate through a general model in which there is a need to monitor whether there is any significant credit risk increase or a simplified model. (iii) Hedge accounting IFRS 9 introduces three requirements for hedge effectiveness: (i) There is an economic relationship between the object and the hedging instrument; (ii) The effect of credit risk does not dominate the changes in values arising from the economic relationship; and (iii) The hedge ratio of the hedge relationship is the same as that resulting from the amount of the hedged item that the hedge effectively protects and the amount of the hedge instrument that the hedge actually uses to hedge that hedged item amount. The standard also requires a prospective assessment of expectations about the effectiveness of coverage. In addition, exclusively for hedge accounting of cash flow there is a change in relation to the concept of time value, which will no longer be treated as a component of the transaction and will begin to affect shareholders’ equity (other comprehensive income) with the adoption of the IFRS 9. Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 123 Standard CPC 48 / IFRS 9 – “Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement” Impacts Management evaluated the principles and amendments introduced by the new standard and concluded that its adoption will not cause significant impacts to the Company and its subsidiaries in relation to the time for recognition, as well as their measurement, presentation and disclosure in the financial statements. (i) Classification and measurement The Company and its subsidiaries analyzed the classification of their financial assets, based on the three new categories: amortized cost, fair value through other comprehensive income and at fair value through profit or loss. The Company does not expect a significant impact on its balance sheet or shareholders’ equity when applying the classification and measurement requirements. (ii) Impairment The Company and its subsidiaries will apply the simplified approach to recognize the expected credit loss for trade accounts receivable. The methodology for calculating the provision for losses is based on a risk matrix, which was composed of historical data of losses for all aging lists and prospective data, including considering the securities to be matched. In the analysis performed by the Company, an increase was estimated in the estimated loss that is intangible in the consolidated as at January 1, 2018. (iii) Hedge accounting The Company and its subsidiaries analyzed the economic relationship, credit risk and the hedge ratio of the current net investment hedge operations and concluded that they will continue to qualify for hedge accounting with the adoption of IFRS 9. As this standard does not change the general principles of accounting of effective hedges, there will be no impact as a result of the application of IFRS 9. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 124 Standard IFRS 16 – “Leases” Validity January 1, 2019 Main points introduced by the This standard replaces the previous lease standard, IAS 17 / CPC standard 06 (R1) – “Leasing Operations”, and related interpretations, and establishes the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases for both parties to a contract, ie customers (lessees) and suppliers (lessors). Tenants are required to recognize a lease liability reflecting future lease payments and a “right to use an asset” for virtually all lease agreements, with the exception of certain short-term leases and low value asset leases. For landlords, the accounting treatment remains practically the same, with the classification of leases as operating leases or financial leases, and accounting for these two types of lease differently. Impacts The evaluation of the Company and its subsidiaries on the impacts of the new standard is underway. The evaluation is being conducted in the different areas, with the objective of identifying the existing lease contracts, as well as the environment of internal controls and systems impacted by the adoption of the new standard. There are no other standards, changes in standards and interpretations that are not in force that the Company expects to have a material impact arising from its application in its financial statements. Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 125 4. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGMENTS Based on assumptions, the Company makes estimates regarding the future. By definition, accounting estimates and judgments are continuously reviewed and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events, which are considered reasonable for the circumstances. Revisions to the estimates are recognized prospectively. The accounting estimates will rarely be the same as the actual results. Estimates and assumptions that present a significant risk and are likely to cause a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for the next fiscal year are described in the respective notes below: (i) Fair value of financial instruments and derivatives (Note 6.1.1); (ii) Trade receivable (Note 11); (iii) Property, plant and equipment (Note 17); (iv) Intangible assets (Note 18); (v) Current and deferred income and social contribution taxes (Note 21); (vi) Provision(Note 23); (vii) Pension plan (Note 31). CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 126 5. SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Company, through its subsidiaries and associates, operates in various segments and consequently, these activities are subject to several Brazilian and international environmental laws, regulations, treaties and conventions, including those that regulate the discharge of materials into the environment, which establish the removal and cleaning of the contaminated environment, or those relating to environmental protection. The violations of the environmental regulations in force expose the violator(s) to significant fines and monetary penalties, and may require technical measures or investments to ensure the compliance with the mandatory emissions levels. The Company carries out periodic studies to identify any potentially affected areas and records, based on the best estimates of costs, the amounts expected to be disbursed for the investigation, treatment and cleaning of the potentially affected areas. The Company and its subsidiaries believe they are in compliance with all of the applicable environmental standards in the countries in which they operate. Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 127 6. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT 6.1. FINANCIAL RISK FACTORS The activities of the Company and its subsidiaries expose them to a variety of financial risks, namely: (a) market risk (including currency, commodity price and interest rate risk), (b) credit risk and (c) liquidity risk. A significant portion of the products sold by the Company and its subsidiaries, such as aluminum, nickel and zinc are commodities, with prices pegged to international indexes and denominated in US Dollars. Their costs, however, are mainly denominated in reais, and therefore, there is a mismatch of currencies between revenues and costs. Additionally, the Company and its subsidiaries have debts linked to different indexes and currencies, which may have an impact on their cash flow. In order to mitigate the various effects of each market risk factor, the Company and its subsidiaries follow a Market Risk Management Policy, approved by the Finance Committee, with the objective of establishing governance and the overall guidelines of the process of managing these risks, as well as the metrics for their measurement and monitoring. The financial risk management process aims to protect the cash flow and its operational (revenues and costs) and financial (financial assets and liabilities) components against adverse market events, such as fluctuations in the prices of currencies, interest rates and commodity prices, and against adverse credit events. In addition, it aims to preserve liquidity. The following financial instruments may be taken out in order to mitigate and manage risk: conventional swaps, call options, put options, collars, currency futures contracts and Non-Deliverable Forward contracts. Strategies that include simultaneous purchases and sales of options are authorized only when they do not result in a net short position in volatility of the underlying asset. The Company does not enter into transactions involving financial instruments for speculative purposes. (a) Market risk (i) Foreign exchange risk The Foreign Exchange Exposure Management Policy highlights that the purpose of derivative transactions is to reduce cash flow volatility, hedge against foreign exchange exposure, and avoid the mismatch between Company currencies. The Company has certain investments in foreign operations, the net assets of which are exposed to foreign exchange risk. Foreign exchange exposure arising from the Company’s foreign operations is mainly hedged by borrowings in the same currency of these investments, being classified as net investment hedges. Presented below are accounting balances of assets and liabilities indexed to the foreign currency at the closing date of the balance sheets: CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 128 Note 2017 2016 Assets denominated in foreign currency Cash and cash equivalents 9 6,062 4,641 Financial investments 10 326 517 Derivative financial instruments 189 367 Trade receivables 11 1,192 995 Related parties 67 228 7,836 6,748 Liabilities denominated in foreign currency Borrowing (*) 17,817 18,439 Derivative financial instruments 382 742 Trade payables 1,955 1,861 Confirming payables 20 761 605 20,915 21,647 Net exposure (13,079) (14,899) (*) Does not consider borrowing costs. (ii) Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk The interest rate risk arises from the fluctuations of each of the main indexes of interest rates from borrowing and from financial investments, which have an impact on the payments and receipts of the Company and its subsidiaries. Borrowing at fixed rates exposes the Company to fair value interest rate risk. (iii) Commodity price risk The Commodity Price Exposure Management Policy establishes guidelines to mitigate the risk of fluctuations in commodity prices that have an impact on the cash flow of the Company’s operating subsidiaries. The exposure to each commodity price considers the monthly projections of production, purchases of inputs and flows of maturities of the related hedges. Hedge transactions are classified into the following categories: Fixed-price commercial transactions – hedge transactions that switch, from fixed to floating, the price contracted in commercial transactions with customers interested in purchasing products at a fixed price; Hedges for “quotation periods” – hedges that set a price for the different “quotation periods” between the purchases of certain inputs (metal concentrate) and the sale of products arising from the processing of these inputs; Hedges for “costs of inputs” – intended to ensure protection against volatility in the prices/costs of its operating subsidiaries for commodities such as oil and natural gas; Hedges for “operating margin” – intended to set the operating margin for a portion of the production of certain operating subsidiaries. Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 129 (b) Credit risk Derivative financial instruments and financial investments create exposure to credit risk of counterparties and issuers. The Company adopts the policy of working with issuers which have, at a minimum, been assessed by two of the following three rating agencies: Fitch Ratings, Moody’s or Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”). The minimum rating required for the counterparties is “A” (Brazilian scale) or “BBB-” (international scale), or equivalent. For financial assets where issuers do not meet the minimum credit risk ratings, criteria proposed by the Finance Committee are applied as an alternative. The credit quality of financial assets is disclosed in Note 8. The ratings disclosed in this note always represent the most conservative ratings of the agencies in question. The pre-settlement risk methodology is used to assess counterparty risk on derivatives transactions, determining (via Monte Carlo simulations) the likelihood of a counterparty not honoring the financial commitments defined by the contract. The use of this methodology is described in the Votorantim Financial Policy. The Company performs initial analyses of customer credit and, when necessary, guarantees deemed or letters of credit are obtained to safeguard the Company’s interests. Additionally, most of the export sales to the United States, Europe and Asia are collateralized by letters of credit and credit insurance. (c) Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is managed in accordance with Votorantim’s Financial Policy, aiming to guarantee sufficient liquid resources to honor the Company’s financial commitments in the period and at no additional cost. One of the main instruments of measurement and monitoring of liquidity is the projection of cash flow, observing a minimum term of 12 months of projection as of the reference date. The following table analyzes the Company’s principal financial liabilities by maturity, corresponding to the period remaining in the balance sheet up to the contractual maturity date. Derivative financial liabilities are included in the analysis when their contractual maturities are essential for an understanding of the temporary cash flows. The amounts disclosed in the table are the undiscounted contractual cash flows, these amounts may not be reconciled with the amounts disclosed in the balance sheet. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 130 Up to one From From From Note one to three five to From ten Total three year years to five ten years years years At December 31, 2017 Borrowing (*) 3,603 5,531 6,970 12,941 7,931 36,976 Derivative financial instruments 310 63 9 382 Confirming payables 20 1,070 1,070 Trade payables 3,353 3,353 Dividends payable 14 188 188 Related parties 19 6 25 Use of public assets 79 170 192 591 1,637 2,669 8,622 5,770 7,171 13,532 9,568 44,663 At December 31, 2016 Borrowing (*) 3,826 7,247 8,530 9,924 9,368 38,895 Derivative financial instruments 401 286 56 743 Confirming payables 20 968 968 Trade payables 2,723 2,723 Dividends payable 14 48 48 Related parties 10 12 22 Use of public assets 78 171 193 595 1,889 2,926 8,054 7,716 8,779 10,519 11,257 46,325 (*) Does not include the recorded fair value of the debts contracted under Resolution 4131. 6.1.1. DERIVATIVES CONTRACTED Accounting policy Initially, derivatives are recognized at fair value on the date of their contracting and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value. The method for recognizing the resulting gain or loss depends on whether or not the derivative is designated as a hedge instrument in cases of adoption of hedge accounting. If this is the case, the method depends on the nature of the item being hedged. The Company adopts hedge accounting and designates certain derivatives such as: (i) Cash flow hedge With a view to ensuring a fixed operating margin in reais for a portion of the production of the metal businesses, the subsidiaries enter into commodity forward contracts (zinc, aluminum and nickel) on sales of certain commodities combined with the sale of U.S. Dollar forward contracts. These subsidiaries adopt hedge accounting Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 131 for the derivative instruments entered into for this purpose. The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognized in equity within “Carrying value adjustments”. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognized as “Operating income (expenses)”. The amounts recognized in equity are recorded in the statement of income (in the same line item affected by the transaction originally hedged) upon realization of the hedged exports and/or sales referenced to London Metal Exchange (“LME”) prices. (ii) Fair value hedges With the objective of maintaining the flow of the metal businesses’ operating revenue pegged to LME prices, the subsidiaries enter into hedging transactions under which they convert sales at fixed prices to floating prices in commercial transactions with customers interested in purchasing products at a fixed price. Changes in the fair values of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in “Operating income (expenses)”. (iii) Fair value of derivatives and other financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in active markets is determined through the use of valuation techniques. The Company uses its judgment to choose among several methods and to establish assumptions that are based primarily on the market conditions existing at the balance sheet date. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 132 (a) Effects of the derivative financial instruments in the balance sheet and cash flow The table below summarizes the derivative financial instruments and the underlying hedged items: Principal Value As per PurPrograms chase/ unit sale 2017 2016 Sales at a fixed price Zinc forward 2,318 922 ton P Hedging instruments for mismatches of quotation periods Zinc forward 281,397 184,835 ton P/S Silver forward 238 k oz (*) P/S Aluminum forward 6,850 1,497 ton P/S Hedging instruments for the operating margin of metals Aluminum forward 18,970 5,165 ton S Zinc forward 10,690 ton S US Dollar forward 33 16 USD S Hedging instruments for foreign exchange exposure US Dollar forward 451 USD P Euro forward EUR P Turkish lira forward 26 USD P Hedging instruments for debts Fixed rate in reais vs. CDI floating rate swaps 100 BRL TJLP floating rate vs. CDI floating rate swaps 28 28 BRL LIBOR floating rate vs. CDI floating rate swaps 254 773 USD US dollar fixed rate vs. CDI floating rate swaps 50 50 USD (*) k oz– Troy Ounce Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 133 RealAverized age Fair value gain Fair value by maturity Average FWD rate term (loss) (days) 2017 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 3,016 USD/ton 123 2.1 1.8 4.3 2.1 2.1 1.8 4.3 2.1 24 (16.3) 14.3 (17.1) (16.3) 17 0.6 (0.1) 0.6 29 (0.2) (2.8) (0.2) (15.9) 14.3 (20.0) (15.9) 1,722 USD/ton 1 (21.9) (1.9) (21.9) USD/ton (23.2) 4 BRL/USD 1 8.9 11.4 8.9 (13.0) (13.7) (13.0) 3 BRL/USD 5 (21.2) (9.1) (21.2) BRL/EUR (0.9) 4 TRY/USD 22 0.4 0.4 (20.8) (10.0) (20.8) (1.0) (0.9) 97.00% % CDI 197 1.0 1.0 (0.3) 1.0 111.07% % CDI 1,030 42.4 (320.3) (535.1) (23.5) (30.0) 10.6 85.3 101.90% % CDI 24 (42.7) (47.7) (14.9) (42.7) 0.7 (368.0) (551.2) (65.2) (30.0) 10.6 85.3 (46.9) (365.6) (576.9) (112.8) (30.0) 10.6 85.3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 134 Principal Value PurPrograms As per chase/ unit sale 2017 2016 Hedge accounting – cash flow hedge Hedging instruments for the operating margin of metals Zinc forward 94,559 ton S Aluminum forward 165,175 225,000 ton S Copper forward 540 ton S US Dollar forward 334 473 USD S Hedging instruments for mismatches of quotation periods Zinc forward 58,800 43,294 ton P/S Silver forward 265 k oz (*) P/S Hedge accounting – fair value hedge Sales at a fixed price Zinc forward 202 426 ton P Hedging instruments for mismatches of quotation periods Zinc forward 93,003 23,940 ton P/S (*) k oz– Troy Ounce The transactions involving derivative financial instruments recognized in “Carrying value adjustments” amount a loss of R$ (41) in 2017. Besides this, there are hedge accounting operations, which amounted to a loss of R$ (15) in 2017, in the subsidiaries not consolidated recognized in “Carrying value adjustments”. Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 135 RealFair value ized Fair value by maturity Average Average gain FWD rate term (days) (loss) 2017 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 (74.9) (145.2) 2,019 USD/ton 198 (143.2) (10.6) (184.0) (133.6) (9.6) 0.7 (0.6) 3 BRL/USD 200 0.1 80.8 173.4 1.2 (1.1) (143.1) (4.0) (156.4) (132.4) (10.7) 47 9.9 (5.6) 14.7 9.9 58 (0.2) (0.3) (0.2) 9.7 (5.6) 14.4 9.7 3,169 USD/ton 69 0.1 0.3 1.2 0.1 0.1 0.3 1.2 0.1 43 (11.4) 0.3 (45.2) (11.4) (11.4) 0.3 (45.2) (11.4) (144.7) (9.0) (186.0) (134.0) (10.7) (191.6) (374.6) (762.9) (246.8) (40.7) 10.6 85.3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 136 (b) Effects of financial derivative instruments on the financial result The chart below shows the impact of the financial derivative instruments in the financial result of the year: Programs Fair value Realized Total loss Hedging instruments for foreign exchange exposure US Dollar forward (21,2) (9,1) (30,3) Euro forward (0,9) (0,9) Turkish lira forward 0,4 0,4 (20,8) (10,0) (30,8) Hedging instruments for debts Fixed rate in reais vs. CDI floating rate swaps 1,0 (0,9) 0,1 TJLP vs. CDI floating rate swaps (0,3) (0,3) LIBOR floating rate vs. CDI floating rate swaps 362,7 (535,1) (172,4) US Dollar fixed rate vs. CDI floating rate swaps 5,0 (14,9) (9,9) 368,7 (551,2) (182,5) Effect on the finance results 347,9 (561,2) (213,3) Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 137 6.1.2. FAIR VALUE ESTIMATION The main financial assets and liabilities are described below, as well as their valuation assumptions: Financial assets – considering the nature and the terms, the amounts recorded approximate their realizable values. Financial liabilities – these instruments are subject to the usual market interest rates. The market value was based on the present value of the expected future cash disbursements, at interest rates currently available for the issue of debts with similar maturities and terms. The Company discloses fair value measurements according to their level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy: Level 1 – Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets and liabilities. Level 2 – Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (that is, as prices) or indirectly (that is, derived from prices). Level 3 – Inputs for the assets or liabilities that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs). As at December 31, 2017 and 2016, the financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value were classified as levels 1 and 2 in the fair value measurement hierarchy. Fair value measured based on 2017 Valuation Prices supported quoted in an by Note active Fair value observable market prices (Level 1) (Level 2) Assets Cash and cash equivalents 9 5,715 3,245 8,960 Financial investments 10 1,573 2,014 3,587 Derivative financial instruments 6.1.1 190 190 Financial instruments – firm commitment 15 364 364 7,288 5,813 13,101 Liabilities Borrowing 19 15,292 10,217 25,509 Confirming payables 20 1,070 1,070 Derivative financial instruments 6.1.1 382 382 Financial instruments – firm commitment 15 173 173 Deferred revenue – silver streaming 734 734 15,292 12,576 27,868 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 138 Fair value measured based on 2016 Valuation Prices supported quoted in an by Note active Fair value observable market prices (Level 1) (Level 2) Assets Cash and cash equivalents 9 3,128 3,818 6,946 Financial investments 10 1,401 1,828 3,229 Derivative financial instruments 6.1.1 368 368 Financial instruments – firm commitment 15 688 688 4,529 6,702 11,231 Liabilities Borrowing 19 11,252 12,027 23,279 Confirming payables 20 968 968 Derivative financial instruments 6.1.1 743 743 Financial instruments – firm commitment 15 10 10 Deferred revenue – silver streaming 815 815 11,252 14,563 25,815 6.1.3. HEDGE OF NET INVESTMENTS IN FOREIGN OPERATIONS Accounting policy Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges. Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognized in “Carrying value adjustments”. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognized immediately in income. Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the statement of income when the foreign operation is partially or fully disposed of or sold. Investments that were designated as hedged investments are presented in the following table including the portion of the debt of the Company and its subsidiaries Companhia Brasileira de Aluminio (“CBA”), Nexa Mineral Resources S.A. (“Nexa BR”), VCSA and VS, denominated in Euros and Dollars. Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 139 2017 2016 Investment Debt Investment Debt Nexa Resources Cajamarquilla S.A. 2,825 2,981 3,233 2,968 Votorantim Cement North America Inc. 2,170 4,219 3,173 4,540 Votorantim Cimentos EAA Inversiones, S.L. 1,723 2,263 2,410 2,577 The foreign exchange loss on the conversion of debts, net of income tax and social contribution, recognized as equity valuation adjustments on December 31, 2017, was R$ 163 (December 31, 2016, gain of R$ 2,033) (Note 25 (e)). The Company documents and evaluates quarterly the effectiveness of the investment hedge operations, both prospectively and retrospectively. 6.1.4. SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS The main risk factors affecting the pricing of cash and cash equivalents, financial investments, loans and financing and derivative financial instruments are exposure to the fluctuation of the Dollar, Euro, Turkish lira, New Peruvian Sun, Argentine Peso and Bolivian interest rates, LIBOR, CDI, US Dollar coupon, commodity prices and electricity purchase and sale contracts. The scenarios for these factors are prepared using market sources and specialized sources, following the Company’s governance. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 140 The scenarios as of December 31, 2017 are described below: Scenario I – Considers a shock in the market curves and quotations at December 31, 2017, according to the base scenario defined by Management for March 31, 2018; Scenario II – considers a shock of + or – 25% in the market curves at December 31, 2017; Scenario III – considers a shock of + or – 50% in the market curves at December 31, 2017. Scenario I Cash and cash Borrowequivaing and Risk factors lents and related Derivative financial Changes Results financial parties from of (i) instruments/As per unit 2017 scenario I investments (i) Foreign exchange rates USD 5,365 14,170 (*) 1,147 USD million -3.8% 61 EUR 206 2,934 -5.4% PEN 81 -4.5% (3) BOB 17 396 -2.4% TRY 129 267 0.4% 1 ARS 127 0.8% Interest rates BRL – CDI 6,144 4,456 3,768 BRL million USD – LIBOR 839 2,118 USD million -2 bps US Dollar coupon 1,121 USD million 3 bps (1) Price of commodities Zinc 435,720 ton -2.9% 50 Aluminum 190,995 ton Copper -11.8% Silver k oz (**) 503 thousand 5.2% Firm commitment – electric energy Sale and purchase agreements – fair value 114 BRL million (*) Considers baskets of currencies (**) k*oz – Ounces troy (i) The balances presented do not reconcile with the cash and cash equivalents, financial investments, related parties and borrowing notes, as the analysis only covers the most significant currencies and the interest rates cover only the principal value. Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 141 Impacts on profit (loss) Impacts on comprehensive income Scenarios II & III Scenario I Scenarios II & III Results -25% -50% +25% +50% of -25% -50% +25% +50% scenario I 403 806 (403) (806) 401 2,628 5,256 (2,628) (5,256) (1) (3) 1 3 148 682 1,364 (682) (1,364) (19) (38) 19 38 (4) (20) (40) 20 40 9 95 189 (95) (189) (32) (65) 32 65 (1) 34 69 (34) (69) 1 (32) (64) 32 64 (25) (49) 25 50 9 18 (8) (17) (4) (9) 4 9 2 5 (2) (5) 18 36 (17) (33) (3) (7) 3 7 196 393 (196) (393) (2) (8) (16) 8 16 2 3 (2) (3) 78 309 618 (309) (618) 1 2 (1) (2) 4 7 (4) (7) 4 7 (4) (8) CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 142 7. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS BY CATEGORY Accounting policy The Company and its subsidiaries classify their financial instruments depending on the purpose for which the financial instruments were acquired. Management determines the classification of financial instruments upon initial recognition, in the following categories: (a) Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss These are financial assets held for active and frequent trading. These assets are measured at their fair value, and the changes are recognized in the statement of income for the year. (b) Held to maturity Investments in non-derivative marketable securities, made by the Company with the ability and intention of being held to maturity, are classified as held to maturity investments and recorded at amortized cost. The Company assesses, at the balance sheet date, whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired. If there is such evidence, a provision for the impairment of the asset is recorded. (c) Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They are initially measured at fair value and subsequently at amortized cost using the effective interest method. (d) Financial assets available-for-sale Financial assets available-for-sale are non-derivatives that are not classified in any of the previous categories. They are presented as non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months after the balance sheet date. (e) Impairment of financial assets carried at amortized cost The amount of any impairment loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows (excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred) discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced and the amount of the loss is recognized in the statement of income. If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognized (such as an improvement in the debtor’s credit rating), the reversal of the previously recorded loss is recognized in the statement of income. Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 143 Note 2017 2016 Assets Borrowing and receivables Cash and cash equivalents 9 8,960 6,946 Trade receivables 11 2,421 2,001 Related parties 14 143 535 11,524 9,482 Assets held-for-trading Financial investments 10 3,468 3,204 Derivative financial instruments 6.1.1 160 258 Financial instruments – firm commitment 364 688 3,992 4,150 Assets available-for-sale Financial investments 10 68 3 68 3 Held-to-maturity investments Financial investments 10 51 22 51 22 Derivatives used for hedging Derivative financial instruments 6.1.1 30 110 30 110 Liabilities Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Borrowing 19 12,859 963 Derivative financial instruments 6.1.1 199 613 Financial instruments – firm commitment 208 10 13,266 1,576 Derivatives used for hedging Derivative financial instruments 6.1.1 183 130 183 130 At amortized cost Borrowing 19 11,771 23,456 Trade payables 3,353 2,723 Related parties 14 25 22 Confirming payables 20 1,070 968 Use of public assets 24 1,132 1,186 17,351 28,355 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 144 8. CREDIT QUALITY OF FINANCIAL ASSETS 2017 2016 Local Global Total Local Global Total rating rating rating rating Cash and cash equivalents AA+ 376 376 AA 70 70 AA2,452 464 2,916 1,831 815 2,646 A+ 2,233 2,233 175 815 990 A 847 847 278 278 A393 393 736 736 BBB+ 391 391 479 479 BBB 458 458 409 409 BBB58 58 111 111 BB+ 34 34 BB 140 140 297 91 388 B77 77 B+ 21 21 81 81 CCC+ 96 96 Unrated (i) 980 980 2 696 698 2,898 6,062 8,960 2,305 4,641 6,946 Financial investments AA+ 867 867 59 59 AA 30 30 AA2,315 14 2,329 2,105 2,105 A+ 3 168 171 479 308 787 A 25 25 3 12 15 A18 2 20 17 66 83 BBB+ 21 21 BBB 3 3 BB 23 23 B50 50 CCC+ 104 104 Unrated (ii) 28 46 74 26 24 50 3,261 326 3,587 2,712 517 3,229 Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 145 2017 2016 Local Global Total Local Global Total rating rating rating rating Derivative financial instruments AAA 30 30 84 84 AA+ 7 7 AA69 17 86 173 173 A+ 11 11 10 1 11 A 1 1 24 24 A76 76 Unrated (i) 55 55 161 29 190 267 101 368 6,320 6,417 12,737 5,284 5,259 10,543 The local and global ratings were obtained from the ratings agencies Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”), Moody’s and Fitch Ratings. The Company considered the ratings of S&P and Fitch Ratings for presentation purposes and the classification as established in Financial Policies. (i) Refers to values invested in offshore banks, which are not rated by any rating agency. (ii) Refers to Grupo Votorantim’s exclusive investment funds (Credit Receivables Investment Funds – “FIDCs”), which are not rated by any rating agency CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 146 9. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Accounting policy Include cash, bank deposits and other highly liquid short-term investments whose original maturities are less than three months, which are readily convertible into a known amount of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of change in value. Cash and cash equivalents in local currency include deposits in current bank accounts and government securities (overnight operations) or financial institutions, indexed to the interbank deposit rate. Cash equivalents in foreign currency are mainly composed of financial instruments in local currency. 2017 2016 Local currency Cash and banks 14 14 Certificates of deposits 534 Repurchase agreements – private securities 165 1,072 Repurchase agreements – public securities 2,185 1,219 2,898 2,305 Foreign currency Cash and banks 3,516 1,895 Certificates of deposits 1,503 2,746 Term deposits 1,043 6,062 4,641 8,960 6,946 Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 147 10. FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS Accounting policy Financial investments are held for the purpose of servicing investments whose maturities are long-term from the date of acquisition. Most financial investments have immediate liquidity, however, they are classified as financial investments based on the original maturities, considering the intended allocation of funds. The investments in national currency comprise government securities or financial institutions indexed to the interbank deposit rate. Foreign currency-denominated investments consist mainly of fixed-income financial instruments in local currency (time deposits). 2017 2016 Held-for-trading Bank Deposit Certificates – “CDBs” 543 657 Financial Treasury Bills – “LFTs” 961 740 Repurchase agreements – public securities 605 661 Repurchase agreements – private securities 1,048 603 Financial investments in foreign currency 282 517 Investment fund quotas 29 26 3,468 3,204 Available-for-sale Bank Deposit Certificates – “CDBs” 68 3 68 3 Held-to-maturity Financial Treasury Bills “LFTs” 7 Financial investments in foreign currency 44 Bank Deposit Certificates – “CDBs” 22 51 22 3,587 3,229 Current 3,562 3,190 Non-current 25 39 3,587 3,229 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 148 11. TRADE RECEIVABLES Accounting policy Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for merchandise sold or services performed in the ordinary course of the Company’s business. Trade receivables are recognized initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest rate method, less provision for impairment of trade receivables. Receivables from customers abroad are presented based on the exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date. (a) Breakdown Note 2017 2016 Trade receivables – Brazil 1,296 1,125 Trade receivables – foreign customers 1,231 1,009 Related parties 14 53 26 2,580 2,160 Allowance for doubtful accounts (159) (159) (159) (159) 2,421 2,001 (b) Breakdown by currency 2017 2016 Brazilian Real 1,229 1,006 US Dollar 620 449 Euro 115 110 Colombian peso 111 83 Argentine peso 74 100 Canadian dollar 4 3 Other 268 250 2,421 2,001 Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 149 (c) Changes in estimated loss for doubful accounts 2017 2016 Opening balance (159) (155) Additions, net (17) (70) Receivables written off as uncollectible (i) 13 17 Reclassification of assets classified as held-for-sale 4 30 Foreign exchange variations 19 Closing balance (159) (159) (i) The amounts charged to the estimated loss account with bad debt are generally written off when there is no expectation of recovering the funds. (d) Aging of trade receivables 2017 2016 Current 1,975 1,796 Up to three months past due 326 169 Three to six months past due 32 20 Over six months past due 247 175 2,580 2,160 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 150 12. INVENTORY Accounting policy Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Cost is determined using the weighted average cost method. The cost of finished goods and work in progress comprises raw materials, direct labor, other direct costs and related production overheads. Raw materials derived from biological assets are measured at fair value, less estimated point-of-sale costs at the point of harvest, when they are transferred to inventories in non-current assets. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less conclusion costs and selling expenses. Imports in transit are stated at the accumulated cost of each import. The Company, at least once a year, carries out a physical inventory. Inventory adjustments are recorded under “Cost of goods sold and services rendered”. The provision for inventory losses refers substantially to obsolete and low turnover materials. 2017 2016 Finished products 749 700 Semi-finished products 1,482 1,396 Raw materials 624 617 Auxiliary materials and consumables 856 952 Imports in transit 205 101 Other 84 104 Provision for inventory losses (474) (489) 3,526 3,381 Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 151 13. TAXES RECOVERABLE Accounting policy The recoverable taxes are held in assets mainly for the purpose of recognizing in the balance sheet of the entity the book values that will be object of future recovery. 2017 2016 Corporate Income Tax (“IRPJ”) and Social Contribution on Net Income (“CSLL”) 1,524 1,354 State Value-added Tax on Sales and Services (“ICMS”) 465 542 Social Contribution on Revenue (“COFINS”) 379 386 Value-added Tax (“VAT”) (foreign companies) 265 275 Social Integration Program (“PIS”) 85 85 “IRPJ/CSLL” – “Plano Verão” 81 185 Withholding Income Tax (“IRRF”) 69 90 (“ICMS”) on property, plant and equipment 66 78 Excise Tax (“IPI”) 32 29 Other 135 89 3,101 3,113 Current 1,317 1,527 Non-current 1,784 1,586 3,101 3,113 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 152 14. RELATED PARTIES Trade receivables Dividends Non-current Assets receivable assets 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Related companies and joint ventures Banco Votorantim S.A. 55 51 Citrosuco GmbH (i) 43 205 Citrosuco S.A. Agroindústria (i) 32 86 302 Fibria Celulose S.A. 12 4 76 116 1 1 Mineração Rio do Norte S.A. 5 7 Supermix Concreto S.A. 5 21 Other 4 1 12 6 13 27 53 26 148 180 143 535 Current 53 26 148 180 Non-current 143 535 53 26 148 180 143 535 Trade payables Dividends payable Non-current Liabilities liabilities 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Parent company Hejoassu Administração S.A. 140 Related companies and joint ventures Fibria Celulose S.A. 3 4 1 Suwannee American Cement LLC 27 Other 6 3 24 22 9 34 140 25 22 Non-controlling interests 48 48 Current 9 34 188 48 Non-current 25 22 9 34 188 48 25 22 Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 153 Sales (purchases), Finance income Profit and loss net (expenses), net 2017 2016 2017 2016 Related companies and joint ventures Cementos Granadilla S.L. 14 64 Citrosuco S.A. Agroindústria 28 12 5 15 Fibria Celulose S.A. 143 59 (1) Superior Materials Holdings, LLC 58 68 Supermix Concreto S.A. 167 276 Cementos Avellaneda S.A. 32 Cementos Especiales de las Islas, S.A. 12 20 Midway Group, LLC. 21 Other 12 4 2 1 487 503 7 15 (i) Refers to accounts receivable related to assets in excess of the basic net assets invested in Citrosuco’s operation. The realization period is linked to the performance of each item under contractual rules laid down in the shareholder agreement and the closing memorandum signed between Fischer S.A. – Comércio, Indústria e Agricultura and Votorantim. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 154 15. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS – FIRM COMMITMENT The controlled company Votorantim Comercializadora de Energia Ltda. (“Votener”) centralizes energy purchase and sale transactions to meet the demands of Votorantim companies. A portion of these transactions takes the form of contracts that have been entered into and continue to be carried out for the purpose of receiving the energy for own use or delivering the energy of self-production, in accordance with the productive demands of the Company’s subsidiaries and, therefore, the definition of a financial instrument. Another part of these transactions refers to purchases and sales of energy, not used in the productive process of Votorantim companies, being transacted in the active market, therefore, it meets the definition of financial instruments, due to the fact of being liquidated in energy, and promptly convertible into cash. Such contracts are recorded as derivatives in accordance with IAS 39 / CPC 38 and are recognized in the Company’s balance sheet at fair value on the date the derivative is entered into and is revalued to fair value at the balance sheet date. The fair value of these derivatives is estimated based, in part, on quotations of prices published in active markets, to the extent that such observable market data exist, and partly by the use of valuation techniques, which considers: (i) prices established in the purchase and sale operations; (ii) risk margin in the supply and (iii) projected market price in the period of availability. Whenever the fair value at initial recognition for these contracts differs from the transaction price, gain or loss, it is recognized in profit or loss for the period. The Company, through its subsidiary Votener, operates in the Regulated Contracting Environment (“ACR”) and participated in the 13th electric power purchase auction on April 30, 2014, in which, through a firm commitment, it made sales until December 2019. These transactions, on initial recognition, resulted in gains from the sale of surplus energy to the Company, which was recognized at fair value. The net difference of expenses and revenues generated by the realization of the fair value, through the physical settlement of the sale and purchase agreements, was recognized as an expense in the amount of R$ 286 in “Other operating expenses, net”. In addition, the other operations carried out by the subsidiaries in the Free Contracting Environment (“ACL”), which meet the definition of a financial instrument, were likewise recognized at fair value. The realization of the fair value in the amount of R$ 236 was recognized as an expense in “Other operating expenses, net” (Note 29). The values quoted above have the following composition: Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 155 ACR ACL Total Votorantim CBA Energy Total CBA Energy Total 2017 2016 Cimentos Realization (134) (39) (173) (12) (14) (113) (139) (312) (286) Recognition (37) (60) (97) (97) 33 Reversal (i) (87) (26) (113) (113) (221) (65) (286) (12) (51) (173) (236) (522) (253) (i) The reduction in volume was caused by the exit of distributors from the regulated trading environment, and they migrated to the free environment. The table below present the composition of equity balances: ACR ACL Total Votorantim CBA Energy Total CBA Energy Total 2017 2016 Cimentos Assets Current 106 31 137 9 64 73 210 317 Non-current 119 35 154 154 371 225 66 291 9 64 73 364 688 Liabilities Current (1) (1) (1) Non-current (22) (53) (132) (207) (207) (10) (23) (53) (132) (208) (208) (10) 225 66 291 (23) (44) (68) (135) 156 678 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 156 16. INVESTMENTS Accounting policy Investments in affiliates, subsidiaries and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting (“MEP”) as of the date they become their jointly controlled joint ventures. Affiliates are those entities in which the Company, directly or indirectly, has significant influence, but not control or joint control over financial and operating policies. In order to be classified as a jointly controlled entity, there must be a contractual agreement that allows the Company to share control of the entity and gives the Company the right to the net assets of the jointly controlled entity, not the right to its specific assets and liabilities. The Company also recognizes its assets in accordance with the venturer’s participation in the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of the controlled entity on a proportional basis. This implies recognizing the venturer’s share of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of the joint ventures by adding such amounts to its own assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses by line method, including such amounts in corresponding to the balance sheet and income statement of the same nature. (i) Impairment of investments For the calculation of the recoverable amounts of the investments, the Company uses criteria similar to those used to test goodwill impairment. Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 157 (a) Breakdown Percentage of total and voting Main consolidated companies capital Headquarters Main activity 2017 2016 Subsidiaries Acerbrag S.A. 100.00 100.00 Argentina Steel Votorantim FinCO GmbH 100.00 100.00 Austria Trading Votorantim GmbH (formerly known as Votorantim Metals GmbH) 100.00 100.00 Austria Zinc Acariúba Mineração e Participação Ltda. 100.00 100.00 Brazil Holding Companhia Brasileira de Alumínio 100.00 100.00 Brazil Aluminum Interávia Transportes Ltda. 100.00 100.00 Brazil Transportation Nexa Recursos Minerais S.A. (formerly known as Votorantim Metais Zinco S.A.) 100.00 100.00 Brazil Zinc Santa Cruz Geração de Energia S.A. 100.00 100.00 Brazil Electric power Silcar Empreendimentos, Comércio e Participações Ltda. 100.00 100.00 Brazil Holding Ventos de São Vicente Energias Renováveis S.A. 100.00 100.00 Brazil Holding Votener – Votorantim Comercializadora de Energia Ltda. 100.00 100.00 Brazil Electric power Votorantim Cimentos N/NE S.A. 100.00 100.00 Brazil Cement Votorantim Cimentos S.A. 100.00 100.00 Brazil Cement Votorantim Energia Ltda. 100.00 100.00 Brazil Holding Votorantim Finanças S.A. 100.00 100.00 Brazil Finance Votorantim Geração de Energia S.A. 100.00 100.00 Brazil Holding Votorantim Investimentos LatinoAmericanos S.A. 100.00 100.00 Brazil Holding Votorantim Cement North America Inc. 100.00 100.00 Canada Holding Acerías Paz del Río S.A. 82.42 82.42 Colombia Steel Votorantim Cimentos EAA Inversiones, S.L. 100.00 100.00 Spain Holding St. Marys Cement Inc. 100.00 100.00 USA Cement US Zinc Corporation 100.00 100.00 USA Zinc St. Helen Holding II B.V. Cayman 100.00 100.00 Islands Holding Hailstone Ltd. British Virgin 100.00 100.00 Islands Holding Nexa Resourses S.A. (formerly known as VM Holding S.A.) 64.25 89.35 Luxembourg Holding Votorantim RE 100.00 100.00 Luxembourg Insurance Compañia Minera Atacocha S.A.A. 91.00 91.00 Peru Mining Nexa Resources Perú S.A.A. (formerly known as Compañia Minera Milpo S.A.A.) 80.23 80.23 Peru Mining Nexa Resources Cajamarquilla S.A.” (formerly known as Votorantim Metais Cajamarquilla S.A.) 99.91 99.91 Peru Zinc Cementos Artigas S.A. 51.00 51.00 Uruguay Cement CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 158 Percentage of total and voting Main consolidated companies capital Headquarters Main activity 2017 2016 Joint operations Baesa – Energética Barra Grande S.A. 15.00 15.00 Brazil Electric power Campos Novos Energia S.A. 44.76 44.76 Brazil Electric power Great Lakes Slag Inc. 50.00 50.00 Canada Cement Voto – Votorantim Overseas Trading Cayman Operations IV Limited 50.00 50.00 Islands Trading Exclusive investment funds Fundo de Investimento Pentágono VC Multimercado – Crédito Privado 100.00 100.00 Brazil Finance Fundo de Investimento Pentágono CBA Multimercado – Crédito Privado 100.00 100.00 Brazil Finance Odessa Multimercado Crédito Privado 89.97 81.39 Brazil Finance Odessa Multimercado Crédito Privado Fundo de investimento VC 100.00 100.00 Brazil Finance Odessa Multimercado Crédito Privado Fundo de investimento VM 100.00 100.00 Brazil Finance Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 159 Percentage of total and voting Main non-consolidated companies capital Headquarters Main activity 2017 2016 Associates Cementos Avellaneda S.A. 49.00 49.00 Argentina Cement Alunorte – Alumina do Norte S.A. 3.03 3.03 Brazil Mining Mineração Rio do Norte S.A. 10.00 10.00 Brazil Mining Supermix Concreto S.A. 25.00 25.00 Brazil Cement IMIX Empreendimentos Imobiliários Ltda. 25.00 25.00 Brazil Mining Cementos Bio Bio S.A. (Nota 1.1 (g)) 16.70 Chile Cement Cementos Especiales de las Islas S.A. 50.00 50.00 USA Cement Joint ventures Citrosuco GmbH 50.00 50.00 Austria Agribusiness Banco Votorantim S.A. 50.00 50.00 Brazil Finance Citrosuco S.A. Agroindústria 50.00 50.00 Brazil Agribusiness Fibria Celulose S.A. 29.42 29.42 Brazil Wood pulp Hutton Transport Ltda. 25.00 25.00 Canada Transportation Midway Group, LLC. 50.00 50.00 USA Cement Sumter Cement Co, LLC. (i) 50.00 USA Cement Superior Materials Holdings, LLC 50.00 50.00 USA Cement Suwannee American Cement, LLC. (i) 50.00 USA Cement Trinity Materials, LLC. 50.00 USA Cement Cemento Portland S.A. 50.00 50.00 Peru Cement (i) The elimination of the percentages in 2017 refers to the sale of cement companies, as described in Note 1.1 (b). CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 160 (b) Information about the companies investees The following is a summary of selected financial information of the principal associates and joint ventures as at December 31, 2017: Investments accounted for based on the equity method – Associates IMIX Alunorte EmpreenCementos Cementos – Mineração Supermix dimentos Especiales AvellaAlumina Rio do Concreto Imode las neda S.A. do Norte Norte S.A. S.A. biliários Islas S.A. S.A. Ltda. Assets Current assets 491 8,234 399 207 18 105 Non-current assets 360 2,390 215 7 88 Liabilities Current liabilities 307 2,296 726 128 1 22 Non-current liabilities 6 1,476 1,231 46 33 Other comprehensive income (84) Equity 538 4,462 832 248 24 138 Results Net revenue 1,240 5,543 1,164 1,014 11 3 Operation results 297 201 197 2 11 3 Finance income (costs) 10 (161) (72) 4 1 Profit (loss) for the year 198 58 106 7 10 (2) Total and voting capital (%) 49.00% 3.03% 10.00% 25.00% 25.00% 50.00% Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 161 Joint ventures Superior Banco CitroFibria Hutton MidCitrosuco MateCemento VotoCeluTransway suco S.A. rials Portland rantim lose port Group, GmbH AgroinS.A. HoldS.A. S.A. Ltda. LLC. dústria ings, LLC Assets Current assets 2,781 48,366 2,435 10,530 30 28 100 36 Non-current assets 323 45,148 3,006 28,163 56 20 48 108 Liabilities Current liabilities 284 55,803 2,340 5,790 4 15 43 30 Non-current liabilities 168 28,480 2,038 18,253 11 5 6 Other comprehensive income (86) Equity 2,652 9,231 1,063 14,650 71 28 105 108 Results Net revenue 3,381 13,397 2,823 11,739 84 330 Operation results 411 5,528 546 1,173 12 9 52 (2) Finance income (costs) 159 (124) (783) (3) Profit (loss) for the year 553 629 406 1,085 12 9 51 (4) Total and voting capital (%) 50.00% 50.00% 50.00% 29.42% 25.00% 50.00% 50.00% 50.00% CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 162 (c) Changes in investments Investments accounted for based on the equity Cementos Alunorte Mineração method – Associates Avellaneda –do Alumina Norte Rio do Norte S.A. S.A. (i) S.A. (ii) (ii) Opening balance for the year 237 150 105 Equity in the results of investees 97 2 11 Dividends (32) (17) (33) Exchange variation on foreign investments (51) Disposals Effect of associates included in the consolidation (iv) Actuarial benefits Other Closing balance for the year 251 135 83 Banco Citrosuco Fibria Hutton Joint ventures Citrosuco Votorantim S.A. GmbH (i) AgroinCelulose Transport S.A. dústria (i) S.A. (iii) Ltda. Opening balance 2,088 4,809 816 3,867 15 Equity in the results of investees 247 315 167 320 3 Dividends (255) (55) (76) (1) Exchange variation on foreign investments 34 5 1 Cash flow hedge (15) Provision for impairment of investments abroad Effect of joint ventures included in the consolidation 56 Fair value of financial assets available-for-sale (v) 42 Disposals (vi) Other 6 4 1 Closing balance for the year 2,120 5,111 1,029 4,116 18 Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 163 2017 2016 IMIX Cementos Supermix Empreend. Cementos Especiales Concreto ImoBio Bio De Las Other Total Total S.A. biliários S.A. (ii) Islas, S.A. Ltda. 64 3 152 57 241 1,009 1,150 2 3 11 (1) 13 138 160 (4) (4) (90) (39) 3 13 (35) (210) (161) (161) (41) (1) (1) (3) (3) (11) 62 6 69 251 857 1,009 2017 2016 Midway Sumter Superior Suwannee Cemento Group, Cement Materials American Portland Total Total LLC. Co, LLC. Holdings, Cement, S.A. LLC LLC. (i) 9 19 42 222 53 11,940 4,103 5 26 (2) 1,081 564 (16) (403) (253) (1) 1 (6) 3 37 (423) (15) 63 (43) 56 7,541 42 262 (18) (216) (234) 11 126 14 53 54 12,515 11,940 13,372 12,949 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 164 (i) At December 31, 2017, the following investments consider the goodwill paid on the acquisition of investments and the surplus value, which is amortized in the income statement of the parent company: 2017 2016 Cementos Avellaneda S.A. (13) (2) Citrosuco S.A. Agroindústria 498 478 Citrosuco GmbH 794 816 Suwannee American Cement, LLC. 96 (ii) Relates to investees in which the participation is less than 20%, but the Company has significant influence over the activities through agreements established with shareholders. (iii) The equity income of the investee considers eliminations of unrealized profits, in the amount of R$ 178 (December 31, 2016 – R$ 178), in exchange for land with the Company. (iv) The values presented in 2016 refer to the effects of the incorporation of Votorantim Participações S.A. (v) Refers to the adjustment to the fair value of available-for-sale securities recognized in Banco Votorantim’s shareholders’ equity. (vi) Refers to the assets and liabilities sale in the cement segment (Note 1.1 (b)). (d) Investments in listed companies 2017 2016 Book value Market Book value Market value value Cementos Bio Bio S.A. (*) 152 143 Fibria Celulose S.A. (*) 4,289 7,798 4,046 5,197 (*) Calculated in proportion to the ownership interest held by the Company. Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 165 17. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Accounting policy (i) Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at their historical cost of acquisition or construction, less accumulated depreciation. Historical cost also includes finance costs related to the acquisition or construction of qualifying assets. Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognized as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with these costs will flow to the Company and they can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced items or parts is derecognized. All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the statement of income during the financial period in which they are incurred. The cost of major refurbishments is included in the carrying value of the asset when future economic benefits exceed the performance initially expected for the existing asset. Refurbishment expenses are depreciated over the remaining useful life of the related asset. Land is not depreciated. Depreciation of other assets is calculated using the straight-line method to reduce their cost to their residual values over their estimated useful lives. An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount when the asset’s carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount, in accordance with the criteria adopted by the Company in order to determine the recoverable amount. Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the sales amount with the carrying amount and are recognized within “Other operating income (expenses), net” in the statement of income. (ii) Leases Leases of property, plant and equipment under which the Company has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. Finance leases are capitalized at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased item and the present value of the minimum lease payments. Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges. The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in other payables. The interest element of the finance cost is charged to the statement of income over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period. The property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the useful life of the asset. (iii) Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that are subject to depreciation and amortization are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in economic, operating or technological circumstances may indicate impairment or loss of book value. An impairment loss is recognized when the carrying amount of the asset or cash generating unit (CGU) exceeds its recoverable amount, adjusting the carrying amount to the recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the greater of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. For the CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 166 purpose of impairment assessment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows (CGU). Non-financial assets, except goodwill, which have been impaired, are subsequently reviewed for the analysis of a possible reversal of impairment, at the balance sheet date. The recoverability of the assets that are used in the activities of the Company and its subsidiaries is evaluated whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the book value of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable based on future cash flows. If the carrying amount of these assets exceeds their recoverable value, the net amount is adjusted and their useful life is adjusted to new levels. (a) Breakdown and changes Buildings Machinery, Land and and equipment improveconstrucand ments tions facilities Opening balance for the year Cost 2,017 9,840 31,904 Accumulated depreciation (56) (4,022) (18,692) Net opening balance 1,961 5,818 13,212 Additions 1 122 1,157 Disposals (18) (6) (84) Depreciation (4) (289) (1,410) Foreign exchange variation 37 37 82 Effect of subsidiaries included in (excluded from) consolidation 23 (20) Reversal (constitution) for impairment (2) 78 25 Reclassification to assets classified as held-for-sale (87) (233) (61) Transfers (i) 13 685 1,482 Closing balance for the year 1,901 6,235 14,383 Cost 1,959 10,467 34,105 Accumulated depreciation (58) (4,232) (19,722) Net closing balance for the year 1,901 6,235 14,383 Average annual depreciation rates – % 2 3 9 (i) The transfers at December 31, 2017 are related to the reclassification from “Construction in progress” within “Property, plant and equipment” to “Software” and “Rights to use natural resources”, within “Intangible assets”. Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 167 2017 2016 Furniture ConstrucLeasehold Vehicles and tion in improveOther Total Total fittings progress ments 1,206 192 3,471 459 439 49,528 55,491 (932) (139) (245) (351) (24,437) (26,210) 274 53 3,471 214 88 25,091 29,281 4 4 1,818 2 3,108 3,026 (19) (2) (23) (6) (1) (159) (146) (78) (10) (18) (5) (1,814) (2,168) 4 (2) (60) 12 110 (2,016) (3) (10) 5 (5) 55 (6) (1) 94 (769) (31) (34) (30) (476) (1,982) 52 3 (2,363) 34 (94) (190) 203 46 2,793 205 89 25,855 25,091 1,121 191 2,793 456 444 51,536 49,528 (918) (145) (251) (355) (25,681) (24,437) 203 46 2,793 205 89 25,855 25,091 10 11 9 18 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 168 (b) Construction in progress The balance is composed mainly of expansion and optimization projects related to industry. 2017 2016 7% 1% Votorantim Cimentos 1,360 2,044 5% Votorantim Cimentos Nexa Resources 779 737 7% Nexa Resources CBA 368 257 CBA Long steels Long steels 195 154 21% 59% Energy Energy 20 242 Outros Other 71 37 2,793 3,471 The main projects in progress by business segment are as follows: Main projects in progress – Votorantim Cimentos 2017 2016 Cement production capacity expansion in CharlevoixNorth America 461 280 Equipment refurbishment 123 89 Environment and security 84 27 New lines of co-processing 63 33 Cement production capacity expansion – Tunisia 45 33 New unit in Ituaçú – Brazil 43 43 Structural recovery 40 19 Cement grinding – Pecém – Brazil 39 42 Geology and mining rights 37 27 New unit in Sobral – Brazil 35 35 Hardware and software 27 10 Burden removal – cement 26 47 New lines of co-processing – North America 18 7 New unit in Primavera – Brazil 14 81 New unit in Yacuses – Bolivia 12 530 New plant in Edealina – Brazil 7 7 Cement production capacity expansion in Sivas – Turkey 5 364 Agricultural supplies plant Ponte Alta – Brazil 15 Other 281 355 1,360 2,044 Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 169 Main projects in progress – Nexa Resources 2017 2016 Mining project – Brazil 271 297 Acquisition and renovation of parts and equipment – Brazil 140 170 Security, health and environment projects – Brazil 119 146 Production line construction – Brazil 84 18 Information technology projects – Peru 10 23 Modernization and production increase projects – Brazil 6 33 Other 149 50 779 737 Main projects in progress – CBA 2017 2016 Rondon Alumina project – Brazil 111 108 Furnace refurbishment – Brazil 75 16 Revitalization and adequacy of power plant – Brazil 51 39 Automation system modernization – Brazil 32 25 Plastic transformation and foundry projects – Brazil 26 19 Alumina factory project – Brazil 25 24 Furnace rooms project – Brazil 18 15 Other 30 11 368 257 Main projects in progress – Long steels 2017 2016 Repair plant operating equipment – Colombia 51 18 Revitalization and adaptation of plant – Argentina and Colombia 44 5 Battery vertical repair project – Colombia 39 7 Modernization of plant operating equipment – Argentina and Colombia 35 36 Security projects, health and environment – Colombia 8 20 Other 18 68 195 154 Main projects in progress – Energy 2017 2016 Corumbá project – Brazil 16 11 Change of Corporate Center – Brazil 2 Ventos de São Vicente wind power complex – Brazil 1 231 Other 1 20 242 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 170 18. INTANGIBLE ASSETS Accounting policy (i) Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the net fair value of assets and liabilities of the acquired entity. Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is recorded as “assets” in the consolidated financial statements. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed. Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold. Goodwill is allocated to Cash-Generating Units (“CGUs”) for the purpose of impairment testing. The allocation is made to those CGUs or groups of CGUs that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose. (ii) Rights over natural resources Costs for the acquisition of rights to explore and develop mineral properties and to explore wind resources are capitalized and amortized using the straight-line method over their useful lives, or, when applicable, based on the depletion of the mines in question. Once the mine or wind farm is operational, these costs are amortized and considered a cost of production. Depletion of mineral resources and wind farms is calculated based on extraction and utilization, respectively, taking into consideration their estimated productive lives. (iii) Computer software Computer software licenses and development costs directly attributable to software are recorded as intangible assets. These costs are amortized over the estimated useful life of the software (three to five years). (iv) Use of public assets This represents the amounts established in the concession contracts regarding the rights to hydroelectric power generation (onerous concession) under Use of Public Assets agreements. These transactions are accounted for at the time when the operating permit is awarded, regardless of the disbursement schedule established in the contract. Upon inception, this liability (obligation) and intangible asset (concession right) correspond to the total amount of the future obligations discounted to their present value. The amortization of the intangible asset is calculated on a straight-line basis over the period of the authorization to use the public asset. The financial liability is updated by the effective interest method and reduced by the payments contracted. Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 171 (v) Contractual customer relationships and non-competition agreements Contractual customer relationships and non-competition agreements acquired in a business combination are recognized at fair value at the acquisition date. The contractual customer relations and non-competition agreements have a finite useful life and are carried at cost less accumulated amortization. Amortization is calculated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives as follows: Customer relationships . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 years Non-competition agreements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 years (vi) Impairment of goodwill and investments Annually, the Company reviews the net book value of goodwill, in order to assess whether there was deterioration or impairment. The recoverable amounts of CGUs were determined according to the value in use, based on the discounted cash flow model. The recoverable amount is sensitive to the rate used in the discounted cash flow model, as well as the expected future cash receipts and the growth rate used for purposes. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 172 (a) Breakdown and changes Rights over natural resources Goodwill ARO (i) Opening balance for the year Cost 8,694 5,193 873 Accumulated amortization (2,533) (505) Net opening balance 6,161 5,193 368 Additions 46 38 88 Disposals (11) (228) (4) Amortization and depletion (381) (48) Foreign exchange variation 42 210 10 Reclassification from assets classified as held-for-sale (34) (265) (1) Effect of subsidiaries excluded from (9) (38) Constitution for impairment (23) (48) Revision of estimated cash flow 145 Changes in the interest rate (2) 13 Transfers 53 Closing balance for the year 5,842 4,862 571 Cost 8,693 4,862 1,127 Accumulated amortization (2,851) (556) Net closing balance for the year 5,842 4,862 571 Average annual amortization and depletion rates – % 16 5 (i) Asset Retirement Obligation. (b) Goodwill on acquisitions Accounting policy The Company applies the acquisition method to account for business combinations. The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Company. The consideration transferred includes the fair value of assets or liabilities resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, when applicable. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. The Company recognizes any non-controlling interest in the acquiree on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis, either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. Non-controlling interests are determined on each acquisition. Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 173 2017 2016 Contracts, customer Rights over relationships Use of trademarks and public assets agreements Softwares and patents Other Total Total 541 408 548 481 771 17,509 20,859 (161) (260) (422) (283) (332) (4,496) (4,289) 380 148 126 198 439 13,013 16,570 1 1 174 181 (243) (84) (19) (13) (46) (25) (12) (544) (596) (1) 1 (2) 6 266 (2,227) (55) (355) 1 (47) (653) (71) (352) 145 23 11 (39) 34 1 6 94 189 361 79 116 172 440 12,443 13,013 541 235 593 485 783 17,319 17,509 (180) (156) (477) (313) (343) (4,876) (4,496) 361 79 116 172 440 12,443 13,013 7 7 6 10 10 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 174 2017 2016 Votorantim Cimentos Votorantim Cimentos EAA Inversiones, S.L. 1,134 1,192 Prairie Material Sales Inc 663 653 St. Marys Cement Inc. 364 360 Prestige Materials 132 Prestige Gunite Inc. 94 Engemix S.A. 76 76 Votorantim Investimentos Internacionais S.A. 48 Companhia de Cimento Ribeirão Grande 47 CJ Mineração Ltda. 16 16 Cementos Artigas S.A. 12 12 Other 6 3 2,271 2,633 Nexa Resources Nexa Resources Perú S.A.A. 1,913 1,885 Nexa Resources Cajamarquilla S.A. 306 301 US Zinc Corporation 30 29 Pollarix S.A. 1 2,249 2,215 Long steels Acergroup S.A. 149 149 Acerholding S.A. 15 18 Acerbrag S.A. 3 4 167 171 CBA Campos Novos Energia S.A. 58 57 Metalex Ltda. 49 49 Rio Verdinho Energia S.A. 29 29 Machadinho Energética S.A. 15 15 BAESA – Energética Barra Grande S.A. 7 7 158 157 Holding and other Votorantim Andina S.A. 16 16 Fazenda Bodoquena Ltda. 1 1 17 17 4,862 5,193 Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 175 (c) Impairment test for goodwill Assets that have an indefinite useful life, for example goodwill, are not subject to amortization and are tested annually for impairment. The Company and its subsidiaries evaluate at least annually the recoverability of the carrying value of the operating segment of each CGU. The process of estimating these values involves the use of assumptions, judgments and estimates of future cash flows that represent the best estimate of Company. The Company’s management determined the budgeted gross margin based on past performance and its expectations of market development. The discount rates used are pre-tax and reflect specific risks related to the operating segment or the CGU being tested. These calculations use cash flow projections, before income tax and social contributions, based on financial budgets approved by management for a five-year period. Cash flow that exceeds the five-year period is extrapolated using the estimated growth rates. The growth rate does not exceed the average long-term growth rate of the operating sector of each segment. The calculations of the value-in-use were based on the discounted cash flow model, and are based on the assumptions below: Growth rate Discount rate Cement 0.0% to 1.0% 8.91% to 14.34% CBA (ii) 9.72% to 10.94% Nexa Resources (ii) 10.60% to 11.53% Long steels (i) Not used 11.91% to 17.10% Holding and other Not used 7.53% to 8.91% (i) Considers units located abroad only (Argentina and Colombia). (ii) Growth rates take into account independent information on LME’s projections for quotations (mainly aluminum, zinc and copper). CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 176 19. BORROWING Accounting policy Borrowings are initially recognized at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred, and subsequently carried at amortized cost. Any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the total amount payable is recognized in the statement of income over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method. Borrowing costs directly related to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset that requires a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalized as part of the cost of that asset when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Company and costs can be measured reliably. The other borrowing costs are recognized as finance costs in the period in which they are incurred. (a) Breakdown and fair value Current Type Average annual charges (i) 2017 2016 Local currency Debentures 115.27% CDI 1,288 252 BNDES TJLP + 2.39% / 4.54% fixed rate BRL / SELIC + 2.74% 486 453 Commercial notes 267 Development promotion agency 7.56% fixed rate BRL / TJLP + 0.98% 41 38 FINAME 4.85% fixed rate BRL 23 29 Export credit notes 118.00% CDI 3 101 Other 0 16 13 1,857 1,153 Foreign currency Eurobonds – USD 6.15% fixed rate USD 156 122 Loans – Resolution 4131 (ii) LIBOR USD + 1.56% / 3.73% fixed rate USD 176 6 Eurobonds – EUR 3.44% fixed rate EUR 37 26 Syndicated loan/bilateral agreements EURIBOR + 2.01% / 6.81% fixed rate 123 38 Export prepayments LIBOR USD + 2.54% 1 78 BNDES UMBNDES + 2.46% 112 122 Export credit notes LIBOR USD + 1.85% 1 Working capital IBR + 3.70% / 9.25% fixed rate INR 96 90 Development promotion agency 128 Other 14 12 716 622 2,573 1,775 Current portion of long-term borrowing 1,743 1,360 Interest on borrowing 365 324 Short-term borrowing 465 91 2,573 1,775 Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 177 NonTotal Fair value current 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 3,257 3,633 4,545 3,885 4,599 3,936 1,410 938 1,896 1,391 1,774 1,285 267 266 208 243 249 281 238 246 91 113 114 142 102 117 100 103 101 105 99 11 16 27 29 26 24 5,077 4,943 6,934 6,096 6,844 5,973 11,948 9,518 12,104 9,640 12,877 9,298 763 2,663 939 2,669 944 2,482 2,246 1,939 2,283 1,965 2,415 1,954 1,192 1,234 1,315 1,272 1,320 1,416 659 2,160 660 2,238 709 1,666 37 150 149 272 152 268 104 105 107 96 90 98 89 5 133 93 31 32 45 44 43 40 16,980 17,701 17,696 18,323 18,665 17,306 22,057 22,644 24,630 24,419 25,509 23,279 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 178 (i) The average annual charges are presented only for agreements that represent a large share of the total debt amount. (ii) Loans relating to Resolution 4131 have swaps that are indexed to both exchange rates (LIBOR and fixed rates for floating CDI rates) and currency (US Dollars for reais), and resulted in a final weighted cost of 108.33% p.a. of the CDI. Borrowing of this type relates to compound financial instruments, contracted as a single product with the financial institution (debt in US Dollars + swap to a % of CDI in reais). The terms and conditions of the loan and derivative instrument are configured as a compound operation, so that the resulting cost is a debt adjusted by the CDI in reais. The difference in measurement between the two instruments (loan at amortized cost x derivative at fair value), creates an accounting mismatch in the statement of income. To eliminate this accounting mismatch, some of the borrowing contracts made from August 2015, were designated at fair value, and the effect of this designation is the measurement of debt at fair value through profit or loss, according to Note 30. Legenda: BNDES – National Bank for Economic and Social Development. BRL – Brazilian currency (Real). CDI – Interbank Deposit Certificate. EUR – European Union currency (Euro). EURIBOR – Euro Interbank Offered Rate. FINAME – Government Agency for Machinery and Equipment Financing. IBR – Interbank Rate (Colombia). INR – Indian Rupee LIBOR – London Interbank Offered Rate. SELIC – Special System for Clearance and Custody. TJLP – Long-term interest rate set by the National Monetary Council. The TJLP is the BNDES basic cost of financing. IPCA – Extended Consumer Price Index. UMBNDES – Monetary unit of the BNDES reflecting the weighted basket of currencies of foreign currency debt obligations. At December 31, 2017, 99.60% of the basket consisted of US Dollars. USD – US Dollar. Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 179 (b) Changes 2017 2016 Opening balance for the year 24,419 30,531 New borrowing 5,399 6,162 Interest 1,616 1,757 Effect of subsidiaries included in consolidation (829) Addition of borrowing fees, net of amortization (21) (40) Fair value adjustment – Resolution 4131 47 (26) Discount on repurchase of bonds (173) Payments – interest (1,558) (1,735) Foreign exchange variation 609 (3,852) Payments – principal (5,881) (7,376) Closing balance for the year 24,630 24,419 (c) New borrowing and amortizations Through funding and prepayment of certain debts, the Company seeks to extend the average term of maturities, as well as to balance the exposure to different currencies of loans and financing to its cash generation in these currencies. The main funding and amortizations made in 2017 were as follows: CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 180 New borrowing CurDate Company Modality Amount Amount rency BRL Jan-17 Votorantim S.A. Resolution 4131 USD 73 235 Jan-17 Votorantim Cimentos S.A. Debenture BRL 500 500 Jan-17 Votorantim S.A. Debenture BRL 69 69 Jan-17 Votorantim S.A. Debenture BRL 241 241 Jan-17 Votorantim S.A. Debenture BRL 240 240 Feb-17 Votorantim S.A. Resolution 4131 USD 100 321 Feb-17 Export Credit Nexa Recursos Minerais S.A. Note BRL 100 100 Apr-17 Export Credit Nexa Recursos Minerais S.A. Note USD 31 100 Apr-17 Nexa Resources S.A. Eurobond USD 700 2225 Jul-17 Ventos de São Vicente Energias Renováveis S.A. Debenture BRL 100 100 Sep-17 Ventos de São Vinicius Energias Renováveis S.A. Debenture BRL 102 102 Sep-17 Ventos de Santo Agostinho Energias Renováveis S.A. Debenture BRL 54 54 Sep-17 Ventos de Santa Albertina Energias Renováveis S.A. Debenture BRL 69 69 Sep-17 Ventos de São Casimiro Energias Renováveis S.A. Debenture BRL 69 69 Sep-17 Ventos de São Adeodato Energias Renováveis S.A. Debenture BRL 99 99 Sep-17 Ventos de Santo Afonso Energias Renováveis S.A. Debenture BRL 27 27 Sep-17 Campos Novos Energia S.A. Debenture BRL 384 384 Sep-17 Campos Novos Energia S.A. Debenture BRL 256 256 Dec-17 Ventos de Santo Afonso Energias Renováveis S.A. BNDES BRL 114 114 Dec-17 Ventos de São Adeodato Energias Renováveis S.A. BNDES BRL 109 109 Dec-17 Ventos de São Casimiro Energias Renováveis S.A. BNDES BRL 113 113 Dec-17 Ventos de Santa Albertina Energias Renováveis S.A. BNDES BRL 111 111 Dec-17 Ventos de Santo Agostinho Energias Renováveis S.A. BNDES BRL 115 115 Dec-17 Ventos de São Vinicius Energias Renováveis S.A. BNDES BRL 114 114 Dec-17 Ventos de Santo Alberto Energias Renováveis S.A. BNDES BRL 115 115 Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 181 Maturity Cost Guarantor Note 2021 96.90% CDI Renegotiation of cost and maturity 2022 119.90% CDI 2022 118.90% CDI Renegotiation of cost and maturity 2023 118.90% CDI Renegotiation of cost and maturity 2024 118.90% CDI Renegotiation of cost and maturity 2021 119.80% CDI Renegotiation of cost and maturity 2020 118% CDI 2020 119.90% CDI Nexa CJM, Nexa Peru and 2027 5.375% p.y. Nexa BR IPCA + 5.4739% 2024 p.y. VSA Development of wind farms 2018 106% CDI VSA Development of wind farms 2018 106% CDI VSA Development of wind farms 2018 106% CDI VSA Development of wind farms 2018 106% CDI VSA Development of wind farms 2018 106% CDI VSA Development of wind farms 2018 106% CDI VSA Development of wind farms 2020 107.5% CDI Actual guarantee 2022 107.5% CDI Actual guarantee VSA and Ventos de São 2034 TJLP + 2.06% Vicente Development of wind farms VSA and Ventos de São 2034 TJLP + 2.18% Vicente Development of wind farms VSA and Ventos de São 2034 TJLP + 2.18% Vicente Development of wind farms VSA and Ventos de São 2034 TJLP + 2.18% Vicente Development of wind farms VSA and Ventos de São 2034 TJLP + 2.18% Vicente Development of wind farms VSA and Ventos de São 2034 TJLP + 2.18% Vicente Development of wind farms VSA and Ventos de São 2034 TJLP + 2.18% Vicente Development of wind farms CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 182 Amortizations CurMain Date Company Modality rency Main BRL Jan-17 Votorantim Cimentos S.A. Debenture BRL (150) (150) Jan-17 Votorantim S.A. Resolution 4131 USD (73) (235) Feb-17 Votorantim S.A. Resolution 4131 USD (100) (308) Mai-17 Votorantim GMBH PPE USD (290) (921) Mai-17 Votorantim GMBH PPE USD (200) (635) Jun-17 Companhia Brasileira de Alumínio NCE BRL (100) (100) Aug-17 Votener – Votorantim Comercializadora de Energia Ltda. Commercial note BRL (250) (250) Aug-17 Votorantim Cimentos S.A. Debenture BRL (240) (240) Aug-17 Votorantim Cimentos S.A. Resolution 4131 USD (50) (156) Nov-17 Votorantim Cimentos S.A. Debenture BRL (240) (240) Nov-17 Votorantim Cimentos S.A. Resolution 4131 USD (100) (325) Nov-17 Votorantim Cimentos S.A. Resolution 4131 USD (100) (328) Dec-17 Votorantim Cimentos S.A. Resolution 4131 USD (200) (662) Dec-17 Votorantim Cimentos S.A. Resolution 4131 USD (50) (166) Dec-17 Votorantim Cimentos S.A. Resolution 4131 USD (50) (164) (d) Breakdown by currency Current Non-current Total 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 US Dollar 366 372 13,509 14,409 13,875 14,781 Real 1,857 1,153 5,077 4,943 6,934 6,096 Euro 110 32 2,825 2,500 2,935 2,532 Boliviano 1 3 395 392 396 395 Turkish lire 47 27 220 279 267 306 Currencies basket 83 90 14 101 97 191 Other 109 98 17 20 126 118 2,573 1,775 22,057 22,644 24,630 24,419 Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 183 Maturity Note 2017 Prepayment 2017 Renegotiation of cost and maturity 2018 Prepayment 2019 Prepayment 2021 Prepayment 2017 2017 2021 Prepayment 2019 Prepayment 2021 Prepayment 2021 Prepayment 2020 Prepayment 2020 Prepayment 2019 Prepayment 2020 Prepayment (e) Maturity 4,016 4,120 3,329 3,046 2,573 2,524 1,853 1,451 1,538 124 57 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 184 (f) Breakdown by index Current Non-current Total 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Local currency CDI 1,287 252 3,259 3,633 4,546 3,885 TJLP 436 421 1,239 824 1,675 1,245 Fixed rate 74 196 286 354 360 550 Reference rate (TR) 267 267 SELIC 55 17 196 132 251 149 Other 5 97 102 1,857 1,153 5,077 4,943 6,934 6,096 Foreign currency Fixed rate 515 238 15,549 12,662 16,064 12,900 LIBOR 5 213 1,179 4,671 1,184 4,884 EURIBOR 39 5 215 218 254 223 UMBNDES 112 122 37 150 149 272 Other 45 44 45 44 716 622 16,980 17,701 17,696 18,323 2,573 1,775 22,057 22,644 24,630 24,419 (g) Collateral As at December 30, 2017, R$ 10,607 (December 31, 2016 – R$ 8,828) of the balance of the Company’s borrowing was collateralized under promissory notes and sureties and R$ 527 of the property, plant and equipment items (December 31, 2016 – R$ 142) were collateralized by liens on the financed assets. (h) Covenants/financial ratios Certain borrowings are subject to compliance with certain financial ratios (“covenants”). When applicable, such obligations are standardized for all borrowing. The Company was in compliance with all of these covenants, as applicable. Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 185 20. CONFIRMING PAYABLES The Company and the subsidiaries have entered into agreements with financial institutions, aiming to anticipate receivables from suppliers in the domestic and foreign markets. In this operation, suppliers transfer the right to receive their accounts receivable related to sales of goods to financial institutions. Operations – Confirming payables 2017 2016 Domestic market 309 363 Foreign market 761 605 1,070 968 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 186 21. CURRENT AND DEFERRED INCOME TAX AND SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Accounting policy The income tax and social contribution expense for the period comprises current and deferred taxes. Taxes on profit are recognized in the statement of income, except to the extent that they relate to items recognized directly in equity. In such cases, the taxes are also recognized in comprehensive income or directly in equity. The current and deferred income tax and social contribution is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries where the entities operate and generate taxable income. Management periodically evaluates positions taken by the Company in income tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes provision where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. The current income tax and social contribution are presented net, separated by taxpaying entity, in liabilities when there are amounts payable, or in assets when the amounts prepaid exceed the total amount due on the reporting date. Deferred tax assets are recognized only to the extent it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences and/or tax losses can be utilized. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are presented net in the balance sheet when there is a legal right and the intention to offset them upon the calculation of current taxes, generally related to the same legal entity and the same taxation authority. Thus, deferred tax assets and liabilities in different entities or in different countries are presented separately, and not net. The Company is subject to income taxes in all countries in which it operates. The provision for income tax is calculated individually by the entity based on tax rates and rules effective at the entity’s location. The Company also recognizes liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due. Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will have an impact on the current and deferred tax assets and liabilities in the period in which the determination is made. (a) Reconciliation of income tax and social contribution expenses The current amounts are calculated based on the current rates levied on taxable income, adjusted upwards or downwards by the respective additions and exclusions. The income tax and social contribution amounts presented in the statements of income for the periods ended December 31 are reconciled to their Brazilian standard rates as follows: Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 187 2017 2016 Profit (loss) before income tax and social contribution 1,086 (1,340) Standard rates 34% 34% Income tax and social contribution at standard rates (369) 456 Adjustments for the calculation of income tax and social contribution at effective rates Equity 415 265 Differential rate of foreign companies 192 (87) Income tax credit paid in foreign IN 1520/14 273 183 Income tax and social contribution losses without recording the deferred amounts, net (9) (340) Dividends received (59) Tax on mining operations (74) (37) Foreign income IN 1520/14 (550) (383) Other exclusions, net 50 332 Income tax and social contribution calculated (131) 389 Current (723) (481) Deferred 592 870 Income tax and social contribution expenses (131) 389 Effective rate – % 12% 29% (b) Breakdown of deferred tax balances 2017 2016 Tax credits on tax losses 1,884 1,868 Tax credits on temporary differences Foreign exchange gains 1,300 1,496 Estimation for losses on investments, fixed and intangible assets 1,153 1,102 Tax, civil and labor provision 506 545 Tax benefit on goodwill 465 263 Use of public assets 172 178 Asset retirement obligation 166 170 Environmental liabilities 116 106 Estimation for inventory losses 66 77 Deferred losses on derivative instruments 63 109 Provision for energy charges 46 35 Estimated asset disposals 20 7 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 188 2017 2016 Other tax credits 260 278 Tax debits on temporary differences Borrowing costs (3) (4) Asset retirement obligation (6) (25) Pension funds (18) (42) Adjustment to present value (55) (57) Financial instruments – firm commitment (61) (234) Capitalized interest (140) (133) Fair value adjustments (143) (112) Goodwill amortization (367) (337) Market value Citrosuco (154) (148) Market value adjustments to property, plant and equipment (1,581) (1,669) Adjustment of useful lives of PP&E (depreciation) (1,561) (1,367) Other tax debits (14) (34) Net 2,114 2,072 Net deferred tax assets related to the same legal entity 4,079 4,055 Net deferred tax liabilities related to the same legal entity (1,965) (1,983) (c) Effects of deferred income tax and social contribution on the profit for the period and comprehensive income 2017 2016 Opening balance for the year 2,072 2,004 Effects on the results for the year 592 870 Deferred income tax and social contribution on hedge accounting (17) (906) Effects of foreign exchange variations in other comprehensive income (46) 155 Consumption of IRPJ and CSLL tax credits for payment of PERT (Note 1.1 (d)) (259) Reclassification to assets classified as held-for-sale 120 Effect on the result of discontinued operations (228) (171) Closing balance for the year 2,114 2,072 (d) Realization of deferred income tax and social contribution on tax losses 2017 Percentage In 2018 240 13% In 2019 249 13% In 2020 268 14% In 2021 222 12% After 2022 905 48% 1,884 100% Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 189 22. DEFERRED REVENUE – OBLIGATION FOR PERFORMANCE Accounting policy Deferred revenue, arising from the anticipation of receivables from financial institutions, represents an obligation for the Company to physically deliver the electric energy already sold to customers and consequently to pass on to the financial institution the amount received from the sale of energy. The obligation is performed monthly, after the transfer of energy to the client and consequent financial transfer to the financial institution. In December 2014, the subsidiary Votener ceded to a financial institution the receivables due until December 2019 as a result of certain contracts for the Sale of Electric Energy in the Regulated Environment (“CCEAR”), which are being carried out with the physical delivery of energy. This transaction corresponded to R$ 1,252, and has no right of return and / or type of co-obligation of the Company on the receivables. Due to the assignment of receivables, Votener received a total amount of R$ 905, and the interest to be appropriated from the transaction will be recognized pro rata to the result during the term of the agreement. In May 2015, Votener carried out a second credit assignment operation, without any right of return and / or co-obligation of the subsidiary, in the total amount of R$ 368. By assigning the receivables, Votener received the total amount R$ 251, and interest to be appropriated from the operation will be recognized pro rata to the result during the term of the agreement. The updated value of these operations as of December 31, 2017 is R$ 516 (December 31, 2016, R$ 759). CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 190 23. PROVISION Accounting policy The Company is a party to tax, civil, labor and other legal claims in progress at different court levels. Provision against potentially unfavorable outcomes of litigation in progress is established and updated based on management evaluation, as supported by external legal counsel, and requires a high level of judgment regarding the matters involved. The judicial deposits are monetarily restated and when they have a corresponding provision they are presented net in “Provisions”. Judicial deposits that do not have a corresponding provision are presented in non-current assets. (i) Provision for tax, civil, labor, environmental and other legal claims The Company and its subsidiaries are parties to tax, labor, civil and environmental and other litigation in progress and are discussing these matters at both the administrative and judicial levels. These matters are backed by judicial deposits where applicable. The provision for tax, civil, labor, environmental and other legal claims is recognized when: (i) the Company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, (ii) it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and (iii) the amount can be reliably estimated. Losses classified as possible are not recognized for accounting purposes, and are disclosed in the notes. Contingencies with probability of loss classified as remote are not provisioned nor disclosed, except when the Company considers its disclosure justified. The classification of losses between possible, probable and remote is based on the management’s assessment, based on the opinion of its legal advisors. Provision is measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation. The increase in the provision due to time elapsing is recognized as interest expense. Provision does not include future operating losses. (ii) Asset retirement obligations The calculation of asset retirement obligations involves judgment about certain assumptions. In environmental terms, they refer to the future obligation to restore the ecological conditions similar to those existing before the beginning of the project or activity, or to carry out compensatory measures, agreed upon with the applicable bodies, as a result of the impossibility of returning the areas to the pre-existing condition. These obligations arise from the beginning of the environmental degradation of the area occupied by the operation or from formal commitments made to the environmental body, under which the degradation must be compensated. The dismantling and removal of an asset from an operation occurs when it is permanently retired, through the interruption of its activities, or by its sale or disposal. Expenditures relating to mine retirement are recorded as asset retirement obligations. The asset retirement cost, equivalent to the present value of the obligation (liability), is capitalized as part of the carrying amount of the asset, which is depreciated over its useful life. Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 191 The Company recognizes a liability based on the fair value for the demobilization of assets in the period in which they occur, against the corresponding intangible asset. The Company considers the accounting estimates related to the recovery of degraded areas and the costs of closing a mine as a critical accounting practice because it involves expressive amounts of provisions and if these are estimates that involve several assumptions such as interest rates, inflation, useful life of the assets considering the current stage of exhaustion, the costs involved and the projected depletion dates of each mine. These estimates are reviewed annually by the Company. (iii) Obligation for environmental liabilities The environmental liability must be recognized when there is an obligation on the part of the Company that incurred an environmental cost not yet paid, provided that it meets the recognition criteria as an obligation. Therefore, this type of liability is defined as being a present obligation of the Company that arose from past events. (a) Breakdown and changes 2017 2016 ARO Legal claims Total Total (i) Tax Labor Civil Other Opening balance for the year 1,035 725 176 372 38 2,346 2,189 Present value adjustment 52 52 27 Additions 57 311 196 107 16 687 486 Reversals (ii) (2) (746) (163) (21) (13) (945) (256) Judicial deposits, net of write-offs (ii) 438 (108) (105) 225 (76) Settlement in cash (39) (48) (45) (48) (2) (182) (127) Reclassification to related liability (2) (2) (11) Effect of subsidiaries included in (excluded from) consolidation (7) 2 17 3 15 79 Reclassification of liabilities related to assets held for sale 12 (30) (18) (18) Monetary restatement (10) 164 16 38 8 216 231 Foreign exchange variation 24 3 1 28 (134) Revision of estimated cash flow 165 165 (44) Closing balance for the year 1,275 849 99 317 47 2,587 2,346 (i) Asset Retirement Obligation (ii) In the second trimester the investees reversed a provision referring to the exclusion of ICMS from the basis of calculation of contributions to PIS and COFINS, for which there were judicial deposits constituted in the same amount. This reversal was based on the conclusion of the Federal Supreme Court (STF), which decided that the inclusion of ICMS in the PIS and COFINS taxes bases are unconstitutional and supported by the position of the legal counsel of the investees. The amount of R$ 307 was recorded in the “Reversal of provisions, net” (operating income) and the amount R$ 190 in the “Reversal of adjustment of liability provisions” (financial results) in the income statement. The reversal totaled R$ 169 in the income tax and social contribution and the net effect of these amounts totaled R$ 327. Consequently, the corresponding judicial deposits were reclassified to current assets CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 192 (b) Provision for tax, civil, labor, other contingencies and outstanding judicial deposits 2017 2016 OutOutstanding standing Judicial Net Judicial Net deposits Provision judicial deposits Provision judicial amount amount deposits deposits (i) (i) Tax (124) 973 849 679 (562) 1,287 725 214 Civil (120) 437 317 10 (15) 387 372 104 Labor (205) 304 99 71 (97) 273 176 99 Other 47 47 5 38 38 3 (449) 1,761 1,312 765 (674) 1,985 1,311 420 (i) The Company has balances deposited in relation to lawsuits classified by management, following the directions of the Company’s legal counsel as representing remote or possible losses and, therefore, they are made without respective provision. (c) Litigation with likelihood of loss considered possible The Company is party to litigations representing a risk of possible loss, for which no constituted provision has been made, as detailed below. 2017 2016 Tax 10,351 7,329 Civil 7,215 7,149 Environmental 496 484 Labor and social security 441 309 18,503 15,271 (c.1) Comments on contingent tax and public rights liabilities with likelihood of loss considered possible The contingent liabilities relating to tax lawsuits in progress with a likelihood of loss considered possible, for which no provision has been recorded, are commented on below. In the table below we present the materiality of these lawsuits: Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 193 Nature 2017 2016 Tax assessment notice “IRPJ/CSLL” (i) 1.794 828 ICMS credit (ii) 923 757 “IRPJ/CSLL” – Profits abroad (iii) 765 172 Disallowances of “PIS/COFINS” credits 582 425 Compensation for exploration for mineral resources (“CFEM”) 571 564 Disallowance of “IRPJ/CSLL” negative balance 362 306 Offset of tax loss – 30% limit (merger) 276 271 Tax assessment notice – “ICMS” (iv) 272 216 “IRPJ/CSLL” – Transfer costs (v) 192 222 “ICMS” – transfer costs 242 225 Errors in fiscal classification Importation (vi) 163 “ICMS” requirements on TUSD 134 149 Collection of ICMS due to divergences regarding the destination of the property 90 “IRPJ/CSLL” – Deduction of expenses (vii) 71 85 Tax assessment notice ISS 61 Other lawsuits with individual amounts lower than R$ 100 3.853 3.109 10.351 7.329 (i) Tax assessment notice – “IRPJ / CSLL” In December, 2011, the subsidiary VCSA was assessed by the Brazilian Federal Revenue, for the historical value of R$ 185, due to supposed non-payment or underpayment of IRPJ and CSLL, related to the period from 2006 to 2010, according to: (i) amortization of goodwill supposedly being incorrect; (ii) utilization of tax loss more than the limit of 30% permitted by tax regulations (merger); and (iii) non-payment of IRPJ and CSLL obligations on a monthly estimates basis. In March 2015, regarding the voluntary appeals filed with the Administrative Board of Tax Appeals, the board authorized the exclusion of the qualified and isolated fines and confirmed the lower court decision regarding the reduction mentioned above. Such court decision denied the taxpayer’s Special Appeal. On September 30, 2017, the updated amount assessed amounted to R$ 298 and VCSA opted to include this case in Special Program of Tax Regularization “PERT” (Note 1.1 (d)). Of the total residual balance, part of the amount refers to the assessment that the VCSA received in December 2016 by the Brazilian Federal Revenue in the historical amount of R$ 470, demanding the collection of IRPJ and CSLL related to the period of 2011, undue deduction of expenses and operating costs. Currently, the VCSA awaits the judgment of the impugnation presented to the Special Revenue Service. On December 31, 2017, the amount updated in controversy is R$ 473, whose likelihood of loss is possible. In December 2017, VCSA was assessed by the Federal Revenue Service in the amount of R$ 1,295, due to the alleged absence of payment or lower payment of IRPJ and CSLL related to the period between 2012 and 2013, due to: (i) gain of capital allegedly obtained as a result of an exchange made by the Company; and (ii) amortization of supposedly incorrect goodwill. In January 2018, the Company filed the challenge and is currently awaiting CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 194 judgment before the Federal Revenue Service. As of December 31, 2017, the adjusted amount in contingency is R$ 1,302, estimated as possible. (ii) ICMS credit Between 2011 and 2013, eight notices of infringement and fines were filed against its subsidiary Citrovita Agro Industrial Ltda. (“CAI”), mainly aimed at the collection of the ICMS credited, as highlighted in invoices for the transfer of other subsidiaries, for the specific purpose of export, whose exits are not taxed. The tax assessment notices totaled R$ 817 as of December 31, 2017. Of the eight cases mentioned above, seven are awaiting judgment in the administrative sphere, and (i) three of them with a totally unfavorable decision; (ii) and four in which decisions kept the entries only in part, reducing the assessed value. In view of these decisions, appeals were filed by the company and by the State Treasury Attorney of São Paulo, which are pending judgment by the Tax and Tax Court. One of them was terminated unfavorably at the administrative level and is being discussed in court. In the period ended on December 31, 2017, the CBA has notice, relating to the ICMS tax credits relating to items applied in the production process, which, in the opinion of the State of Goiás, would not generate the right to the credit of said tax. The amount updated as of December 31, 2017 corresponds to R$ 106. In the opinion of Management, and in the opinion of independent legal advisors, the Company makes ICMS credits in accordance with the pertinent legislation, which is why the probability of process is considered possible. (iii) Profits abroad – “IRPJ/CSLL” The Company has official notifications served by the Brazilian Federal Revenue, for supposed non-payment of IRPJ and CSLL due to the profit realized abroad by its subsidiaries, in 2007 and 2008, which amounted to R$ 266 in December 2017. In June 2017, the Company was assessed in R$ 329 for supposedly not computing, in its IRPJ and CSLL tax calculation of the 2012 calendar year, the profit realized by subsidiaries abroad. The Company has R$ 607 under discussion. The subsidiary VCSA has official notifications served by the Brazilian Federal Revenue as well, for supposed non-payment of IRPJ and CSLL due to the profit realized abroad by its subsidiaries from the 2008 to 2010 calendar years, which amounted to R$ 158 in December 2017. (iv) Tax assessment notice – “ICMS” In the fourth quarter of 2016, its subsidiary CAI received a tax assessment notice whose amount updated through December 31, amounts to R$ 164. The lawsuit currently awaits judgment of the special appeal filed by the company with the Tax Court of São Paulo. (v) “IRPJ/CSLL” – Transfer costs Between 2007 and 2010, four tax assessments were filed against its subsidiary, Citrovita Agroindustrial Ltda., Aiming at the collection of IRPJ and CSLL and the adjustment in the basis of tax losses and the negative basis of CSLL, due to the glosses in 2003 and 2004. In October 2017, one of the cases was closed in a favorable way to the company, remaining under administrative discussion the amount of R$ 192, updated until December 31, 2017. The active processes await judgment of appeals by the Administrative Council of Tax Appeals. Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 195 (vi) Errors in fiscal classification – Importation In June, 2017, the subsidiary CBA was allegedly assessed in error in relation to the fiscal classification of the importation of inputs, for tax enforcement purposes (IPI, PIS, COFINS E II), in the amount of R$ 163. The subsidiary understands than the assessment is improper and presented its impugnation. As at the date of these financial statements, the subsidiary was awaiting an administrative decision in the first instance. (vii) “IRPJ/CSLL” – Deduction of expenses In December 2016, its subsidiary CAI was assessed by the Federal Revenue Service (“RFB”) for the collection of Corporate Income Tax (“IRPJ”) and Social Contribution on Net Income (“CSLL”), the reason for the gloss of exclusions from the calculation base of said taxes in the 2011 calendar year. The amount required by the tax assessment notice amounts to R$ 71 (updated until December 2017). Currently, it is awaited the judgment of the presented impugnation. (c.2) Comments on contingent civil liabilities with likelihood of loss considered possible Nature 2017 2016 Public civil suit – Violation of the economic order (i) 3,872 3,630 Administrative investigations carried out by the Secretariat of Economic Law (ii) 2,258 2,128 Litigation with a São Paulo transportation company (iii) 187 179 Indemnity lawsuits 57 Other lawsuits 898 1,155 7,215 7,149 (i) Civil class action – Cartel The Office of the Public Prosecutor of the State of Rio Grande do Norte filed a civil class action against the Company, together with eight other defendants, including several of Brazil’s largest cement manufacturers, alleging the formation of a cartel, demanding that: (1) the defendants make an indemnity payment, jointly, amounting to R$ 5,600, in favor of the civil class action, due to pain and suffering and property collective damage; (2) the defendants make a payment of 10.0% of the total amount paid by the customers for the acquisition of cement or concrete under the brands owned by the defendants, during the period from 2002 to 2006, due to individual consumer damages; (3) that the defendants pay the following penalties according to Article 23 Section 1 and Article 24 of Law 8,884/94: (i) in addition to the payment mentioned in item (1) above, a fine ranging from 1.0% to 30.0% of annual gross revenues relating to the fiscal year immediately preceding the year in which the alleged violation occurred, but not less than the monetary advantage acquired; and (ii) a prohibition, for a period not shorter than five years, from obtaining financing from governmental financial institutions or from participating in bidding processes conducted by the federal, state or municipal governments and their entities. In view of the total number of the claims in item (1) above in the amount of R$ 5,600 and because of the claims alleging joint liability, VCSA estimated that, based on its market share, its share of the liability would be approximately R$ 2,400. However, there can be no assurance that this apportionment would prevail and that VCSA will not be held liable for CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 196 a different proportion, which may be larger, or for the total number of these claims. Additionally, there can be no assurance that VCSA will not be required to pay other amounts as compensation for damages caused to consumers as mentioned in item (2) above and/or the fine mentioned in item (3) above. There has been not been yet a significant decision on the lawsuit. The likelihood of loss in this matter is considered possible, and the Company has not recorded any provision for this claim. As at December 31, 2017, the restated balance of the contingency was R$ 3,872. (ii) Administrative Proceedings by SDE, currently CADE (Brazilian antitrust agency) In 2006 the SDE initiated administrative proceedings against the largest Brazilian cement companies, including VCSA, alleging that the large cement companies would have breached Brazilian antitrust laws, such as in terms of price fixing and the formation of a cartel. After the finding of facts, the CADE court judged the lawsuit, issuing the final terms of the judgment on July 29, 2015, applying several penalties to the companies. The penalties imposed on VCSA include the payment of a fine of approximately R$ 1,566 and the obligation of VCSA to sell: (1) all its interests in other cement and concrete companies in Brazil, (2) 20% of its installed capacity of concrete services in Brazil, in relevant markets in which VCSA has more than one concrete plant (3) a specific cement asset that, in CADE’s opinion, was directly related to the alleged illegal ac of which VCSA is accused. Other non-monetary penalties were also imposed on VCSA, including: (1) the obligation to publish CADE’s decision in one of the five biggest Brazilian newspapers; (2) the prohibition from contracting with official financial institutions credit lines with financing conditions subsidized by public programs or resources provided by these institutions; and (3) the recommendation to the Federal Revenue that they restrict or limit some other benefits and tax incentives. As at December 31, 2017, the restated balance of the contingency was R$ 1,994. In November 2015, VCSA filed an annulment action to cancel the decision issued at the administrative level or, at least, to reduce the applied penalties. The injunction was granted on November 24, 2015, suspending the effects of the decision issued by CADE at the administrative level, preventing CADE from demanding the fulfillment of the obligations and/or executing the penalties until judgment of the merit. CADE was summoned and filed its defense, while VCSA presented its reply in November 2016. Now, the settlement of the lawsuit is awaited. The Company classified the likelihood of loss on this lawsuit as possible. During 2017, some construction companies and concrete producers filed lawsuits for indemnity claims against Votorantim Cimentos and other companies which were convicted by CADE, due to the alleged cartel in the cement and concrete markets, in summary claiming that the cartel caused economic and non-economic losses. In January 2018, the first sentence dismissing the merit of the indemnity claims was issued. Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 197 (iii) Litigation with a transportation company in São Paulo In September 2003, a transportation company filed a claim against VCB (a company merged into the Company) seeking compensation for property damages amounting to R$ 84 and pain and suffering in an unspecified amount, alleging that the Company failed to honor two oral contracts. The transportation company argued that those breaches resulted in the discontinuation of the activities of its sales department and significant losses to its transportation department. The Company filed its response in September 2009, arguing that: (1) the transportation company’s statute of limitations had expired; (2) the Company did not change the general conditions of the agreement; and (3) the transportation company was unable to provide the contracted services, which resulted in its insolvency. In August 2011, the Court rejected the argument regarding the expiration of the statute of limitations and determined an expert examination, as requested by the parties. The expert examination was concluded and the report was presented. The parties filed their challenges to the report and the lawsuit was sent to the expert for his opinion. In June 2014, clarifications were provided by the expert. On June 24, 2014, the Company’s challenge was filed. In December 2014, the Company received a decision declaring the end of the fact-finding phase and requesting the parties to declare whether they would be interested in holding a conciliation hearing. In July 2016, the request was partially judged, sentencing Votorantim to pay R$ 400 thousand. In October 2016, Votorantim filed an appeal request. As at December 31, 2017, the restated balance of this contingency was R$ 187. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 198 24. USE OF PUBLIC ASSETS Accounting policy The amount is originally recognized as a financial liability (obligation) and as an intangible asset (right to use a public asset) which corresponds to the amount of the total annual charges over the period of the agreement discounted to present value (present value of the future payment cash flows). The Company invests in companies that have concession contracts in the electrical energy industry. Most of these contracts provide for annual payments from the commencement of operations and are adjusted by the General Market Price Index for the use of public assets. The contracts have an average duration of 35 years, and the amounts to be paid annually are as follows: Plants/Companies Investor Concession Concession start date end date Salto Pilão CBA nov-01 dec-36 Salto do Rio Verdinho CBA aug-02 sep-37 Itupararanga CBA nov-03 dec-23 Piraju CBA dec-98 jan-34 Ourinhos CBA jul-00 aug-35 Baesa – Energética Barra Grande CBA jun-01 may-36 Capim Branco I e Capim Branco II Nexa BR aug-01 sep-36 Picada Nexa BR may-01 jun-36 Enercan – Campos Novos CBA apr-00 may-35 Enercan – Campos Novos Votorantim Metais S.A. apr-00 may-35 Enercan – Campos Novos Energia S.A CBA Energia Participações S.A. apr-00 may-35 Enercan – Campos Novos Energia S.A Pollarix S.A. apr-00 may-35 Pedra do Cavalo Votorantim Cimentos N/NE S.A. mar-02 apr-37 Current Non-current Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 199 Payment Ownership Intangible assets Liabilities Ownership Intangible assets Liabilities start date interest (Note 18) interest (Note 18) jan-10 60% 194 493 60% 204 516 oct-10 100% 8 20 100% 8 21 jan-04 100% 1 2 100% 1 2 feb-03 100% 1 6 100% 1 6 sep-05 100% 1 5 100% 1 5 jun-07 15% 14 42 15% 14 44 oct-07 13% 3 10 13% 3 11 jul-06 100% 18 65 100% 19 68 jun-06 0% 33% 5 jun-06 0% 12% 1 12 jun-06 24% 2 6 0% jun-06 21% 1 5 0% apr-06 100% 118 478 100% 123 501 361 1,132 380 1,186 76 67 361 1,056 380 1,119 361 1,132 380 1,186 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 200 25. EQUITY (a) Share capital Accounting policy Share capital is represented exclusively by common shares classified as equity. On December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, the fully subscribed and paid-up capital of the Company was R$ 28,656, consisting of 18,278,789 thousand common shares. (b) Dividends Accounting policy This is recognized as a liability in the Company’s financial statements at year-end based on the Company’s bylaws. Any amount that exceeds the minimum required, 25% of the profit for the year, is only recognized on the date it is approved by the stockholders at the General Meeting. Therefore, the calculation of the dividends as at December 31 can be shown as follows: 2017 2016 Net income (loss) attributable to controlling shareholders 590 (1,296) Legal reserve (30) Dividend calculation basis 560 Dividends 140 Percentage of net income for the year 25% 25% During 2017, the Company approved to its parent company Hejoassu Administração S.A, the amount of R$ 135, corresponding to dividends related to part of the balance of the “Profit Reserve” account, accumulated up to December 31, 2016. (c) Earnings per share Accounting policy Earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to the controlling stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares during the year. Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 201 (d) Government grants Accounting policy Government grants are recorded at fair value when there is a reasonable guarantee that the grant will be received and the Company will be able to comply with all of the required conditions. Government grants related to costs are deferred and recorded in the statement of income during the period required to reconcile them with the costs that they are intended to offset. (e) Carrying value adjustments Hedge Hedge Currency accountaccountRemeaFair translaing for ing for surevalue of Other tion of net the ment of availcompreinvestinvestTotal operaretireablehensive ees ments located abroad, tions of ment for-sale income subsidbenefits assets abroad net of iaries taxes At January 1, 2016 9.808 (6.375) (82) (41) (358) 2.952 Other comprehensive income Currency translation of investees located abroad (4.537) (4.537) Hedge accounting for net investments abroad, net of taxes 2.033 2.033 Hedge accounting for the operations of subsidiaries 52 52 Remeasurement of retirement benefits (37) (37) Other comprehensive income on disposal of investments (25) (25) Share in other comprehensive income of investees (84) (84) Fair value of availablefor-sale financial assets of non-consolidated investments 227 227 Repurchase of shares of Nexa Resources Perú S.A.A. 102 102 Fair value per share variation Nexa 572 572 At December 31, 2016 5.246 (4.342) (30) (78) 227 232 1.255 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 202 Hedge Hedge Currency accountaccountRemeaFair translaing for ing for surevalue of Other tion of net the ment of availcompreinvestinvestTotal operaretireablehensive ees ments tions of ment for-sale income located abroad, subsidbenefits assets abroad net of iaries taxes Other comprehensive income Currency translation of investees located abroad 473 473 Hedge accounting for net investments abroad, net of taxes (163) (163) Hedge accounting for the operations of subsidiaries (101) (101) Fair value of availablefor-sale financial assets of non-consolidated investments 39 39 Realization of comprehensive income on disposals of investments (136) (136) Realization of comprehensive income on the sale of interest in Nexa Resources S.A. (593) 330 13 (4) (165) (419) Increase in noncontrolling interest Nexa Resourses S.A. dilution interest (215) (215) At December 31, 2017 4.990 (4.175) (118) (82) 266 (148) 733 Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 203 (f) Non-controlling interests 2017 2016 Nexa Resources S.A. (i) 2,967 808 Nexa CJM 795 736 Nexa Perú 406 521 Cementos Artigas S.A. 204 197 Asment de Témara 170 144 Yacuces, S.L. 125 108 Itacamba Cemento S.A. 92 99 Shree Dijivay Cement Co. Ltd 54 52 Yibitas Yozgat Isci Birligi Insaat M.T.S 22 23 Acerías Paz Del Rio S.A. 12 18 Other (ii) 10 (48) 4,857 2,658 (i) The variation refers to the issuance of new shares and sale of interest by VSA. (ii) The value presented as a debt is substantially derived from the balances of investees that had negative equity at the end of the year. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 204 26. NET REVENUE Accounting policy Revenue represents the fair value of the consideration received or receivable from the sale of goods in the ordinary course of business of the Company. Revenue is shown net of value added tax, rebates, discounts and rebates, after elimination of sales among consolidated companies. The Company recognizes revenue when: (i) the amount of revenue can be measured reliably; (ii) it’s probable that future economic benefits will flow to the entity; and (iii) specific criteria have been met for each of the Company’s activities. Revenue will not be reliably measured if all terms of sale aren’t resolved. The Company bases its estimates on historical results, taking into account the type of customer, the type of transaction and the specificities of each agreement. Revenue recognition is based on the following principles: (i) Sale of products Revenue is shown net of value added tax, returns, rebates and discounts, after eliminating sales within the consolidated companies. (ii) Sales of products and service The Company and its subsidiaries recognize revenue when: (i) the amount of revenue can be reliably measured; (ii) it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the entity; and (iii) specific criteria have been met for each of the activities of the Company and its subsidiaries as described below. Revenue will not be deemed as reliably measured if all sale conditions are not resolved. The Company and its subsidiaries base their estimates on historical results, taking into consideration the type of customer, the type of transaction and the specifics of each arrangement. (iii) Sale of surplus energy The sale of energy, which meets the definition of a financial instrument, is recognized in the Company’s financial statements at its fair value. Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 205 (a) Reconciliation of revenues 2017 2016 Gross revenue Sales of products – domestic market 10,350 11,068 Sales of products – foreign market 14,156 13,467 Supply of electrical energy 6,569 5,498 Services provided 486 663 31,561 30,696 Taxes on sales, services and other deductions (4,336) (4,731) Net revenue 27,225 25,965 (b) Information on geographical areas in which the Company operates The geographical areas are determined based on the location of the customers. The net revenue of the Company, classified by currency and destination, is as follows: (i) Revenue by destination 2017 2016 Brazil 13,290 12,680 United States 3,336 3,395 Peru 2,234 1,823 Argentina 1,127 1,080 Canada 1,062 950 Colombia 991 1,005 Turkey 682 701 Switzerland 567 287 Spain 487 653 Luxembourg 418 347 Morocco 394 425 Uruguay 307 296 Japan 227 153 Bolívia 222 122 Tunisia 199 258 Singapore 194 145 India 181 193 China 153 137 Chile 148 166 Taiwan 147 53 Austria 119 79 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 206 2017 2016 Belgium 110 143 Germany 75 150 Italy 67 56 Ecuador 65 29 Other countries 423 639 27,225 25,965 (ii) Revenue by currency 2017 2016 Real 13,063 12,495 US Dollar 9,150 8,308 Canadian Dollar 1,017 953 Colombian Peso 834 854 Argentinian Peso 857 800 Euro 519 680 Turkish Lira 567 627 Dirham 394 425 Dinar 199 258 Other currencies 625 565 27,225 25,965 Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 207 27. EXPENSES BY NATURE 2017 2016 Cost of products General and sold and Selling administraTotal Total services tive rendered Raw materials, inputs and consumables 13,404 66 177 13,647 12,857 Employee benefit expenses 2,615 349 1,052 4,016 4,173 Depreciation, amortization and depletion 2,212 49 99 2,360 2,603 Outsourced services 1,020 43 498 1,561 1,493 Transportation expenses 92 865 12 969 1,084 Other expenses 1,306 294 180 1,780 1,530 20,649 1,666 2,018 24,333 23,740 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 208 28. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT EXPENSES (a) Health care (post-retirement) The liability related to the health care plan for retired employees is stated at the present value of the obligation, less the market value of the plan assets, adjusted by actuarial gains and losses and past-service costs, in a manner similar to the accounting methodology used for defined benefit pension plans. The post-retirement health care obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries. The present value of the post-retirement health care obligation is determined based on an estimate of the future cash outflow. Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in actuarial assumptions are fully recognized within “Carrying value adjustments” in the period in which they arise. (b) Employee profit sharing Provision is recorded to recognize the expenses related to employee profit sharing. This provision is calculated based on qualitative and quantitative targets established by management and recorded in the statement of income as “Employee benefits”. 2017 2016 Salaries and bonuses 2,469 2,553 Payroll charges 947 1,023 Benefits 600 597 4,016 4,173 Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 209 29. OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES, NET 2017 2016 Realization of other comprehensive income Nexa (Note 1.1 (f)) 750 Realization of other comprehensive income Others 3 Net income from sale of investment Nexa (Note 1.1 (f)) (161) Gain on sale of investments Cement and Metals Operations 33 312 Reversal (provision) for impairment of investments long steel Brazil (Note 34 (a)) 71 (988) Reversal (constitution) for impairment of investments, fixed and intangible assets 23 (1.164) Gain on sale of fixed and intangible assets, net 4 149 Tax benefits 74 109 Net gain on co-processing 22 11 Special mining tax 8 Reinsurance operations (26) Expenses with environmental obligations (30) (248) Royalties of mining and exploration rights (37) (36) Special Program for Tax Regularization State (44) Loss on hedge (63) (127) Special Program for Tax Regularization Federal (122) Spending on not activatable projects (316) (210) Financial instrument firm commitment (i) (522) (253) Other expenses, net (203) (171) (536) (2.616) (i) Relates to the result of the sale of energy surplus, recognized by the fair value of the contracts and carried out in accordance with the physical energy delivery, as described in Note 15. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 210 30. FINANCE RESULTS, NET Accounting policy (i) Financial income (expenses) These comprise interest rates on loans and financial investments, monetary and exchange variation on assets and liabilities, linked to loans with a swap instrument, as a result of the exchange variation net of gains and losses on derivative financial instruments (swap contracts) and various discounts that are recognized in the income for the year on the accrual basis. (ii) Foreign exchange variations A foreign currency transaction shall be initially recognized in the functional currency by applying the spot exchange rate between the functional currency and the foreign currency on the transaction date on the amount in foreign currency. At the end of each reporting period, monetary items in foreign currency must be converted using the closing exchange rate. Foreign exchange variations arising from the settlement of monetary items or the translation of monetary items at rates different from those for which they were converted at the initial measurement during the period or in previous financial statements shall be recognized in the statement of income in the period in which they arise. 2017 2016 Finance income Income from financial investments 583 754 Reversal of monetary restatement of provision 207 Interest on financial assets 119 156 Monetary updating of assets 119 131 Fair value of borrowing 61 115 Discounts obtained 29 19 Interest and monetary restatement – use of public assets (i) 6 Interest on related-party transactions (Note 14) 7 15 Discount on repurchase of bonds 173 Other finance income 24 34 1,155 1,397 Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 211 2017 2016 Finance costs Capitalization of borrowing costs 29 73 Interest on borrowing (1,580) (1,728) Monetary restatement of provision (268) (197) Income tax on remittances of interest abroad (120) (106) Interest on taxes payable (123) Fair value of borrowing and financing (117) (89) Interest on anticipation of receivables (101) (101) Adjustment to present value CPC 12 (83) (66) Borrowing fees (40) (74) “PIS/COFINS” on financial results (38) (57) Interest and monetary restatement – use of public assets (i) (3) (106) Discounts granted (2) (20) Other finance costs (264) (172) (2,710) (2,643) Results of derivative financial instruments (Note 6.1.1 (b)) Revenue 3 43 Expenses (216) (1,049) (213) (1,006) Foreign exchange variation, net (724) 535 Finance results, net (2,492) (1,717) (i) In 2017, the Company recognized a monetary adjustment revenue on “UBP” – Use of the Public Asset, as a result of the index used to update (“IGP-M” General Market Price Index). CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 212 31. PENSION PLAN AND POST-EMPLOYMENT HEALTH CARE BENEFITS Accounting policy The Company, through its subsidiaries abroad (VCNA, VCEAA, Artigas and APDR) and in Brazil (VCNNE), participates in pension plans managed by a private pension entity, which provide post-employment benefits to employees. The liability recognized in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date minus the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using market interest rates that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related pension obligation. In countries where there is no active market related to such obligations, market rates for government securities are used. Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in actuarial assumptions are recognized within “Carrying value adjustments” in the period in which they arise. Past-service costs are recognized immediately in the statement of income, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time (the vesting period). In this case, past-service costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. For defined contribution plans, the Company pays contributions to the pension plan administrators on a compulsory, contractual or voluntary basis. The Company no longer has payment obligations once the contributions are paid. Contributions are recognized as employee benefit expense when due. Prepaid contributions are recognized as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available. The Company’s subsidiaries have a defined contribution plan for employees. Certain subsidiaries, however, have a defined benefit plan. The table below shows where the balances and activities related to post-employment benefit are allocated in the consolidated financial statements. Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 213 2017 2016 Obligations recorded in the balance sheet with: Pension plan benefits 166 197 Post-employment healthcare benefits 151 120 Liabilities recorded in the balance sheet 317 317 Expenses recognized in the statement of income with: Pension plan benefits 20 22 Post-employment healthcare benefits 11 7 31 29 Remeasurement with: Pension plan benefits – gross amount 63 Deferred income tax and social contribution 8 (21) Pension plan benefits – net amount 8 42 (a) Defined contribution pension plan The Company and its Brazilian subsidiaries sponsor private pension plans available to all employees administered by Fundação Senador José Ermírio de Moraes (“FUNSEJEM”), a private, not for profit, pension fund. Under the terms of the regulations of the fund, the contributions of the employees to FUNSEJEM are matched by the sponsors in accordance with the level of remuneration of the employee. For employees whose remuneration is lower than the threshold established by the regulations, the Company matches the contributions that represent up to 1.5% of their monthly remuneration. For employees whose remuneration exceeds the threshold, the Company matches the contributions of employees that represent up to 6% of their monthly remuneration. Voluntary contributions can also be made to FUNSEJEM. Once the plan contributions are made, no additional contributions are required. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 214 (b) Defined benefit pension plan The Company has subsidiaries with defined pension plans in North America, South America and Europe, which follow similar regulatory standards. The defined benefit pension plans also offer health care and life insurance, among other benefits. The cost of the retirement benefits and the other benefits of the plan granted to employees are determined by the projected benefit method on a pro rata basis considering the length of service and the best expectations of management regarding the return on plan assets, salary adjustments, costs and mortality trends, and the age of retirement of employees. The amounts recognized in the balance sheet are determined as follows: 2017 2016 Present value of funded obligations 1,042 865 Fair value of plan assets (808) (733) Deficit of funded plans 234 132 Present value of non-funded obligations 82 176 Total deficit of defined benefit pension plans 316 308 Impact of the minimum funding requirement/assets ceiling 1 9 Assets and liabilities in the balance sheet 317 317 Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 215 The changes in the defined benefit obligation and the fair value of the plan assets during the year were as follows: 2017 2016 Impact of Present the value of minimum funded Fair value requireand of plan Total ment of Total Total unfunded assets the obligafunds/ tions asset ceiling Opening balance for the year 1,046 (736) 310 9 319 303 Current service cost 8 8 8 5 Finance cost (income) 51 (33) 18 18 23 59 (33) 26 26 28 Re-measurements: Return on assets, excluding the amount included as finance income (35) (35) (35) (5) Losses (gains) arising from changes in demographic assumptions 13 13 13 (12) Losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 42 42 42 75 Losses (gains) arising from experience (10) (10) (10) 7 Changes in the asset ceiling, excluding the amount included as finance cost (8) (8) 45 (35) 10 (8) 2 65 Foreign exchange gains (losses) 59 (48) 11 11 (40) Contributions: Employer (4) (4) (4) (6) Payments of the plans: Payment of benefits (84) 47 (37) (37) (33) Closing balance for the year 1,125 (809) 316 1 317 317 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 216 The defined benefit obligation and the plan assets, by country, are as follows: 2017 Brazil Europe North South America America Present value of the obligation 49 19 706 Fair value of plan assets (52) (4) (624) (3) 15 82 Present value of non-financial obligations 46 32 4 Impact of the minimum requirement of the funds/asset ceiling 1 (2) 61 114 4 The actuarial assumptions used were as fallows: 2017 Brazil Europe North South America America Discount rate 9.93% 7.25% 3.46% 10.70% Inflation rate 4.46% 2.85% 2.00% Future salary increases 5.25% 6.85% 2.50% 6.70% Increases in future pension plans 4.46% The assumptions relating to mortality experience are established based on the opinion of actuaries, in accordance with published statistics and the experience in each territory. The mortality assumptions for the most important countries are based on the following post-retirement mortality tables: (i) Brazil AT-2000 Basic segregated for gender and disability table RRB-1994, modified and aggravated by 15%, segregated by gender; (ii) Europe: CSO80 with a projection period of ten to 15 years; (iii) North America: RP2000 segregated by gender with a projection period of eight years and (IV) Colombia: Based on table RV8, regulated by resolution 115-2010, without an expiration period. (c) Post-employment benefits (pension and health care) The Company operates post-employment health care plans through its subsidiary in North America, VCNA, and in Europe, VCEAA. The accounting method, assumptions and frequency of evaluations are similar to those used for the defined benefit pension plans. Most of these plans are not funded. The obligations relating to these plans are included in the movement of the defined benefit obligations previously presented. Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 217 Percentage 2016 Colombia Total Brazil Europe North South America America Colombia Total 268 1,042 43 21 540 2 258 864 (128) (808) (54) (4) (559) (117) (734) 140 234 (11) 17 (19) 2 141 130 82 43 135 178 1 8 1 9 140 317 (3) 60 117 2 141 317 2016 Colombia Total Brazil Europe North South America America Colombia Total 6.75% 7.62% 11.41% 6.20% 4.00% 10.00% 7.50% 7.82% 3.10% 4.97% 0.75% 2.00% 11.50% 3.50% 4.54% 5.33% 5.76% 7.25% 2.50% 3.00% 4.63% 3.50% 3.98% 4.97% 3.50% 4.24% CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 218 32. TAX BENEFITS VCSA and its subsidiaries have tax incentives within certain state and federal industrial development programs. The state programs are aimed at attracting industrial investments seeking regional decentralization, promoting employment and income generation, besides complementing and diversifying the industrial matrix of the states. These fiscal incentives are approved by the states in the form of percentage financing of up to 75%, presumed credit with a percentage of up to 95% and deferral of the payment of taxes or partial reductions of the amount due for imports of assets and inputs: (a) FDI – Ceará Industrial Development Fund Tax incentives granted until 2020 and 2026, within the scope of the Ceará Industrial Development Fund, created under State Law No. 10,367 of December 7, 1979 and State Decree No. 29,183, of February 8, 2008. (b) PSDI – Sergipe Industrial Development Program Tax incentives granted until 2031, under the Sergipe Industrial Development Program, created under the terms of State Law No. 3,140 of December 23, 1991 and State Decree No. 29,935 of December 30, 2014. (c) Pro-Indústria – Tocantins Industrial Development Program – Xambioá – TO Tax incentives granted until 2023, under the Tocantins Industrial Development Program, created under the terms of State Law No. 1,385 of July 9, 2003 and State Decree No. 2,845, of September 14, 2006. (d) PRODEIC – Mato Grosso Industrial and Commercial Development Program Tax incentives granted until 2021 and 2023 under the Industrial and Commercial Development Program of Mato Grosso, created under the terms of State Law 7,958, of September 25, 2003 and State Decree No. 1,432, of September 29, 2003. (e) PRODIC – Industrial, Commercial and Mineral Development Program of the State of Rondônia Fiscal incentives granted until 2018, within the scope of the Industrial, Commercial and Mineral Development Program of the State of Rondônia, created under the terms of State Law No. 1,558, of December 26, 2005 and State Decree No. 12,988, of July 13, 2007. (f) PRO MARANHÃO – Incentive Program for Industrial Activities and in the State of Maranhão Tax incentives granted until 2031, within the scope of the Incentive Program for Industrial and Technological Activities in the State of Maranhão, created under the terms of State Law No. 9,121, dated March 4, 2010 and State Decree No. 26,689, of June 30, 2010. Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 219 (g) M.A.E. – Program for the Attraction of Companies in the State of Pará Tax incentives granted until 2027, within the scope of the Program for the Attraction of Companies in the State of Pará, created under the terms of State Law 6,913, dated October 3, 2006 and State Decree No. 2,490, dated October 6, 2010. (h) PRODUZIR – Industrial Development Program in the State of Goiás Tax incentives granted up to 2020, within the scope of the Industrial Development Program in the State of Goiás, created pursuant to State Law 13,591 of January 18, 2000 and State Decree No. 5,265, of June 30, 2000. (i) Federal tax incentives Income tax incentives granted by the federal government through the Northeast Development Authority and the Amazon Development Authority, to encourage economic and social development in some areas of the North and Northeast regions of Brazil. These incentives are recorded in profit or loss on an accrual basis and are allocated at the end of the year to the “Tax incentives” reserve account. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 220 33. INSURANCE The Company and its subsidiaries maintain property risk insurance coverage amounting to R$ 55,321 and for loss of income amounting to R$ 7,583 on December 31, 2017. The Company’s management considers these amounts sufficient to cover eventual property risks and loss of profits. 34. ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CLASSIFIED AS HELD-FOR-SALE Accounting policy They are classified as assets held-for-sale when their book value is recovered, mainly through sale and when the sale is considered highly probable. The asset or group of assets to be classified as held-for-sale should be measured at initial recognition at the lower of its book value if it were not classified as such and the fair value less costs to sell. If the asset or group of assets is acquired as part of a business combination, it must be measured at fair value less costs to sell. When the sale is expected to occur after one year, the entity shall measure selling expenses at present value. Any increase in the present value of selling expenses that results from the passage of time should be presented in the results as financial expense. Depreciation of assets held for trading ceases when a group of assets is designated as held-for-sale. The assets and liabilities of the group of discontinued assets are presented in single lines in assets and liabilities. Assets Liabilities Assets classified as held-for-sale – Long steel Brazil 2,194 1,522 Net investment 672 Assets classified as held-for-sale – Cement segment 5 4 Net investment 1 (a) Long steel segment On February 22, 2017, AMB and VSA entered into a contract under which VS will become a subsidiary of AMB and VSA will hold a 15% minority interest in the combined long steel business. Votorantim’s long steel operations in Argentina (Acerbrag) and Colombia (PazdelRío) were not included in the transaction. In compliance with the accounting rule for assets classified as held-for-sale, the Company carried out the valuation of the assets and liabilities of these operations at their fair value. Assets and liabilities classified as held-for-sale, which were valued at their fair value, generated expenses in the amount of R$ 988 in 2016. In 2017, there was a revaluation of the fair value and a reversal of R$ 71, both recorded as impairment in item “Other operating expenses, net” (Note 29). During the year ended December 31, 2017, VSA made a contribution of R$ 220 in the capital of VS. As this contribution will not be subject to adjustment in the negotiation, this amount was classified in the result, net of Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 221 taxes, as “discontinued operations”. Also during the 2017 fiscal year, the companies of the long steel operation, located in Argentina, decided dividends in the amount of R$ 89 for VS. Due to the fact that operations in Argentina were not included in the transaction, the amount receivable was reclassified to “discontinued operations”, net of taxes. The tax effect of the operations was R$ 105. The loss for the year ended December 31, 2016 of the long steel operation in Brazil, in the amount of R$ 268, was retained in the income statement and reclassified from “Continuing Operations” to “Discontinued Operations”. Considering that the asset classified as held-for-sale is valued at its fair value, consequently, it was not revalued by equity method on December 31, 2017. (b) Cement segment The assets and liabilities of the cement segment correspond to outstanding balances of China’s operations. (c) Income from discontinued operations Cement Siderurgy Total Loss for the year 2017 36 36 VSA Contribution of capital, net of taxes – long steel in Brazil (145) (145) Deliberate dividends, net of taxes – long steel in Brazil (59) (59) VCEAA Result from the sale of assets and liabilities of China (Note 1.1 (b)) (139) (139) Other Comprehensive Income – China (Note 1.1 (b)) 60 60 VCSA Other Comprehensive Income – China (Note 1.1 (b)) 73 73 Write-off of goodwill on sale of operations – China (Note 1.1 (b)) (228) (228) Net gain on the sale of assets and liabilities of California and Florida (Note 1.1 (b)) 257 257 Loss for the year 2017 59 (204) (145) CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 222 35. SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION – BUSINESS SEGMENTS In order to provide more detailed information the Company has elected to present financial information organized into two business segments. Each segment presented has been prepared following the accounting consolidation policies in note 22 and consider, first, the elimination of balances and transactions among the companies before: (i) eliminations between business segments; (ii) eliminations of investments held by the holding companies. Additionally, the eliminations and reclassifications among the companies are presented so that the net results reconcile with the consolidated financial information of VSA according to the supplementary information. This supplementary information is not intended to be in accordance with, and is not required by, the accounting practices adopted in Brazil, or by IFRS. (a) Capital management The financial leverage ratios are calculated according to the information of the industrial segments, considering the accumulated result of 12 months, as loan covenants, are summarized as follows: Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 223 Industrial segments Adjusted EBITDA Note 2017 2016 Net income (loss) for the year 810 (1,251) Plus (less): Continuing operations Equity in the results of investees (1,197) (774) Net financial results 2,506 1,745 Income and social contribution taxes 133 (397) Depreciation, amortization and depletion 2,360 2,603 Discontinued operations Equity in the results of investees (151) (31) Net financial results 96 140 Income and social contribution taxes 126 2 Depreciation, amortization and depletion 35 185 EBITDA before other additions and exceptional items 4,718 2,222 Plus: Dividends received 489 188 Extraordinary items EBITDA – discontinued operations 306 4 Non-recurring items – discontinued operations (267) Gain on sale of investments, net (625) (312) Constitution (reversal) for impairment – property, plant, equipment (10) 1,121 Constitution (reversal) for impairment of investments (71) 1,031 Fair value of biological assets 8 (2) PERT payment with deferred tax credit 99 Other 113 1 Adjusted annualized EBITDA (A) 4,760 4,253 Net debt Borrowing 19 24,630 24,419 Cash and cash equivalents, financial investments and derivative financial instruments (12,274) (9,691) Net debt (B) 12,356 14,728 Gearing ratio (B/A) 2.60 3.46 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 224 (b) Balance sheet – business segments Assets Votorantim Nexa Long steels CBA Cimentos Resources (*) Current Cash and cash equivalents, financial investments and derivative financial instruments 4.657 4.078 1.009 197 Trade receivables 879 598 395 174 Inventory 1.358 1.075 660 348 Taxes recoverable 292 264 434 44 Dividends receivable 11 5 Financial instruments firm commitment 115 Other assets 308 61 274 31 7.505 6.076 2.892 794 Assets classified as held-for-sale 5 7.510 6.076 2.892 794 Non-current assets Long-term receivables “Financial investments and derivative financial instruments” 18 15 6 Taxes recoverable 705 108 566 16 Related parties 64 2 1.222 14 Deferred income tax and social contribution 728 743 918 64 Judicial deposits 675 36 15 2 Financial instruments firm commitment 119 Other assets 394 73 20 2 2.584 977 2.866 98 Investments 695 1 219 Property, plant and equipment 12.426 5.825 4.766 932 Intangible assets 5.464 6.992 602 64 Biological assets 4 6 21.169 13.795 8.457 1.100 Total assets 28.679 19.871 11.349 1.894 (*) Relates to long steel operations abroad (Argentina and Colombia). Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 225 2017 Total, Holding and Votorantim Total, Energy Eliminations industrial Eliminations consolidated other Finanças segments 759 1.793 12.493 81 12.574 387 269 (281) 2.421 2.421 85 3.526 3.526 10 192 1.236 81 1.317 2 327 (183) 162 55 (69) 148 95 210 210 13 97 784 784 1.266 2.763 (464) 20.832 217 (69) 20.980 2.194 2.199 2.199 1.266 4.957 (464) 23.031 217 (69) 23.179 124 163 163 389 1.784 1.784 459 834 (2.452) 143 143 9 1.130 465 4.057 22 4.079 2 35 765 765 35 154 154 26 152 667 667 531 2.664 (1.987) 7.733 22 7.755 155 32.178 (19.876) 13.372 5.113 (5.113) 13.372 1.222 684 25.855 25.855 506 1.005 (2.190) 12.443 12.443 55 65 65 2.414 36.586 (24.053) 59.468 5.135 (5.113) 59.490 3.680 41.543 (24.517) 82.499 5.352 (5.182) 82.669 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 226 Liabilities and equity Votorantim Nexa Long steels CBA Cimentos Resources (*) Current liabilities Borrowing 1.666 135 229 46 Derivative financial instruments 65 42 165 Confirming payable 644 367 59 Trade payables 1.178 1.091 461 312 Salaries and payroll charges 376 264 138 29 Taxes payable 326 136 43 73 Advances from customers 31 3 241 128 Dividends payable 167 13 18 Use of public assets 31 5 40 Related parties 249 Deferred revenue performance obligation 3 Deferred revenue silver streaming 104 Other 348 71 81 30 4.835 2.231 1.665 677 Liabilities related to assets held-for-sale 4 4.839 2.231 1.665 677 Non-current liabilities Borrowing 11.967 4.653 2.589 Derivative financial instruments 8 11 Deferred income tax and social contribution 552 1.075 Related parties 175 7 314 558 Provision 1.088 851 461 83 Use of public assets 447 75 534 Pension plan 177 140 Financial instruments firm commitment 22 53 Deferred revenue performance obligation Deferred revenue silver streaming 630 Other 208 257 61 94 14.636 7.556 4.023 875 Total liabilities 19.475 9.787 5.688 1.552 Equity Total equity attributable to owners of the Company 8.527 5.323 5.661 330 Non-controlling interests 677 4.761 12 Total equity 9.204 10.084 5.661 342 Total liabilities and equity 28.679 19.871 11.349 1.894 (*) Relates to long steel operations abroad (Argentina and Colombia). Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 227 2017 Total, Holding and Eliminations Votorantim Total, Energy industrial Eliminations consolidated other Finanças segments 458 39 2.573 2.573 27 299 299 1.070 1.070 409 129 (227) 3.353 3.353 17 71 895 895 20 19 617 617 2 3 408 408 9 179 (198) 188 69 (69) 188 76 76 (248) 1 1 243 246 246 104 104 15 96 641 2 643 1.173 563 (673) 10.471 71 (69) 10.473 1.522 1.526 1.526 1.173 2.085 (673) 11.997 71 (69) 11.999 846 2.002 22.057 22.057 64 83 83 170 1.797 168 1.965 742 482 (2.253) 25 25 26 78 2.587 2.587 1.056 1.056 317 317 132 207 207 272 272 272 630 630 10 26 656 656 2.028 2.822 (2.253) 29.687 168 29.855 3.201 4.907 (2.926) 41.684 239 (69) 41.854 479 36.636 (20.998) 35.958 5.113 (5.113) 35.958 (593) 4.857 4.857 479 36.636 (21.591) 40.815 5.113 (5.113) 40.815 3.680 41.543 (24.517) 82.499 5.352 (5.182) 82.669 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 228 (c) Adjusted EBITDA – business segments VotoranNexa Long tim CBA Resources steels (*) Cimentos Continuing operations Net revenue from products sold and services rendered 11.104 7.828 4.673 1.659 Cost of products sold and services rendered (8.357) (5.370) (3.973) (1.341) Gross profit 2.747 2.458 700 318 Operating income (expenses) Selling (1.133) (285) (74) (111) General and administrative (812) (473) (205) (89) Other operating income (expenses), net (197) (413) 279 46 (2.142) (1.171) (154) Operating profit (loss) before equity results and finance results 605 1.287 700 164 Result from equity investments Equity in the results of investees 157 12 Realization of other comprehensive income on disposal of investments 3 160 12 Finance results, net Finance income 661 93 177 18 Finance costs (1.577) (335) (404) (89) Results of derivative financial instruments (169) (2) Foreign exchange gains (losses), net (205) (154) 18 (1) (1.290) (398) (209) (72) Profit (loss) before income tax and social contribution (525) 889 503 92 Income tax and social contribution Current (164) (404) (54) (61) Deferred 11 57 68 42 Profit (loss) from continuing operations (678) 542 517 73 Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 229 2017 Total, Holding and Eliminations Votorantim Total, Energy industrial Eliminations consolidated other Finanças segments 4.124 800 (2.963) (*) 27.225 27.225 (3.857) (714) 2.963 (*) (20.649) (20.649) 267 86 6.576 6.576 (7) (56) (1.666) (1.666) (98) (300) (1.977) (41) (2.018) (251) 589 (589) (**) (536) (536) (356) 233 (589) (4.179) (41) (4.220) (89) 319 (589) 2.397 (41) 2.356 20 1.256 (251) 1.194 315 (290) 1.219 3 3 20 1.256 (251) 1.197 315 (290) 1.222 119 204 (131) 1.141 14 1.155 (152) (284) 131 (2.710) (2.710) (42) (213) (213) (417) 35 (724) (724) (33) (539) 35 (2.506) 14 (2.492) (102) 1.036 (805) 1.088 288 (290) 1.086 (43) 3 (723) (723) 86 132 194 590 2 592 (59) 1.171 (611) 955 290 (290) 955 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 230 VotoranNexa Long tim CBA Resources steels (*) Cimentos Discontinued operations Profit (loss) from discontinued operations 59 Profit (loss) for the year (619) 542 517 73 Profit (loss) attributable to the owners of the Company (681) 356 518 78 Profit (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests 62 186 (1) (5) Profit (loss) for the year (619) 542 517 73 (*) Relates to the net revenue from electric energy operations (Votener and CBA). (**) Refers to the net gain of CBA on the sale of the Pollarix S.A. investment. Preferred shares for VGE and common shares for Nexa BR. Deducted from the cost of write-off of respective investments. (***) Relates to long steel operations abroad (Argentina and Colombia). Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 231 2017 Total, Holding and Eliminations Votorantim Total, Energy industrial Eliminations consolidated other Finanças segments (204) (145) (145) (59) 967 (611) 810 290 (290) 810 (59) 967 (589) 590 290 (290) 590 (22) 220 220 (59) 967 (611) 810 290 (290) 810 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 232 VotoranNexa Long tim CBA Resources steels (***) Cimentos Continuing operations Net revenue from products sold and services rendered 11.924 6.386 4.345 1.569 Cost of products sold and services rendered (8.815) (4.801) (3.685) (1.207) Gross profit 3.109 1.585 660 362 Operating income (expenses) Selling (1.063) (315) (98) (111) General and administrative (905) (437) (180) (115) Other operating income (expenses), net 343 (586) (1.178) (153) (1.625) (1.338) (1.456) (379) Operating profit (loss) before equity results and finance results 1.484 247 (796) (17) Result from equity investments Equity in the results of investees 121 (1) 67 Realization of other comprehensive income on disposal of investments 44 165 (1) 67 Finance results, net Finance income 872 56 166 23 Finance costs (1.652) (201) (493) (87) Results of derivative financial instruments (770) (13) 3 Foreign exchange gains (losses), net 552 499 470 (10) (998) 341 146 (74) Profit (loss) before income tax and social contribution 651 587 (583) (91) Income tax and social contribution Current (82) (238) (67) (74) Deferred (117) (99) 433 (51) Profit (loss) for the year from continuing operations 452 250 (217) (216) Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 233 2016 Total, Total, Nickel Holding EliminaVotorantim EliminaEnergy industrial consoli(**) and other tions Finanças tions segments dated 332 3.306 878 (2.775) 25.965 25.965 (489) (3.145) (643) 2.775 (20.010) (20.010) (157) 161 235 5.955 5.955 (5) (47) (1.639) (1.639) (55) (72) (313) (2.077) (14) (2.091) (42) (102) (898) (2.616) (2.616) (102) (174) (1.258) (6.332) (14) (6.346) (259) (13) (1.023) (377) (14) (391) 10 709 (176) 730 166 (172) 724 44 44 10 709 (176) 774 166 (172) 768 28 124 225 (127) 1.367 30 1.397 (37) (132) (166) 127 (2.641) (2) (2.643) (5) 1 (222) (1.006) (1.006) 270 (22) (1.224) 535 535 256 (7) (185) (1.224) (1.745) 28 (1.717) 7 (20) (499) (1.400) (1.348) 180 (172) (1.340) (33) 16 (478) (3) (481) 41 344 324 875 (5) 870 7 (12) (139) (1.076) (951) 172 (172) (951) CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 234 VotoranNexa Long tim CBA Resources steels (***) Cimentos Discontinued operations Loss from discontinued continuing operations (28) Profit (loss) for the year 424 250 (217) (216) Profit (loss) attributable to the owners of the Company 370 218 (217) (160) Profit (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests 54 32 (56) Profit (loss) for the year 424 250 (217) (216) (*) Relates to the net revenue from electric energy operations (Votener and CBA). (**)  Corresponds to the period between January 1 and June 30, 2016, as VMSA was merged into CBA on July 1, 2016. (***) Relates to long steel operations abroad (Argentina and Colombia). Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 235 2016 Total, Total, Nickel Holding EliminaVotorantim EliminaEnergy industrial consoli(**) and other tions Finanças tions segments dated (272) (300) (300) 7 (12) (411) (1.076) (1.251) 172 (172) (1.251) 7 (12) (304) (1.198) (1.296) 172 (172) (1.296) (107) 122 45 45 7 (12) (411) (1.076) (1.251) 172 (172) (1.251) CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 236 (d) Statement of income – business segments Votorantim Nexa CBA Cimentos Resources Net revenue from products sold and services rendered 11,104 7,828 4,673 Cost of products sold and services rendered (8,357) (5,370) (3,973) Gross profit 2,747 2,458 700 Operating income (expenses) Selling (1,133) (285) (74) General and administrative (812) (473) (205) Other operating income (expenses), net (197) (413) 279 (2,142) (1,171) Operating profit (loss) before equity results and finance results 605 1,287 700 Plus: Depreciation, amortization and depletion continuing operations 991 864 318 EBITDA 1,596 2,151 1,018 Plus: Dividends received 67 51 Exceptional items Loss (gain) on sale of investments, net (20) (16) (589) Constitution (reversal) for impairment fixed assets 21 (31) Fair value of biological assets REFIS payment with deferred income tax credit 99 Other Adjusted EBITDA 1,763 2,135 449 (*) Relates to the net revenue from electric energy operations (Votener and CBA). (**) Refers to the net gain of CBA on the sale of the Pollarix S.A. Investment. Preferred shares for VGE and common shares for Nexa BR. Deducted from cost of write-off of respective investments. (***) Relates to long steel operations abroad (Argentina and Colombia). Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 237 2017 Total, Long Steel Holding and Eliminations Votorantim Total, Energy industrial (***) other Finanças consolidated segments 1,659 4,124 800 (2,963) (*) 27,225 27,225 (1,341) (3,857) (714) 2,963 (*) (20,649) (20,649) 318 267 86 6,576 6,576 (111) (7) (56) (1,666) (1,666) (89) (98) (300) (1,977) (41) (2,018) 46 (251) 589 (589) (**) (536) (536) (154) (356) 233 (589) (4,179) (41) (4,220) 164 (89) 319 (589) 2,397 (41) 2,356 108 16 63 2,360 2,360 272 (73) 382 (589) 4,757 (41) 4,716 371 489 51 540 (589) 589 (625) (625) (71) (81) (81) 8 8 8 99 99 113 113 113 272 (73) 214 4,760 10 4,770 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 238 Votorantim Nexa CBA Cimentos Resources Net revenue from products sold and services rendered 11.924 6.386 4.345 Cost of products sold and services rendered (8.815) (4.801) (3.685) Gross profit 3.109 1.585 660 Operating income (expenses) Selling (1.063) (315) (98) General and administrative (905) (437) (180) Other operating income (expenses), net 343 (586) (1.178) (1.625) (1.338) (1.456) Operating profit (loss) before equity results and finance results 1.484 247 (796) Plus: Depreciation, amortization and depletion continuing operations 1.015 951 374 EBITDA 2.499 1.198 (422) Plus: Dividends received 68 32 Exceptional items Loss (gain) on sale of investments, net (297) (2) 24 Constitution (reversal) for impairment fixed assets 103 (2) 846 Compensation energy assets 134 Provision (reversal) for impairment investments Fair value of biological assets Other 1 Adjusted EBITDA 2.373 1.328 481 (*) Relates to the net revenue from electric energy operations (Votener and CBA). (**) Corresponds to the period between January 1 and June 30, 2016, as VMSA was merged into CBA on July 1, 2016. (***) Relates to long steel operations abroad (Argentina and Colombia). Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 239 2016 Total, Total, Long Steel Holding EliminaNickel (**) Energy industrial Votorantim consoli(***) and other tions Finanças segments dated 1.569 332 3.306 878 (2.775) (*) 25.965 25.965 (1.207) (489) (3.145) (643) 2.775 (*) (20.010) (20.010) 362 (157) 161 235 5.955 5.955 (111) (5) (47) (1.639) (1.639) (115) (55) (72) (313) (2.077) (14) (2.091) (153) (42) (102) (898) (2.616) (2.616) (379) (102) (174) (1.258) (6.332) (14) (6.346) (17) (259) (13) (1.023) (377) (14) (391) 146 37 1 79 2.603 2.603 129 (222) (12) (944) 2.226 (14) 2.212 88 188 57 245 (37) (312) (312) 175 1.121 1.121 (134) 1.031 1.031 1.031 (2) (2) (2) 1 1 304 (223) (12) 2 4.253 43 4.296 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 Report 240 36. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS (a) Transactions in the subsidiary VS In the first quarter of 2018, the Company paid the residual amount of R$ 150, corresponding to the capital contribution in the VS investee, as resolved at the Extraordinary General Meeting held on December 21, 2017. On February 7, 2018, the Administrative Council for Economic Defense (“CADE”) approved, pursuant to Concentration Act 08700.002165 / 2017-97, the transaction by which the Company, as provided for in the initial agreement signed in February 2017, will become a subsidiary of AMB. The process now enters its final phase and, while not complete, VS and AMB continue to operate independently. On February 9, 2018, the Company resolved, at the Extraordinary General Meeting, to reduce the amount of R$ 354 of the capital stock in the VS investee, transferring the investments in Acerholding and Acergroup to VSA. (b) Early liquidation of debentures On January 11, 2018, VCSA redeemed in advance, in the amount of R$ 500, all the outstanding debentures of the ninth public issuance of debentures. The debentures matured on January 10, 2022. On January 26, 2018, VCSA made the early amortization of installments maturing on March 5, 2022, on the fifth, sixth and eighth issues of public debentures. The total value of the principal amortized amounted to R$ 200. (c) Early liquidation of Loans – Resolution 4131 On January 24, 2018, VCSA prepaid the loan agreement related to Resolution 4131, in the amount of USD 50 (R$ 161), signed on September 17, 2015, with maturity on September 25, 2020. The swap contract linked to this loan was also settled. (d) Early liquidation of loans with the BNDES On January 26, 2018, VCSA prepaid loans contracted with BNDES in the amount of R$ 210. These contracts were executed in 2009 and 2011 and expire in 2018, 2019 and 2020. On January 26, 2018, the company VCNNE prepaid loans contracted with BNDES in the amount of R$ 24. These contracts were signed in 2009 and expire in 2018 and 2019. (e) Corporate reorganization of Fibria On March 15, 2018, the Company collectively with BNDES Participações S.A. – BNDESPAR (jointly, the “Fibria Controlling Shareholders”), Suzano Holding S.A. and the other controlling shareholders of Suzano Papel e Celulose S.A. (jointly, the “Suzano Controlling Shareholders”), and acting as intervening party Suzano Papel e Celulose S.A. (“Suzano”), have entered into the Voting Agreement and other Obligations (“Commitment”), pursuant to which Suzano Controlling Shareholders and Fibria Controlling Shareholders agreed to exercise their voting rights in order to combine the operations and shareholding basis of Suzano and Fibria Celulose S.A. (“Fibria”), through a corporate reorganization (“Transaction”). Votorantim CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 241 The terms and conditions of the Transaction, briefly described below, will be included in the Protocol and Justification of a Merger of Shares and of Company, to be submitted together with the appraisal reports and other applicable documents to the approval of the Boards of Directors of Fibria and Suzano, as well as, of the Extraordinary General Shareholders’ Meetings of Fibria and Suzano. (i) Financial Basis of the Transaction Pursuant to the Commitment, a corporate reorganization shall be submitted to the shareholders of Fibria and Suzano, which will result in: (a) the ownership by Suzano of all the shares issued by Fibria; and (b) the receipt by Fibria’s shareholders, for each common share issued by Fibria, of (i) fifty-two Reais and fifty cents (R$ 52.50), adjusted by the CDI variation from March 16, 2018 until the date of its effective payment, to be made in a single installment on the date of closing of the Transaction (“Cash Installment”) and (ii) 0.4611 (zero comma, four, six, one, one) common shares of Suzano, adjusted pursuant to the exchange ratio referred to below (“Exchange Ratio”). Such shares of Suzano shall also be delivered to the shareholders of Fibria on the date of Closing of the Transaction. In addition to the CDI adjustment, as indicated above, the Cash Installment will be adjusted by any dividends, interest on net equity and other proceeds declared by Fibria and Suzano as of March 15, 2018, except for the minimum mandatory dividend of Suzano and Fibria that have already been disclosed to the market. The Exchange Ratio will be proportionally adjusted by any stock splits, reverse stock splits and bonus stocks of Suzano and Fibria. (ii) Conditions precedent for the Transaction The closing of the Transaction is subject to the fulfillment of conditions precedent usual for these type of transactions, including the approval by certain antitrust authorities in Brazil and abroad. (iii) Other relevant information Until the date of closing of the Transaction, Fibria and Suzano will carry out its activities in the ordinary course of businesses and will remain operating independently. The financial statements are being reissued only for the disclosure of this subsequent event, and the balance sheet and income statement presentations remain unchanged since, as of December 31, 2017, there were no facts or other elements being able to be conclude, that moment, which the implementation this process would be highly probable over a period up to one year. Upon closing of the Transaction as described above, the Company will make the appropriate accounting registrations relating to the probable gain resulting from the Transaction, in addition to the accounting registration at Fair Value of the 5.6% capital shareholding in Suzano. For further information regarding the Transaction, please refer to the Material Fact and the Transaction documents available on Fibria Investor Relations website (www.fibria.com.br/ri). CORPORATE INFORMATION 242 BOARD OF DIRECTORS |GRI 102-22, 102-23| Raul Calfat – Chairman Luis Ermírio de Moraes – Deputy Chairman Cláudio Ermírio de Moraes José Roberto Ermírio de Moraes Marcelo Pereira Lopes de Medeiros Oscar de Paula Bernardes Neto Sergio Eraldo de Salles Pinto EXECUTIVE BOARD João Miranda – CEO João Schmidt – Corporate Development Officer Luiz Caruso – Risks, Compliance & Shared Solutions Officer Luiz Marcelo Fins – Chief Legal Officer Sergio Malacrida – CFO and Investor Relations Officer HEADQUARTERS |GRI 102-3| Rua Amauri, 255 São Paulo – SP – Brazil CEP: 01448-000 Phone: +55 11 3704-3300 www.votorantim.com CORPORATE INFORMATION 244 CREDITS AND ACKNOWLEDGMENTS General coordinators Finance and Investor Relations Department Mariana Mayumi Oyakawa Sergio Malacrida Support David Canassa Débora Vargas Leal Oliveira Renata Vinhas Oliveira Collaborators We would like to thank our managers and colleagues from Votorantim S.A., the Family Board, Reservas Votorantim, Votorantim Institute, and our investees for assessing the indicators and reviewing the information contained in this report. Technical adviser Resultante Consultoria Estratégica Writing, editing and proofreading Editora Contadino Graphic design, cover, layout and infographics Pierre Design Marketing Pierre-Louis A. Ferrandis External assurance PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) Images Cover: Bruno Mooca Votorantim’s image library English translation Dekka Silveira Typeface Votorantim Sans Printing Stilgraf Copies Portuguese 1,500 English 300 Publication March 2018 www.votorantim.com/relatorio www.votorantim.com
