UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 STATEMENT OF CONTINUING SUPPORT On behalf of the Ducere Group, I confirm our reaffirmation of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact as stated in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. We strongly believe that the Global Compact principles are fundamental to all aspects of our business operations, behaviours and articulation of our values. All our staff are committed to these principles with our Human Resources Department constantly reminding us of our responsibilities and actions. To this end we continue to work towards integrating these across all aspects of our organisation from student support, integration of interns, investment in opportunities within over 20 African countries to make sure Ducere is achieving the highest organisational standards and create an aware and respectful culture. This Annual Communication on Progress includes our actions regarding the Global Compact and confirms our commitment to sharing this information with our stakeholders via primary communication channels. Ducere is a philanthro-capitalist organisation with a simple business model: we provide business and management courses on a fee-paying basis in the developed world, which fully funds the philanthropic programs of the Ducere Foundation. We also deliver a major literacy program; which, backs up the research that children need culturally relevant material to advance their literacy and to empower them to lead and motivate others. We are also building tertiary partnerships with African Higher Education Institutions. Our vision is to support educational change throughout the world, enabling greater access to learning. In the words of Ducere Chancellor, and former Australian Prime Minister (2010– 2013), The Hon. Ms. Julia Gillard: “There's really no problem in the world that better education wouldn't make a difference to our ability to solve.” The Executive Director of Ducere Foundation, Mrs Di Fleming is equally committed to these goals and their articulation. Yours sincerely, Mr Mathew Jacobson Ducere Founder and Executive Director Wednesday 7 November 2018 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals Ducere is forthright in its commitment to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR). Our policy statement declares that we shall not harass, bully or discriminate against colleagues, members of the public and employees, in reference with Article 2 of the UDHR. Our anti-discriminatory criteria is outlined in Article 7 of our policy document and directly refers to criteria that includes (but is not limited to) race, colour, ethnicity or national origin, gender, sex, religion and political conviction. This is also in consideration with Article 18 of the UDHR. Article 24 of the UDHR pertains to worker’s rights. Our HR Policies are in line with the National Employment Standards (NES) of Australia and this is further outlined in our policy document in Articles 10.1, 10.2 and 10.4. Employees are entitled to 4 weeks paid annual leave, 10 days paid personal leave per annum and agreements relating to long service leave. Our organisation is also complicit in the improvement in equality in education, delineated in Article 26 of the UHDR. As part of our commitment to this cause, we are committed to appointing Africa staff only in Africa who are equally committed to the Compact principles. Staff training is part of our continuous commitment with expectations clearly set out to avoid any confusion. All Ducere Foundation staff must sign the Child Protection Code to ensure that bullying does not occur as well as delivering a Peace Program inn a number of Africa countries where anti-bullying is central. To further our commitment to the United Nation Global Compact, our goal is to directly reference the UDHR in our company policies document. This is currently in review, and we consider our company policies to be a fluid document which intends to be complicit with all current and future amendments to the UDHR. Implementation The Ducere Group has created an open, discreet feedback system with the intention of mitigating occurrences of human rights violations. We have initiated a Staff program biweekly where all staff are invited an encouraged to share their thoughts, observations, joys and concerns each week with staff working remotely engaged through a dynamic communications platform. Each member of staff has a “buddy/mentor” so they can relate in cases where they may be shy or reticent to share a concern or a suggested innovation. Our student services support team is an essential part of Ducere as our reputation management is key and our pastoral care central. The support team answer calls dealing with any complaints regarding unfair treatment of customers/clients by staff. Any external issue regarding vilification is referred to them, and then communicated on to our executive management for discussion and resolution. Ducere Foundation is dynamically involved in the lives of its staff and children very much aware of the human rights of young girls to have access to sanitary products so they go to schools every day, not just 75% of their schooling. We have supported staff during illness and also provided cost of funerals where there has been death of a colleague. HIV Aids and Tuberculosis is rife in some of the countries where we work. We believe that Human Rights extend to dignity to the very end. Measurement of outcomes All matters regarding abuse and vilification are dealt with and recorded by our Human Resources staff and country coordinators. Regular communication with colleagues in Australia and across African is part of our practice not only to support our staff but to model practices that can be shared across many countries. Since becoming a member organisation of the Global Compact, Ducere have no violations recorded of the UDHR. We are an SME and as we grow it is important that we anticipate the likelihood of violations. We include training in this area during company retreats, training staff about fundamental human rights and prevention of infringements, and also ensuring an ongoing thorough review and resolution process in the event of a UDHR abuse. LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goal. Assessment, Policy and Goals Ducere is committed to upholding the conventions and recommendations of the ILO Core Conventions. As stated previously, our anti-discriminatory criteria are outlined in Article 7 of our HR Policies Document, which is in accordance with Principle 6 of the Global Compact. We have specific policies relating to workplace health and safety outlined in Article 18 of our HR Policies to ensure employees are not forced to work in unsafe conditions, with workers required to report any incidents to the HR manager. Staff members are entitled to feel safe at Ducere and all health concerns are taken seriously, with stringent monitoring to ensure employees return to work safely. We provide compensation if injury or incidence does occur (Article 18.4). We are also currently reviewing our HR Policies so that all suppliers and business partners are made aware of our Labour principles and are fully complicit. This review will coincide with a company commitment through our policies to eliminate forced labour, child labour, and employment discrimination. We will continue to refine our policies to incorporate the Global Compact. Implementation The Ducere Foundation is very caring about its staff and the relationships with partners are the lifeblood of our philosophy and practice. Our expectations are always carefully managed and frequently we support the staff with extra food, financial commitments for family in support of children into secondary school. Salaries also include extra funds for Internet, transport and telephone. In some cases we pay staff salaries at schools because the government does not fund orphan schools – of note is the Linda Community School in Livingstone, Zambia. Often older children teacher the little ones as there is no teacher available. In some countries, the influence of disease and sometime pandemics automatically quarantine children and adults from what should be their rights. Support of orphanages keeps children off the streets and away from the threat of child labour. By being proactive we know we are keeping a number of children safe from the threats of child labour. Ducere, we have implemented health and safety training on a yearly basis for all staff, so employees are made aware of, and not forced to engage in, unsafe practices. Through our HR Policies, and workers’ understanding of it, we strive to ensure worker safety and have a process of conflict resolution process for when incidents occur. All staff are entitled to workers leave and payment in accordance with the NES of Australia. We have an open communication process and as important Ducere Global is online with highly sophisticated social media network – where all concerns are easily and publicly shared as well as a human resources manager for reporting and resolving issues. Measurement of outcomes As a small company, we have not had any labour problems or disputes since becoming a member of the UN Global Compact. A quantitative measurement for employee satisfaction has been designed and is being implemented by our new General Manager who has worked in countries that have been challenged in this domain. All employees are made aware of their rights as a worker through signing our company policies document and this assists us in dealing with workplace disputes, should they arise. The implementation of the Global Compact into our policies document should further assist us in our conflict resolution process concerning labour issues. All staff also sign the Child Protection Policy knowing that their rights are as important as the expectation to extend that privilege to others. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy and Goals As a mostly office-based enterprise, Ducere’s direct environmental impact is relatively small compared with other higher education providers. As our courses are provided online, we do not have the physical presence and the environmental impact incurred, of a traditional education institute. We only operate through our office space in the Melbourne CBD, where we look to minimise our footprint. We have reviewed our business practices to improve our commitment to the Global Compact, through our actions of supplier and partner selection – our partners share our common goals. Implementation From an Africa perspective, significant work continues to be done with a number of universities for example: the University Sierra Leone, University of Rwanda where lectures and mentoring of the entrepreneurs clubs is focusing on eco design thinking. While many African countries burn charcoal for fuel, we are working with groups such as Lighter Footprints to demonstrate and promote solar energy solutions to both light and power. Mrs Carolyn Ingvarson travelled with the Executive Director to four Africa countries this year to model eco principles, inspire children to advocate for 21st century practices locally and nationally. The African Children’s Stories are published online and in hard copy. Currently we must balance eco sustainable processes with educational access. We are confident that in 4 years our publishing program will be 80% online. Today only 20% is online, as children do not have access to digital devices. Ducere is also promoting and educating through design-thinking in its undergraduate and graduate programs drawing on global experts to share their principles and practice for sustainability and progress. On a local level, natural your local offices have a sophisticated process for a divided waste disposal system located in the staff kitchen, which incorporates landfill, mixed recycling and organic disposal. Staff actively lobby against the use of straws and we all have our own coffee cups – disposable cups are frowned upon. Ducere Offices are powered by a human activated lighting system, which saves considerable energy. Hot and coldwater system prevents water waste with heating and cooling supported by good building design. We have implemented recycling boxes located near all printers in the office, to ensure paper is reused and disposed of responsibly. We have also implemented a divided waste disposal system located in the staff kitchen, which incorporates landfill, mixed recycling and organic disposal. Measurement of Outcomes Ducere practices have both breadth and depth as we work with partners who share common principles and enable our educational influence to extend deep into communities such as Mannya in Uganda and Pandamatenga in Botswana. Ducere Foundation Coordinator in Chobe Botswana organised a Walk for Eco Literacy again this year with local businesses and other stakeholders involved. Ducere educational programs in schools and the tertiary sector are growing and recently we have been shortlisted for the Australian Financial Review finals for higher education. Our influence and practice begins with us as individuals implementing our educational practices, programs, training teachers and working with student-based master classes. The implementation of recycling boxes and a division of material disposal is now a model and reminder to our staff and wider community that these practices must extend to all our touch points of influence. While Ducere continues to print materials, 95% of our activity and file storage is “in the cloud”. Ducere has a partnership with World Reader where all our 53 African Children Story Collections are being uploaded. 500,000 have been distributed only because many children do not have access to hand held digital devices. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals Ducere is committed to Principle 10 of the Global Compact. In Ducere’s company HR Policies, Article 3 (Code of Conduct), states that employees and the employers will: not engage in fraud or corruption, report any fraudulent or corrupt behaviour, report any breaches of the Code of Conduct and understand and apply all relevant accountability requirements. We are committed to eliminating acts or corruption, and any violation of our policy will result in immediate disciplinary action. Our plan for the coming business year is to incorporate the Anti-Corruption Global Compact principle into our policy document for staff. We will also be aiming to provide education to employees about corruption and actions to take should staff encounter it. Implementation All incidents of corruption are reported to our Human Resources manager and further disciplinary action taken. We have implemented internal controls to prevent the instance of corruption occurring. This consists of a segregation of duties, authorisation limits and multiple authorisations for bank transfers. As a small company, we are not required to have external auditing of our accounts. The Ducere Foundation is recipient of funds from the Australian Government, which are paid in advance of the projects. The Ducere Foundation always requires: three quotations for any service delivery, payment of service in two parts, no staff member is ever recipient of funds that would provide temptation. All cash must be counted with two people present. Measurement of Outcomes We have not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption and bribery. If an employee were ever found to be engaged in corrupt behaviour the worker in question would be terminated immediately.
