Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Integrated Report FY Ended December 31, 2016 2016 Nabtesco Value Report Contents PART 1 Value Creation of Nabtesco Group About Nabtesco Group 03 T  he NABTESCO Way 05 Nabtesco Group’s Main Products 07 Nabtesco's Growth History Value Creation of Nabtesco Group Fully aware of the social issues we are expected to solve through our corporate activities as well as the corporate social responsibilities we should fulfill, the Nabtesco Group is committed to providing expanded and enhanced value to our stakeholders. This section provides an overall picture of the Group's sustainable value creation process and describes its management strategy and business performance as well as measures for more effective governance. 09 Nabtesco Group’s Materiality 11 Value Creation Process of Nabtesco Group 13 Message from the CEO >>> 17 Financial/Non-Financial Highlights 19 CEO’s Tripartite Talk 25 Message from General Manager of Corporate Planning Division and General Administration & Human Resources Division 29 Dialogue on Governance Management Basis for Value Creation The basis for the Nabtesco Group’s value creation lies in various types of capital, including “relationship capital,” which represents relationships of trust with our stakeholders. This section looks at the strengths of the different types of capital that underpin the Group’s sustainable value creation and the measures and strategies used to enhance it. 35 Capital That Underpins Value Creation 37 Special Feature 1: Producing Innovations 40 Special Feature 2: Intellectual Property Activities to Support Innovation 41 Special Feature 3: Manufacturing Innovation 43 Special Feature 4: Management of Occupational Safety 45 Special Feature 5: Striving to Protect the Environment 47 Special Feature 6: Management of Quality 01 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 PART 1 PART 2 Activity Report About Nabtesco Group Financial Reporting Ensure Management Transparency Value Creation of 49  ajor Financial Indicators M Nabtesco Group 51 Financial Information 125 M  anagement Team 130 Corporate Governance 137 Risk Management/Compliance Road Map for Growth 146 IR Activities Capital That Underpins 59 R  oad Map for Growth 149 Corporate Profile Value Creation 75 Research & Development 77 Intellectual Property Strategy 150 Disclosure Policy Provide Safety, Comfort and a Sense of Security 151 Consolidated Financial 79  abtesco Group’s Approach to CSR N Statements 81 Socially Beneficial Products and Services 91 Focusing on Employees’ Growth and Development 102 Striving for Harmony with Global Environment 117 Fair, Proper and Transparent Procurement Activities 121 Consideration of Community and Society About the Integrated Report Believing it important to establish trust with its stakeholders through dialogue for ensuring management transparency, the Nabtesco Group is focused on sharing an overview of its approach to value creation with its stakeholders. The Group has published the Nabtesco Integrated Report, which covers both financial and non-financial information, since FY2014. For the 2016 edition, the Report is divided into two parts. In Part 1, the Nabtesco Group’s value creation activities based on The Nabtesco Way are described through the presentation of relevant information in a way that is easy to understand. Special features detail factors differentiating the different types of capital that underpin value creation and measures to reinforce such capital. Part 2 reports on the Group’s wide-ranging value creation activities in detail and elucidates each activity’s concept, policy, measures, targets and results with the help of specific data. In preparing this report, the Integrated Reporting Framework, the Intangibles Reporting Framework and various other guidelines on sustainability were used as references to ensure objectivity and transparency. To reduce paper use and thus protect the environment, this report is published only in an electronic (PDF) format on Nabtesco’s corporate website (https://www.nabtesco.com/en/). Nabtesco Value Report 2016 02 Nabtesco Way Action Declaration By implementing these promises, we will Aiming to become an Shinse (honorable company) established in the 21 century while evolving together with society Nabtesco has formulated The Nabtesco Way, which comprises Corporate Philosophy, Our Promises, Action Guidelines, and Action Declaration. We encourage each of our management and employees to comply with the Nabtesco Way to pursue the realization of “All Stakeholders’ Dreams” as specified in our Action Declaration. When all our employees share a commitment to The Nabtesco Way and individually act in line with it, we enhance our unity while simultaneously making the most out of our diversity. Nabtesco will fully utilize its unique motion control technology and supply highly reliable products and services. Thus, we pursue our mission to contribute to the creation of a safe and comfortable society that gives people a sense of security. Background to the establishment of The Nabtesco Way The Nabtesco Group established Corporate Philosophy all Group employees, both in Japan and abroad, to and Our Promises in 2005, soon after its founding, with share Nabtesco’s values and cultivate a sense of unity a view to making our society safer, more secure and and solidarity as members of the Nabtesco Group. comfortable by manufacturing products embedded Action Guidelines clarify the specific actions and with technology to control all kinds of motion. attitudes to be taken by individual employees to fulfill Subsequently, Nabtesco has developed its business Corporate Philosophy and Our Promises, while Action globally in the motion control field and has expanded Declaration expresses the commitment of all employees its business domains and regions as well as its to follow the Guidelines. We collectively refer to these corporate size. Then, the Company established Action in-house norms as “The Nabtesco Way.” Guidelines and Action Declaration in 2012 to encourage 03 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 realize “All Stakeholders' Dreams.” PART 1 The Nabtesco Group, with our unique motion conAbout Nabtesco trol technology, will provide safety, comfort and a sense of security in daily lives as well as any form of Group transportation. Value Creation of 1 Value close communications with our customers worldwide CORPORATE 2 Value each individual’s spirit of challenge and innovation Nabtesco Group 3 Continue to expand our business and profit PHILOSOPHY 4 Continue to reinforce our sense of ethics and highly transparent Reason for corporate business activities existence and value 5 Value the environment and promote harmony with local Capital That Underpins communities and cultures Value Creation [Action Guidelines for Top Management] Based on these guidelines, top executives will OUR PROMISES manage the Nabtesco Group by focusing on the four important points to ensure its susWhat we value in implementing the tainable growth as a global corporate group. Corporate Philosophy •Communicate the Present Situation and Future Vision of the Company (Organization) to Employees. •Encourage Active Discussions and Align All Members to a Common Direction. •E nsure Succession. •M anage in a Manner that Increases the Nabtesco Brand and Corporate Value. [Action Guidelines for All Group Action Guidelines Members] As a common set of principles applying to all Specific actions and attitudes to be employees in the performance of their duties taken to fulfill Our Promises and decision-making, these guidelines clearly indicate the appropriate directions of individual actions and decisions and clarify important corporate values and unique strengths. Activities to Increase Employees’ Awareness of The Nabtesco Way P101 Nabtesco is conducting various activities to inculcate in its employees an appreciation for The Nabtesco Way, including by promoting The Nabtesco Way Month and workshops on priority issues, to help each employee develop empathy for the principles and “The Nabtesco Way Card” all Group put them into action. employees carry Nabtesco Value Report 2016 04 Nabtesco Group’s Main Products Taking on the challenge of solving various social issues through moving and stopping technologies Transportation of people and goods • Improve the safety and comfort of railroad vehicles, aircraft and commercial vehicles Wedge brake chambers High voltage electric Brake operating units Door operators for • Foster the use of clean energy and for commercial vehicles power distribution units for railroad vehicles railroad vehicles safe navigation for marine vessels Railroad Air dryers for Flight control vehicle commercial vehicles actuation systems Aircraft equipment equipment Commercial vehicle equipment Marine vessel Main engine remote Electronically equipment control systems controlled high-speed hydraulic valves moving it. Safety, comfort and a sense of security in the area of transportation Stopping it. Hydraulic equipment Precision reduction Swing units for Control valves for mini Travel units for gears Drive units for excavators excavators excavators wind turbine generators Manufacturing, urban development and renewable energy • Contribute to the establishment of industrials infrastructure in emerging economies • Support automated, high-precision processing and conveyance at factories Precision reduction Compact Actuator Drive units for wind • Promote laborand energy-saving at gears for industrial “AF Series” turbine generators manufacturing sites robots “RV series” • Spread the use of renewable energy 05 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 The Nabtesco Group is committed to solving various social issues together with its customers PART 1 by offering products and services that support safety, comfort and a sense of security in the areas of transportation of people and goods, manufacturing, urban development and renewable energy, daily lives and welfare and production of daily commodities. About Nabtesco Daily lives and Group welfare • Improve the safety comfort of public Value Creation of spaces • Provide support for the elderly and people with disabilities Nabtesco Group • Contribute to the creation of a barriPlatform screen Automatic doors for Automatic doors for er-free society doors buildings multipurpose toilets Capital That Underpins Value Creation Platform doors Automatic doors Welfare equipment Rollator with a speed Electric wheelchair Intelligent prosthetic control system “Assist Wheel” knee joints “ALLUX” “CONPAL” Motion control Safety, comfort and a sense of security in the areas of daily lives technology Stereolithography systems Packaging machines Vacuum Stereolithography equipment systems (3D printer) Production of daily commodities Automatic pre-pouch filler/sealers • Ensure the safety of food and daily consumables • Reduce the use of packaging materiGlove boxes with gas als for food and daily consumables circulation purifying devices • Contribute to product research and development Nabtesco Value Report 2016 06 Nabtesco's Growth History Accelerating business growth in global markets 2003 Withdrew from an unprofitable business in commercial vehicle Nabtesco Corporation was equipment; Business established and listed on the Tokyo structure was realigned. Stock Exchange (First section market). 1944 Teijin Seiki Co., Ltd. The Lehman was established. Brother’s collapse triggered a 1925 slowdown in the The world economy global economy. started to recover due Teijin Seiki and to China’s large-scale NABCO were economic package. absorbed and merged NABCO Ltd. (formerly Nippon into Nabtesco Air Brake Co., Ltd.) was Corporation, which established. shifted to an operating Long-term Vision, “Global company group growing with society – Challenge, Creation holding company. Changes in Net Sales 2004/3 2005/3 2006/3 2007/3 2008/3 2009/3 2010/3 Period of the Medium-term Management Plan Reinforcement of the I ntroduced the in-house comF  ormulated the Corporate Philosophy  stablished the Quality & E management base pany system and the corporate and the Long-term Vision PL Committee officer system Established the Nabtesco Group Code of Corporate Ethics and the Nabtesco Group Code of Conduct (consolidated into the Nabtesco Group Code of Ethics) Overseas Production C  ommercial vehicle equipment: R  ailroad vehicle equipment: Beijing,  ailroad vehicle equipment: R Bases Thailand China Changzhou, China Hydraulic equipment: Thailand Accelerating growth  utomatic doors: Gilgen A through M&A Door Systems AG (Switzerland) Changes in the Businesses inherited from the integration Restructured businesses portfolio Teijin Seiki NABCO Withdrawal Restructuring P  recision reduction  ailroad vehicle equipment R I T related product  ivestiture of commercial vehicle equipD gear business business business ment business (Nabtesco Automotive Aircraft equipment Marine vessel equipment Automobile and moCo., Ltd. established) business business torcycle parts busiRestructuring of production bases in the Hydraulic equipCommercial vehicle equipment business ment business ness; maintenance hydraulic equipment business in China Packaging machine Hydraulic equipment business related business for New Energy Business Development business Automatic door business textile machinery, etc. Division was abolished 07 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Nabtesco Corporation was formed in 2003 through the merger of Teijin Seiki Co., PART 1 Ltd. and NABCO Ltd. Since then, the company has steadily consolidated its management bases and established production facilities outside Japan. Each time when market conditions drastically changed, the company promptly and decisively reorganized its business portfolio to ensure disciplined portfolio management. Since 2011, Nabtesco has accelerated global business expansion through M&As in and outside Japan. In 2017, it launched the new Medium-term Management Plan. Nabtesco will About Nabtesco work toward accelerating business growth in global markets. Group Value Creation of Nabtesco Group Changed the accounting closing month from March to December Started to apply to adopt the same voluntarily the accounting period as International Financial Capital That Underpins overseas consolidated Reporting Standards subsidiaries Value Creation Long-term Vision, “Global Partner with Best Solution – Enjoy the Challenge –” and Progress to the higher stage –” 2011/3 2012/3 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2015/12 2016/12 2017/12*2 2020/12 (Reference*1) (Reference*3) F  ormulated The Nabtesco Way C  ompliance Committee, CSR Committee Opened the Nabtesco Digital Engineering and Risk Management Committee were Topics on acceleration Center established. Announced participation in and signed CSR Basic Policy was formulated. of growth the UN Global Compact Nabtesco Group Code of Ethics was Formulated the Nabtesco Group established. • Transition to the new CSR-Oriented Procurement Policy management team • Started the new M  arine vessel equipment: Shanghai, P  recision reduction gears: Changzhou, Medium-term China China Management Plan • Acquisition of OVALO  GmbH and adcos GmbH  utomatic doors: NABCO DOOR Ltd. A  ydraulic equipment: Hyest Corporation H Railroad vehicle equipment: OCLAP Commercial vehicle equipment: ITG SeS.R.L. (Italy) rienfertigung Fahrzeugteile GmbH and ITG Kompressoren GmbH (Germany) Automatic doors: NABCO SYSTEMS Co., Ltd. Current portfolio (main businesses) *1: Due to the change in the accounting closing date, the figures have Component Solutions (CMP) Transport Solutions (TRS) Accessibility Solutions (ACB) been estimated for the 12-month Precision reduction gears Railroad vehicle equipment Automatic doors period to make a comparison unHydraulic equipment Aircraft equipment der the same conditions. *2: The plan announced as of FebruNew energy equipment Commercial vehicle equipment Manufacturing Solutions (MFR) ary 17, 2017 Marine vessel equipment Packaging machines *3: Reference values for the final year of the Medium-term Management Plan Nabtesco Value Report 2016 08 Nabtesco Group’s Materiality We strive to ensure management transparency and to provide safety, comfort and a sense of security. We at the Nabtesco Group are committed to fulfilling our corIn August 2016, we launched the CSR Committee as an porate social responsibility through our CSR management. To organization that supervises all CSR activity and reports this end, we will seriously take on the challenge of pursuing directly to the CEO, thereby establishing a framework for economic rationality while also addressing ESG (environmenmore systematic CSR management. Subsequently, in Detal, social and governance) issues, based on our belief that cember of the same year, we reexamined the material CSR this kind of business management will give us a competitive issues (materiality) of the Nabtesco Group and formulated edge that will underpin our sustainable corporate growth. the CSR Basic Policy. Process of Materiality reexamination We identified the issues faced by the Nabtesco Group, and STEP 1 grasped what our stakeholders needed based on our customListing er CSR questionnaire results, various guidelines on sustainability*1, and information provided by ESG research organizaissues tions*2. We then listed the issues that need to be tackled for the Nabtesco Group’s sustainable growth. *1 ISO 26000 (Guidance on organizations’ social responsibility)/International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) International Integrated Reporting Framework/ Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) SASB Standard/Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines/Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) *2 RobecoSAM/FTSE4Good/Sustainalytics/VigeoEiris Next, we assessed the materiality of the issues identified in STEP 2 Step 1 from the perspectives of “importance for stakeholders” (vertical axis) and “importance for our company” (horizontal Deciding on the axis) and specified those assessed as particularly material Materiality for stakeholders materiality of to be included among our material CSR issues. Regarding each issue “importance for stakeholders,” we referred to the evaluation made by ESG research organizations, while for “importance for our company” we decided on priorities based on relevance to business plans of our operating and corporate departments and divisions. Materiality for our company Based on the opinions given by external experts, we reexamSTEP 3 ined the issues deemed important in Step 2. Then, finally, the Selection of Board of Directors selected the material CSR issues through discussion. material CSR issues SDGs: A document titled Transforming our world: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development was adopted at the UN Sustainable Development Summit in 2015. The agenda sets out a declaration and goals as an action plan for the prosperity of humankind and the earth. Known as Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the goals consist of 17 goals and 169 associated targets and position the action plan to be achieved by 2030 by all countries, both developed and developing. 09 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Nabtesco Group’s CSR Basic Policy PART 1 By practicing The Nabtesco Way, the Nabtesco Group strives to ensure management transparency, provide safety, comfort and a sense of security, and fulfill its corporate social responsibilities, thereby contributing to solving environmental and social issues and seeking to enhance corporate value on a sustainable basis. About Nabtesco Group The CSR Basic Policy clearly states that the Nabtesco under the abovementioned CSR Basic Policy represents the Group will fulfill its corporate social responsibilities, thereGroup’s material issues. By incorporating the concept of Value Creation of by meeting the expectations and requests of its stakeholdmateriality into the CSR Basic Policy, we are strategically ers. The policy to “Ensure management transparency” and tackling CSR issues that are important to the Group as well Nabtesco Group “Provide safety, comfort and a sense of security” upheld as to its stakeholders. Capital That Underpins Materiality (Material CSR Issues) General Category ESG Category Materiality (Material CSR Issues) Major SDGs of Relevance Value Creation Strengthen corporate governance Ensure Governance management Promote risk management and compliance behavior (G) transparency Ensure proactive dialogue with stakeholders Enhance customer satisfaction, ensure quality and safety Develop human capital and promote workplace diversity Provide safe and comfortable workplaces Society Respect human rights (S) Prevent corruption Provide safety, Fair, proper and transparent procurement activities comfort and a sense of Local community development security Countermeasures for climate change Environmentally friendly manufacturing Environment (E) Reduction of environmental impact through products and services Recycling, reuse and remanufacture of products Through the reexamination process, we have classified that stakeholders have high expectations for our activities Nabtesco’s material CSR issues in relation to the 17 SDGs in terms of fulfilling our corporate social responsibilities as per the table above. Impacts of each issue on our coracross a wider scope and at a higher level.Thus, we will porate activities are described in ”Nabtesco Group’s Apreview our materiality on a regular basis to build up trust proach to CSR” in Part 2. While giving due consideration to with our stakeholders. potential impacts of each issue, we will invest resources efficiently and effectively to address wide-ranging ESG isNabtesco Group’s Approach to CSR sues and will systematically promote specific activities with please see P79 a view to contributing to achieving the SDGs. We are aware Nabtesco Value Report 2016 10 Value Creation Process of Nabtesco Group The Nabtesco Group is focused on sharing the overall picture of its value creation with stakeholders. Promoting a better understanding of our efforts to fulfill our social responsibilities as a company and our endeavor to achieve sustainable growth is vital in ensuring the transparency of our management. We will continue to pursue the expansion and enhancement of our value proposition in order to sincerely meet the expectations of our stakeholders going forward. MISSION We will realize “all stakeholders’ dreams” P.3 Nabtesco Way External Environment and Growth Opportunities Market trends Social issues related to management Social issues related to business activities D  omestic and developed markets: stable, transparency Increased needs for the enhancement of safety mature markets Increased demand for developing the and comfort of vehicles Emerging markets: volatile growth markets governance system to promote corporate Rise in demand for automation and energy value enhancement conservation at manufacturing sites in line with Technological trends Expansion of the scope of risk the tight labor market and increase in labor costs Engineering innovation in the management and compliance as a result Growing needs for increased safety and comfort manufacturing industry with the arrival of of globalization in public spaces an IoT society and the evolution of AI Increase in demand for products that can Increased needs for mechatronics mitigate environmental impacts technologies and systematization of Rising social demand for realizing sound working machinery-related components environments P.9 Values Offered to Stakeholders P.79 Materiality Shareholders and investors: Sustainable growth with profitability and stable and flexible shareholder returns Ensure management transparency Customers: High value-added products and services to respond to QCD demand from customers*1 Provide safety, comfort and a sense Employees: Safe and pleasant workplace/growth opportunities through human resources development of security Suppliers: Mutual growth through transactions and fulfillment of social responsibilities Local communities and global environment: Realization of flourishing and vibrant local communities/development of sustainable society *1 Quality, cost and delivery demanded by customers Main products P.5 Main products Manufacturing/Urban Transportation of People Daily Lives Welfare/Production Development/Renewable Energy and Goods of daily commodities Railroad Vehicle Equipment Automatic Doors Precision Reduction Gears Aircraft Equipment Welfare Equipment Hydraulic Equipment Commercial Vehicle Equipment New Energy Equipment Packaging Machines Marine Vessel Equipment Business Activities P.59 Road Map for Growth Growth driven by Growth based on each market-oriented strategy market growth Business segment Characteristics Technological Expansion of regional Capturing shares in Expansion of sales advantage strategy market shares new markets products Significant impact of Maintaining competitive Component Solutions changes in production/ Precision reduction Hydraulic advantage of products (CMP) sales volume on gears equipment and technologies profitability Commercial vehicle Transport Solutions Railroad vehicle equipment Aircraft equipment (TRS) equipment Marine vessel equipment After-sales services Accessibility Solutions (MRO*2) that mitigate Capturing shares Expansion of product lineup Automatic doors in overseas market (ACB) changes in OEM Systematization/modularization production volume Manufacturing Solutions Acquisition of sales companies Packaging (MFR) Enhancement of value chain model machine *2 MRO: Maintenance, repair and overhaul 11 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Enjoy! Long-Term Vision Status on Glob al Pa FY 2020 rtne Best r wit PART 1 “Enj S o h oy th lutions e Ch alle nge” About Nabtesco Group In order to adequately capture growth opportunities and address issues for the realization of sustainable growth, the Nabtesco Group will take aggressive steps to allocate resources toward the acceleration of growth by establishing the below as a Value Creation of pillar of our management strategy. Through such efforts, we will further expand the scope of value creation and Nabtesco Group pursue the ideal embodied in our Long-Term Vision. P.13 Message from the CEO Management Strategy and Performance Capital That Underpins P.17 Financial/Non-Financial Highlights Medium-Term Management Plan Our commitments Value Creation (FY2017/12–2020/12) Market Creation ROE: 15% Obtain new markets (FY2016/12 was 12.0%) Technology Innovation Consolidated payout ratio: Create new solutions 35% or over (FY2016/12 was 35.1%) Operational Excellence Focus on solving ESG Raise profitability and reinforce operational bases issues Toward accelerating and maintaining growth Issues to Be Addressed for the P.137 Risk Management Realization of Sustainable Growth Internal factors External factors Incubation of new products and Changes in demand in respective acceleration of overseas expansion product markets Improvement of capital efficiency New players and competitors catching Systematization of CSR activities up with our technologies Capital That Underpins Value Creation P.35 Capital That Underpins Value Creation Relationships of trust with Financial capital Technology and manufacturing capital customers, shareholders and Strong balance sheet Motion control technology that realizes investors (relationship capital) Capability to generate stable cash flow development requests from customers Intellectual property activities on a global basis Customer base developed through the provision of products and services over many years Local production and local consumption system to fulfill responsibility to realize stable supply Relationship of trust with long-term shareholders and investors through ongoing dialogue Human capital Organizational capital Human resources who implement The Nabtesco Way Corporate governance with a focus on longHuman resources who sincerely seek term shareholders and investors ways to satisfy customer needs Unique PDCA cycle aimed at continuously Human resources who value product addressing safety and environmental response safety and quality Nabtesco Value Report 2016 12 Message from the CEO Turning “All Stakeholder’s Dreams” into Reality Katsuhiro Teramoto Representative Director, President and CEO 13 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Our 01 ROE: 15% PART 1 commitments 02 Consolidated payout ratio: 35% or over About Nabtesco 03 Focus on solving ESG issues * ESG: Environment, society and governance Group Value Creation of Nabtesco Group In the process of fulfilling their roles, each member of Inaugural message the organization needs to listen to and respect the opinions I am Katsuhiro Teramoto. In my capacity, as of March 28, of other members playing different roles in different poCapital That Underpins 2017, as the new president and CEO of the company, I sitions. This will help individual members to achieve their would like to express my heartfelt gratitude to our stakeown growth. holders for the kind support they have heretofore given to As corporate citizens, companies are expected to proValue Creation Nabtesco. vide their stakeholders with value. This is one of their I joined Nabtesco 10 years ago in 2007, after gaining exroles. In the Action Declaration, which together with Corpoperience in both corporate planning and sales at my former rate Philosophy, Our Promises, and the Action Guidelines workplace. For my first two years at Nabtesco I was encomprises The Nabtesco Way, it is stated that “By implegaged in the precision reduction gear business and for the menting these promises, we will realize ‘All Stakeholders’ next four years in the automatic door business, specifically, Dreams.’” I think it is necessary for Nabtesco to fulfill its in overseas sales and business planning activities. During social responsibility on a continual basis while listening to that period, I was also involved in the process of M&A and the opinions of its stakeholders, which include its customintegration targeting foreign companies, which taught me ers, shareholders, investors, business partners, employthe importance of respecting diversity and increasing the ees, local communities and also the global environment. speed of business management. As a result of fulfilling this role, Nabtesco will be able to I became the General Manager of the Corporate Planachieve profitable growth and meet the long-term expectaning Department in 2013 and the General Manager of the tions of its stakeholders and help them turn their dreams Corporate Planning Division in 2015, and in these positions into reality. I supported the former CEO in making decisions for the So what roles should I fulfill as the CEO of the Nabtesco company. During the same period, I was also engaged in Group? I think one of my important roles is to make manthe formulation of two medium-term management plans agerial decisions. While providing stakeholders with conand then pressed forward with the creation of the new tinuous value, I hope to make management decisions that medium-term management plan based on the results of achieve total optimization for all stakeholders, rather than the former plans. Now, I am leading the Nabtesco Group’s optimizing individual issues, and, as the CEO, will sincerely business management as its CEO. meet accountability expectations. I am determined to fulfill my huge responsibility as CEO. Another important task I have as CEO is to demonstrate While it will take some time for me to produce excellent leadership. In the new medium-term management plan, results, I will work to shorten the time required. I would which I will detail later, we state three management comask for the continued support of all stakeholders toward mitments: “ROE: 15%,” “Consolidated payout ratio: 35% the Group. or over,” and “Focus on solving ESG issues.” I will lead the Group so that it will gain speed in implementing the ongoCommitment to Growth ing measures and undertake challenges and reforms to fulfill these commitments. I believe that if each member of an organization makes a Please be sure to keep an eye on our progress as we sincere effort to fulfill his or her respective roles, it will provide people across the globe with safety, comfort and a increase the value of the entire organization. A company sense of security while at the same time ensuring managecan also achieve growth if its employees, each of whom has ment transparency to become a “Global Partner with Best his or her own unique qualities, cooperate and share their Solutions.” roles with one another. Nabtesco Value Report 2016 14 Message from the CEO Changes will continue to occur in our business enviS  ummary of the results of the former medironment. Based on this recognition, we have made comum-term management plan mitments in lieu of performance targets in the new mediUnfortunately, we were unable to attain the consolidated um-term management plan launched in FY2017. performance targets set in the former plan, including “Net sales of 280 billion yen ± 5%” and “Operating income of 34  ew medium-term management plan: “Move N billion yen,” mainly due to the sharp downturn of the Chiforward! Challenge the future! Create ‘New nese machinery market, which we had expected to expand. Value 2020’” Looking back on the measures implemented for the targeted three years, I think we achieved fantastic results The new medium-term management plan targets the fourregarding “Financial Strategy,” which focused on internal year period from FY2017 to FY2020. In line with the basic measures and was one of the three management themes policy of the plan, “Move forward! Challenge the future! set for the period, along with Market Creation and TechnolCreate ‘New Value 2020,’” we will work to become a “Globogy Innovation. Another fruit of implementing the plan was al Partner with Best Solutions” while pursuing profitable the fact that the dividend payout ratio was kept at 30% or growth on a continual basis. higher and we were able to continue paying stable diviThere will be no major changes to our management dends to shareholders with no decrease. strategy and we will continue to implement measures for The Market Creation measures helped us to approach “Market Creation” and “Technology Innovation,” but we a new market for actuators (products made by combining will shift from “Financial Strategy” to “Operational Excelprecision reduction gears and servomotors in an optimal lence” under the new management plan to enhance our manner), and the Technology Innovation measures fosoperational basis by reforming our production systems, tered production reforms at our plants. From now on, we organizations and business operations in addition to imwill take on the challenge of fostering cross-organizational plementing the financial strategies. To this end, we will cooperation in manufacturing in order to gain new markets introduce a new internal management indicator (return and create new products. on invested capital: ROIC) to increase the profitability and The former medium-term management plan was pocapital efficiency of our business departments. At the same sitioned as the second step to attain our long-term vision time it will be necessary for us to establish a system to toward FY2020, which is to become a “Global Partner with respond flexibly to changes in the business environment, in Best Solutions.” This vision initially included the targets particular in our Market Creation activities. of “Net sales of 400 billion yen” and “Operating income of In the plan, as mentioned above, the management team 60 billion yen” for consolidated business performance for made three commitments (ROE: 15%; Consolidated payout FY2020, but we now need to reexamine the assumptions ratio: 35% or over; and Focus on solving ESG issues), which made for these targets in light of the dramatic changes that we can control, unlike performance targets that are subject hit our business environment after the plan was formulated. to environmental changes. Our commitments in the Basic Policy of the New Medium-term Management Plan New Medium-term Management Plan Basic Policy Move forward! Challenge the future! ROE: 15% ~Create “New Value 2020”~ Consolidated payout “Promote and enhance the existing measures” ratio: 35% or over Key Strategies Key Strategies Obtain new markets Create new solutions Focus on solving ESG Market Creation Technology Innovation Obtain new markets by Create new solutions through issues accelerating overseas business transition from components to systems and developing new domains and services 15 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 As for “ROE: 15%,” which is not a target for the final personnel system reforms, with a view to making Nabtesco PART 1 year of the plan, we will achieve it as early as possible and a company where all employees are motivated to work and maintain the percentage going forward. ROE is an indicademonstrate their talents. tor that combines other indicators for profitability, capital As for governance issues, the Compliance Committee efficiency and financial leverage (effective use of debt). and the Risk Management Committee, which were estabAccordingly, we will pursue the improvement of these lished in 2016, will lead the measures to promote complithree indicators. ance behavior and risk management in order to enhance About Nabtesco In the former medium-term management plan, we set the management basis for speedier business expansion the policy of keeping the consolidated payout ratio in the outside Japan. In March 2017, we increased the number of Group range of 30 to 40% but have changed the target to “35% or members of our Nomination Committee, which nominates over” in the current plan. We are thus committed to condirectors, from three to five to increase its diverse and obtinuously increasing the dividend amount provided we can jective perspective. We will also enhance the development continue to maintain a sound balance sheet. program for the next generation of management leaders. Value Creation of For “Focus on solving ESG issues,” it is indeed the By implementing the new medium-term management most important theme for the Group to achieve long-term plan, we aim to achieve net sales of 330 billion yen, operNabtesco Group growth and to survive as a going concern that is highly ating income of 42 billion yen, and net income of 30 billion evaluated by society. In order to enhance the CSR promoyen in FY2020 as reference values for consolidated busition system and further increase our corporate value, we ness performance, on the premise that there will be no Capital That Underpins established the CSR Committee in 2016. We will continue major changes to the economic environment. For the first to invest certain amounts to implement the relevant meayear of the period targeted for the plan, we expect net sales Value Creation sures in order to provide our stakeholders with value in a of 260 billion yen, operating income of 26 billion yen, and sustainable manner. net income attributable to owners of the parent of 19.7 bilIn particular, for environmental issues, we promote the lion yen. For the first two years of the period, the transport introduction of solar power generation systems and various solutions-related market will be stagnant and we will cover other energy-saving devices to our existing plants in addithe expected loss by expanding other businesses. tion to building new environment-friendly plants. For CO2 In order to achieve the reference value (net sales of 330 emissions, we will work to reduce emissions per unit of billion yen) in FY2020, we need to increase sales by 8% global sales while increasing our production volumes with annually. The Nabtesco Group will attain this by achievsales expansion, thereby maintaining our total CO2 emising organic growth in the existing businesses and also by sions in Japan on par with the FY2015 level. gaining new markets, creating new products, and making Regarding social issues, we place importance on human effective use of M&A projects. resource development and the provision of comfortable Finally, once again, I would ask for the further support workplaces. The management team will put out the call of our shareholders toward the Nabtesco Group, which has to foster internal communication toward work style and taken a new step for growth in FY2020 and beyond. New Mid-Term Management Plan (Referential) 2016/12 2017/12 2020/12 Long-term vision: Status on FY2020 Result Plan Reference (Reference for Global Partner with Best Solution (JPY billion) IFRS)*3 (IFRS) (IFRS) ~ Enjoy The Challenge ~ Sales 244.6 260.0 330.0 Core Operating 25.1 26.0 42.0 profit*1 “New challenges and reforms” New Value 2020 Operating Profit 26.9 26.0 42.0 Key Strategies Net Profit*2 19.4 19.7 30.0 Improve profitability and efficiency Operational Excellence *1 Core operating profit: Calculated the sum of operating income year Improve corporate value by raising profitability through ended December 2016(JGAAP), goodwill amortization and others. *2 Net Profit: Net profit attributable to owners of the parent production reforms and operational reforms as well as *3 Actual figures for FY2016/12 (IFRS) represent referential values by seeking better capital efficiency. prepared for the purpose of comparison with the forecast for FY2017/12. Therefore, they are subject to change after auditing. Nabtesco Value Report 2016 16 Financial/Non-Financial Highlights Financial Highlights ROE Message from General Manager of Corporate Planning Division and General Administration & 15.0 Human Resources Division Page 25 12.5 12.2 12.6 12.0 12.0 Nabtesco is focused on continuously securing a capital efficiency level that can meet the expectations of our 9.0 shareholders and investors, and management has made a commitment in the new Medium-term Management Plan 6.0 to achieve an ROE of 15%. Except for fiscal year 2015/12, 7.6 which was an irregular accounting period due to a change 3.0 in closing date, our policy is to raise ROE, which has recently remained around 12%, to 15%, as early as possible and maintain it. In FY2017, Nabtesco introduced ROIC 0.0 (Return on Invested Capital) as a new internal management (%) 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2015/12*1 2016/12 indicator to ensure improvement in capital efficiency. While paying attention to capital cost, we strive to achieve growth in terms of absolute amount of profits and to improve the following elements, thereby realizing our Commitments. Operating Income Margin / Net Income Margin*2 Operating income margin Message from General Manager of Corporate Net income margin Planning Division and General Administration & 15.0 Human Resources Division Page 25 10.8 9.9 9.6 Nabtesco deems it critical to secure a sound level of profit12.0 8.4 8.2 ability as a prerequisite for business growth, and endeavors 9.0 to improve operating income margin. To improve net income 8.1 margin through an increase in operating income margin, 7.4 7.4 7.2 we will pursue improvement in operating income margin, 6.0 5.9 which was recorded at the 8–10% level in the past few years. We will promote cross-organizational measures to increase 3.0 sales in business sectors offering MRO* services, while aiming at enhancing added value through the development 0.0 of mechatronic products and systems. Also, in the precision (%) 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2015/12*1 2016/12 reduction gear business, in which brisk demand is expected, to achieve greater profitability, we will grow profits by increasing sales to a level that can absorb a depreciation cost increase from the enhancement of production capability. *MRO: Maintenance, repair and overhaul Total Assets Turnover Message from General Manager of Corporate Planning Division and General Administration & 1.0 Human Resources Division Page 25 0.9 0.9 0.9 0.9 0.9 It is indispensable to efficiently use management resources in order to improve total assets turnover. In the past 0.8 five years, total assets turnover has been roughly 0.9, and we are working to improve this level. At present, Nabte0.8 sco is fostering group-wide manufacturing innovation to 0.7 enhance our production capability, procurement ability 0.6 and production management ability. To make effective use of business assets, we are also promoting the introduction of smart production management by the use of AI and IoT 0.5 and implementing logistics reforms. By using the ROIC (Times) 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2015/12*1 2016/12 tree, we will boost our competitiveness in manufacturing and improve the rate of utilization of business assets. Financial Leverage Message from General Manager of Corporate Planning Division and General Administration & 2.0 Human Resources Division Page 25 1.9 Nabtesco upholds a policy of maintaining an A credit rating in order to secure balance sheet soundness as a pre1.8 1.8 1.8 requisite for long-term value creation. As we have recorded steady earnings every year, equity capital is increasing. 1.7 With a view to further improving capital efficiency, we will 1.7 implement control of the balance of cash on hand and 1.6 1.6 explore the use of financial leverage as necessary. More1.6 over, to make efficient use of internal reserves, we will drive growth investment including in capital expenditure, 1.5 R&D and M&A. At the same time, we will practice the type (Times) 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2015/12*1 2016/12 of financial management that enables stable and flexible shareholder returns. *1 D ue to the change of the accounting closing date of fiscal year since FY2015/12, the results for FY2015 is calculated on a basis of 9 months for Nabtesco Corporation and the other consolidated subsidiaries in Japan, and 12 months for the overseas consolidated subsidiaries. *2 Net income attributable to owners of the parent 17 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Non-Financial Highlights Affirmative Vote Rate of Selected Directors and Audit & Supervisory PART 1 Dialogue on Governance Page 29 Board Members Nabtesco Average of the rates for listed companies in Japan Nabtesco values relations of trust with its shareholders 100.0 to enhance its business management for sustainable 99.29 99.42 About Nabtesco 98.57 value creation, and defines an affirmative vote rate for 98.0 97.55 97.95 selected directors and audit & supervisory board member at the general meeting of shareholders as an indicator of Group 96.0 confidence in management. The affirmative rate has been over 97% for the past five years, exceeding the average 94.0 95.3 95.2 95.4 95.3 95.1 for listed companies in Japan. At the general meeting of shareholders held in March 2017, Nabtesco received 92.0 a 98.57% rate of approval for its transition to the new 90.0 directorship. We will continue to reinforce our approach to Value Creation of corporate governance to ensure management transparen(%) 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2015/12*3 2016/12 cy and improve corporate value to meet the expectations of our shareholders. Nabtesco Group Note: The affirmative vote rate of selected directors and audit & supervisory board member represents the average of rates for which the agenda regarding selection of directors and audit & supervisory board member was approved at ordinary general meetings of shareholders for a given fiscal year. Averaged data were calculated by Nabtesco based on Koporeito Gabanansu no Genjo Bunseki (Analysis on Actual Corporate Governance Practice) by Shojihomu Co., Ltd. Lost-Work time Injuries Frequency Rate*4 Capital That Underpins Management of Occupational Safety Page 43 Nabtesco All industries in Japan Manufacturing industries in Japan 2.0 As a manufacturer, Nabtesco views securing safety as a basis for its business activities, and eliminating industrial Value Creation 1.59 1.58 1.66 1.61 1.63 accidents as a key to protecting the livelihood of employ1.5 ees and achieving sustainable value creation. Although 1.15 Nabtesco's lost-work time injuries frequency rate has 1.0 1.00 1.06 1.06 0.94 always been lower than the all-industries average and the manufacturing average in Japan for the past five years, 0.5 0.78 we have not achieved the Group's target of zero indus0.61 trial injuries, including commuting-related injuries. We 0.53 0.47 0.0 0.40 recognize that it is necessary to alter safety awareness in the organization as well as implement ongoing measures (%) 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2015/12*3 2016/12 against individual risk factors in order to achieve the target and maintain this level. Accordingly, we are working to * D  ata for the all industries average and the manufacturing industry average in Japan are from nurture a culture of safety across the Group. the 2016 Survey on Industrial Accidents, Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. CO2 Emissions per Unit of Sales [Global] Striving to Protect the Environment Page 45 (Amount of CO2 emissions/sales) Sales Per unit of sales Recognizing combating climate change as one of its 250 244.6 0.5 material CSR issues, Nabtesco is working to reduce CO2 219.7 228.9 emissions. Our CO2 emissions per unit sale on a global 200 202.3 0.4 basis have been decreasing, and Nabtesco achieved an 179.5 additional reduction of 14% in FY2016 compared to the 150 0.3 target (0.277). To achieve business growth while reducing 0.308 CO2 emissions, we set a medium-term target* in FY2016 100 0.278 0.2 to achieve a reduction of at least 9% from the base year. 0.255 0.239 0.238 Moreover, we established long-term targets* to reduce 50 0.1 CO2 emissions by 30% in FY2030 and by 80% in FY2050. We 0 0.0 are committed to achieving the mediumand long-term targets through stepping up our efforts to save and create (Billion yen) 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2015/12*3 2016/12 (Per unit energy. of sales) *T  he mediumand long-term targets are expressed as percentagNote: Refer to the notes on page 107 for the aggregation policy and standards referenced. es of reduction from actual CO2 emissions in FY2015. Rate of Those who Resigned for Personal Reasons*5 Retention of the Workforce Page 98 Rate of those who resigned for personal reasons Male (Total turnover rate) Female (Total turnover rate) Nabtesco sees its employees as human assets, as they constitute the human capital that underpins the Group's 7.0 sustainable value creation. Retention of the workforce is 6.0 6.0 essential to maintain and enhance competitiveness in the 5.7 long run. At Nabtesco, the rate of employees who resigned 5.0 for personal reasons has remained around 1%, which 4.0 shows that Nabtesco provides its employees with a good 3.8 3.1 3.5 work environment. 3.0 2.9 We are currently promoting measures for work style 3.2 2.0 1.8 3.1 reform and endeavoring to revitalize the organization 1.7 1.1 through workplace diversity. We will continue activities 1.0 0.7 1.0 to develop human assets that drive global business 0.7 0.6 0 operations and to increase employees' awareness of The Nabtesco Way, while encouraging them to fulfill their own (%) 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2015/12*3 2016/12 goals and foster a sense of unity across the Group. *3 Period covered for Non-financial data: January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015 *4 The calculation scope includes Nabtesco Corporation and domestic Group Companies. *5 The culculation scope covers only Nabtesco Corporation. Nabtesco Value Report 2016 18 CEO’s Tripartite Talk Toward Sustainable Value Creation Katsuhiro Teramoto, the new CEO of Nabtesco, met with two investors who have been analyzing the Company for many years. They talked about the financial and non-financial measures to be implemented by the Company under the new medium-term management plan launched in FY2017. The CEO and the two investors exchanged frank opinions regarding the future challenges and expectations for the Company. (Held in a Company conference room in March 2017) Takuya Furutani Katsuhiro Teramoto Ario Kishida Fund manager Representative Director, Senior analyst Schroder Investment Management President and CEO Lazard Japan Asset Management (Hereinafter their names will be listed without the titles.) Evaluation of the new mediumstakeholders in an intelligible manmedium-term management plan, and term management plan ner. Nabtesco is a manufacturer of I would like to ask you to give your machine components and subject to frank opinions about our shift from Furutani: I would like to ask you to changes in the market environment. “numerical targets” to “commitdetail the background to the replaceIt is therefore difficult for the Compaments” in your capacity as investors. ment of the numerical targets set for ny to make commitments on perforKishida: In light of the fact that it each business segment in the previmance targets such as sales. Instead, seems impossible for the Company to ous plan with “commitments” in the in the new plan, we show “reference achieve the sales target of 400 billion new plan. values” for the business performance yen as stated in the long-term vision, Teramoto: We wanted to show the that we aim to achieve. I can understand that you have stated targets that we could really attain The Board of Directors talked sales of 330 billion yen as a reference in the form of “commitments” to all a lot about the details of the new value in the new plan, and you have 19 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 CEO’s Tripartite Talk: Toward Sustainable Value Creation given a realistic and strong message menting financial measures, which least for now. In fact, we need to have PART 1 to your stakeholders by showing the differentiates the new plan from the a certain return on weighted average targets that you can control more previous one substantially. cost of capital (WACC) in a business easily as “commitments” in the plan. I expect that this will encourage to make it sustainable, but I would I have high hopes that you will fulfill each business department to attrilike to make decisions by considering About Nabtesco Group all of the three commitments, includbute importance to capital efficiency the features of each business and ing the two financial ones. when setting their own targets. In other matters comprehensively. Furutani: To be honest, I had been addition to fostering organic growth When changing the business portthinking that the numerical targets through market expansion, we folio, the management team needs Value Creation of set in the previous medium-term will also promote internal reforms to give consideration to the run-on management plan were difficult for through awareness-raising among changes to employees’ lives and mothe Company to attain. What is aimed Nabtesco Group employees while externally impletivation. However, as a member of the at in the new plan will not be easily menting Market Creation and Techmanagement team, I strongly recogattained either, but it is approprinology Innovation measures. We will nize that investors are greatly interate to show the numerical figures thereby accelerate our sales growth ested in the capital efficiency of each Capital That Underpins as “reference values.” I think that to attain the 8% target and also of our businesses. Even when there the word “commitments” is used to enhance the business foundation for seems to be no improvements made show the management team’s strong the long-term sustainable growth of after implementing various measures Value Creation determination to attain the targets by the Company. in one of our businesses, we need to all means. think hard about which options will However, it will be really difficult Introduction of ROIC and steady be the best for all our stakeholders to for the Company to implement the use of the indicator make an appropriate decision about business plan, and I am worried the business. that irrational managerial decisions Kishida: Do you think that the inmade in order to attain the numeritroduction of ROIC will change the About the “ROE: 15%” cal figures could lead the Company mindset of employees? commitment in the wrong direction. In the new Teramoto: I think it will and it plan, the figures are shown clearly as should. We have already been checkKishida: As for the “ROE: 15%” “reference values,” which I think is ing indicators such as the turnover commitment, I regard this as a commendable. of accounts receivable, but have not strong message from the Company provided deeper insights into their that it will achieve ROE of 15% by all Toward the top-line (sales) implications beyond simply checking means necessary, even if the market growth the actual results. By introducing environment deteriorates. I believe ROIC as an indicator, I aim to urge Nabtesco is a company that can Kishida: The top-line growth rate of employees to share ideas about how achieve even more growth, and hope Nabtesco has been around 5% during to generate cash, which executives that it will not only achieve the comthe past 10 years and the target of have already been sharing. mitment regarding ROE temporarily achieving a growth rate of 8% is Furutani: Do you plan to use ROIC as but also will return profits to shareindeed challenging. To accelerate a criterion to decide on the compenholders in a well-balanced manner growth, what changes do you plan sation to be paid to employees with by allocating its capital to growth to make to the Company as the new a view to permeating the concept of investments and then to the payment CEO? ROIC throughout the Company? of dividends if there is any surplus. Teramoto: In order to attain the goal Teramoto: The introduction of ROIC Teramoto: ROE is composed of three of 8%, we have shifted from “Finanhas already changed the evaluation elements: profit margin on sales, cial Strategy,” which we focused on criteria for employees, managers and capital turnover and financial leverin the previous plan, to “Operational top executives from those based on age. Profit margin depends largely on Excellence” in the new plan. Speabsolute values to those based on the market environment but the mancifically, under the new plan, we year-on-year growth rates. agement team can control the other will enhance our operational basis Furutani: Will you use ROIC as an two elements to a certain degree. by introducing a new management indicator to make managerial deWe will achieve ROE of 15% earlier indicator, return on invested capital cisions, for example, to change the during the targeted period and con(ROIC), to the Company for higher portfolio of a business in which you tinue to maintain this percentage for capital efficiency. We will increase cannot record a surplus on ROIC? growth investment and for the return our operational efficiency and reform Teramoto: To be honest, I do not of profits to shareholders. production in addition to impleplan to use it in such a manner, at Nabtesco Value Report 2016 20 CEO’s Tripartite Talk already invested 10 billion yen, but the crop, as in the project in which we we still have 20 billion yen left. Howcompleted the acquisition of Germaever, we will not set a specific upper ny-based OVALO’s shares in March limit on the cost of M&A. We will not 2017. The German company has the simply try to expand in terms of size. ability to develop products that inteOn the other hand, we will boldly grate motor and control units and by implement an M&A project beyond using this ability we will foster the the budget framework if we know it manufacture of systems and mechawill help us accelerate the growth of tronic products. I want to continue our business. fostering these kinds of M&A projects Kishida: I have the impression that to acquire technologies that can be Nabtesco has not invested enough in used across our businesses. capital expenditure or M&A and so During the period from 2011 to the Company could increase its sales last year, which could be called our by making such investments. I think “first M&A period,” we focused on the Company needs to implement M&A projects to improve our organiM&A projects more proactively for zational system. In the future, we will further growth. foster M&A to gain new technologies Teramoto: I agree with you 100%. and markets, expand production caSince we purchased a Swiss-based pacity, and shorten the lead time, and automatic door manufacturer in 2011, for various other purposes. we have had no internal objections Kishida: Could you describe the “We will achieve ROE of 15% to M&A, and we will proactively purpose of M&A regarding the OVALO earlier during the targeted make necessary investments. Under case and how your business departperiod and continue to the growth strategies set for each ments will utilize this company? maintain this percentage business, we are making investTeramoto: OVALO has strengths for growth investment and ments based on clear ideas about mainly in chassis and engine systhe businesses. For example, for the tems and is highly evaluated for its for the return of profits to precision reduction gear business, technologies as a Tier 1 supplier to shareholders.” we are making capital expenditure German automakers. To manufacture to increase production capacity mechatronic products, it is essential rather than fostering M&A, while for to use electronic control technoloM&A the automatic door business we are gies, which OVALO certainly has. The promoting M&A to expand our sales technologies will help us prompt the Furutani: You can quickly expand the channels. manufacture of mechatronic prodamount of sales by M&A for corpoI also want to focus on M&A to ucts. Further, adcos, one of OVALO’s rate growth. Do you have any rules generate synergies across the board. subsidiaries, specializes in software on M&A? For M&A projects that would be useand has know-how for model base Teramoto: We allocate 30 billion yen ful across our businesses, the cordevelopment. I expect that we will to M&A in the medium-term manageporate staff will lead the projects for be able to use this know-how for ment plan. Of that budget, we have each business department to harvest systematization across our business departments. Moreover, OVALO is located in Budget set for growth investments in the medium-term management plan Germany and we will be able to use Cumulative total over the threeCumulative total over the fourthe company in a comprehensive year period of the previous mediyear period of the new medimanner as our production and devel(Unit: billions of yen) um-term management plan um-term management plan (FY2015/3 -FY2016/12) (FY2017/12—FY2020/12) opment base in Europe. The M&A was thus really meaningful for Market Capital 31.0 77.0 Creation and Technology Innovation. Expenditure R&D cost 20.0 40.0 Technological superiority M&A and others 10.0 30.0 * Nabtesco has changed the accounting closing date of fiscal year from March 31 to December 31 since FY2015. Kishida: Let me ask about NabteThe results for FY2015 is calculated on a basis of 9 months for Nabtesco Corporation and the other consolidated subsidiaries in Japan, and 12 months for the overseas consolidated subsidiaries. sco’s existing technology strate21 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 CEO’s Tripartite Talk: Toward Sustainable Value Creation PART 1 Headquarters, OVALO GmbH We will thus make equipment investments for various purposes, and deem all of these investments About Nabtesco critical to the sustainable growth of the Company. Group Commitment: “Consolidated payout ratio: 35% or over” gies. For example, in the precision create ROIC-related hurdles for the Value Creation of reduction gear business, you have departments. These concerns could Teramoto: I would like to ask your established a robust market position, make the Company move toward a opinions about our second commitNabtesco Group which no competitor across the globe so-called “diminishing equilibrium,” ment, “Consolidated payout ratio: can match. However, there is no and I would like to ask how you will 35% or over (with no upper limit).” proof that you will be able to maintain demonstrate leadership for the Furutani: You have not set an upper such a strong position going forward. growth of the Company as its CEO. limit because you want to keep paying Capital That Underpins What strategies will you implement to Teramoto: In the plan, we have dividends in an amount on par with keep and protect your technological allocated a total of 77 billion yen to that of the previous year, even if the advantages? equipment investment, of which onebusiness environment deteriorates, Value Creation Teramoto: At present, I am not worthird will be spent on the expansion rather than decreasing the amount in ried about the possibility that comof production, in particular, on higher line with a predefined upper limit. Is petitors will catch up with us in terms production capacity in the precision it right? of technologies soon, but we are reduction gear business. Teramoto: We have not set a limit focusing on measures to protect our In the past, we once found ourbecause we want to expand our profit intellectual property as part of our selves in a difficult situation, with a and increase our dividend amount efforts to keep ahead of competitors. sharp drop in demand immediately consistently, and also to maintain the For example, at the Chinese plant after making equipment investments, stable payment of dividends even if launched for the precision reduction but in the precision reduction gear we face an unexpected situation. gear business in the previous fiscal business we can expect a substantial Kishida: When taking into considyear, we are working to protect the increase in demand, being driven by eration its debt capacity ratio, I think outflow of know-how or technologies. an increase in demand for industrial Nabtesco has sufficient capacity to However, sooner or later, our robots. We will steadily make capital ensure the payment of dividends at a competitors will catch up with us in expenditure to achieve a production certain level and to make growth inregard to our existing technologies, capacity that is about 10% larger than vestments including M&A and capital and to prepare against this we are what is actually required to meet expenditure. We want the Company to speeding up the measures for innodemand from our customers. As for raise its top-line growth rate by makvation with a sense of urgency so that an increase in the depreciation cost, ing growth investments proactively we can always provide customers I think we will be able to fully cover it rather than increasing the dividend with even more advanced products. by an increase in sales and profit. payout ratio, and in this sense the In addition, we will make large payout ratio of 35% is a well-balanced Investments and return of capital expenditure to reduce our CO2 figure that is acceptable to us invesprofits emissions. We are committed to “Fotors. cus on solving ESG issues” and have Teramoto: As for investment priorKishida: In the new medium-term set high environmental targets, which ities, I give first priority to growth inmanagement plan, you are plancannot be attained without making vestments. We will make investments ning to make relatively large capital substantial reforms, including the toward long-term growth, will expand expenditure. I have had the impresmodernization of our plants. our business on a continual basis, and sion that Nabtesco was not making Also, as a manufacturer of mawill return the profits to shareholders enough investment to achieve growth chine components, we receive emin proportion to the growth achieved. as expected, and am now expecting phatic requests for price reductions Based on this precondition, we want to that the capital expenditure will from customers, and to ready for examine the usage of cash, including bring about great results. However, such requests, we will continue to using it to pay dividends and to acquire such investments will impose more make investments to increase the our own shares, so that we can do depreciation costs on each of your production efficiency of our equipmore than just meaninglessly reserve business departments and also ment. cash internally. Nabtesco Value Report 2016 22 CEO’s Tripartite Talk period of the previous medium-term In addition to catching up with management plan. Within the level customers’ trends, we would like that will not cause any hindrance to make proposals to customers to growth investments, we might through the MRO* business in our include the acquisition of our own effort to lead them to reduce their shares as one of the options that own CO2 emissions. we can take when our stock price is As for “S,” or social issues, we will lower than what we expect. implement a variety of measures, including those for work style reCommitment: “Focus on solving forms. The media are focusing our ESG issues” attention on overtime through recent reports about work styles, but I think Teramoto: The third commitment we need to do more than just shorten we have made in the plan is “Focus work hours. We should search for the on solving ESG issues.” I believe all causes of overtime, which perhaps companies, not limited to ours, must include the productivity of the adimplement long-term measures for ministrative departments, and make ESG issues based on the recognition improvements targeting the identified that companies that do not fulfill their problems. CSR will not be allowed to exist. Last * MRO: Maintenance, repair and overhaul year, we established the CSR Committee to set up a more systematic CSR Kishida: Social issues include those I believe Nabtesco can management promotion system. In related to the promotion of diversity achieve more growth. I the process, we reexamined our mateand, in the case of Japan, women’s would ask you to make rial CSR issues to clarify what Nabtesfull participation in society is also a efforts to enable the co should tackle to fulfill its CSR. challenge to be met. Some compaCompany to receive a As for “E,” or environmental nies include the number of female issues, I think we must implement directors and the percentage of higher evaluation in the intensive measures to reduce our female managers in their KPIs. What stock market. CO2 emissions. We are now building a measures is your Company taking new aircraft equipment plant in Gifu, regarding this issue? which will become a facility that conTeramoto: We set the target of You Kishida: mean that you might sumes only half the amount of energy increasing the rate of employment pay more dividends or acquire your compared with conventional plants. of non-Japanese and women to 30% own shares rather than investing in We will also foster the modernization and 20%, respectively, for our annual M&A and equipment if the market of our existing plants. employment of new graduates. The environment makes you refrain from Furutani: As for “E,” do you think current percentage of female mansuch investments, don’t you? Nabtesco will uncover more business agers is not high and we would like Teramoto: We deem it one of our opportunities as public awareness to increase it, which is something management priorities to respond in about environmental issues that takes time, however. For hua flexible way in order to continuously increases? man resources, we give first priority increase the value of our shares, for Teramoto: Yes, I do think so. For to employees’ ability to do the job, which we need to make the best use example, in the marine vessel equipregardless of gender, and would not of our capital. ment business, the environmental promote female employees who are Kishida: In the event that your stock regulations on fuels will be enhanced not yet qualified to become managprice drops, you could acquire your across the world in 2020, and we will ers to that position just to raise the own shares to send a message as the have more demand from customers percentage of female managers. management team that the approwho need to obey the stricter regulaFor diversity, we already have priate stock price of your company is tions. Also, in other businesses, cussome non-Japanese employees, and much higher than the current price. tomers might need to make repairs are examining measures to promote What do you think about this idea? and develop new products to become diversity, including establishing a job Teramoto: We once acquired our more environmentally friendly comrotation system under which employown shares with a view to returning panies, and this trend might provide ees of overseas subsidiaries will work profits to our shareholders during the us with new business opportunities. at Nabtesco in Japan. 23 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 CEO’s Tripartite Talk: Toward Sustainable Value Creation PART 1 With Kishida: regard to governance, I must show patience once I emKishida: I think Nabtesco is above do you have any ideas about transpower the business departments. I average among Japanese companies forming the Board of Directors into a would like to talk with the heads of in terms of profit margin, portfolio About Nabtesco Board that can improve Nabtesco’s the departments in consideration of growth potential, and return of profits performance even more, for example, their personal characteristics and to shareholders. I also think that the by increasing the number of outside the market environment. I am still Company could soar to new heights Group directors? thinking about what my management if it chooses an appropriate method Teramoto: We self-evaluate the approach will be. For the time being, to attain this. I expect that Nabtesco effectiveness of the Board of DirecI will follow the method used by the will transform itself to this end and Value Creation of tors and disclose the results, and I former CEO but will boldly change my increase its sustainability as a comthink that the effectiveness has been approach as necessary, with a focus pany. Nabtesco Group increased year on year. Some say on speed. Some say that the average life that the Board of Directors needs to span of a company is 30 years, and spend more time in discussions from Expectations for Nabtesco companies will experience various the mediumto long-term perspecCapital That Underpins economic cycles throughout their tive, and I would like to foster such Furutani: I expect that Nabtesco will lifetimes. But I believe that Nabtediscussions while fulfilling my acachieve growth in line with the mesco will continue to exist for longer countability to the Board of Directors dium-term management plan, while Value Creation than this. By achieving sustainable in my capacity as CEO. increasing its capital efficiency and growth, the Company will make more As for the number of outside distock price. If the CEO of the Comcontributions to society in a wider rectors, three of the 10 directors are pany continues to share his message sense and thereby increase its coroutside directors and three of the five about the corporate growth measures porate value. Nabtesco will thus build are outside audit & supervisory board toward the future, it will help inveswin-win relationships with its own member. In total, we thus have six tors make their decisions. employees and investors, including outsiders among 15 members. I think I believe Nabtesco can achieve ourselves, in an optimal manner. I that we have already established a more growth. The Company has an sincerely hope that Nabtesco will system to fully incorporate the opinalmost perfect business portfolio and become such a company. ions of outsiders, and we will not the management team is expected to Teramoto: Thank you very much change this system unless we find it lead the growth of the entire Compafor providing me with this important necessary to gain more wisdom and ny. I think it is good for both employopportunity to talk with you. inspiration from outside the Comees and shareholders for the stock pany, for example, to deal with the price to rise, and would ask you to increasing complexity of the market make efforts to enable the Company environment. to receive a higher evaluation in the stock market. Management approach Kishida: Former CEO Kazuaki Kotani seemed to entrust the management of Nabtesco to each of the business I think that the departments. What approach will you Company could soar take to the management of the Company as the new CEO? to new heights if it Teramoto: The former CEO respectchooses an appropriate ed the autonomy of each business method to attain this. department and responded flexibly I expect that Nabtesco if any of the departments faced a dewill transform itself to cline in performance due to changes this end and increase made to the business environment. I think this way of management is its sustainability as a appropriate. company. Each of us has our respective roles, which are composed of responsibilities and authorities. I think Nabtesco Value Report 2016 24 Message from General Manager of Corporate Planning Division and General Administration & Human Resources Division Toward Realizing “Operational Excellence” Daisuke Hakoda Director Managing Executive Officer General Manager of Corporate Planning Division and General Administration & Human Resources Division For the new Medium-Term Management Plan, we have set “Operational Excellence” as a new pillar to replace “Financial Strategy,” which was a management theme under the previous Medium-Term Management Plan. With the aim of reinforcing the operation bases through production reforms and operational reforms in addition to financial strategizing, we will strive to improve capital efficiency and expand our management bases by pursuing “Operational Excellence,” thereby tackling three commitments under the new Medium-Term Management Plan. Improving capital efficiency to achieve ROE of 15% is expected to grow in the future. Meanwhile, the aircraft equipment business is likely to benefit from an increase We have set the achievement of ROE of 15% as one of our in MRO demand for the B777X in the 2020s, in addition to commitments under the new Medium-Term Management MRO demand for the B737 MAX, for which the effect of Plan. It is our intention to achieve the 15% goal as early mass production will contribute to our performance during as possible and maintain the level going forward. For that the period of the current Medium-Term Management Plan. purpose, it is mandatory for us to further improve capital We will endeavor to further expand the MRO business by efficiency through effective use of our operating assets and promoting cross-divisional efforts in other segments with disciplined balance sheet management. We will strive to MRO elements. enhance the profit margin on sales and total assets turnWhile the impact of changes in production and sales over as elements comprising ROE while considering how to volume on profitability is relatively large for the Component utilize the financial leverage as necessary. Solutions segment, we will also seek to improve its profitIn terms of the profit margin on sales, we will firstly aim ability. In the precision reduction gear business, demand to achieve improvement of the operating income ratio as for industrial robots and automation facilities is expected well as the growth of net sales. While our business, with its to grow from a mediumto long-term perspective on the focus on mechanical components, is more susceptible to back of an expansion of needs for labor saving and automachanges in the market environment and production volume tion. It is our policy to steadily increase production capacity at our customers’ end, a certain degree of improvement to ensure stable supply, thus offsetting an increase in has been seen, mainly in the Transport Solutions segment, depreciation by increased profit in line with an increase in as a result of our efforts to expand the MRO* business net sales. In the hydraulic equipment business, the effects continued from the period of the previous Medium-Term of structural reforms of the production system in China Management Plan, which has contributed to mitigating implemented during FY2015 have become apparent. We the impact on our performance due to environmental will aim to expand the scope of value creation for customchanges. In the railroad vehicle equipment business, it is ers by promoting the modularization and systematization of anticipated that MRO demand for high-speed railway and products. subway trains in China will continue, and we have newIt is essential to utilize the assets of each business ly established an MRO site in Thailand targeting railway effectively in order to improve total assets turnover. In operators in Southeast Asia, where railroad infrastructure FY2017, we introduced ROIC (return on invested capital) as 25 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 an internal management indicator with broader awareness improvement of the operating efficiency of each business. PART 1 on cost of capital to improve profitability and raise capital By using the ROIC tree, we will share the understanding efficiency across the Group. By adding the “ROIC improvewith our employees that accumulated on-site efforts are ment ratio” as a performance evaluation incentive for each directly connected with the generation of cash, thereby business segment and combining it with other indicators instilling awareness on cash generation. such as “sales growth ratio” and “operating profit improveWe are currently pushing forward cross-divisional ment ratio,” we will further promote the effective use of activities toward fostering “manufacturing innovation” About Nabtesco our operating assets based on growth as an evaluation including the enhancement of our production capability, indicator while reflecting our investors’ perspectives on procurement ability and production management ability. Group business operations. These activities constitute the practical implementation In the administrative departments, we will allocate capof improvements described in the ROIC tree at manufacital generated from the business departments to growth turing bases. We will seek to realize ROIC improvement investment and engage in financial management including while pursuing the reinforcement of our competitiveness in Value Creation of control of the balance of cash on hand, adequate liability terms of manufacturing capabilities. management, and stable and flexible shareholder returns. Nabtesco Group *MRO: Maintenance, Repair, Overhaul Promoting financial management to realize growth investment and shareholder returns Promoting ROIC improvement in Capital That Underpins manufacturing bases In the new Medium-Term Management Plan, we have made a commitment to achieving a consolidated payout ratio at As a measure to improve ROIC, we will use the “ROIC 35% or over in terms of shareholder returns. With the aim Value Creation tree” and expand the effective utilization of management of maintaining a sound balance sheet and continuously resources at each business site. For instance, while the increasing cash dividends in accordance with profit growth, improvement of operating assets turnover, one of the key the cash dividend for the fiscal year ending December 31, elements of ROIC improvement, can be divided into themes 2017 is expected to be 56 yen per share, an increase of 6 such as improvement of fixed assets turnover, inventory yen from the previous fiscal year, in accordance with the turnover, etc., individual themes are closely related to the initial plan. The Company recognized 2.8 billion yen of eqMeasures for improving capital efficiency Measures by business departments Manufacturing innovation Improvement of Strengthening of production cost of sales ratio Improvement of capability operating profit Improvement of Strengthening of procurement ratio selling, general ability and administrative expenses ratio Strengthening of production management ability Improvement of fixed assets turnover Improvement of ROIC Improvement of inventory turnover Improvement of operating assets turnover Improvement of Disciplined balance sheet days in receivables management ratio Cash and deposits Other liabilities Improvement of Optimization of Other assets ROE payment terms Accounts Accounts payable receivable Interest-bearing Measures by Management of Inventories debt administrative interest-bearing departments debt Net assets Fixed assets Financial strategies (realizing growth investment and shareholder returns) Financial management Operating assets management Nabtesco Value Report 2016 26 uity in earnings of affiliates in the first three months of the ed by the United Nations in 2015, and the Paris Agreement, fiscal year ending December 31, 2017 due to gain on step an international treaty on global warming countermeaacquisitions of an equity-method affiliate. For this reason, sures, came into effect in 2016. Under such circumstances, the Company upwardly revised profit forecasts for “income the scope of expectations of stakeholders for corporate before tax” and other items as of April 28, 2017. While social responsibilities is expanding with increased sophisthe Company has not changed the forecasted amount of tication. Our commitment to “Focus on solving ESG issues” cash dividends from its initial plan as the aforementioned clearly represents our management’s determination for increase in equity in earnings of affiliates is valuation gain achieving sustainable value creation by promoting CSR-oriwithout cash flow, the payout ratio is expected to be mainented management and thus continuing to meet such tained at 35% in real terms. expectations. The Company has generated stable cash flows, utilizWe provide our customers with products and services ing them for growth investment and shareholder returns. that support daily life and social infrastructure in the Looking at the balance sheet as of December 31, 2016, it B-to-B domain. Our customers in each business segment is possible to lower the equity ratio to 45% on the preconalso fulfill their social responsibilities at a high level. We dition that we continue to receive a credit rating of A. It is believe that contributing to solving various social issues estimated that we can potentially procure debt of about 75 related to ESG through our businesses will lead to the billion yen in theory. As just described, our strong balance accumulation of trust with our stakeholders, including sheet and ability to generate stable cash flows serve as customers. a cornerstone of our financial capital, which underpins growth investment and shareholder returns. Promoting systematic efforts to tackle ESG During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015, we issues repurchased treasury stock amounting to about 10.0 billion yen as part of measures to return profits to shareholders In FY2016, we launched the CSR Committee as an organiand subsequently cancelled all of the acquired shares. It zation that supervises all CSR activities and reports directis also apparent that we have gradually increased cash ly to the CEO in an effort to further strengthen our CSR dividends in line with profit growth. We will continue to promotion framework. The committee oversees overall pursue the improvement of capital efficiency by promoting CSR activities by reporting directly to the CEO and provides financial management to realize aggressive growth investadvice and suggestions to the Board of Directors through ment and stable and flexible shareholder returns toward the formulation, review, etc. of policies related to CSR acachieving sustainable profit growth in the future. tivities. The chairman and members of the committee are selected from among officers and appointed by the CEO. I Focus on solving ESG issues for achieving currently serve as chairman of the committee. sustainable value creation The committee firstly reexamined the material CSR issues (materiality) and formulated the CSR Basic Policy The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development was adoptin FY2016 to summarize the selected material issues as Change in Shareholder Returns Net income per share Dividend per share Payout ratio (real terms) Payout ratio (guidance as of the first quarter) Changes due to earnings (Yen) (%) 200 of equity-method affiliates 60 Accumulated payout ratio 49.5 in the past five years: 35.4% 150 160 45 140 35.1 35.1 32.5 32.2 Repurchase of treasury stock amounting to 10.0 billion yen 142 100 105 31.4 30.7 30 118 89 50 15 56 50 44 44 34 38 0 0 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2015/12 2016/12 2017/12 (Plan) * Nabtesco has changed the accounting closing date of fiscal year from March 31 to December 31 since FY2015. In this report, the results for FY2015 is calculated on a basis of 9 months for Nabtesco Corporation and the other consolidated subsidiaries in Japan, and 12 months for the overseas consolidated subsidiaries. 27 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 well as to ensure management transparency and provide that is respectful of human rights. Aligning with the gloPART 1 safety, comfort and a sense of security. Through the reexbalization of our businesses and supply chains, however, amination process, we indicated the relevance between the we recognized the need to address various issues related 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) set out by the to business and human rights more systematically and, in United Nations and the material CSR issues. We will conFY2017, established the Human Rights Promotion Special tinue to contribute to achieving SDGs through the systemCommittee as a subcommittee of the CSR Committee. This atic promotion of individual activities while allocating our committee serves as a key body in promoting our initiatives About Nabtesco resources to a broad range of ESG issues in an efficient such as the formulation of human rights policy and human and effective manner. rights due diligence. Group Another theme is work style reform. In order to enhance Major initiative to tackle materiality productivity while maintaining the long-term motivation of employees by developing a more pleasant work enviWith regards to the “E” (environment) in ESG, we are ronment, we are accelerating our discussions on specific Value Creation of focused on countermeasures against climate change and measures at the Work-Life Balance Committee, which is Nabtesco Group have set long-term targets for reducing CO2 emissions. staffed by representatives of both labor and management. We aim to reduce CO2 emissions per unit of sales by 30% In terms of “G” (governance), we promote risk managein FY2030 and by 80% in FY2050 compared to the level in ment and compliance behavior in line with the globalization FY2015. of our businesses. The Compliance Committee and the Capital That Underpins To achieve the targets, we will promote multiple initiaRisk Management Committee established in FY2016 plays a tives including investment. In FY2017, we will incorporate key role in enhancing our initiatives across the Group. the environment contribution achievement ratio into the Value Creation In addition, we will make continuous efforts to further performance evaluation of business departments in order develop the governance system to enhance corporate valto achieve sustainable enhancement of environmental ue. In March 2017, we increased the number of members management. Moreover, we will strive to improve producof the Nomination Committee from three to five. We will tion efficiency and environmental performance by approvcontinue to leverage versatile perspectives for the selecing the construction of new plants on the precondition that tion of directors while enhancing personnel development energy consumption at each new plant is reduced by 50% programs for the next generation of management candicompared to our conventional production facilities and dates. making investment in existing plants for the modernization We will thus realize sustainable growth by pursuing of outdated equipment and buildings. “Operational Excellence” through in-house innovations As for “S” (society), we are currently accelerating our based on a wide range of financial and non-financial initiainitiatives on themes around human resources. One of such tives as well as external engagement through “Technology themes is an initiative related to human rights. Since signInnovation” and “Market Creation.” ing the United Nations Global Compact in FY2014, Nabtesco has been comprehensively fostering a corporate culture Advisory Committees for Board of Directors and Committees Directly Reporting to the CEO (Advisory Committees for (Committees directly Board of Directors) reporting to CEO) Board of Directors Nomination Committee* CSR Committee Remuneration Committee Quality & PL (Product Liability) Committee Chairman Compliance Committee Environment, Safety and Health Committee CEO (President) Risk Management Committee Committees newly established in FY2016 * Committee members increased from 3 to 5 in FY2017 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 28 Dialogue on Governance Toward Governance to Enhance Corporate Value We have announced the change of CEO, an important event in terms of corporate governance, and the new Medium-term Management Plan. The following is the minutes of a dialogue held with Kazuaki Kotani, who was appointed Chairman of the Board at the annual meeting of shareholders, and Norio Uchida, an outside director. During the discussion, they shared their opinions on the Company’s governance, efforts for further progress and issues that need to be addressed in the future. (Held in March 2017 at a Company meeting room) Norio Uchida Kazuaki Kotani Outside Director Chairman of the Board (without titles in the following text) Looking back on the tenure of CEO As Uchida: Chairman, how do you look ment. Although the Company failed to we failed to meet the targets for the secback on the years you spent as CEO? reach its high targets, Chairman Kotani ond and third years due to the delayed Kotani: In the six years I served as led the Company to achieve sustainemergence of the new energy equipment CEO, we made achievements to some able growth in profits, which I, as an market, reduced demand for conextent in terms of numerical growth. outsider director, highly appreciate and struction machinery in China and other However, I do think that some results consider an outstanding result. factors. In the period of the next Mediwere not satisfactory in comparison with Kotani: Before assuming the position um-term Management Plan, although the then business targets, for example, of CEO, I prepared the Medium-term the first-year targets were reached, the sales results and operating profit marManagement Plan as the Director and secondand third-year results were not gins, which I find disappointing. General Manager of the Corporate as good as we had expected due to a Uchida: It was an era characterized Planning Division. While the performance change in the market environment. We by a rapidly changing market environtargets were achieved in the first year, described these years as an “opaque 29 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Dialogue on Governance: Toward Governance to Enhance Corporate Value PART 1 period” but now it has become more and as an outsider director and, in my final plants. Under these circumstances, we more difficult to predict business perforfew years as CEO, we discussed this were discussing how long we should mance and I now describe the situation issue at Board of Directors’ meetings. continue our investment and, because About Nabtesco as an “uncertain period.” Uchida: While you were CEO, you there were many opaque factors, we In the latest Medium-term Managereorganized the New Energy Business decided to reorganize the New Energy ment Plan, we set out ‘commitments’, Development Division. Business Development Division as Group instead of performance targets, taking Kotani: The final impetus was a disof February 2016. The solar tracking uncertainties into account. Establishcussion held in a Board of Directors’ equipment, which had been develing ‘commitments’ that we promise meeting. As a new energy equipment oped under the New Energy Business Value Creation of our shareholders to fulfill is one of the business project, we received an order Development Division, was transferred lessons I learned during my six years for solar tracking equipment for a soto the Technology and R&D Division, Nabtesco Group as CEO. In addition, due to an increase lar thermal power plant in the United which is ready to respond to customin the ratio of overseas sales, in 2015 States in 2012. In response, in 2013 we ers’ demand. The drive units for wind we changed the closing month of the established the New Energy Business turbines have been transferred to the fiscal year from March to December. Development Division by integrating Power Control Company, which is Capital That Underpins Furthermore, since fiscal 2017, we have the new energy equipment comporesponsible for operating the hydraulic adopted the International Financial Renent of the precision reduction gear equipment business. porting Standards (IFRS). These efforts business with the drive units for wind Uchida: I have closely watched a series Value Creation should have made it easier for overseas turbines component of the hydraulic of processes involved in the operation investors to understand the latest Mediequipment business. Initially, this inteof the new energy equipment business. um-term Management Plan. gration’s object was to pursue synerThere might have been a chance that As of the end of March 2015, foreign gistic effects generated by combining the market would emerge in the future shareholders accounted for about 60% the two different components, which but the Company needed to make the of our shareholders. I think what we had the common technical platform decision at some point. I think it was the gained through dialogues with overseas called RV reduction gears. However, best timing, in that sense. investors has significantly affected our the construction of the solar thermal Kotani: Looking back now on my business. Our highest priority is to satpower plant in the United States was tenure as CEO, I think that, as a result isfy customers, of course. At the same delayed, resulting in a significant delay of it, a significant change was made to time, we have always placed emphasis in the emergence of the new-type socorporate governance. When I assumed on reflecting the opinions and views of lar thermal power generation-related the position of CEO, there had already shareholders and investors who invest market. For this reason, we received been a variety of outside auditors. I was in our Company. While I was serving as no further orders for the solar tracking surprised to learn that we were provided CEO, Mr. Uchida was appointed to serve equipment for solar thermal power with so many opinions from outside auHistory of Governance to Enhance Corporate Value Initiatives prior to June 2011 Initiatives after June 2011 Formulated the Nabtesco Way Corporate Philosophy Formulated Corporate Philosophy and Formulated the Corporate Governance and Basic Policies Long-Term Vision Basic Policy Abolished the retirement allowance Changed the remuneration system for Remuneration system system for directors directors from the stock option scheme to for directors Adopted the stock option scheme as a the Board Benefit Trust (BBT) framework remuneration system for directors Majority of Audit & Supervisory Board Increased the number of outside directors Composition of the Members were outside members (from 1 to 3) Board of Directors Chairman of the Board of Directors did not Established standards concerning hold the right of representation independency of outside directors Establishment of Established the Nomination Committee Advisory Committees Established the Remuneration Committee Established the Compliance Committee for Board of Directors Changed the fiscal year end to December 31 Fiscal-year period and — Adopted the International Financial accounting standards Reporting Standards (IFRS) Nabtesco Value Report 2016 30 Dialogue on Governance lished. In preparing The Nabtesco Way, The Nomination we fleshed out the existing basic principles while we were operating the inteCommittee had a grated company. Japanese companies robust discussion tend to focus too much effort on making while maintaining its everything perfect, which requires too independence. This much time. This is a bad habit of Japwas an excellent anese companies, because it prevents experience. I think this them from matching the speed of companies in emerging markets. We thereprocess can be applied fore need to think on the run. If you then again next time. find anything inappropriate in the original idea, you should remove it and add what is needed so that you can eventually make it perfect. I’m afraid that Japanese corporate culture lacks this mindset. Uchida: Speed is very important in this age. Kotani: With regard to the composition of the Board of Directors, issues related to the use of outside directors ditors at Board of Directors’ meetings. losophy. After conducting a review, we were raised in dialogues with overseas Nabtesco is an integrated company. I’m found that the wording in the principles investors. In response, we, for the first sure that the top management of the was not at all obsolete and decided it time, appointed two outside directors two companies who decided the merger was not necessary to make any changes in 2012. Then, in 2016, the number was intended to create a corporate culture to Corporate Philosophy. increased to three. There had already where those involved could express Uchida: Many companies face diffibeen three outside corporate auditors. their opinions freely. I think the foundaculties after a business merger. In that Now we have three outside directors and tion of Nabtesco’s corporate governance sense, Nabtesco has achieved a successthree outside corporate auditors among and other principles was established ful business integration, which I believe the 10 directors and five auditors. We when the Company was founded. While was made possible by the outstanding have thus successfully established an I was CEO, the Company celebrated its efforts of the management team. excellent governance system consisting 10th anniversary. On that occasion, we Kotani: The foundation for our corpoof six outside directors and auditors with developed The Nabtesco Way. We also rate governance was already present at deep insights and expertise as well as considered renewing Corporate Phithe time when the Company was estaboutstanding personalities. Appointment process for the new CEO －C  ould you tell me why you established in 2014, the Nomination Committee Katayama, who were outside members the Nomination Committee? was established. I strongly felt that a of the Nomination Committee. I also system to reflect objective opinions on asked them to assess the candidates Kotani: In the year following the year appointing future board members and by taking opportunities when the candiI assumed the position of CEO, Mr. YaCEOs should be established. dates expressed their opinions at Board manaka, who was appointed to the poof Directors’ meetings though some of sition of outside director in 2012, asked —W  hat was the specific process for the candidates were not directors, as my opinion about the nomination of my appointing the new CEO? well as by asking the candidates quessuccessor. In response, I gave each of tions from various aspects when they my candidates in turn an opportunity Kotani: I made a list of candidates and made a presentation on a project at a to gain relevant experience. In 2015, provided their profiles, without presentmeeting other than a Board of Directhrough discussions at the Remunering my opinions, to Outside Director tors’ meeting. I knew these were quite ation Committee, which was created Uchida and Outside Corporate Auditor difficult requests for them to fulfill. 31 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Dialogue on Governance: Toward Governance to Enhance Corporate Value PART 1 The Uchida: Nomination Committee can perfectly understand customa robust discussion while maintaining placed importance on “fairness of the er needs, a person who can play a its independence. This was an excelprocess” and “transparency, indeleadership role and have a global lent experience. I think this process About Nabtesco pendence and objectivity.” Outside perspective, a person who can create can be applied again next time. Corporate Auditor Katayama and I a scenario for growth, and a person Kotani: In addition to the appointment have experience serving as the presiwho has experience with unconof the new CEO, it was also important Group dent of a company and I think outside trolled, unmanageable situations. We to assign the appropriate members members of the Nomination Commitrecommended candidates who met who can express their candid opinions tee had experience and knowledge in these requirements and exchanged to the new CEO while supporting him. Value Creation of selecting a CEO. our opinions on them openly and Our Company is engaged in diverse We considered it is important to freely. Until the last moment of the business projects and it is not possible Nabtesco Group set the right requirements for the appointment process, we were not for the CEO alone to pay careful attennew leader of Nabtesco, so, taking told who Chairman Kotani’s recomtion to the details of every project. into account the economic environmended candidate was. In a nutshell, Uchida: To be honest, it was exment and the actual situation of the the final candidates were recomtremely difficult to narrow it down to Capital That Underpins Company, We defined the tentative mended by outside Committee memthe final candidate. In other words, requirements for a suitable CEO bers and, after a discussion, the new there were many outstanding candias follows: a person who can lead CEO was selected from among them. dates. I therefore think that there is Value Creation the Company to achieve profitable, I think this was a transparent proalready a solid system to support the sustainable growth, a person who cess. The Nomination Committee had new CEO. What we expect from the new CEO －W  hat kind of person is Mr. that he is a highly logical person. others and delegate authority. Teramoto, the new CEO? － What do you expect from him? I’m Uchida: sure various business Kotani: He can make drastic deterrisks will emerge in the future as in the minations in a speedy manner. Kotani: Nabtesco is engaged in a past. I hope he will not avoid or hide Uchida: We can see that he has the diverse range of business projects. such risks. Business risks affect the ability to make resolutions and act To aim to achieve profitable, sustainsurvival of the Company. Therefore, decisively. He served as the Director able growth, he should pay careful in risk management efforts, business and General Manager of the Corpoattention to changes in the business risks should not be concealed and rate Planning Division, which tells us environment, share his vision with should be made public, if appropriate. Further improvement of governance －H  ow do you assess the current outside director, I will continue to superlatest Medium-term Management Plan, effectiveness of the Board of vise the business management from a the Company commits itself to achieve Directors? third-party perspective. I appreciate the ROE of 15% and a payout ratio of at least high level of effectiveness maintained by 35%. The Company is active in disclosing Uchida: One of the strengths of Nabtethe current Board of Directors. information through its investor relations sco is the transparency of its business The change in the composition of the (IR) activities. These efforts indicate its operations. The quality of information is Board of Directors, the latest increase shareholder-oriented management. The high and the level of risk assessment is in the number of outside directors in Board of Directors holds frequent and also high. In these points of view, I think Nomination Committee, and the newin-depth discussions on management that the decision-making process of the ly adopted remuneration system for policies and the Medium-term ManBoard of Directors is significantly supedirectors show that corporate goveragement Plan. I think consensus on the rior to that of other companies. Being an nance has been evolving favorably. In the direction of its business has been mainNabtesco Value Report 2016 32 Dialogue on Governance tained well, if not perfectly. The attitude heading, such as the improvement of em— With regard to the remuneration of all the directors toward governance is ployee morale. While I was CEO, my busy system for directors, you changed very positive, including their commitment schedule prevented me from participating the standards for remuneration and to addressing ESG issues. in various events, such as explanatory adopted the Board Benefit Trust Kotani: I’m grateful to receive posisessions for individual investors. I would (BBT) framework. Would you explain tive comments from those outside the like to now participate in such events and the background to this change? Company, including Outside Director be involved in many other events. Uchida, saying that we are heading in Kotani: The Remuneration Committee the right level. Internal directors do not —W  ould you share your views on the has discussed for the last two years a know the situation of other companies development and appointment of desirable incentive system, with referbut I appreciate Nabtesco’s culture, the next generation of executives? ence to the systems of other companies. where its directors always seek better Our Company’s first effort was made governance. In self-assessment reKotani: We appointed Outside Direcin 2009, when we abolished the retirement garding the effectiveness of the Board tor Yamazaki to the Nomination Comallowance system for directors. Instead, we of Directors, they identify what should mittee, in addition to CEO Teramoto. introduced long-term performance-linked be improved. If they try to improve As a result, the number of Nomistock compensation-type stock options, these identified problems, I’m sure nation Committee members was which I believe was a great success. governance can be made better. increased from three to five. The aim In terms of financial performance, The Corporate Governance Code enis to reflect the female perspective in our net income increased from 4.4 courages the Company to have outside the nomination of directors. We will billion yen for the fiscal year ending directors, which I can understand very take into account more diversified March 2008 to 17.5 billion yen for the well. All companies believe that the way viewpoints in nominating directors. fiscal year ending December 2016. In they are operating their business is the Kotani: I’m sure that, by setting the terms of share price, the average share best but, without third-party opinions, it requirements for CEO nomination price was about 1,000 yen as of June is difficult for them to identify the best through discussion by the Nomina2009, which increased to about 3,000 of the best. This Company has three tion Committee, we can ensure more yen as of March 2017. As these results outside auditors who have assumed the transparent management succession. indicate, the objective of the adoption position since its foundation. We have Another important issue that should of the aforementioned system, which received valuable opinions from them. be discussed by the Nomination Comwas to increase the corporate value, has It is very significant for us that there mittee is leadership development for been somewhat achieved. Nonetheless, are outside directors. Most of them the next generation of executives. the stock compensation-type stock opare involved in operating a business or The view that I share with Outside tions system had a shortcoming. Under have taken a leadership role in different Director Uchida is that those who show this system, the amount based on the areas. We therefore can receive a varipromise as future executives should be achievement level of the performance ety of opinions, which helps us to keep given an opportunity to play a responsitargets is fixed for each job title and evolving our governance. ble role overseas while they are young. a certain number of shares are given Kotani: My goals into the future are to Managers overseas are supposed to according to the Black-Scholes model. ensure the appropriate operation of the make decisions on their own on anyAs a result, the number of shares to be Board of Directors and to help the new thing from relationships with customgiven decreases as the share price increasCEO execute his duties smoothly. Our ers to financing. They can learn from es, which gave rise to some concern that Company makes it a rule that the Chairand make use of these challenging this may have an adverse incentive effect. man does not have the right of represenexperiences in management. It would The newly adopted BBT is a stock tation and his/her role is limited to serving be most desirable if they can team up compensation plan that is the same as as the chair of the Board of Directors. Due with local executives in the country to the conventional one in that directors and to the diversity of our business, it is very which they are assigned. shareholders share the risk of stock price difficult to adjust the CEO’s schedule to However, if we visualize too clearly fluctuations. Meanwhile, unlike the conattend official events. I will be pleased to what kind of experiences they should ventional system, there is no concern over support him in this regard but a diarchy have as an overseas manager, a gap a decrease in the number of shares to be must be avoided. Now that we have sewill emerge between those who meet given due to an increase in the stock price lected and appointed him as CEO, he must predetermined requirements and because, under this system, shares are take responsibility for all execution duties those who don’t. I will therefore be acquired from the market in advance and that are expected of the CEO. flexible in this matter and maintain a a fixed number of shares are allocated to As Chairman, I will contribute in line careful approach to the training of the directors according to the achievement with the direction in which the Company is next generation of executives. level of the performance targets and their 33 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Dialogue on Governance: Toward Governance to Enhance Corporate Value PART 1 job title. I believe that the new remuneration system fulfills the objective of matchMore efforts will ing the incentives of shareholders and our be made to help About Nabtesco business management through aiming at profitable growth and increasing the stakeholders Group corporate value. understand that every Uchida: I regard this new system as one of the executives superior in terms of governance because has a strong will to the incentive is defined more clearly. “further improve Value Creation of Kotani: This time, we raised the upper Nabtesco’s value.” limit of the monetary amount of perforNabtesco Group mance-linked remuneration. I believe that attractive remuneration benefits are needed in order to secure excellent human resources both from internal Capital That Underpins and external sources. In Japan, people tend to avoid talking about money. I think an attractive remuneration system Value Creation for directors will motivate employees to aim higher. Employees are also our stakeholders. As I care about employees just as much as I care about shareholders, I hope you understand my intention. Issues that need to be addressed by Nabtesco in the future －L  astly, what do you think are the erating global development. I believe of,” said an overseas Chinese person issues that need to be addressed this was a good theme for us. living in Indonesia while I was staby Nabtesco? Uchida: Yes, it was. But it is very tioned there. Japanese people tend difficult to put the motto into practice. to hope that tomorrow will be the Kotani: One of the issues is the work I’m ready to cooperate with Nabtesco same as today. Our Company is in a style reform. Companies can achieve in its global development by making good condition now. It is all the more sustainable strong growth only if emeffective use of my overseas experiimportant then to evolve governance ployees and executives are moving in ence and insights and through disand other organizational matters by the same direction. The theme of the cussion on risk management and the continuing to run fast enough so that current execution system is to estabbusiness direction. we are not overtaken by companies lish a system that helps employees Kotani: More efforts will be made to that are coming up behind us and maintain their motivation over a long help stakeholders understand that running twice as fast. period of time to allow for sustainable each management personnel, includKotani: Thank you for coming today. growth. ing outside directors, has a strong Uchida: Thank you. Uchida: Diversity is necessary, such will to “further improve Nabtesco’s as the female perspective mentioned value.” We place importance on earlier. Other issues include global the attitude of constantly taking on expansion of marketing and developchallenges in order to achieve exment efforts. cellence. I don’t say that the current Kotani: While Nabtesco has good situation is unsatisfactory, but we customers, its weakness lies in should not be satisfied with it. There marketing. We determined the motto are many companies that take action of the previous Medium-term Manfaster than we do. “Our life tomorrow agement Plan as “Think Global! Act will be better than today. We will be Local!” to focus our efforts on accelable to better achieve what we dream Nabtesco Value Report 2016 34 Capital That Underpins Value Creation We will be committed to provide appropriate capital resources in order to create value for long term. In the area of B-to-B business, Nabtesco manufactures, sells and provides after-sale services for mechanical component-related products. The management capital that supports this business includes relationship capital, financial capital, technology and manufacturing capital, human capital and organizational capital. The most important capital among these is relationship capital, which is based on relations of trust with customers or relations of trust with shareholders and investors. We strive to deepen our solid relationships of trust with customers, who themselves fulfill important social responsibilities, by continuing to respond to their high-level expectations. With shareholders and investors, meanwhile, we aim to develop lasting relationships through appropriate disclosure of corporate information and constructive dialogues. We will continue to take measures to invest in each type capital and appropriately allocate resources toward providing value Relationships of trust to stakeholders in a sustainable with customers, sharemanner. holders and investors (relationship capital) Customer base developed through the provision of products and services over many years Business portfolio with a high market share Ongoing measures to respond to QCD Action (quality, cost and delivery) demands from customers Relationship of trust with long-term shareholders and investors through ongoing dialogue Average approval rate for the election of officers over the past five years: 98.55% Proactive dialogues through global IR Action activities 35 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 PART 1 Financial capital Technology and manufacturing capital Strong balance sheet About Nabtesco Motion control technology that realizes Group Equity ratio: 58.0% (as of December 31, 2016) development requests from customers Capability to generate stable cash flow Comprehensive initiatives toward strengthening technological platform (e.g.: Reinforcement of synergy among businesses through crossAverage operating cash flow over the past five years: divisional expansion of state-of-the-art technologies, acceleration of About 19.0 billion yen Value Creation of development speed through M&A aimed at complementing technologies) Financial management to realize both Innovation initiatives towards Feature 1 Nabtesco Group Action growth investment and shareholder Action incubating new products P.37 returns Intellectual property activities Feature 2 Action on a global basis P.40 Capital That Underpins Local production and local consumption system to fulfill responsibility to realize stable supply Value Creation Flexible increase/decrease of production capacity in accordance with the change in product demand (Examples of areas subject to production capacity increase: precision reduction equipment, aircraft equipment; Example of areas subject to production capacity decrease: hydraulic equipment) Manufacturing innovation to Feature 3 Action win the global competition P.41 Human capital Organizational capital Human resources who implement Corporate governance with a focus The Nabtesco Way on long-term shareholders and investors Action Ongoing activities aimed at the Autonomous initiatives to enhance corporate Action penetration of The Nabtesco Way governance Human resources who sincerely seek ways to Unique PDCA cycle aimed at continuously satisfy customer needs addressing safety and environmental response Lost-work time injury frequency rate below the average of the Action Systematic curriculum for human manufacturing industry resource development Activities to cultivate a safetyFeature 4 Action oriented culture to eliminate Human resources who value product safety P.43 lost-work time injuries and quality High recognition for initiatives to mitigate environmental impact Original curriculum to Feature 6 (e.g.: Nabtesco is on the CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project)’s Action “Climate Change A-List,” which is the highest recognition for nurture a culture of quality P.47 actions against climate change.) Activities to mitigate environmental Feature 5 Action impact in response to demand from P.45 stakeholders Nabtesco Value Report 2016 36 Special Feature 1 Producing Innovations Developing New Products and Services at Greater Speed Based on the theme of Technology Innovation, Nabtesco has been working to create new products and services, including updating existing products into mechatronic products and systems, with an eye to meeting customer needs, which are becoming more diversified and sophisticated. To this end, it is crucial that the business departments incorporate a range of technologies in their development processes, including the electric and electronic control technologies that provide the basis for mechatronic products and systems, IoTand AI-based sensing technologies, and big data analysis technologies. At Nabtesco, the Technology and R&D Division is leading the cross-organizational use of leading-edge technologies and know-how, and is implementing strategic M&A for technological supplementation to drive innovation for the creation of new products. Promoting Comprehensive Measures to Nabtesco has been making proactive use of computProduce Innovations er-aided engineering (CAE) and additive manufacturing (AM) as IT-based development and design tools. SpecifiNabtesco has been achieving further growth by accucally, in the initial stage of product development, we have mulating technologies and know-how in the process of accumulated know-how on structural analysis, simulation developing high-precision and high-quality mechanical and pre-verification, while also accumulating stereolithogcomponents to provide safety, comfort and a sense of raphy and metal additive manufacturing technologies for security. We have made this achievement with each of our more efficient development and manufacturing processes. business departments supporting customers in developing In the CAE field, the Division is making fluid analysis their products based on our motion control technology for to analyze the flows of air and oil, and is also making stopping and moving with precision. advanced analysis by combining structural analysis on Recently, in response to the diversification and sophisstrength and heat resistance with flow analysis. In additication of customer needs, we have been focusing more tion, the Division is simulating manufacturing processes on developing and proposing mechatronic products and and sharing advanced analysis technologies widely with systems with a view to increasing our growth opportunities, the business departments to make their development and in addition to supplying single components and services manufacturing processes more efficient. In the AM field, for which we have competitive advantages. Further, we are we are making use of the know-how of CMET Inc. This now expected to supply products and services that provide Nabtesco Group company provides customers with 3D a preventive function through monitoring, in addition to the printers that use resin-based high-speed stereolithog“stopping and moving” functions. raphy technology. We are thus pressing forward with the To meet these needs, the Nabtesco Group is acceleratdevelopment of metal additive manufacturing technology ing measures to provide customers with a broader variety including peripheral element technologies and using these of value under the leadership of the Technology and R&D innovative technologies for manufacturing innovation in Division, and is fostering comprehensive measures to the aircraft equipment business. (See page 42, TOPIC on produce innovations. additive manufacturing technology to lead manufacturing innovation.) Fostering the Sharing of Advanced Furthermore, in response to the rapid advancement of Technologies and Know-how across the IoT and AI, we are enhancing our sensing technologies. Business Departments Combining the monitoring of products by sensors with the analysis of big data makes the diagnosis of failures possiOne of the missions of the Technology and R&D Division is ble. This helps us add the monitoring function to the stopto technically support each business department in imping and moving functions provided by our products, allowplementing measures for sustainable growth. To this end, ing us to provide high value-added products and expand the the Division is working to acquire advanced development maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) business. methodologies, element technologies and know-how ahead The Technology and R&D Division is focusing on the of competitors and to share them with the business departdevelopment of various sensors to enhance the monitoring ments across a range of fields for product development function of Nabtesco products. Such function is provided by progress. sensors such as the lubricant oil monitoring sensor. The 37 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Measures to Develop New Products and Services PART 1 Advancement of engineering innovation in the manufacturing industry, triggered by the arrival Technological trends in markets of an IoT society and the evolution of AI Growing needs for upgrading mechanic components into mechatronic products and systems Universities/research institutes Customers About Nabtesco Other companies/partners Group Electronic control technologies Provision of mechatronic Acquisition products and systems of advanced Model-based Provision development technologies of new technologies products Provision of a monitoring and know-how Sensing technologies function, in addition to Value Creation of and services stopping and moving functions Big data analysis technologies Nabtesco Group Product development in business departments Precision Railroad Commercial Marine Hydraulic Aircraft Automatic Packaging reduction vehicle vehicle vessel equipment equipment doors machines gears equipment equipment equipment Capital That Underpins Technology and R&D Division supports business departments by: Sharing leading-edge element Value Creation technologies, development methImplementing M&A to acquire Promoting open innovation ods and manufacturing technolotechnology gies across the organization Recruiting and developing human Implementing global intellectual resources specialized in the Creating new businesses property strategies electric and electronic fields sensor quantitatively monitors changes in color caused by Division located at the Kobe Plant will be consolidated into contamination (by impurities) and the degradation of lubrithe NDEC to enhance its role as an R&D center for intecant oil used in products in real time. This product technolgrated R&D management. Of our eight major production ogy enables the appropriate management of lubricant oil, bases in Japan, six are located within a 100 km radius which is indispensable for precision components used in of Kyoto. By further consolidating our R&D resources to machines. We will foster the use of this technology across Kyoto, we will foster cooperation between the NDEC and a range of industrial fields. the business departments. Moreover, taking advantage of the various universities and research institutes also locatIncreasing R&D Efficiency and Promoting ed in Kyoto, we will recruit locally to develop a workforce Human Capital Development through Proactive familiar with technological trends and with development Open Innovation know-how in the electric and electronic fields. Such expertise is essential for us to develop mechatronic products Nabtesco is fostering open innovation. We will efficiently and systems. expand our technology and product lineups and search for We are also working to build theories for power elecnew business opportunities by jointly developing technolotronics and develop prototypes in partnership with ETH gies with companies and research institutes in and outside of Switzerland while fostering the application of analysis Japan. technologies for wind power generation together with the The Nabtesco Digital Engineering Center (NDEC) serves Technical University of Denmark (DTU). Through such as an important base for open innovation. Having been cooperation with both domestic and foreign research moved to the Kyoto Research Park (KRP) for enhancement institutes, we are aiming to achieve results in R&D in and expansion in 2015, the NDEC will make use of this leading-edge technological fields while also developing innovation hub, which houses 400 companies engaged in personnel versed in global technological trends. various fields, to foster R&D while proactively cooperating with both domestic and foreign companies and universities. In FY2017, the organizations of the Technology and R&D Nabtesco Value Report 2016 38 Implementing M&A to Acquire Technologies to OVALO’s products Make Mechatronic Products and Systems In order to make mechatronic products and systems, it is imperative to adopt foundational electric and electronic control technologies and deal with complex systems to meet the need for increased performance. Accordingly we acquired OVALO GmbH, which has relevant technologies, in March 2017. e-motor Active roll stabilizer The acquisition of this German company based in Limburg was the first M&A project implemented under the adcos’s products leadership of the Technology and R&D Division. One of the purposes of the acquisition was to accelerate the manufacture of mechatronic products and systems by the use ECU for RCP* of OVALO’s ability to develop motor-control unit integrated products, thereby making technological innovations in the * RCP: Rapid Control Prototyping is a software development method. Software advanced mobility field and developing next-generation reproduced through model-based development is downloaded into prototype businesses. hardware for test operation and improvement. RCP enables developers to verify software before an actual device is designed and manufactured, thereby improving Another purpose of the acquisition was to obtain the development efficiency and quality. technology developed by adcos, a subsidiary of OVALO, ECU (Electric Control Unit) for RCP: Hardware used exclusively for development which is now one of Nabtesco’s consolidated subsidiaries. using RCP, before a device intended for production is designed and manufactured. By dealing with leading automakers and suppliers in and outside Germany, the software company has obtained model-based development technology, which provides the basis end, Nabtesco Corporation has developed unique training for the development of mechatronic products to be used in curriculums, including those for CAE and improvement of automobiles. The technology makes it possible to simulate software design quality and for basic education, to foster and check the behaviors of software and hardware using the creation of ideas. computers, which helps dramatically increase developWe also regard intellectual property as the basis for ment efficiency and quality. enhancing our own and also our customers’ and partners’ The acquisition is also important in terms of allowing sustainable growth and business competitiveness, and are Nabtesco to secure a base in the European market, which implementing intellectual property strategies across the is an important market for the company. Having a base for Group with a focus on the enhancement of core value for technological development and production in Germany, a higher competitiveness. In FY2017, we included the creleading country in the EU, gives us a great advantage in obation of intellectual property in the performance indicators taining information about the European market and techfor the business departments and systematized the implenological trends, and the base is expected to contribute to mentation of intellectual property strategies to enhance the expansion of Nabtesco’s business in the region. their core value. We will make use of the proven advanced technologies At Nabtesco, the Technology and R&D Division thus owned by OVALO and adcos in the autonomous driving projsupports the business departments that are developing ect in which we are participating in the commercial vehicle products in close cooperation with customers by providing equipment business and to foster mechatronics in the preleading-edge development methods as well as element cision reduction gear business. We are confident that the technologies and know-how. The Division is also supacquisition will help us take a big step toward making more porting the departments in human resource development mechatronic products and systems. We will also foster while implementing intellectual property strategies across close cooperation with Nabtesco Europe GmbH, which was the Group. Moreover, we are promoting open innovation established in May 2017 to enhance our operational basis in cooperation with both domestic and foreign research in Europe, aiming to generate more synergy effects across institutes and implementing strategic M&A for technologthe Nabtesco Group. ical supplementation as well as various other measures in a comprehensive manner for Technology Innovation. The Promoting Technology Innovation whole of the Group will continue to work for the creation of new solutions. In our business environment, we are faced with fiercer competition in technological development on a global scale, not only from traditional rivals but also from companies in emerging markets. For sustainable growth, we must therefore have a system to continuously develop engineers who can become leaders in their field. To this 39 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Special Feature 2 Intellectual Property Activities to Support Innovation Intellectual Property Strategy to PART 1 Enhance Core Business Value for the Future About Nabtesco Against the backdrop of intensifying global competition and the progress of information technology, corporate management Group and manufacturing strategies are changing. In response, companies are reforming their approach to intellectual property. Specifically, they are shifting from the protection of rights related to their own proprietary ideas and know-how to the implementation of intellectual property strategies to enhance their competitive advantage and realize business strategies through technology marketing and business competitiveness analysis using patent information. Value Creation of The Nabtesco Group deems its intellectual property as the base that will support the sustainable growth and enhance the business competitiveness of the Group, its customers and partners, and is implementing intellectual property strategies in its Nabtesco Group business management activities with a focus on the creation and enhancement of core value to enhance its corporate value. Capital That Underpins Analyzing Core Value and Implementing Actual performance has yet to be evaluated, but the Value Creation Measures to Enhance That Value number of new ideas reported to the Company is expected to increase sixfold in 2017 relative to 2013. In its intellectual property strategies, the Nabtesco Group The Intellectual Property Department of the head office focuses on finding and enhancing technological elements centrally manages information related to intellectual propfor the future development of the Group in addition to proerty, including original ideas and know-how, information tecting the existing businesses and profits. about patents owned by customers and competitors, and The business departments analyze the core value that information on technological contracts. The department serves as a source of competitiveness and are implementwill build an intellectual property strategy database, which ing measures to enhance that value for the future. This will be accessible across the Group. Also, the intellectual core value includes technologies and ideas for products, property promotion committee will serve as a conduit for design and manufacturing know-how, sales information, members of the Group to share intellectual properties for and longstanding relationships of trust with customers, the growth of the entire Group as well as provide opportuas well as various other tangible and intangible intellecnities to discuss strategies aimed at making better use of tual properties. We are identifying these sources of value, intellectual properties. sorting them into properties to be protected as confidenAlso, in FY2016, we established the Nabtesco Brilliant tial information and those to be protected in the form of Inventor (NBI) system to give commendations to invenpatents and other rights, and are making strategic use of tions and inventors that have contributed to increasing the these properties based on appropriate management. Nabtesco Group’s value. Newly Including the Creation of Intellectual Protecting Customers’ Business and Products Property in the Performance Indicators toward the Future In FY2017, we newly included the creation of intellectual Through these new measures we are speeding up innovaproperty in the performance indicators for the in-house tion by increasing the creativity of individual employees, companies and Group companies. In the new medium-term aiming to enhance the Nabtesco Group’s technological management plans set for each of the in-house companies, capabilities and corporate value as a whole. the companies are required to formulate and implement The Nabtesco Group has been expanding business annual action plans to implement intellectual property across a range of fields based on the trust earned from its strategies for the enhancement of their core value. corporate customers, who are leading companies in their In the action plans, numerical targets will be set to respective industries. For the Group, intellectual property encourage employees to make inventions, hit upon new strategies also mean strategies to protect the businesses technological ideas, and create know-how and new busiand products of customers and to increase their business ness plans. The achievement levels of the annual targets value toward the future. The Nabtesco Group will continue will be reported and evaluated at the firm-wide meeting on to advance its intellectual property activities for sustainintellectual property strategies held with the participation able growth. of the CEO, Division heads and presidents of the in-house companies. Nabtesco Value Report 2016 40 Special Feature 3 Manufacturing Innovation Manufacturing Innovation to Win the Global Competition Nabtesco has introduced ROIC as a management indicator to increase its capital efficiency across its businesses toward the commitment of “ROE: 15%,” as upheld in its medium-term management plan. As an initiative to improve operating income margin and asset turnover based on the “ROIC tree,” we are fostering unique manufacturing innovation to enhance our production capability, production management ability and procurement ability. To continue winning the increasingly intense global competition, in expanding our business overseas we will pursue overwhelmingly strong competitiveness in manufacturing. “Manufacturing Solutions” Promoted by the Our analysis of production capacity has revealed the chalProduction Innovation Division lenges to be met, of which the biggest is more advanced automation. With regard to machine processing, we will deUnder the leadership of the Production Innovation Division, velop advanced automation processing lines and introduce Nabtesco is now formulating the long-term manufacturing industrial robots and automatic measuring instruments vision that will enable it to continue winning the global comwhile fostering flexibility for complex processing, downsizing petition. Our aim is to achieve the modernization of our plants and higher environmental performance as well as developand innovation of our production technologies, to respond ing innovative technologies, such as metal 3D printers. to the electronization and electrification of products, and to For assembly, we will jointly develop automatic assembly make strategic growth investments that can contribute to systems with assembly system manufacturers who have environmental protection during the medium-term manageadvanced technologies for the purpose, and will also foster ment plan period. At the same time, we are building “manustandardization at our manufacturing facilities to eliminate facturing solutions” to make ourselves more competitive by variations in our product quality and cut the time required enhancing our production capability, production management for their manufacture while also improving the workplace ability, and procurement ability. Major initiatives include the environment. Further, for testing, we will develop measurepromotion of advanced automation to enhance our productivment systems for automatic and higher-quality testing. ity, development of innovative production technologies such as metal 3D printers, innovation of production management Building a Comprehensive Production System systems, and the reform of our procurement system. through Smart Production Management and Logistics Reform Analyzing Production Capacity to Identify Strengths and Weaknesses We also identified the strengths and weaknesses of the inhouse companies with regard to production management Nabtesco has analyzed its production capability in order ability. At Nabtesco, the production and management systo identify the strengths and weaknesses of each in-house tems largely differ by in-house company, but we have set company with the aim of enhancing overall capacity. Specifsome quantified key performance indicators (KPIs) for the ically, we identified the technologies and skills owned by the in-house companies, including those related to production in-house companies in machine processing, assembly, testing lead time and inventory turnover period. We also examined and special processes, and ranked the companies in terms of whether the production instructions and logistic activities technologies and skills to identify their strengths while also were appropriate at the manufacturing facilities. examining the technologies under development and those not In accordance with the results, we will optimize “Make owned by them to clarify any weaknesses to be addressed. & Buy” and visualize our production information by using Based on the findings, we are implementing measures efIoT devices based on Nabtesco’s unique system shared ficiently across the in-house companies to enhance their across the Group. In the future, we will utilize AI for proproduction capacity in a cross-organizational manner. duction instructions and scheduling for the management of equipment operation, including quality management and The Key to Improvement is the Advanced shortening of downtime, toward smart production manAutomation of Machine Processing, Assembly agement. Furthermore, on a medium-term basis we will and Testing rebuild our plants and optimize their layouts for smoother logistic activities and comprehensive production. 41 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Building Manufacturing Solutions PART 1 ROIC improvement Manufacturing Major improvement theme Examples at our manufacturing sites measures Innovation ● More advanced automation Stronger production ● On-site improvement/standardization Higher productivity About Nabtesco capability ● Development of innovative production technologies (such as metal 3D printers) Higher operating ● Optimization of “Make & Buy” Group income margin Stronger ● Cross-organizational procurement Lower procurement cost procurement ability ● Procurement & logistics reform ● Development of experts in procurement Value Creation of Lower indirect expenses ● Smart production management (by the use of Nabtesco Group Stronger production AI and IoT) Shorter production lead time management ability Higher asset turnover Shorter inventory turnover ● Logistics reform period Capital That Underpins Enhancing Procurement Ability to Become while developing procurement personnel who are knowlValue Creation Overwhelmingly Competitive in the Market edgeable about manufacturing. Nabtesco will thus enhance automation, flexibility and For procurement, we will optimize “Make & Buy” by fosenvironmental performance to gain higher production tering the domestic manufacture of components, while capability and production management/procurement reducing the direct cost by implementing a cross-organiabilities to build “manufacturing solutions” in order to zational procurement scheme beyond the framework of the become overwhelmingly competitive in the market, thereby in-house companies. Moreover, we will find suppliers who accelerating innovations for total optimization and ROIC can provide high performance in terms of quality, cost and improvement. delivery (QCD) and promote CSR-oriented procurement C PI TO Innovation by Additive Manufacturing Additive manuening of the work period, and direct transmission of facturing (AM) product data from CAD to a device will foster seamless has recently been design and production, allowing users to conduct manattracting a lot of ufacturing activities anywhere in the world, including attention as a prolocations remote from design bases. duction technology Nabtesco has long been paying attention to metal 3D for manufacturing printing and developing peripheral element technologies. innovation. We will We are focusing particularly on the prototyping of Metal 3D printer foster this 3D printcomponents with complex shapes made from mateer-based technology for rapid and high-precision manrials that are lightweight, strong and expensive, such ufacturing by adding metal 3D printing for mass producas titanium and aluminum, for use in aircraft engines tion to the resin-based rapid prototyping (RP) technology and on the development of the manufacturing proprovided by Nabtesco Group company CMET Inc. cesses and materials. At present, the Technology Already in the West, metal 3D printers have begun and R&D Division’s AM Engineering Department is to be used in the medical, dental and aerospace indusconducting joint research with metal 3D printer mantries. These printers enable the manufacture of metal ufacturers and universities and using the know-how components with complex shapes that are difficult gained through the research across the Company. to make by traditional methods, such as casting and We will also make use of the CAE-based simulacutting, which makes it possible to produce a variety of tion technology to downsize and reduce the weight of products in small quantities and to customize prodour products for product optimization and innovative ucts. Furthermore, substantial cost reduction, shortmanufacturing. Nabtesco Value Report 2016 42 Special Feature 4 Management of Occupational Safety Focusing on nurturing a safety culture to achieve the goal of zero work-related accidents Safety is an essential factor in enabling people to live rich and full lives and promoting the further development of society. Thanks to technological progress, nowadays the safety of various devices and products is much enhanced. A single incident, however, can still have a broad impact on society beyond the direct damage caused. Companies are therefore required to refine their safety awareness to an even greater level and to contribute broadly to the safety and security of society. The Nabtesco Group is committed to raising the safety awareness of individual employees, including both plant workers and managerial personnel, in addition to implementing traditional safety measures. We will nurture a unique “safety culture” by continuing to provide safety education and will verify the results with an eye to achieving no work-related accidents or incidents. Ensure Safety by a Three-Pronged Approach, Centrally Fostering Environmental, Safety and Giving First Priority to Protecting People Health Management We have been implementing multifaceted measures to increase the safety of our manufacturing facilities toward achieving the goal of zero work-related accidents or seriManufacturing ous incidents, including the “ESH audits” carried out as the products in a core of these measures. safe manner ESH stands for “environment, safety and health,” which are important elements that support the Nabtesco Group’s business activities. Our Group Environment, Safety Ensuring the & Health (ESH) Committee, which reports directly to the Making safe safety of president, centrally fosters the management of ESH across products products the Group, including by promoting the reduction of environduring use mental impacts as well as ensuring the safety and health of employees. The Group ESH Committee centrally collects, analyzes and evaluates important ESH-related information and For manufacturers like the Nabtesco Group, “safety” discusses necessary measures. In addition, the committee means: (1) manufacturing products in a safe manner; (2) members annually visit each of the Group’s sites to carry making safe products; and (3) ensuring the safety of prodout ESH audits to check on-site activities and give instrucucts during use. These three requirements should be met tions as necessary. Specifically for safety, the members together, as we cannot deliver safe products to customers examine whether the site is appropriately implementing without ensuring the safety of our manufacturing facilities incident risk countermeasures and if any risks remain. and providing necessary maintenance, service and safety At the end of each fiscal year, the Group’s management functions. team reviews the ESH management system based on the Manufacturing safe products and ensuring the safety of ESH audit results as well as on the reports made on the products during use help our customers ensure the safety ESH activity results, including the follow-up reports for the of their products and their end users, while ensuring the audits. We have thus been executing the Plan, Do, Check safety of our manufacturing facilities and providing even and Act (PDCA) cycle to steadily increase the safety of our safer maintenance and service functions help protect the manufacturing facilities. health and well-being of our employees and their families and reduce social losses. Based on this recognition, the Achievement of No Work-Related Accidents by Nabtesco Group is taking a three-pronged approach to Some Bases through Steady and Multifaceted safety, with first priority given to protecting people over Activities cost reduction and profit-making. The second core part of the aforementioned measures is the “analysis of past work-related accidents and imple43 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 mentation of intensive measures based on the results.” All with safety education as in the past, we aim to make all PART 1 incidents, including minor ones, are required to be reportmembers of a workplace aware of safety and to eliminate ed across the Group for information-sharing purposes. In differences in the level of awareness among workplaces particular, for a serious incident, we conduct an on-site and departments. examination to analyze the cause, decide on the items to be To establish “safety model workplaces,” in its first year, focused on, and implement measures based on the results. we will select one plant and one office to serve as model In addition, in order to enhance safety patrols and imworkplaces, where safety education and measures will be About Nabtesco prove the risk sensitivity of employees, we have conducted enhanced. Subsequently, we will analyze the effects of the Risk Detection Training encouraged “near miss”*1 incident initiative and make improvements as required while inGroup reporting, and promoted awareness-raising activities. creasing the number of model workplaces gradually. As a result of these efforts, the frequency of work-relatIn FY2017 and onwards, we will hold environmental ed accidents including commuting-related injuries dropped safety forums internally. We will organize seminars by in FY2016 from the previous year, while the lost-work time inviting experts and hold meetings to report the results Value Creation of injuries frequency rate*2 has been below the industry’s achieved at the safety model workplaces to further enaverage for the most recent five years. There have been no hance employees’ safety awareness. Nabtesco Group fatalities among our employees, including irregular workIn order to achieve zero work-related accidents and seers, within the last over five years. rious incidents across the board, the Nabtesco Group will Looking at the results by site, the Yamagata Plant of continue to focus on nurturing a safety culture. Capital That Underpins Nabtesco Automotive Corporation (commercial vehicle *1 Near miss: An event that could have resulted in injury or other incidents equipment) achieved zero work-related accidents, includ*2 Please see page 18, Financial/Non-Financial Highlights. Value Creation ing commuting-related injuries, in FY2016. In response, the Group ESH Committee established a safety commendation system during the fiscal year and the Yamagata Plant became the first to receive the commendation. Also, the Kobe Plant (railroad vehicle equipment) of Nabtesco Corporation About the Fire at Nabtesco’s achieved zero work-related accidents in FY2016. Gifu Plant Starting New Activities to Nurture a Safety Culture At 1:46 a.m. on March 13, 2017, a fire broke out at Nabtesco’s Gifu Plant, which is a production base We have thus achieved certain results by implementing for the aircraft equipment business. We sincerely traditional safety measures, but in order to achieve zero apologize for any concerns or problems caused to work-related accidents/serious incidents across the Group, our neighbors, customers, shareholders and related we need to take measures on a higher level. organizations. The proximate causes of workplace accidents are the The assembly and test room mainly used for use of production equipment and the behaviors of workers, products to be supplied to the Japanese Ministry but the fundamental causes lie in the attitude and culture of Defense caught fire, and some of the production of the organization. In order to improve workplace safety, facilities and products were burned or affected by fire it is therefore necessary to nurture a safety culture and extinguishing agents within an area of about 180 m2. However, there was no damage caused to people or ensure that the entire organization adopts a more safeto other production facilities. ty-oriented attitude in addition to implementing measures The manufacture of the products was continued against individual risk factors, as in the past. immediately following the incident by using other To this end, we started new activities in 2017, including areas of the Plant, but following the full recovery the STOP3 activity to enhance measures to prevent cuts/ of the damaged building, operation in that building abrasions, getting caught, and falls, which account for resumed in May. The affected production systems large percentages of previous work-related accidents that have also been repaired or replaced in succession, have happened within the Group, as the three priorities. and all production facilities will be fully restored by the fall of 2017. Accordingly, the Plant will be able Fostering a Range of Activities to Nurture a to return to its ordinary production status within the Safety Culture year, and the incident will have only a minor impact on business performance. With a view to ensuring the stable supply of our To eliminate organizational factors that could lead to products, we will enhance the inspection, monitoring incidents, we are working to establish a stratified safety and protection functions of our plants and foster the education system and to designate “safety model workuse of inflammable materials, thereby managing fire places.” The stratified safety education system is intended risks more thoroughly to prevent fires and to minimize to raise the safety awareness of managers. By educating the impact if a fire does break out at one of our plants. managers on safety in addition to providing on-site workers Nabtesco Value Report 2016 44 Special Feature 5 Striving to Protect the Environment Fostering measures to combat climate change by setting long-term targets To ensure the sustainability of our lifestyles, our economic activities and the global environment, the United Nations adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development in 2015. Subsequently, in 2016, the Paris Agreement came into effect as an international treaty to combat climate change. In line with these movements, global companies are increasingly expected to fulfill their corporate social responsibility. To meet the requests of its stakeholders, Nabtesco has been focusing on reducing its environmental impact in accordance with the concept of materiality (material CSR issues) by setting a long-term greenhouse gas emissions reduction target for FY2050. We are thus accelerating measures to combat climate change. Environmental Management System ronmental information management tool to collect enviImplemented by the Group ESH Committee ronmental information from each of our sites and analyze the obtained data. Furthermore, we installed monitoring Nabtesco has been implementing a variety of environmental system in six Nabtesco Corporation plants for real-time measures for a sustainable society, aiming to reduce the measurement of the energy consumed by the devices we environmental impact caused by its manufacturing activities. use. We are also raising awareness of energy conservation The Group ESH Committee (see page 103), which reamong employees by establishing an energy saving comports directly to the president on issues related to the enmittee at each of our plants and setting detailed individual vironment, safety and health, is in charge of promoting entargets for the plants in consideration of their actual sitvironmental management. Since its establishment in 2003, uations, thereby powerfully driving energy conservation the Company has positioned environmental measures as across the board. one of its strategic priorities, and a series of discussions have been held at meetings of the committee, in which the Reducing CO2 Emissions Based on a Longheads of the in-house companies and Group companies Term Target have participated. Our environmental strategies, including mediumto long-term targets, have thus been decided and The most important challenge to be met in our environimplemented in a top-down manner. mental management initiatives is the reduction of CO2 emissions to combat climate change. Speeding up the Execution of the PDCA Cycle As the medium-term targets for FY2020, we are upholdthrough the Nabtesco Energy Management ing a reduction in our greenhouse gas emissions in Japan System (NEMS) relative to FY2015 levels, and a 9% or more reduction in our CO2 emissions per units of sales (global) including our sites As part of our major environmental initiatives, we formulatoutside Japan (relative to FY2015 levels). Furthermore, we ed our Environmental Philosophy and Environmental Action have set reduction targets of 30% for FY2030 and 80% for Plan in 2005. Since then we have been working to raise FY2050 (relative to FY2015 levels). awareness of these principles across Group companies These targets are in line with the 2 degrees Celsius tarwhile making use of the ISO 14001 international standard get*1 set as an international benchmark for climate change as an effective tool for environmental management, uticountermeasures to be implemented in and after 2020 lizing it in the building and operation of our environmental under the Paris Agreement*2, which came into effect in management system. All Nabtesco Corporation plants and 2016. Our long-term target for Nabtesco Corporation’s CO2 five major Group companies are already certified under emissions also qualifies as a Science Based Target (SBT)*3. ISO 14001 and we are fostering environmental measures In order to attain the long-term target, we introduced across the Group. our energy-saving product certification system and enFor energy conservation, we established the Nabtesco ergy-saving activity commendation system in FY2012 in Energy Management System (NEMS) for the continuous our effort to make more effective use of energy resources execution of the PDCA cycle and have been fully operating across the Group. In addition, in FY2017, we incorporated the system since 2015. the indicator of environmental objective (reduction of CO2 As specific measures, we formulated energy conseremissions) achievement ratio into the performance evaluvation guidelines for capital expenditure to foster energy ation of business departments for further improvement of conservation ideas, while introducing the Eco Track enviour environmental management. 45 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Measures to Climate Change Issues PART 1 Category ～2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016〜 Activity to in2005: Formulated the Setting of environment-related incentive system crease employEnvironmental PhilosoIntroduced in-house comees’ awareness Achievement of posiphy and Environmental pany evaluation index of environmen● Introduced the energy conservation activity commendation program tive environmental Action Plan contribution tal philosophy ● Introduced the energy-saving product certification system 2003: Six plants operated NEMS (Nabtesco Energy Management) About Nabtesco Environmental by major Group compaEcoTrack Management nies, have become ISO 2015: Started reporting to the Corporate Energy conservation guidelines Group 14001 certified Energy monitoring system Officers Committee on a monthly basis Expansion of 2004: Started calculation Third-party verification Calculation of Third-party verification of calculation of Scope 3 emissions target scope of Scope 1 and 2 of Scope 1 and 2 Scope 3 emissions Cooperation ● Improving logistics efficiency using Scope 3 data Value Creation of with suppliers ● Started Environmental SAQ (Self Assessment Questionnaire) Nabtesco Group and customers Furthermore, in April 2017, Nabtesco received the 2016 Going forward, we will further foster energy conservaBoeing Supplier of the Year Award in the environmental Capital That Underpins tion by updating our equipment and rebuilding our plants category. while promoting the use of renewable energy and introWe will continue to make steady and strenuous efforts ducing private hybrid power generation equipment using to achieve our mediumto long-term targets, thereby Value Creation hydrogen. We will thus gain speed in the implementation of meeting the expectations of our customers and investors. measures with an eye to promoting energy creation and to *1 The Paris Agreement is a multilateral international agreement to curb climate attaining our long-term target. change in and after 2020 and was adopted on December 12, 2015 at the 21st Moreover, we are proactively calculating our environConference of the Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP21). mental data and disclosing the results. In FY2013, we *2 The 2 degrees Celsius target is an international target set in the Paris launched a “Scope 3” initiative to calculate and disclose Agreement to keep the average rise in global temperature to below 2 degrees Celsius. our greenhouse gas emissions, targeting the entire supply *3 The SBTs are intended to urge companies to set their mediumto long-term chain. (“Scope 1” targets direct emissions and “Scope 2” targets (for the period from five to 15 years from now) in a manner that allows indirect emissions such as those from the use of electricthe international community to achieve the 2°C target. Companies are certified if they pass the SBT Initiative’s examination. ity.) In addition to this, we are disclosing the multifaceted environmental measures that we take for zero emissions, the reduced use of hazardous substances, and the protecC tion of water resources to contribute to the conservation of PI Received Environment Award as a the global environment, thereby ensuring the transparency TO 2016 Boeing Supplier of the Year of our activities. Nabtesco CorpoEarning More Trust from Stakeholders ration has been through Environmental Management recognized as 2016 Supplier of the Year The Group was internationally recognized for its enviin the (Environronmental measures and disclosure of its activities, as ment) category by demonstrated by the inclusion of Nabtesco in both the The Boeing CompaCDP’s Climate A List and its Supplier Climate A List, which ny. We are honored means that the Company has received the highest evaluato receive the Supplier of the Year award for the tion from the international NGO. The CDP, through cooperthird time in four years, followed by 2013 (Alliation among institutional investors, urges the world’s leadance) and 2015 (Collaboration). ing companies in terms of market capitalization to disclose Nabtesco has built a great partnership with Boeing over the years since 1976, supporting Flight Control information about their climate change combat strategies Actuation Systems and Hydraulic Equipment for the and CO2 emissions, and annually selects companies that Boeing 737, 747, 767, 777, 737MAX, and the latest 777X. demonstrate excellence in relevant measures based on This award comes as recognition of Nabtesco’s evaluation scores, which are publicly disclosed. long years of business contribution and the high level of our environmental initiatives. We will continue to work diligently to live up to this honor and further contribute to safe, reliable, and comfortable air travel for our worldwide customers based on our solid business vision in anticipation of the future society. Nabtesco Value Report 2016 46 Special Feature 6 Management of Quality Continuing to Develop Human Resources Devoted to Promoting a Culture of High-Quality Manufacturing Manufacturers cannot satisfy their customers without ensuring quality. Here, “quality” means not only quality related to specifications and performance but also across-the-board manufacturing quality that creates value for customers, including through design and production. In line with our corporate culture, which is established through long-term education, training and organizational management, employees are expected to ensure quality as their individual responsibility. To nurture an advanced culture of high-quality manufacturing, the Nabtesco Group is providing employees with unique systematic education on quality, including via the “Quality University” courses. The Company has, since day one, been sophisticating its core design and manufacturing technologies. In order to enhance them further, all employees must work to solidify the foundation that supports quality manufacturing. Our unique educational activities, which have been steadily continued for years, will help accelerate the Technology Innovation referred to in the medium-term management plan and will also increase the quality of our manufacturing facilities and help develop human resources able to deliver high-quality and safe products. Creating a Culture of Quality Manufacturing for The first graduates of the courses are now working as All Products key members of the technology and quality management departments, spreading the culture of quality manufacThe Nabtesco Group has customers active in a range of turing throughout the entire Group. In addition to this, the sectors, including transportation, industry, energy and infirst and second round of graduates have been leading the frastructure. By continuing to meet the strict demands for promotion of quality engineering to make high quality and quality, reliability and safety of these customers, who are high productivity compatible. themselves fulfilling crucial social and economic functions, In FY2012, we established the mandatory Quality Univerwe have been earning their long-term trust while also sity basic course for Group employees in their third year of fulfilling our own corporate social responsibility. employment. Every year about 30 to 40 young employees Thanks to the commitment to quality exhibited by indiparticipate in this vidual employees, we have been receiving high marks from six-month course to customers. However, the Nabtesco Group provides a variety learn about quality of systems and product lineups, and cannot increase the management both Total number of employees quality of all these products by drawing upon a limited stock theoretically and pracwho have completed the courses over 10 years: 300 of technologies and methods. We are therefore introducing tically to increase their IT and other advanced technologies to our quality managequality awareness. The ment, while attributing special importance to the creation of number of employees a culture of quality manufacturing for all our products. who have completed About Such a culture can be created as a result of long-term the Quality University education, training and organizational management. We courses totals about believe that helping employees gain meaningful experience 300 over 10 years. that allows them to think and act in line with core principles and rules to make really effective use of available technologies will, in turn, help the entire Company improve its manufacturing quality on a long-term basis. Based on this belief, we have been providing employees with unique education, including via the “Quality University” courses. Building up a Basis for Preventing Errors and Failures We founded the Quality University courses in FY2007, with 16 design engineers becoming the first students. We added a course for managers in FY2009, and selected employees were trained via the University courses until FY2011. Group photo of past students of the Quality University courses (Jan. 2010) 47 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 picked up to be solved at meetings held in the respective PART 1 workplaces. The details of the meetings are shared by related employees to improve work quality and pass on their knowledge, wisdom and technological know-how to the next generation. In particular, seeking to “Know-why” about products can directly lead to the identification of core value that cannot About Nabtesco be discovered by reverse engineering. Such value should be protected as “black box” value and also as a source Group for the creation of new value. The “Know-why Nabtesco” activity thus has additional significance in that it helps us to Directors receiving training on quality engineering in Jul. 2009 recognize and pass on core value. Value Creation of One of the fundamental contributors to lower quality is Substantially Reducing Loss Caused by Quality human error, which is caused by a lack of knowledge/expeDefects Nabtesco Group rience, habituation, preconceived notions/misunderstandings and various other psychological factors. Even a minor In addition to the aforementioned two activities, we are working to enhance the basis for our design and manuCapital That Underpins error can lead to the manufacture of defective products or to a serious incident if a combination of negative factors is facturing quality through Group-wide training initiatives, at play. including giving intensive basic education on quality to Value Creation Recurring problems can be prevented, however, by new employees and instructing employees at plants in understanding how and why human error occurs. NabteJapan, bases outside the country and at suppliers about sco established the Quality University courses to provide 5S* improvements as well as providing technical training employees with opportunities to learn from failure, unon product liability and safety, training on risk assessment, derstand how errors that lead to failures arise, and share training to enlighten workers on manufacturers’ ethics, their know-how to prevent the recurrence of similar errors, and training for mid-career hires. aiming to develop a widespread corporate culture of error As a result of us continuing the activities to develop and failure prevention. quality-aware human resources from a long-term perThe Quality Promotion Department prepares all course spective, loss caused by quality defects steadily declined curriculums so that participants can share knowledge by more than half in FY2016 relative to FY2006, or before of past failures experienced by Group companies across the launch of the Quality University courses. The education various industries while also learning about advanced activities have thus contributed to the improvement of the quality assurance methods. Because the Nabtesco Group corporate structure. is engaged in a broad spectrum of industries as a manuIt may be possible to copy the shapes and specifications facturer, it can provide employees with unique training to of products, but quality that satisfies customers and a corprime them to become “quality aware.” In the process, the porate culture that supports such quality cannot easily be training methods are also being sophisticated, allowing the reproduced. It is this kind of quality and culture that subtly Group to establish a culture of quality manufacturing for differentiates one company from another. Based on this the provision of safety, comfort and a sense of security. recognition, we will continue to steadily educate the next generation of young engineers using our original training Attributing Importance to “Knowing Why” in programs on quality, thereby cementing our unique culture Business Operations of quality manufacturing and securing a workforce able to provide customers with greater value. Due to the recent digitization of design and manufactur* The 5Ss are seiri (sort), seiton (set in order), seiso (shine), seiketsu (standardize) ing technologies, it is now possible to conduct design and and shitsuke (sustain). other activities without a deep background understanding of technological principles. At the same time, however, this has given rise to increasing concerns about errors caused by lack of knowledge. In response, we started the Knowwhy Nabtesco activity in FY2015. This activity is designed to encourage employees to ask “Why?” when they do not understand some aspect of their business operations and to search for the reason, principle, purpose or objective. In the activity, employee questions about their own business operations are collected, and those that appear repeatedly or are deemed important are Nabtesco Value Report 2016 48 Major Financial Indicators 2007/3 2008/3 2009/3 Net sales 161,445 174,254 158,171 Cost of sales 123,640 132,642 124,041 Selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A) 21,378 22,183 22,118 Operating income 16,427 19,429 12,012 Income before income taxes and minority interests 16,691 18,433 7,932 Income taxes 6,216 6,370 2,778 Minority interests *1 691 1,038 728 Net income *2 9,784 11,025 4,426 At year-end Current assets 95,625 99,237 84,306 Tangible fixed assets 43,610 43,346 45,207 Total assets 163,223 163,317 144,685 Current liabilities 57,098 58,183 41,209 Interest-bearing debt 26,927 23,115 19,160 Net assets 77,110 82,492 81,716 Retained earnings 38,304 47,412 49,669 Cash flows Cash flow from operating activities 8,293 18,249 14,055 Cash flow from investing activities -6,941 -8,969 -9,329 Cash flow from financing activities 6,135 -5,748 -6,189 Per share of common stock (Yen) Net income per share 77.10 86.77 34.82 Net assets per share 575.19 609.08 601.75 Cash dividends per share 14.00 16.00 13.00 Ratio (%) Operating income margin 10.2 11.2 7.6 Return on assets (ROA) 6.3 6.8 2.9 Return on equity (ROE) 14.3 14.7 5.8 Payout ratio 18.2 18.4 37.3 Equity ratio 44.8 47.4 52.9 *1 Net income or net loss attributable to non-controlling interests *2 Net income attributable to shareholders of the parent company *3 Due to the change of the accounting closing date of fiscal year since FY2015/12, the results for FY2015 is calculated on a basis of 9 months for Nabtesco Corporation and the other consolidated subsidiaries in Japan, and 12 months for the overseas consolidated subsidiaries. 49 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 (Million yen) PART 2 2010/3 2011/3 2012/3 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2015/12*3 2016/12 126,249 169,304 198,527 179,543 202,292 219,657 187,000 244,618 97,817 127,712 148,184 134,859 148,321 158,693 136,576 175,379 20,467 21,380 27,484 29,670 33,877 37,347 35,129 45,767 Financial 7,965 20,212 22,859 15,013 20,092 23,615 15,294 23,471 Information 8,012 21,954 24,848 18,997 23,522 27,026 15,358 26,122 3,272 7,485 8,874 5,598 8,140 9,254 5,731 8,219 Road Map for 723 1,081 1,217 129 404 25 -1,432 317 Growth 4,017 13,388 14,757 13,269 14,978 17,746 11,059 17,584 Provide safety, 89,893 119,003 123,929 112,048 134,159 139,321 128,575 145,991 comfort and a 44,102 44,442 51,509 54,475 55,225 56,877 55,916 67,822 sense of security 149,481 180,729 208,093 203,056 233,984 245,992 233,381 258,946 43,611 74,892 70,897 52,322 73,161 64,830 73,000 74,802 19,920 20,158 31,695 26,389 26,203 16,659 15,332 16,995 Ensure 85,168 96,531 107,467 120,857 139,471 158,664 148,924 158,521 management 52,662 64,263 74,816 83,606 94,225 107,554 107,487 119,345 transparency Corporate Profile 14,892 27,997 15,104 12,952 27,597 19,949 8,746 27,729 -6,156 -4,420 -27,464 -13,693 -8,064 -7,880 -4,886 -14,989 -684 -1,850 6,036 -10,090 -8,175 -15,888 -19,090 -4,808 Disclosure Policy 31.70 105.91 116.74 104.57 117.95 140.24 88.85 142.37 628.29 713.77 784.12 894.86 1,035.68 1,184.17 1,150.41 1,215.31 9.00 25.00 34.00 34.00 38.00 44.00 44.00 50.00 6.3 11.9 11.5 8.4 9.9 10.8 8.2 9.6 2.7 8.1 7.6 6.5 6.9 7.4 4.6 7.1 5.2 15.8 15.6 12.5 12.2 12.6 7.6 12.0 28.4 23.6 29.1 32.5 32.2 31.4 49.5 35.1 53.1 49.9 47.6 56.2 56.0 60.9 60.9 58.0 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 50 00 Financial Information Operating Results for the Fiscal Year Analysis of Factors Behind Year-on-Year Ended December 31, 2016 Changes in Operating Income for the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2016 During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016, the global economy remained rather sluggish as a whole in Operating income for the fiscal year ended December the absence of significant engines of economic growth, as 31, 2016 increased ¥2.1 billion from the fiscal year ended observed in Europe and the United States, where a sense December 31, 2015 (reference) to ¥23.4 billion. Key posiof uncertainty about the future persisted on the back of tive contributing factors included ¥3.9 billion increase due the decision by the United Kingdom to leave the Europeto an increase in sales and a ¥1.0 billion increase due to an Union and the US presidential election. Furthermore, improvement of productivity, etc. there was economic deceleration in emerging countries Higher profits due to an increase in sales were primarily as observed in the slower growth of the Chinese economy attributable to the growth of the precision reduction gear as well as the stagnant economies of the Southeast Asian business, hydraulic equipment business, railroad vehicountries. The Japanese economy witnessed renewed cle equipment business, commercial vehicle equipment sluggishness as indicated in the slowdown of personal conbusiness and automatic door business. In the precision sumption as well as the fluctuations of foreign exchange reduction gear business, demand for industrial robots rates, and the deceleration of economies in emerging remained robust, reflecting mostly the demand for automarkets, despite signs of improvement in the employment mation investment in the automobile industry. Meanwhile, situation. the hydraulic equipment business achieved profitability Under these circumstances, the consolidated operating due to the effects of structural reforms of Chinese bases results of the Group for the period under review recordin 2015 and the growth of demand in Chinese markets in ed net sales of ¥244.6 billion, operating income of ¥23.4 2016. In the railroad vehicle equipment business, profit billion, and net income attributable to owners of the parent was boosted on the back of strong demand for after-sale of ¥17.5 billion, mostly reflecting the robust demand for services both in Japan and overseas while the commercial industrial robots and the conversion of a domestic sales vehicle equipment business witnessed robust replacement company of automatic doors into a consolidated subsidiary, demand for trucks in the Japanese market. In the autodespite sluggish shipping and shipbuilding markets. As a matic door business, the Company converted its domestic result, both sales and income for the period under review sales company into a consolidated subsidiary with the aim increased from the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 of expanding the sales network in Japan. (reference)*. Higher profits due to improvement of productivity, etc. were mainly the result of efforts by each plant to promote * Please note that the estimates for FY2015/12 (Reference) were calculated for the period of 12 months to make comparisons with the plan automation and shorten lead time. for FY2016/12 under the same conditions. Meanwhile, primary negative contributing factors behind Analysis of Factors Behind Year-on-Year Changes in Operating Income for the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2016 Remarks ●  G&A increase for future growth S investment etc. Productivity (Billion yen) Increase improvement, Decrease Increase in 30 of sales*1 etc.*1 in D&A SG&A expens1.0 es, etc. 3.9 –0.8 –0.0 23.4 21.3 –2.0 20 FOREX effect 2015/12(Result) US$1=¥121.03 RMB1=¥19.37 EUR1=¥133.69 CHF1=¥125.75 10 2016/12(Result) US$1=¥109.44 RMB1=¥16.43 EUR1=¥120.63 CHF1=¥110.61 0 2015/12 Result 2016/12 Results (Reference)*2 (JGAAP) *1 Fluctuations in operating profit owing to the increase of sales and SG&A expenses are based on the calculation without FOREX effect. *2 Please note that the estimates for FY2015/12 (Reference) were calculated for the period of 12 months to make comparisons with the plan for FY2016/12 under the same conditions. 51 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 a decrease in operating income included a ¥0.8 billion capital markets on a global basis, as well as improve the PART 2 decrease due to the impact of foreign exchange fluctuaaccuracy of management administration within the Group tions and a ¥2.0 billion decrease reflecting the impact of an by unifying the accounting standards. As a result, the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses in forecasts for the consolidated operating results have been line with growth investment, etc. computed based on IFRS. Regarding the impact of foreign exchange fluctuations, while the overall impact was not relatively large as most of Financial the Company’s businesses engage in transactions denomAnalysis of Factors Behind Year-on-Year Information inated in yen, some businesses such as the aircraft equipChanges in Operating Income (Plan) for ment business, which has dollar-denominated businesses, the Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2017 were affected by foreign exchange fluctuations. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses was As mentioned above, the Company has provided reference primarily attributable to the conversion of a domestic sales values in order to compare operating income for the fiscal Road Map for Growth company of automatic doors into a consolidated subsidiary. year ended December 31, 2016 on the IFRS basis in line with the voluntary application of IFRS. While operating income for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016 under JapaProjection for the Consolidated Fiscal nese GAAP was ¥23.4 billion, operating income for the same period on the IFRS basis was ¥26.9 billion. Positive contribYear Ending December 31, 2017 Provide safety, uting factors included an approximately ¥1.7 billion increase comfort and a While the prospects for the world economy as a whole are due mainly to the absence of amortization of goodwill in the expected to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future, automatic door business and hydraulic equipment business sense of security the Group expects robust demand for precision reduction as well as an approximately ¥1.7 billion increase in extraorgears for industrial robots, and favorable effects in the dinary income under the Japanese GAAP including gain automatic door business of the conversion of a domestic on sales of unused land and gain on step acquisitions as a Ensure sales company into a consolidated subsidiary, which was result of the acquisition of an automatic door subsidiary. management implemented in April 2016. In summary, the Company The Company discloses “core operating profit” with the transparency forecasts net sales and operating income will reach ¥260.0 aim of clearly showing the actual growth of businesses. billion and ¥26.0 billion, respectively, for the consolidated Against core operating profit of ¥25.1 billion for the fiscal fiscal year ending December 31, 2017. year ended December 31, 2016, which has been computed The Company has decided to apply International Finanby excluding extraordinary income and loss factors based on Corporate Profile cial Reporting Standards (IFRS) on a voluntary basis from the voluntary application of IFRS, operating income for the the consolidated fiscal year ending December 31, 2017 to fiscal year ending December 31, 2017 is forecast to increase enhance the comparability of financial information in the ¥0.9 billion from the previous fiscal year to ¥26.0 billion. Disclosure Policy Analysis of Factors Behind Year-on-Year Changes in Operating Income (Plan) for the Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2017 Remarks Remarks ●  ain related to step acquisition G ● Increase in R&D expenses (automatic doors) ● Maintenance expenses at overseas bases ● Gain on sales of idle asset etc. Productivity ● SG&A increase for new consolidations etc. improvement, Increase of Increase in (Billion yen) etc. *1 sales*1 D&A Increase in 33 Goodwill Extraordi1.0 0.01 SG&A 5.6 amortizanary profit expenses, etc.* tion etc. 26.9 1.9 1.7 26.0 1.7 23.4 3.8 23 Core Operating FOREX effect Profit*2 2016/12 (Result) US$1=¥109.44 RMB1=¥16.43 EUR1=¥120.63 CHF1=¥110.61 25.1 2017/12 (Plan) US$1=¥110.00 RMB1=¥16.00 EUR1=¥118.00 CHF1=¥110.00 13 Change from application Change from core of IFRS business 3 2016/12 Result 2016/12 Result 2017/12 Plan (JGAAP) (IFRS)*3 (IFRS) *1 Fluctuations in operating profit owing to the increase of sales and SG&A expenses are based on the calculation without FOREX effect. *2 Core operating profit: Calculated the sum of operating income year ended December 2016(JGAAP), goodwill amortization and others. *3 Actual figures for FY2016 (IFRS) represent referential values prepared for the purpose of comparison with the forecast for FY2017. Therefore, they are subject to change after auditing. Nabtesco Value Report 2016 52 00 Financial Information The Company forecasts key positive contributing factors and ¥2.3 billion in investment securities as a result of the including a ¥5.6 billion increase due to an increase in sales, conversion of an equity-method affiliate into a consolidated a ¥1.0 billion increase due to improvement of productivity, subsidiary in the automatic door business. etc., and a ¥10 million increase due to foreign exchange fluctuations. [Liabilities] In terms of drivers for higher profits due to an increase Total liabilities as of December 31, 2016 were ¥100.4 bilin sales, the Company expects the growth of the precision lion, an increase of ¥15.9 billion from December 31, 2015, reduction gear business, hydraulic equipment business, aureflecting ¥74.8 billion in current liabilities and ¥25.6 billion tomatic door business and packaging machine business. In in long-term liabilities. The main positive contributing the precision reduction gear business, demand for precision factors were a rise of ¥4.3 billion in income taxes payable reduction gears for industrial robots will continue to grow and of ¥2.0 billion in liabilities associated with retirement on the back of a rise in demand for automation investment in benefits due to the conversion of a domestic sales company the automobile industry while sales of the hydraulic equipof automatic doors into a consolidated subsidiary. ment business are anticipated to expand, reflecting robust demand for construction machinery in China and emerging [Net assets] markets. In the automatic door business, sales are expected Total net assets as of December 31, 2016 stood at ¥158.5 to increase due to the subsidiary that was consolidated in billion, an increase of ¥9.5 billion from December 31, April 2016 contributing to earnings on a full-year basis. For 2015. Shareholders’ equity amounted to ¥150.1 billion, an the packaging machine business, the Company anticipates increase of ¥8.0 billion from December 31, 2015. The key growth primarily in overseas markets. positive contributing factor was growth in earned surplus The Company forecasts that the impact of foreign exarising from net income attributable to owners of the change fluctuations will be immaterial as significant foreign parent of ¥17.5 billion. Meanwhile, primary negative conexchange fluctuations are not anticipated in 2016 and 2017. tributing factors included a ¥5.7 billion decrease in earned Meanwhile, primary negative contributing factors behind surplus due to dividend payments, and a decrease of ¥3.0 a decrease in operating income will be a ¥1.9 billion inbillion in translation adjustments due to changes in foreign crease in depreciation and amortization and a ¥3.8 billion exchange at overseas subsidiaries. As a result, the shareincrease in selling, general and administrative expenses. holders’ equity ratio stood at 58.0% and net assets per Depreciation and amortization is expected to increase share amounted to ¥1,215.31. as a result of growth investment such as capital expenditure related to new programs for civil aircraft in the aircraft equipment business in addition to the expenses related to Status of Cash Flows increased production in line with the growth of demand for industrial robots in the precision reduction gear business. Cash and cash equivalents (hereinafter, “capital”) as of DeSelling, general and administrative expenses are excember 31, 2016 stood at ¥41.7 billion, an increase of ¥7.0 bilpected to increase, reflecting an increase in R&D costs lion from December 31, 2015, reflecting ¥27.7 billion in capital related to the development of system products, etc. as well generated from operating activities, which was mainly used as an increase in expenses for upgrading overseas bases for capital expenditure and dividend payments. Meanwhile, including OVALO GmbH in Germany, which was acquired in free cash flow (total amount of cash flow from operating March 2017, among other factors. activities and cash flow from investing activities) totaled ¥12.7 billion, an increase of ¥8.8 billion from December 31, 2015. Status of Assets, Liabilities and Net Assets [Cash flow from operating activities] Net cash generated from operating activities for the fiscal [Assets] year ended December 31, 2016 totaled ¥27.7 billion. PrinTotal assets as of December 31, 2016 were ¥258.9 billion, cipal positive factors included increases in income before an increase of ¥25.5 billion from December 31, 2015, conincome taxes. Meanwhile, the main negative factors includsisting of ¥145.9 billion in current assets and ¥112.9 billion ed the decrease in income taxes paid. in fixed assets. Key positive contributing factors included increases of [Cash flow from investing activities] ¥7.8 billion in cash and time deposits due mainly to the Net cash used in investing activities for the fiscal year conversion of a domestic sales company of automatic doors ended December 31, 2016 amounted to ¥14.9 billion, mainly into a consolidated subsidiary, ¥5.9 billion in notes and acdue to the acquisition of tangible fixed assets. counts receivable, ¥2.7 billion in products in progress and ¥11.9 billion in tangible fixed assets. [Cash flow from financing activities] Meanwhile, the primary negative contributing factors Net cash used in financing activities for the fiscal year were decreases of ¥2.3 billion in goodwill for the automatended December 31, 2016 totaled ¥4.8 billion, primarily ic door business and the hydraulic equipment business, reflecting dividend payments. 53 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Status of Capital Expenditure, R&D and reforms and environmental initiatives, with the aim of supPART 2 porting initiatives by each in-house company across the Group Depreciation and Amortization and promoting “production innovation” to generate comCapital expenditure for the fiscal year ended December 31, petitive advantage. In addition, the Company will also make 2016 was ¥14.5 billion. The main purpose of capital expendiaggressive capital expenditure that will contribute to the ture was for increased production. In the precision reduction modernization of outdated equipment, plants, etc. as well as gear business, the Company installed equipment for a new innovation of production technologies. Financial Information plant in China launched in January 2016, reflecting increased R&D costs for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016 demand for industrial robots. Meanwhile, in the aircraft amounted to ¥7.3 billion. Although the focus was on R&D in exequipment business, the Company made capital expenditure isting businesses, the Company aims to move forward to become such as capacity expansion for the Gifu Plant upon the receipt a system manufacturer that provides system products by shifting of an order for a new program for civil aircraft. from a business model focused on the provision of component Capital expenditure for the fiscal year ending December products in light of changes in the market environment. The Road Map for Growth 31, 2017 will be ¥21.8 billion. In the precision reduction gear Company will continue to focus on the development of system business, for which an increase in demand is anticipated to products and make necessary investments in the future. continue, the Company will maintain the introduction of new Depreciation and amortization for the fiscal year ended machinery and equipment with the aim of establishing a December 31, 2016 stood at ¥7.4 billion. Depreciation and manufacturing system at the new plant in China while making amortization increased from the fiscal year ended Decemaggressive investments aimed at enhancing the productivity of ber 31, 2015 as a result of the equipment installation for Provide safety, comfort and a the Tsu Plant in Japan as a mother plant. In the aircraft equipthe new plant in China in precision reduction gear busiment business, the Company will continue to make investness, capacity expansion for the Gifu Plant in the aircraft sense of security ments to boost production toward the launch of an actuator equipment business, etc. However, the increase in depreplant complex in 2018, following the surface treatment plant ciation and amortization turned out to be limited compared complex and the EHSV plant complex completed in 2016. to the increase in capital expenditure due to the reforms of Ensure The Production Innovation Division is currently working on production systems in China for the hydraulic equipment management production reforms, including the promotion of automation, business, which were conducted in 2015, as well as the transparency renewal of production management systems, procurement recording of impairment losses. Status of Capital Expenditure, R&D and Depreciation and Amortization (Billion yen) Corporate Profile 2015/12 Result 2016/12 Result 2017/12 Plan (Reference) Capital Expenditure 10.2 14.5 21.8 R&D 7.2 7.3 8.7 Disclosure Policy Depreciation 7.3 7.4 9.3 Note: P  lease note that the estimates for FY2015/12 (Reference) were calculated for the period of 12 months to make comparisons with the plan for FY2016/12 under the same conditions. Breakdown in Capital Expenditure By Usage Others 24% New Products Others 16% New Products Environment, Renewal and Safety 10% Environment, Renewal and Safety 11% 2016/12 Result: Production 2017/12 Plan: Production Increase Increase Productivity 14,530 Productivity 21,800 Improvement million yen 43% Improvement million yen 40% 23% 33% ● Precision reduction ● Precision reduction gears gears (Installation of (Installation of new facilities new facilities in the in the new China plant) new China plant) ● Environment-related ● Aircraft equipment ● Modernization of plants ● Aircraft equipment investments (Capacity expansion incl. facility replacement (Capacity expansion ● R&D-related investments at Gifu Plant) in Japan and abroad at Gifu Plant) Nabtesco Value Report 2016 54 00 Financial Information Operating Results by Business Segment under the Manufacturing Solution segment. Through the shift to the new business segment system, Segment Change the Company will take aggressive measures to generate Starting from the fiscal year ending December 31, 2017, synergies among businesses. the Company has changed its classification of reportable business segments from the former “classification based Forecasts for operating results for the fiscal year ending on the similarity of the application technologies” to “clasDecember 31, 2017 sification based on the similarity of business models” in (1) Component Solution segment (CMP) order to promote synergies between the businesses and to Net sales and core operating profit in this segment for improve the efficiency of management. the fiscal year ending December 31, 2017 are expected to The precision reduction gear business and the hydraulic amount to ¥89.0 billion and ¥13.7 billion, respectively. equipment business, which are the main businesses in the Net sales in the precision reduction gear business will Component Solution segment, are focused on OEM manuincrease from the previous fiscal year, reflecting robust facturing. As these businesses have a relatively large imdemand for industrial robots. pact on profitability in line with changes in production and The hydraulic equipment business is also expected to sales, synergy effects can be expected within the segment record an increase in sales driven by a continued rise in through joint purchasing in material procurement and the demand for construction machinery in the Chinese market exchange of manufacturing personnel. since the previous fiscal year. As all of the railroad vehicle equipment business, airCore operating profit in this segment is expected to craft equipment business, commercial vehicle equipment increase from the previous fiscal year on account of a rise business and marine vessel equipment business in the in profits reflecting increased sales of precision reduction Transportation Solution segment engage in the maintegears and hydraulic equipment. nance, repair and overhaul (MRO) business, or after-sale services, synergy effects can be expected through the (2) Transport Solution Segment (TRS) sharing of MRO bases and know-how. Net sales and core operating profit in this segment will be The automatic door business is the only business in the ¥82.2 billion and ¥11.5 billion, respectively. Accessibility Solution segment. The automatic door business Sales of the railroad vehicle equipment business will dehas adopted a business model in which improvement in profcrease due to the effects of the specific models of high-speed itability is pursued by expanding sales and service networks railroad vehicles developed in China for the Chinese high-speed through M&A as well as promoting the integration of manurailway. facturing and sales through the expansion of the value chain The aircraft equipment business is likely to face a decline in (manufacturing, sales, door installation, maintenance and sales from the previous fiscal year due to the negative impact of management services). reduced production of the B777. The packaging machine business is the main business Sales of the commercial vehicle equipment business will inSegmentation Change Previous Segmentation New Segmentation Segment Main business Segment Main business Precision Reduction Precision Reduction Precision Gears Gears Equipment New Energy Component Solutions New Energy Equipment Equipment Railroad Vehicle Hydraulic Equipment Equipment Railroad Vehicle Transport Commercial Vehicle Equipment Equipment Equipment Aircraft Equipment Marine Vessel Transport Solutions Commercial Vehicle Equipment Equipment Aircraft & Aircraft Equipment Marine Vessel Hydraulic Equipment Equipment Hydraulic Equipment Accessibility Solutions Automatic Doors Industrial Automatic Doors Manufacturing Solutions Equipment Packaging Machines Packaging Machines (Others) 55 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 crease from the previous fiscal year due to the favorable effects PART 2 of consolidation of a compressor manufacturer for commercial Other income vehicles, which was acquired by the Company in April 2016. The marine vessel equipment will suffer a decrease in sales The Company recognized ¥2.8 billion of equity in earnfrom the previous fiscal year due to the sluggish marine transings of affiliates in the first three months of the fiscal port and shipbuilding markets. year ending December 31, 2017 due to gain on step Core operating profit in this segment is expected to decrease acquisitions of an equity-method affiliate. For this reaFinancial Information from the previous fiscal year mainly due to the effects of the son, the Company upwardly revised profit forecasts for decrease for the Chinese high-speed railway. income before tax and other items as of April 28, 2017. As the aforementioned increase in equity in earnings (3) Accessibility Solution Segment (ACB) of affiliates is valuation gain without cash flow, the ComNet sales and core operating profit in this segment will pany has not changed the cash payout forecast made at reach ¥71.1 billion and ¥5.8 billion, respectively. the beginning of the term. The payout ratio, however, has Road Map for Growth Sales of the automatic door business are expected to been maintained at 35% or higher in real terms. increase from the previous fiscal year, reflecting the effects of the conversion of a domestic sales company into a consolFY2017 Payout Ratio Forecast idated subsidiary, which was conducted in April 2016. (As of April, 2017) Core operating profit in this segment is expected to increase from the previous fiscal year as one-time expensC  hange from equity in Payout ratio under actual business Provide safety, comfort and a earnings of affiliates Payout ratio (forecast) es related to the integration of North American sites were Net income eliminated in 2016 through the structural reforms currently sense of security Change from Equity in (Million yen) （%） being implemented. 25,000 earnings of affiliates 40 (4) Manufacturing Solution Segment (MFR) Ensure 20,000 36 Net sales and core operating profit in this segment will be management 35.1% 35.1% ¥17.7 billion and ¥1.6 billion, respectively. 15,000 32 transparency The packaging machine business will record increased 30.7% sales from the previous fiscal year on the back of sales 10,000 28 expansion in overseas markets. 5,000 24 Core operating profit in this segment is expected to Corporate Profile remain unchanged from the previous fiscal year as en0 20 hancement expenses are anticipated for overseas bases in 2017/12 Plan 2017/12 Plan the packaging machine business. (As of Feb. 2017) (As of April, 2017) Sales Core Operating Profit*1 Disclosure Policy (Billion yen) (Billion yen) 270 30 +1.6 260.0 260 +6.4 28 +2.5 +1.0 +0.0 +6.5 +0.7 26.0 250 26 –0.8 244.6 25.1 –1.9 240 2,500 24 230 22 2016/12 CMP TRS ACB MFR 201712 2016/12 CMP TRS ACB MFR Corporate 201712 (Reference Forecast (Reference Forecast for IFRS) for IFRS) * Actual figures for FY2016 (IFRS) represent referential values prepared for the purpose of comparison with the forecast for FY2017. Therefore, they are subject to change after auditing. *1 Core operating profit: Calculated the sum of operating income year ended December 2016(JGAAP), goodwill amortization and others. Nabtesco Value Report 2016 56 00 Financial Information Result for Sales by Business Sales (Previous segmentation, JGAAP) Precision Equipment Segment (Billion yen) Precision Reduction Gears Others 55.3 56.9 51.5 42.8 45.3 41.5 47.9 50.4 52.9 38.9 41.7 39.4 2.1 3.8 3.5 3.5 4.9 3.9 Full-year Result Full-year Result Full-year Result Full-year Result Full-year Result Full-year Result 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 (Apr.-Dec.) (Reference) (Jan.-Dec.) 2015/12 (Jan.-Dec.) 2016/12 2015/12* Transport Equipment Segment (Billion yen) Railroad Vehicle Equipment Commercial Vehicle Equipment 61.3 60.9 61.0 Marine Vessel Equipment Others 52.6 44.2 46.8 31.2 29.3 31.1 26.6 20.5 22.3 9.3 9.4 10.6 9.0 9.8 7.2 11.9 12.3 9.4 7.9 8.3 9.9 6.7 7.7 8.8 7.3 9.7 9.7 Full-year Result Full-year Result Full-year Result Full-year Result Full-year Result Full-year Result 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 (Apr.-Dec.) (Reference) (Jan.-Dec.) 2015/12 (Jan.-Dec.) 2016/12 2015/12* Aircraft and Hydraulic Equipment Segment (Billion yen) Hydraulic Equipment Aircraft Equipment 52.5 45.7 47.8 46.5 47.8 39.5 32.6 23.1 27.1 27.4 28.8 19.7 20.7 23.3 20.3 16.8 19.8 19.7 Full-year Result Full-year Result Full-year Result Full-year Result Full-year Result Full-year Result 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 (Apr.-Dec.) (Reference) (Jan.-Dec.) 2015/12 (Jan.-Dec.) 2016/12 2015/12* Industrial Equipment Segment (Billion yen) Automatic Doors Packaging Machines 78.8 Others 66.0 58.8 54.2 55.2 47.9 64.6 52.7 46.4 42.7 46.2 36 1.7 2.2 2.7 2.0 2.9 2.5 10.1 9.2 9.7 7.0 10.3 11.6 Full-year Result Full-year Result Full-year Result Full-year Result Full-year Result Full-year Result 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 (Apr.-Dec.) (Reference) (Jan.-Dec.) 2015/12 (Jan.-Dec.) 2016/12 2015/12* * Please note that the estimates for FY2015/12 (Reference) were calculated for the period of 12 months to make comparisons with the result for FY2016/12 under the same conditions. 57 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 PART 2 Sales (New Segmentation, IFRS) Component Solution Segment (CMP) (Billion yen) Accessibility Solution Segment (Billion yen) Precision Reduction Gears Automatic Doors Financial Information Hydraulic Equipment 89.0 71.1 Others 82.4 64.6 58.8 52.9 Road Map for Growth 27.4 29.8 0.2 2.0 Full-year Result Full-year Plan Full-year Result Full-year Plan Provide safety, 2016/12 2017/12 2016/12 2017/12 comfort and a sense of security Transport Solution Segment (TRS) (Billion yen) Manufacturing Solution Segment (MFR) (Billion yen) Railroad Vehicle Equipment Packaging Machines Aircraft Equipment 81.4 82.2 Others 17.7 Ensure management Commercial 16.0 Vehicle Equipment Marine Vessel 31.1 28.8 transparency Equipment Others 12.6 11.6 19.6 Corporate Profile 20.3 11.8 10.6 8.5 9.4 4.4 5.0 9.7 13.2 Full-year Result Full-year Plan Full-year Result Full-year Plan Disclosure Policy 2016/12 2017/12 2016/12 2017/12 Breakdown in Capital Expenditure By Segment ● Precision reduction gears (Installation of new facilities HQ in the new China plant) MFR 2% HQ 3% ACB 9% 5% Industrial Precision 22% 2016/12 Result: 30% 2017/12 Plan: CMP 14,530 21,800 million yen TRS million yen 45% Aircraft & Hydraulic 39% Transport 32% 13% ● Precision reduction gears (Installation of new ● Aircraft equipment (Capacity expansion at Gifu Plant) facilities in the new China plant) ● Aircraft equipment (Capacity expansion at Gifu Plant) Nabtesco Value Report 2016 58 00 Road Map for Growth Precision Reduction Gear Business To ensure the mediumto long-term growth of the Precision Reduction Gear Business, we will further enhance our stable supply systems established at our Japanese and Chinese plants to steadily meet the increased needs for automation in the automotive and general machinery industries, thereby helping manufacturers save labor and increase productivity at their sites. Managing Executive Officer, President, Precision Equipment Company Shinji Jyuman Sources of Strength REFFERENCE Motion Control Technology, Ability to Develop Applications and Technologies Operating Results by Business Segment The compact and lightweight Precision Reduction Gear RV, which boasts excellent durability (1) Component Solution and high positioning accuracy, serves as the source of Nabtesco’s competitiveness. The high segment (CMP) product performance is supported by the competencies the company has accumulated in Page 55 responding to customer needs. Relations of Trust with Customers Main Products Nabtesco launched its first precision reduction gears on the market in 1986, and since then its global market share of precision reduction gears for industrial robots has grown to about 60%. Although the basic patents possessed by the company for the products expired in 2006, the high market share has been maintained as a result of conducting business with the greatest importance placed on customer satisfaction and building relations of trust with our customers. Stable Supply System Precision Reduction In anticipation of a high demand for precision reduction gears, Nabtesco has increased the Gears: RV Component production capacity of its domestic plants and has launched new production sites in China Type to ensure the stability of its supply system. We have also been implementing measures for The Precision Reduction Gear RV are compact and increasingly higher quality and faster delivery on a continual basis, and are able to make lightweight with outstanding flexible responses to changes in demand, which adds another competitive edge to Nabtesco. rigidity and overload resistance. With these features, the reduction gears serve to provide excellent accelBusiness Environment (Opportunities and Risks) erating capabilities, smooth motion, low backlash, and accurate positioning preciAccording to the forecast made by the International Federation of Robotics, in the medium sion, leading to enhanced term, the global market of industrial robots (including small-, medium-, and large-sized rorobot controllability. bots) will grow at the annual rate of 15%. In light of the fact that the growth rate of the market for small robots is relatively high with demand beginning to increase, the annual growth rate of the market for medium and large robots is expected to be 5 to 10%. By region, the growth rate will be around 25% in China, where the need for unmanned, automated operations has seen a remarkable increase. In fields other than industrial robots, we are promoting sales of precision reduction gears for general industries and new-type actuators that integrate precision reduction gears and servomotors in China, Europe and other regions. 59 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Meanwhile, demand for industrial robots is influenced by changes in capital expenditure. PART 2 Therefore, the Group is subject to the risk that we might face drastic changes in demand depending on end customers’ capital investment policies. We also regard competitors’ catch-up in technology as a potential risk. Worldwide Annual Shipment of Industrial The Number of Multipurpose Industrial Robots per Financial Robots 10,000 Persons Employed in Automotive Industry Information ■Japan ■Europe ■North America South ■Korea ■Japan ■France ■Germany ■North America South ■China ■APAC*1 ■Other*2 ■Korea ■China (Units) (Units) The number in China is expected to 450,000 CAGR 6% 15% 7,000 increase as current penetration rate (as of Sep.2013) (as of Sep. 2016) of industrial robot is still low. 400,000 6,000 Gear Head Type “RD Road Map for 350,000 5,000 300,000 Series” Growth 250,000 4,000 This is a gear head prod200,000 3,000 uct based on the Precision Reduction Gear RV with the 150,000 Chinese Market: CAGR 20-30% 2,000 emphasis on ease of use. The 100,000 (as of Sep. 2019) product is easily installed on 1,000 50,000 servomotors and features Provide safety, 0 0 airtight grease sealing. (CY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 comfort and a Note: Above IFR data includes the number of small, middle and large size robots sense of security Source: International Federation of Robotics (IFR) Source: International Federation of Robotics (IFR) *1 APAC=Asia /Australia (Total)−China−Japan−Korea *2 Total=Total−North America−Asia/Australia (Total)−Europe (Total) Measures for Mediumto Long-Term Growth Ensure management Gear Head Type (Table For the mediumto long-term growth of the company, we will further deepen relations of transparency Type) “RS Series” trust with our existing customers by responding to any new needs they have. At the same This table-type series is detime, we will strive to find new customers, work for higher quality and faster delivery so that signed for accurate positioning. The low-profile products we will not miss any opportunities that come as a result of the increased demand for industriCorporate Profile with large and hollow shafts al robots. Moreover, we are enhancing our production capacity and increasing our productivity are easy to use and are therewith automation and labor saving at our manufacturing facilities in Japan while improving fore widely adopted for index tables as well as for pivots of the production facilities in China for the maintenance and improvement of our stable supply various devices. system to meet demand that is expected to expand on a mediumto long-term basis. Furthermore, in the fields other than industrial robots, we are going to utilize our long-established technological expertise to promote the sales of new products and to develop new markets. Disclosure Policy Major customers FANUC, YASKAWA Electric, Kawasaki Heavy Industries, KUKA Roboter, ABB Robotics and others Fact Sheet Production base (as of the end of December 2016) Tsu City, Mie Prefecture, Japan / Jiangsu Prefecture, China Compact Actuator “AF Market share Series” Joints of industrial robots: Approx. 60% global market share This new product possesses Machine tools ATC (Automatic Tool Changer): Approx. 60% domestic market share the features of high accuracy, rigidity and reliability, which History of business development have been inherited from In 1976, Teijin Seiki began selling reduction gear-equipped hydraulic motors for use in construction Precision Reduction Gear RV. machineries. Subsequently, following the maturation of this market, the company began to focus its Directly connected to servomotors, it serves to provide a attention on industrial robots, which would provide a new growth market where the company could compact drive part and usabilmake use of its unique reduction gear technology. The company then proceeded with the developity by eliminating the need for ment of reduction gears for robot joints and began selling precision reduction gears for industrial embedding the servomotors robots in 1986. We now have a 60% share of the world precision reduction gear market and our into reduction gears. products are widely used in a range of fields in addition to industrial robots. In 2014, we achieved a cumulative production of 5 million units in the business. In 2015, we commenced building a new production base for precision reduction gears in China, which now offers the world’s largest industrial Web robot market. This base will start production at the beginning of 2016. 1986 Commenced launch of the Precision Reduction Gear RV Series. Precision Reduction 1991 Built the Tsu Plant for the manufacture of precision reduction gears. Gears 2014 Total cumulative production of precision reduction gears reached 5 million units. https://www.nabtesco.com/ 2015 Began the construction of a production base in China (to start production in early 2016 en/products/robot.html Nabtesco Value Report 2016 60 00 Road Map for Growth Hydraulic Equipment Business We will make progress with technological innovations to meet the need for ICT in construction machinery, which supports infrastructure development, while honing our global competitiveness and hydraulic system technologies in our pursuit of sustainable growth. Executive Officer, President, Power Control Company Kazumasa Kimura Sources of Strength REFFERENCE Nabtesco’s traveling units “GM Series” for crawlers, which integrate a hydraulic motor, a Operating Results by reduction gear, a parking brake and other components in one unit, feature excellence in Business Segment durability and reliability in addition to great power generation efficiently, while remaining (1) Component Solution segment (CMP) compact. Since the start of mass production in 1977, the GM series, one of the major prodPage 55 ucts, have been highly appraised by customers, helping us to enhance the Nabtesco brand. With the improvement of machine processing technologies, the Tarui Plant has achieved a high level of automation during the manufacturing process, which contributes to the continuous generation of competitiveness. Business Environment (Opportunities and Risks) China, the world’s largest construction machinSales of Excavator in China ery market, has been gradually recovering from (Unit) sluggish demand condition, which has driven 200,000 favorable sales of products used in hydraulic excavators. In the construction machinery mar150,000 ket, a new trend towards value creation, such as the incorporation of hybrid systems and ICT, will also help us find new business growth opportu100,000 nities. Nonetheless, if the growth rate of public investments, which support the demand for con50,000 Main Products struction machinery in China, drops and leads to the excessive supply of hydraulic excavators, or if it takes longer than expected for us to realize a 0 synergistic effect with Hyest Corporation, which (CY) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 we acquired in 2015, there is a higher chance of Source: China Construction Machinery Association failing to meet our targets on time. Measures for Mediumto Long-Term Growth Traveling Unit for In the Hydraulic Equipment Business, we completed the restructuring of our production Crawlers This series is used as a travbases in China in FY2015. To further enhance our global production system, we will optieling unit for crawlers and the mize production at our bases in Japan, China and Thailand to respond flexibly to changes in wheels of excavators, crawler demand in the construction machinery market. Further, we will develop new markets where drills, cranes, and aerial work platforms. we can fully utilize our strengths, while advancing technological innovations in response to 61 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 the incorporation of ICT in construction machinery. Also, based on the product lines expandPART 2 ed through the acquisition of Hyest Corporation, we will foster a shift from selling components to cross-selling of hydraulic equipment and further proposals of optimal hydraulic systems and generate greater added value. Growth Matrix of Hydraulic Equipment Business of Nabtesco Financial New Market Existing Market [Market Development] [Diversification] • Develop new applications other than excavators for • Challenge for one of the diversified hydraulic Control Valve for Mini a wide range of product lines machinery manufacturer through further Excavators Information > Cranes (traveling, swing and winch units, etc.) development of application and hydraulic systems This product is a sectional type multi-control valve developed [Market Penetration] [Product Development] specially for mini excavators, and • Enhance flexible response to demand fluctuation • Expand product lineups for package deal and > Lead-time reduction and automatic manufacturing hydraulic systems is ideal for various needs such as Road Map for • Improve cost competitiveness through maximizing action control of excavators. The Expansion of product lineups through M&A utilization of overseas bases and promoting“local series is popular for its compact production for local consumption” size, versatility, and wide ranging Growth product lines. It has captured a Existing Products New Products large share in Japan. Amplification of Product Lineups for Excavators through M&A Mini Excavators Mediumto Large-Sized Excavators Traveling units Swing units Pumps Valves Traveling units Swing units Pumps Valves Provide safety, comfort and a Nabtesco ● ● ● Hyest Corp. ● ● ● sense of security Major customers Ensure Swing Unit for Hydraulic Komatsu, Kobelco Construction Machinery, Hitachi Construction Machinery, Sumitomo ConstrucExcavator management Fact Sheet tion Machinery, Kubota, YANMAR, Volvo, JCB, Sany, Xugong Excavator, Liu Gong and others The swing unit used in hydraulic Production bases (as of the end of December 2016) excavators consists of a hightransparency speed motor and planetary Tarui-cho, Fuwa-gun, Gifu Prefecture, Japan / Kobe city, Hyogo Prefecture, Japan / Shanghai, reduction gear unit. Its compact China / Chonburi, Thailand design allows the unit to have Market share fewer components and to excel Corporate Profile in quietness. In addition to units Traveling units for hydraulic excavators: Approx.30% global market share for hydraulic excavators, swing History of business development units are also used in smallsized cranes and winch motors Both Teijin Seiki and NABCO were engaged in the Hydraulic Equipment Business. NABCO began for aerial working platforms. conducting such business back in the 1930s, offering a range of products, not only for construction machines and special vehicles, but also for general industrial equipment. The company also developed small, multiple-spool control valves for use in road sweepers produced in Japan, and these Disclosure Policy valves have been developed into our present control valve products. Teijin Seiki began conducting business by establishing the Tarui Plant in 1961. Its hydraulic motors were not highly competitive despite being core products, and the company worked to develop a new product independently. The traveling units “GM Series” that was thus developed provided the four functions necessary for the driving unit of hydraulic excavators (i.e. hydraulic motor, reduction gear, valve and parking brake functions), and was also compact enough relative to the width of an excavator crawler shoe. The company then successfully commenced mass production of this Yaw Drive innovative product. Further, the reduction gear technology developed for hydraulic motors led to This drive unit has high rigidity the development of Precision Reduction Gear RV to control the joints of industrial robots. and high load performance Subsequently, we established a production base in China in 1996 and another in Thailand in based on the Rotor Vector (RV) 2008, and have resulted in fostering overseas business expansion and increasing our global market reduction gear technology. It share in the business of traveling units for hydraulic excavators to 30%. In 2015, we acquired Hyest can be used under severe natCorporation, the hydraulic equipment division of TOSHIBA MACHINE, with a view to further expandural conditions, for example, in ing our product lines and developing new hydraulic systems. both lowand high-temperature areas as well as areas 1937 Manufactured hydraulic pumps for airplanes in the national defense field. prone to salt damage. The low 1949 Commenced manufacture and sales of hydraulic equipment. backlash feature helps prolong 1961 Opened the Tarui Plant for the manufacture of hydraulic equipment and start the Hydraulic the field life of wind turbines. Equipment Business. 1970 Opened the Nishi Kobe Plant (presently Seishin Plant) for the manufacture of hydraulic and pneumatic equipment. 1977 Commenced mass production of the “GM-series” traveling units. By using the reduction gears technology, developed the Precision Reduction Gear RV series for use in industrial robots. Web 1996 Established a joint venture named Shanghai Teijin Seiki Co., Ltd. (presently Shanghai Plant). 2008 Established Nabtesco Power Control Co., Ltd. in Thailand. Hydraulic Equipment 2015 Acquired Hyest Corporation, the Hydraulic Equipment Business division of TOSHIBA https://www.nabtesco. MACHINE CO., LTD. com/en/products/power2016 Fully Absorbed Hyest Corporation shovel.html Nabtesco Value Report 2016 62 00 Road Map for Growth Railroad Vehicle Equipment Business We will contribute to building safer and more convenient railroad transportation through provision of highly reliable brake control and door operating systems. These are the core components of railroad vehicles that require high safety. We will also pursue sustainable growth by proactively conducting business not only in Japan but also in overseas railroad vehicle markets. Managing Executive Officer, President, Railroad Products Company Yukihiro Imuta Sources of Strength REFFERENCE Since receiving the first order for our air brake equipment from the former Japanese Ministry of RailOperating Results by Business Segment ways in 1925, we have been accumulating technologies through the provision of highly reliable brake (2) Transport Solution systems, and have contributed to, for example, space-saving by developing brake units comprising segment (TRS) multiple brake mechanisms. Railroad vehicle equipment, a foundational piece of social infrastructure, Page 55 needs to be highly reliable and safe. We have been working to increase customer satisfaction over many years and we have built solid relationships of trust with our customers. This is one of our strengths and it Main Products aids our ability to provide customers with continuous MRO (maintenance, repair and overhaul) services. Business Environment (Opportunities and Risks) In the Japanese market, we expect that demand will continue to be stable mainly due to the need to replace old railroad vehicles with newer models. In China, demand in the high speed train market is expected to stabilize as the market matures, while demand in the subway train market will continue to expand due to the need to improve convenience in people’s daily lives and for Unit Brakes The unit brake incorporates mitigation of environmental pollution. If a technology development of high-speed trains progresses the integral functions of a in China, however, it will pose a risk to us. In Europe, we expect that demand will continue to grow conventional foundation brake rigging and a built-in automatic steadily, while in the Southeast Asian market, Japanese railroad vehicle manufacturers will bolslack adjusting mechanism. ster their activities to obtain more orders, which will provide us with new business opportunities. Compared to existing foundation brake units, the product offers reduced size and weight, simplified maintenance, greater Market Size of Railroad Industry (by Region) Market Size of Railroad Industry (by Segment) noise protection, and heightened consistency of braking efficiency. €180.9 billion €180.9 billion €163.5 billion €163.5 billion Other* Other**※ 8.6% % Other* Other** 12.0 NAFTA NAFTA Service €70.7 Asia & Pacific Service €63.2 12.0% billion (39.1%) Asia & Pacific €57.0 billion billion (38.6%) €51.4 billion 11.0% (31.5%) (31.4%) Brake Operating Units for Rolling Stock Rolling Stock West Europe West Europe €59.0 billion Railroad Vehicles €47.4 billion €54.8 billion 7.9% €41.9 billion 13.0% (26.2%) (33.5%) (32.6%) This system is configured as (25.6%) a unit with a brake operating 2015 – 2017 2019 – 2021 2015 – 2017 2019 – 2021 device that plays the core role (Average annual amount) (Average annual amount) (Average annual amount) (Average annual amount) in the electric commanding air *Other: East Europe, CIS, Africa& Middle East and Latin **Other: Infrastructure, railroad signals and control brake system and the air brake America other than NAFTA equipment valves that provide the brake cylinder pressure output for service Source: UNIFE and emergency braking. 63 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Measures for Mediumto Long-Term Growth In order to conduct business in an effective and efficient manner in highly promising marPART 2 kets identified around the world, we will expand our business system in an all-encompassing manner, fostering the optimization of our development, procurement and production activities in the three regions of Japan, China and Europe. Particularly in the world’s largest railroad market of Europe, we will work to obtain new orders and certifications through Financial our local bases, aiming to expand the business in the region during the period of the MediDoor Operators for RailInformation um-term Management Plan. road Vehicles We will also promote sales of products targeting subway trains in China by making Offering a tremendous variety of door operating units, our use of our local sales network as well as results and technologies accumulated in Japan. product lineups comprises In addition we will continue focusing on increasing customer satisfaction and expand the Road Map for door operators that meet the demands of a wide diversity of MRO business both in Japan and China based on our relations of trust with our customers. applications from high-speed Growth Moreover, in the second-hand vehicle market in Southeast Asia, we will continue our efforts trains including the Shinkto secure more orders in the MRO business, while extending technological support and ansen to commuter trains and ultra-low-floor light rail supplying maintenance parts to railroad companies through a newly established after-sale vehicles (LRVs). service base, thereby contributing to the local establishment of railroad infrastructures. Provide safety, Major customers Web comfort and a Japan Railway (JR) companies, private railway companies, Kawasaki Heavy Industries, Hitachi, Ltd., Railroad Vehicle Equipsense of security Fact Sheet railway related companies in China and others ment Production bases (as of the end of December 2016) https://www.nabtesco. Kobe City, Hyogo Prefecture, Japan / Jiangsu Prefecture, China / Piedmont, Italy com/en/products/railway. Ensure html Market share management Brake systems: Approx. 50% domestic market share Approx. 40% high-speed railways market transparency share in China Door opening systems: Approx. 70% domestic market share. History of business development Corporate Profile In 1925, we received an order for its air brake systems from the Ministry of Railways, and this marked the beginning of our Railroad Vehicle Equipment Business. In the 1960s, Shinkansen bullet trains began running in time for the Olympic Games in Tokyo, and the urban railway networks were increasingly improved for transportation at higher speeds and in greater quantity. In response, we developed highly reliable automatic train control systems to ensure safety even during high-speed operations, as well as electric command air brake systems. We continued to expand the business as subway systems were successively constructed to mitigate traffic congestion in urban areas. Disclosure Policy We also changed our business model from the development of hardware products to making proposals to individual customers in order to expand our business. In and after the 2000s, we expanded our market share in Chinese and Taiwanese high speed train and subway businesses. Further, in 2013, we acquired an Italian railroad vehicle door manufacturer (presently Nabtesco Oclap S.r.l) to spearhead business in Europe and around the globe. 1925 Received the first order for air brake equipment from the former Japanese Ministry of Railways. Commenced manufacturing and sales of air brake systems for railroad vehicles. 1998 Relocated and opened the Kobe Plant for the manufacture of railroad vehicle equipment. 2011 Established Jiangsu Nabtesco KTK Railroad Products Co., Ltd. 2012 Acquired International Railroad Industry Standard (IRIS) Certification. 2013 Acquired OCLAP, an Italian railroad equipment manufacturer, and established Nabtesco Oclap S.r.l. Received an order for pneumatic door systems for train cars under the Intercity Express Programme (IEP) implemented in the United Kingdom. 2014 Became the first Japanese company to be certified as a global supplier of doors for train driving cabs and cars by Bombardier Transportation. 2015 Received an order for passenger doors for the Rennes subway line in France from Siemens AG. 2017 Established Nabtesco Service Southeast Asia Co., Ltd., in Thailand as a base for after-sales service to customers in Southeast Asia. Nabtesco Value Report 2016 64 00 Road Map for Growth Aircraft Equipment Business In the civil aircraft market, where growth is continuing, we will steadily supply products that support safe flights, thereby achieving the sustainable growth of the business. We will pursue innovation in production, technologies and after-sale services to reduce the environmental impact of our operations. Also, by expanding our business, we will contribute to the development of the Japanese aircraft industry and our local communities. Deputy Chief Executive Officer, President, Aerospace Company and in charege of Production nnovation Nobutaka Osada Sources of Strength REFFERENCE Motion Control Technology and Technological Development Ability Operating Results by We have long accumulated know-how and technologies by meeting the needs of customers Business Segment in both private and national defense sectors, which are sources of strength for Nabtesco. (2) Transport Solution segment (TRS) We have developed the world’s highest-level production technologies and expertise in the Page 55 aircraft market, which prioritizes safety, and using these technologies, we are developing a highly reliable flight control actuation system (FCAS). Relations of Trust with Customers We have been providing the world’s aircraft manufacturers with the best solutions for nearly 40 years, always taking the viewpoint of customers and a proactive attitude. The close relations of trust we have built with customers provides us with the strength to establish ourselves as the world’s first-class supplier of FCAS. Manufacturing System We have been continuously taking measures to attain higher quality and productivity at two plants—one in Japan and the other in the United States. Main Products Forecast for passenger aircraft demand ■Existing instrument ■Alternative demand ■New demand (Units) 40,000 38,313 Flight Control Actuation System 30,000 New demand 17,499 Nabtesco is the leading Number of 20,814 53% Japanese manufacturer of this instrument system, which controls the air20,000 delivered craft’s attitude. This system is Alternative demand 33,160 15,661 used to move the surface such 10,000 47% as the ailerons on the main wings and elevators on the tail Existing instrument surface. Nabtesco has a solid 5,153 0 reputation as a global leader (CY) 2015 2035 in the commercial aircraft market. Source: Japan Aircraft Development Corporation 65 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Business Environment (Opportunities and Risks) In the private sector, the number of operating airplanes will double over the next twenty PART 2 years. The budget for national defense will be at a stable level, although it might slightly increase. On the other hand, risks exist caused by stagnant growth of the world economy and political changes. Financial High Voltage Electric Power Distribution Unit Information Measures for Mediumto Long-Term Growth This product has been newly developed for Boeing 787 airBy communicating closely with customers based on our relations of trust, we will analyze craft requiring more electric power than other existing their “needs and wants” and propose highly competitive and high-quality solutions by conRoad Map for aircraft, and is equipped with centrating our resources appropriately. We will also improve our technological development an efficient liquid cooling system for motor controlGrowth ability to deliver more value to customers and expand the capacity of our manufacturing lers and transformers. This facilities in Japan and the United States to grasp the business opportunities provided by product contributes to not only demand in the aircraft market, which will rapidly expand following the start of new mass aircraft weight reduction but also improvement of aircraft production programs by aircraft manufacturers in and after 2017. maintenance by reducing Moreover, we will undertake actions while considering the provision of value across the electric wires in the aircraft Provide safety, significantly. value chain, and enhance measures in the after-sale market, while keeping the importance of achieving “profitable growth” in mind. comfort and a sense of security Ensure Major customers Web management Boeing, Mitsubishi Aircraft Corporation, Kawasaki Heavy Industries, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, transparency Fact Sheet Aircraft Equipment IHI, the Japanese Ministry of Defense, airline companies and others https://www.nabtesco. Production bases (as of the end of December 2016) com/en/products/aircraft. Tarui-cho, Fuwa-gun, Gifu Prefecture, Japan / State of Washington, the United States html Corporate Profile Market share FCAS: Approx.100% Market share for domestically-produced aircraft History of business development The history of our Aircraft Equipment Business dates back to the period during the war, when we began manufacturing landing gear for airplanes. After the end of the war, we introduced overseas technologies and adopted a range of element technologies. We also acquired the know-how necessary for the design, development, and production of aircraft equipment. Disclosure Policy We subsequently worked to enter the overseas civil aircraft market, and began dealing with Boeing in 1976. In 1990 we secured a contract to supply flight control actuators (FCAs) to Boeing for use in the B777, thereby receiving the world’s first order for FCA systems for use in civil aircraft. This success helped us to improve our position in the global market and also promote a growth afterward. Since 2014, we were awarded Boeing Supplier of the Year Awards for the third time in four years, acclaimed for our performance improvement of QCDS (Quality, Cost, Delivery and Service). We have continued to steadily receive orders and supply FCAS and services for various airplanes and expand the business. 1944 Commenced production in Japan for airplanes in the national defense field. Latter half of the 1970s Received orders for products including landing gear hydraulic actuators for the B737 Classic. 1976 Established Teijin Seiki America, Inc. (presently Nabtesco Aerospace, Inc.) in the State of Washington. 1979 Received orders for spoiler actuators for the B767 and for aileron actuators for the B757. 1990 Received an order for FCAS for the B777. 2006 Received an order for high-voltage electric power distribution unit for the B787. 2006 Received an order for aileron actuators/spoiler actuators for the B747-8. 2008 Received an order for the FCAS for the MRJ (Mitsubishi Regional Jet). 2012 Total cumulative delivery of FCAS for the B777 reached 1,000 units. 2013 Received an order for spoiler actuators for the 737MAX, the latest model in the B737 family. 2014 Received 2013 Boeing Supplier of the Year Award. 2015 Received an order for FCAS for the B777X, the B777 next-generation model. 2016 Received 2015 Boeing Supplier of the Year Award. Granted the 2016 Boeing Supplier of the Year n the Expanded the Gifu Plant by adding the buildings for the manufacture of EHSVs and for sur(Environment) category. We face treatment. are honored to receive the 2017 Received the 2016 Boeing Supplier of the Year Award. Supplier of the Year award for the third time in four years. Nabtesco Value Report 2016 66 00 Road Map for Growth Commercial Vehicle Equipment Business As Japan’s No. 1 manufacturer of air brake systems for commercial vehicles, we will help meet the need for safe, environment-friendly, labor-saving transportation by truck, which is increasing in line with the expansion of transportation amounts over long times. President, Nabtesco Automotive Corporation Michio Ogawa Sources of Strength REFFERENCE The technologies and brand power developed to meet demand for high quality products Operating Results by Business Segment by Japanese automakers are Nabtesco’s strengths. Nabtesco became the first company (2) Transport Solution to develop an air dryer in Japan, and our air dryers, which are highly safe and environsegment (TRS) ment-friendly, are now one of the best known products in our Commercial Vehicle EquipPage 55 ment Business. We conduct business globally by making use of our production bases outside of Japan, and that is also a source of our strength. Main Products Business Environment (Opportunities and Risks) In Japan, the volume of freight movement is increasing, driven by the government’s economic measures and growing e-commerce business. In addition, the environmental law enforced ten years ago stimulated a replacement cycle for trucks. This cycle has supported and will likely support the continuous and steady demand for new trucks. In emerging countries, the demand is anticipated to grow by around 5% annually over the medium-term. Nonetheless, in ASEAN market where Japanese truck manufacturers hold a large share, Air Dryers for Commercial Vehicles the price competition between European automakers and those of emerging countries is This product removes any intensifying and considered a risk that can affect the Group. water or oil in the compressed air to increase the durability and reliability of air Measures for Mediumto Long-Term Growth control systems. It is used by major Japanese heavy-duty truck manufacturers. By creating added value and enhancing the quality management system for higher competitiveness, we will continuously seek to increase customer satisfaction, thereby maintaining our share in the Japanese market. Also, we will make more use of our bases in Japan and overseas, and foster local procurement with an eye to securing all opportunities provided by robust demand in the highly promising ASEAN market, while also receiving more orders in India through proactive marketing activities. Furthermore, through acquisition of European compressor makers, we aim to not only achieve early commercialization of a high value-added system by combining an air dryer and compressor, both of which are our most popular products, but also generate sales synergy Wedge Brake Chambers as we build stronger customer relationships in Europe. for Commercial Vehicles This product is mounted on the wheels of heavy-duty trucks: it uses air pressure to push the piston to apply the brakes. 67 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Major customers PART 2 Hino Motors, Mitsubishi Fuso Truck and Bus, Isuzu Motors, UD Trucks, Nissan Motor and others Fact Sheet Production bases (as of the end of December 2016) Murayama City, Yamagata Prefecture, Japan / Samutprakarn, Thialand / Haryana, India / Saxony, Germany Financial Market share Wedge brake chambers for commercial vehicles chambers: Approx.70% domestic market share Air Information dryers for commercial vehicles: Approx.85% domestic market share Hydraulic Clutch Master Cylinders for Passenger History of business development Vehicles Nippon Air Brake became the first company to manufacture and sell automobile oil brakes in Japan This product converts the in 1933. Subsequently, it also succeeded in producing commercial vehicle air brake systems in Jaclutch force from the clutch pan and continued to develop safety-related technologies and peripheral devices, further expandRoad Map for pedal of manual-transmising its business in line with the development of the automobile industry. sion vehicles into hydraulic In 1972, the company became the first to succeed in the development of air dryers for commerpressure and transmits Growth cial vehicles in Japan. The air dryers contributed to solving various problems, such as the rusting the pressure to the clutch and freezing-up of valves, by removing water contained in air brake systems. system. It is supplied to We established a new production base in Thailand in 2004 and spun off the growing Commercial automotive manufacturers Vehicle Equipment Business from Nabtesco Corporation, founding Nabtesco Automotive Corponationwide. ration in 2009. Then, in 2013, we established Minda Nabtesco Private Limited in India as a joint Provide safety, venture to conduct business in the local truck market. We are thus further expanding our target market for this business. Web 1933 Became the first company to manufacture and sell oil brakes for commercial vehicles in comfort and a Japan. Commercial Vehicle 1937 Began manufacturing and selling air brake systems for commercial vehicles for the first Equipment sense of security time in Japan. https://www.nabtesco. 1972 Became the first company to succeed in developing air dryers for commercial vehicles in com/en/products/ Ensure Japan. automobile.html 1991 Opened the Yamagata Plant for the manufacture of commercial vehicle equipment. 2004 Established a joint venture to manufacture and sell automobile components management (Nabtesco Automotive Products (Thailand) Co., Ltd). transparency 2009 Began operations as Nabtesco Automotive Corporation. 2013 Established a joint venture to manufacture and sell commercial vehicle equipment in India (Minda Nabtesco Automotive Private Limited). 2016 Acquired a German air compressor maker and founded “Nabtesco ITG GmbH” Corporate Profile Disclosure Policy Nabtesco Value Report 2016 68 00 Road Map for Growth Marine Vessel Equipment Business We are contributing to the safe and efficient navigation of vessels through the provision of marine vessel engine control systems. We will expand the product lineup and promote the sales of products for electronically controlled diesel engines, which contribute to reducing environmental impact, and will enhance the service and support system for the products in anticipation of the global enforcement of environmental regulations on marine vessels. Managing Executive Officer, President, Marine Control Systems Company Taizo Tsuri Sources of Strength REFFERENCE We are developing products to create new value, environmentally conscious products. In Operating Results by Business Segment addition to conventional products, we have included new product in our product lines corre(2) Transport Solution sponding electronic engines for large–sized marine vessels in response to the enhancement segment (TRS) of environmental regulations. This provides us with strength in the market. Moreover, we Page 55 are implementing a substantial around-the-clock service support system, making use of our bases in Japan, Singapore, the Netherlands, China and South Korea. Business Environment (Opportunities and Risks) The mainstream of engines for large marine vessels has been rapidly shifting to electronic products at a pace that has exceeded our expectations, and in our strategy for the business, we will focus on obtaining more orders as demand for electronic engine control devices increases. Although the Marine Vessel Equipment Business is cyclic and has a risk to be affected by economic changes, we believe expansion of the MRO business will bring stability Main Products to the business. Global Production of 2–stroke Diesel Engines for Marine Vessels ■Estimates as of February 2016 ■Estimates as of February 2017 Main Engine Remote Con(Unit) 1,500 trol System (M-800-V) This system enables the remote control of the diesel engine in a vessel from the ship’s 1,250 bridge and/or control room, and has functions for outputting commands to control the engine speed (rpm) and for 1,000 monitoring the engine status. Equipped with advanced network functions and a liquid 750 crystal touch panel display, (CY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 the system provides excellent operability and expandability. Source: Nabtesco estimates 69 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Measures for Mediumto Long-Term Growth We will respond flexibly to market needs and create new products to help customers solve PART 2 their problems, focusing on demand for electronic devices and environment-friendly products. In addition, we will put the three-polar (Japan, China and South Korea) production system on track to make further improvements in QCD (quality, cost and delivery). Moreover, we will expand our service network to build up a system to provide services with additionally Financial Electronically Controlled higher quality, thereby making proposals and satisfying customers’ potential needs for High-Speed Hydraulic Information preventive equipment maintenance service. To this end, we will develop not only product Valves failure prediction functions but also new products that are capable of reducing maintenance Each Electronically Controlled diesel engine cylinder is lead time and costs. We will also establish a system to provide around-the-clock, seamless equipped with one electronsupport service to customers to aid in their safe navigation. Road Map for ically controlled high-speed hydraulic valve, which electronically controls the timing Growth and amount of fuel injection and the timing at which the exhaust valve opens and Major customers closes. The valve contributes Kawasaki Heavy Industries, Mitsui Engineering & Shipbuilding, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Hitachi to higher fuel economy and is Fact Sheet attracting much attention as Provide safety, Zosen, Hyundai Heavy Industries, Doosan Engine, Shanghai Waigaoqiao Shipbuilding, Hudong Heavy Machinery, MAN Diesel and others an environmentally friendly component. comfort and a Production bases (as of the end of December 2016) sense of security Kobe City, Hyogo Prefecture, Japan / Shanghai, China / Busan, South Korea Market share 2-stroke main engine control systems: Approx.60% domestic market share (Approx. 40% world market share) Ensure History of business development management Since it developed the pneumatic valve in 1943, NABCO had been improving its pneumatic control technology for industrial use, and manufactured remote control equipment consisting of a range of transparency valves, such as starting air pipe control valves, to be used in diesel engines for power generators and marine vessels, as well as gas compressors for freezers. Electronically Controlled Subsequently, NABCO had built the foundation for meeting the standards that had been set by Diesel GAP Sensors the ship classification societies of each country, and developed a pneumatic remote control system Corporate Profile Sensors monitor the behavior for ship engines ahead of others in Japan in 1963. Within only eleven years following the end of the of engine fuel injection pumps war, Japanese shipbuilders had ascended to the level of the world’s top producers in terms of the and exhaust valves. The number of new ships built and further expanded their business, driven by increased internationsensor gives an alarm when al trade. Also, in response to accelerated automation of devices of marine vessels, NABCO had an abnormality is detected, dramatically boosted its market share for pneumatic remote control system used in large marine thereby increasing the reliability of electronic diesel engine vessel engines in Japan. control systems. Around 1975, as needs for advanced control systems using electronic technologies began to Disclosure Policy increase, NABCO decided to develop mechatronics technologies as well. In 1983, it developed a microcomputer-based main engine remote control system, which was later standardized. In 1987 the company launched a microcomputer-based electronic governor for marine vessel engines and Web established the position as a top engine control system manufacturer. In addition, aiming to enhance service by making proposals to customers on preventive mainMarine Vessel tenance, we expanded our service network through establishing bases in the Netherlands and Equipment Singapore in the latter half of the 1990s. https://www.nabtesco. com/en/products/ship.html 1950 Delivered gas compressors for freezers of marine vessels. 1963 Commenced manufacture and sales of marine vessel engine control equipment. 1983 Developed and commenced sales of microcomputer controllers for marine vessels. 1986 Commenced sales of M-800X, a mass production model of microcomputer controllers for marine vessels. 1987 Developed and commenced sales of microcomputer-based electronic governors for marine vessels. 1995 Established Nabmic B.V. in Netherlands. 1998 Established Nabtesco Marine Service Pte., Ltd. in Singapore. 2000 Established Nabtesco Marinetec Co., Ltd. in South Korea. 2006 Total cumulative shipment of marine vessel equipment reached 30,000 units. 2008 Commenced manufacture and sales of hydraulic control valves for electronic controlled engines. 2013 Established production facilities (Nabtesco Marine Machinery (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.) in China. 2014 Decided to participate in the R&D network of Maritime Innovation Japan Corporation. Total cumulative delivery of marine vessel electronic governor systems reached 7,000 units. 2016 Total cumulative shipment of marine vessel equipment reached 50,000 units. Total cumulative shipment of Electronically Controlled High-Speed Hydraulic Valves reached 10,000 units. Nabtesco Value Report 2016 70 00 Road Map for Growth Automatic Door Business The “Pedestrian Flow Solution” is a business concept designed to provide people with safety, security and comfort in transportation and in their living spaces. Under the concept and the brands of NABCO and GILGEN, we will expand our businesses in Japan and also overseas markets, primarily in Europe, North America and China to help create barrier-free transportation spaces and ensure that they are safe. President, Accessibility Innovations Company Koji Kaminaka Sources of Strength REFFERENCE Global Business Development Operating Results by Business Segment Since the first releasing Japan’s first domestically produced automatic doors on the market in 1956, (3) Accessibility Solution we have been engaged in the Automatic Door Business, and with roughly 50% and 20% shares in the segment (ACB) domestic and global markets respectively, are now among the top market players. “NABCO” and Page 56 “GILGEN” are two of our brands providing automatic door products in the four core markets: Japan, Europe, North America, and China, are the essential sources of our strength. On a global scale, we conduct the value chain business focusing on automatic doors for buildings. We provide customers with a range of products and solutions, including installation, maintenance and management services in an integrated manner, which is also a source of strength for us. We are the only company in the world who sell automatic doors and platform doors in all of the four aforementioned markets, and thus occupy a unique position in the industry. Broad Product Lines with Focus on Automatic Doors We offer a wide spectrum of products to meet our customer needs as one of the world’s top automatic door brands. We focus on automatic doors used for buildings but also special purposes and industrial use. Sales and Installation Network Main Products We have sales, installation and maintenance services supporting systems that covers all regions across Japan and helps us to maintain high market share. Similarly, we have worldclass shares in major overseas markets sustained by our well established network of sales, installation, and maintenance. Business Environment (Opportunities and Risks) GILGEN doors: In the European market, there is concern over the risk of sluggish demand for automatic door products Westside Shopping and Leisure due to rising political and economic uncertainty; however, the demand in the Swiss market is foreCentre in Switzerland casted to remain steady. In the short-term the global market for automatic door products is expected Automatic Doors to remain stable supported by the strong domestic demand driven by upcoming Tokyo 2020 Olympics We provide high-quality, reliand Paralympic Games. In the long-term, the declining birth rate and aging of Japanese population will able automatic doors, based on state-of-the-art technology. increase the risk of domestic market shrinkage. In response, in order to offset these risks and secure These doors are used at a consistent profitability, we will increase the business scale through acquisition of domestic and overwide range of facilities, such as office buildings, hospitals, seas distribution companies, and through expansion to markets in North America with its continuously airports, and commercial and growing population and South-East Asia whose social infrastructure is gradually maturing. industrial facilities. 71 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Measures for Mediumto Long-Term Growth We will expand the size of our business through M&A and organic growth. In the mature markets, we PART 2 will take advantage of our large market shares to provide a range of products including general-purpose automatic and custom-made doors and offer a variety of solutions from installation and maintenance to management services with an eye to enhancing profitability and customer satisfaction. Financial GILGEN Information platform doors (bijou(R)): Paris Automatic Doors Market Metro Lines 1 and 13 (Million US dollars) Automatic Platform Doors 4,000 Automatic platform doors % CAGR +3.4 are now used worldwide to Road Map for 3,000 ensure passenger safety at railway stations. Demand for these doors is fast expanding Growth 2,000 over the world. Nabtesco has over 20% share of the global ■Asia market and is successfully ■Japan operating in European, Asian 1,000 ■North America and Japanese markets. ■Europe Provide safety, 0 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 comfort and a Source: HIS sense of security Major customers Automatic doors for buildings: Leading construction companies, sash manufacturers, commercial Fact Sheet facilities, hospitals, public organizations, industrial facilities (factories) and so forth Platform doors: Ensure Railway companies in each country management NABCO platform screen doors: Yurikamome Production bases (as of the end of December 2016) (Tokyo Waterfront New Transit Line) transparency Kobe City, Hyogo Prefecture, Japan / State of Wisconsin, the United States / Bern, Switzerland / Beijin, China Platform Screen Doors Market share Platform screen doors help ensure passenger safety on Automatic doors for buildings: Approx.50% domestic market share, Approx.20% world market Corporate Profile platforms. These doors also share contribute to higher air condiPlatform screen doors: Approx.95% domestic market share (cumulative) tioning efficiency, and enable unmanned operation of new History of business development transportation systems. NABCO, which is one of the former companies of Nabtesco, worked to launch a new business in addition to supplying transportation vehicle equipment, including brake systems for railroad vehicles and automobile oil brakes. In 1953, the company began manufacturing and selling automatic Disclosure Policy door systems for railroad vehicles and buildings. Then in 1956, it produced the first automatic door in Japan ahead of all others. The Olympic Games held in Tokyo caused an explosive increase in Web new building construction mainly in the city center, and skyscrapers were built one after the other, which also boosted the use of automatic doors. By establishing a sales network across Japan as Automatic Doors and well as a careful service system, the company established a robust market position in the country Platform Doors by the early 1960s. Subsequently, started by the export of products to Hong Kong, it proactively https://www.nabtesco. expanded its business to overseas markets and gained a foothold in the U.S. market in the 1990s. com/en/products/automatIn 2011, we acquired Gilgen Door Systems AG (the automatic door division of the Kaba Group) to enter the icdoor.html European market on a full scale and have been operating the business under multiple global brand names. In Japan, we have achieved two million units of total cumulative production of NABCO automatic doors and our products are increasingly adopted in famed commercial and public facilities. Building the brand of “NABCO” and “GILGEN”, we are establishing the top-class position predominating the four largest markets (Japan, North America, Europe and China) in terms of automatic door and platform door businesses. 1956 Became the first company to manufacture automatic doors in Japan. 1957 Established Osaka Door Engines (presently NABCO DOOR). 1992 Acquired LANSON, an automatic door manufacturer in the United States (presently NABCO Entrances). 1995 Established CSCEC-NABCO Auto Door Co., Ltd. in China (presently NABCO Auto Door (Beijing) Co., Ltd. 2011 Acquired the Automatic Door Business Division from Kaba Group of Switzerland and established Gilgen Door Systems AG. Building tetrapolar-system (Japan, North America, Europe and China) for automatic door and platform door businesses. 2012 Full acquisition of NABCO DOOR as the result of stock swap 2013 Total cumulative production of NABCO automatic doors reached two million units. 2016 Converted NABCO SYSTEM into a consolidated subsidiary as the result of additional stock acquisition. Nabtesco Value Report 2016 72 00 Road Map for Growth Packaging Machine Business We will promote the development of next-generation high-speed packaging machines, the enhancement of our service system and the expansion of our business outside Japan, thereby meeting food processing company needs to save labor while ensuring food safety. We will also provide customers with a wide range of retort pouch packaging machines. Retort pouches have high transportation efficiency, which contributes to the reduction of CO2 emissions in logistics. President, Toyo Jidoki Co., Ltd. Akiyoshi Kitamura Sources of Strength REFFERENCE Advanced Technologies and Abilities of Onsite Employees Operating Results by Nabtesco’s strengths include technological capabilities, which enabled us to become the Business Segment world’s first successful developer of a rotary packaging machine. The machine integrated (4) Manufacturing Solution segment (MFR) a stream of involved steps in packaging into one line with a control technology that enabled Page 56 high-speed, reliable, stable, and airtight packaging. The finely-tuned response abilities of onsite employees who support application of the technologies can also be considered as one of our competitive advantages. Relations of Trust with Customers We have earned trust from food manufacturers for our compact packaging machines, which provide high performance, require only limited space, and even seal packages with high air tightness to ensure the safety of food products contained therein. Business Environment (Opportunities and Risks) Japan has seen increased demand for prepared meals for consumption by individuals at Main Products home, and demand for food packaging in pouches from manufacturers of private brand has been robust. Also, in North America, foods packed in pouches are gradually being accepted in place of cans as the preferred form of preserved foods. Moreover, in China and other emerging economies, people are increasingly focusing on the safety and hygienic quality of food products, and the demand for our packaging machines that enable high-precision processing are on the rise. However, risks associated with foreign exchange rates are also increasing as the export of these machines expands leading to greater changes in conditions with regard to competition and business results. Super High-Speed Automatic Filler/Sealer A high-speed automatic continuous motion filler/sealer that delivers high performance in a compact space. This equipment is not only used for retort pouch foods but also for soups, sauces, and other food products as well as for refills for liquid detergents. It contributes to reducing the costs of mass production. 73 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Market Size and Growth Forecast for Packaging Machines PART 2 Automation needs of brands Increasing =5.1% CAGR Financial Packaging requests for 1.3 trillion yen machines market: traceability High-Speed Automatic Information 1.0 trillion yen Filler/Sealer This ten-process rotary filler/ sealer can be used to pack a Expanded needs for range of foods, including not small-sized packaging only liquids but also products Road Map for Shift from cans/bottles containing both liquid and =5.7% CAGR to lighter packages solid substances. Moreover, Nabtesco’s this machine allows the filling Growth Reduction of food loss target and sealing of two bags at market the same time, which means that it has the production capacity equivalent to that of 2016 2020 two conventional machines, while requiring the floor Provide safety, space and support equipment Source: Packaging machinery market: freedonia for one machine. Further, a comfort and a Nabtesco’s target market: Nabtesco’s assumption range of test equipment can be mounted on the machine. sense of security The filler/sealer also supports deaeration using steam. Measures for Mediumto Long-Term Growth Web Ensure management We will strengthen our bases and official distributors outside of Japan to promote sales transparency Packaging Machines mainly in Europe, the United States, China and Southeast Asia. Also in line with the sophishttps://www.nabtesco. tication of customer needs, we will maintain and increase a competitive edge through the com/en/products/packing. development of next generation high-speed machinery and enhancement of services in html Japan and overseas. Corporate Profile Major customers Sugar and salt manufacturers, food and beverage manufacturers, detergent manufacturers, Fact Sheet Disclosure Policy hair-care and cosmetics manufacturers pet food manufacturers, beverage manufacturers in North America, food manufacturers in China and others Production bases (as of the end of December 2016) Iwakuni City, Yamaguchi Prefecture, Japan / Dalian, China Market share Packaging machines for retort pouch foods: Approx.85% domestic market share History of business development In line with Japan’s economic growth, requirements for automation and energy conservation began to increase. In 1964, we started developing an automatic packaging machine, and thus entering the packaging machine market. In the middle of the 1960s, automatic packaging machines were rapidly adopted by sugar and salt manufacturers as well as by confectionery companies. In the 1970s, requirements for automatic food processing machines increased among frozen food manufacturers due to the spread of so-called fast food and the growth of the restaurant industry. In response, we began developing automatic food machines and became the first company to develop a curry cubes packaging machine in Japan. We also succeeded in developing a vacuum packaging machine. Further, in 1994 we began supplying packaging machines for spout bags, and in 2011, established a production base in Dalian, China. Additionally, in 2013 we established a local corporation for sales promotion and service provision in the United States. We are thus favorably expanding the business. 1964 Developed an automatic packaging machine and started the packaging machines business. 1970 Delivered Japan’s first retort pouch curry packaging machine. 1976 Began delivering vacuum packaging machines. 1994 Began delivering spout bag packaging machines. 2011 Established a subsidiary in Dalian, China. 2013 Established a local distribution company for packaging machines. Nabtesco Value Report 2016 74 00 Research & Development 01 Nabtesco’s Approach to R&D Nabtesco has integrated its component and system techfoster collaboration with external organizations such as nologies focusing on “motion control,” and works to develcompanies and universities based on the concept of open op high-precision control devices and driving units. Based innovation. Through these measures, we will further adopt on the relations of trust we have built with customers, diversified technologies, speed up our development prowho are advanced companies themselves, we are shifting cess, and develop global human capital for R&D, thereby the focus of our business from the sales of component promoting the creation of new products and businesses. products to the provision of solutions, while identifying the R&D expenses and ratios of R&D expenses to sales sophisticated needs of customers and enhancing our existing technologies. To this end, we are working to create new R&D expenses Ratios of R&D expenses to sales products and businesses, including mechatronic products (Million yen) (%) 8,000 7,362 6.0 and systems. 6,876 5,800 To attain the aforementioned goal, Nabtesco is imple6,000 4.5 3.1 3.1 3.0 menting a range of initiatives, including promoting joint re4,000 3.0 search with overseas universities and research institutes, 2,000 1.5 and fostering M&A. Moreover, we relocated the Nabtesco 0 0 2015/3 2015/12* 2016/12 Digital Engineering Center (NDEC) to the Kyoto Research (FY) Park located in the city of Kyoto, around where the univer* Covers 9 months for Nabtesco Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries in sities and the research institutes collect. At the NDEC, we Japan and 12 months for overseas consolidated subsidiaries. 02 R&D System Roles to Be Played by the Technology and R&D Division in terms of energy conservation and product life longevity, which (1) Support for In-house Companies is said to be attributable to the advancement of surface treatThe Technology and R&D Division makes recommendations ment and heat treatment technologies. The Division proactively and supports in-house companies to help meet their challenges introduces the most advanced of these base technologies and and develop necessary human capital with the aim of eventually verifies their effectiveness in laboratories, discloses the results improving manufacturing quality to the industry’s top level in each internally, and applies the technologies to individual products business field. The Division supports the development activities of and components in cooperation with the in-house companies. the in-house companies by using IT-based technologies, including As competitors in emerging countries are catching up with us computer-aided engineering (CAE), digital engineering (DE), 3D technologically, we are enhancing the base technologies and printing technologies and its unique material technology. Through transforming them into “black box” technologies so that it will be simulations made at the initial product development stage, the difficult to imitate them. We are thus making efforts to maintain Division helps the in-house companies make prior verifications in and increase our product competitiveness. a precise manner. In addition to this “front-loading type” of development support, it also supports in-house companies in human capital development and other development activities by providing electronics and sensor technologies. Moreover, it formulates and implements intellectual property strategies to increase the company’s competitiveness and protect its intellectual rights and associated benefits in all business segments. (2) Creating New Businesses The Division searches for the seeds of business, including market Disc brake thermal analysis Fluid-structure coupled analysis needs and technological seeds and engages in various development (example) for high-speed electromagnetic valve (example) projects. The Division conducts joint research with both domestic and overseas universities, research institutes, and companies on multiple development themes to develop high-level technologies in a timely manner. The NDEC works on the creation of new businesses through a wide range of intra-industry and industry-academia collaborations, taking an open innovation approach. (3) Enhance Base Technologies (Surface Treatment and Heat Treatment Technologies) Recently, great progress has been made on a range of machines Robot motion simulation (example) 75 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 03 Major R&D Fields PART 2 Acquisition of OVALO GmbH (to accelerate the manufacgenerators with new methods as well as sensor technolture of systems and mechatronic products) ogies at several international symposiums. We also filed In March 2017, Nabtesco acquired OVALO GmbH of Gerpatent applications. many. The purpose of the acquisition is to make use of the Financial company’s ability to develop motor control unit integrat“Moving it, stopping it.” + “Monitoring it.” Information ed products, thereby accelerating the transformation of Nabtesco has been shaping its motion control technology Nabtesco’s products into systems and mechatronic produnder the tag line “moving it. Stopping it.” to provide cusucts, which are indispensable to meeting the increasingly tomers with high-precision and high-efficiency products. diversified and sophisticated needs of customers. In the future, we will enhance our sensor technology to Also, adcos GmbH, which is a subsidiary of OVALO and expand the solutions that enable preventive maintenance Road Map for Growth is now one of Nabtesco’s consolidated subsidiaries, has by combining the use of functions to monitor products and the model-based development technology that provides their surrounding environments with big data analysis the basis for the development of mechatronic products. We for the diagnosis of failures. We will thereby provide high will make effective use of this know-how to dramatically value-added products while enhancing the maintenance, increase our development efficiency and quality. repair and overhaul (MRO) business. Provide safety, The acquisition represents the first M&A project led by the Technology and R&D Division. We will utilize the comfort and a sense of security advanced technologies owned by OVALO and adcos across business fields to generate maximum synergy effect within the Group to create new businesses. Ensure Additive Manufacturing (Making use of 3D printers to management acquire new manufacturing technologies) transparency 3D printer technology is advancing from the stage of rapid prototyping (RP) to that of additive manufacturing (AM). Nabtesco has made the NDEC a center for its 3D printCorporate Profile er-related technologies, and has equipped the NDEC with a metal 3D printer as well as a resin 3D printer (stereolithography equipment) for which CMET, a Nabtesco Group company, has know-how. We are conducting R&D activities by using the printers as the innovative production technology that drives manufacturing innovation along with the Disclosure Policy use of peripheral element technologies. We also plan to input resources in the development of materials to support the base technologies. Joint Research with Overseas Universities and Research Institutes We conducted wind power generation-related analyses jointly with the Technical University of Denmark (DTU) and announced the results at EWEA 2014 (European Wind Technical University of Denmark Energy Association). In FY2015, as the first stage of the joint research we continued working on the application of analytical technologies in preparation for their commercialization. In FY2017, in order to prove the necessity of a swing gear monitoring function, we are analyzing and examining the load balance of multiple devices and evaluating the practicality of state monitoring sensors by making practical use of them. Moreover, in collaborative R&D with Eidgenössische Technische Hochschule Zürich (ETH) in Switzerland on power electronics, we have made progress not only in theory-building, but also in prototype development and presented our results on environmental energy Meeting held at the ETH Nabtesco Value Report 2016 76 00 Intellectual Property Strategy 01 Intellectual Property Activities to Achieve the Long-Term Vision Nabtesco has been fostering intellectual property activities conducting activities according to these RMs. Also, we are in line with the business strategy set for the achievement pursuing more effective technology marketing by researchof the Long-Term Vision. In particular, for the businesses ing and through macro-analysis of global patent information conducted by in-house companies, we have set the Intellecto identify our targets for the creation of new businesses and tual Property Strategy Road Maps (RM) for each in-house new markets. Moreover, we are protecting the rights relatcompany to enhance our core values (core competence) as ed to our brand, which is a core of our corporate reliability, the basis for our competitiveness as well as to protect our fostering the appropriate use of the brand and eliminating intellectual properties on a global level. We are steadily counterfeit products to increase our corporate value. Nabtesco Group’s Intellectual Property Activitivities Promote intellectual property management Increasing Achievement of the MidEnsure Intellectual assets management Corporate Term Management Plan Nabtesco Group corporate value overwhelming Brand strategy value Corporate value Enhancing the Realization of the LongGlobal market power Term Vision Growth brand value Intellectual property portfolio management New businesses Strengthen business Setting the Enhance Business creation strategy competitiveness New business directions business M&A strategy businesses and targets through In-house competitiveness companies the macro-analysis of Fostering intellectual Use synergies between technology marketing and core value patent information property management for Nabtesco Group’s Core value strategy Enhance technological Protecting and continuous growth and competitiveness Existing enhancing the core higher competitiveness Ensure product Protection of intellectual property rights and businesses technologies as the competitiveness strategy on technological agreements basis for business Formulate intellectual property strategy and implementation competitiveness Provide education on intellectual property rights (including Group companies) Improving the Business business activity Establish a global system foundation promotion system Intellectual Property Intelligence 02 —Formulation of Strategy to Enhance Competitiveness— Nabtesco uses the Intellectual Property Intelligence to strengthThe Intellectual Property Enhancement Committee, which is en our competitiveness measures. Specifically, we analyze the a cross-sectional entity in the company, introduces idea developcore values of each business segment in terms of business operment methods and promotes the technology development policy ations and intellectual properties, focusing on how much extend to enhance the core value of each business division. Furtherwe are able to meet customers’ needs and comparative analysis more, the committee leads company on M&A opportunities with peers. We identify the gap between the current core values and technological partnerships (technological agreements) and and the core value to be gained in the future, and formulate accelerates to acquire intellectual property, secure patent and to measures to enhance or gain the core value, thereby maintaining promote risk reduction in intellectual property-related risks by and increasing our business competitiveness. fostering legal work on technological issues. Intellectual Property Intelligence to Enhance Core Value Strategies on technological agreements Future core value Enhancing business competitiveness, expanding core value, and increasing intellectual assets Improvement Expanding New New New Company A technologies Application technology market product M&A Company B Activities to identify and narrow the gap Licensing Intellectual Intellectual property Business Technological marketing Technological Market Gaps in core values development development Property Company C Intellectual Property Intelligence Enhancement Alliance Committee Intellectual Property Enhancement Committee Company D creation activities Use of synergies development activities (Intellectual property strategies, brands and Alliance NDA for core value trademarks, core technology management) Commissioned development Company E Road Maps (RM) for intellectual properties Joint development Alliance Current core value Trust earned from present customers, technological Core value in other business segments Company F strength of existing products, intellectual properties Commissioned development Core Trust earned in the Core Trust earned in the technology existing markets technology existing markets Company G Joint research 77 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 03 Creation of New Businesses through Technological Marketing (IP Landscape) PART 2 We are globally conducting patent surveys in relation to the analysis results to set our future business policies and fosequipment and systems in which our products are used. ter collaboration with other companies, including searchBased on the surveys, we make macro-analyses of the ing for new business themes and markets, examining needs of customers and technological trends. We use the development themes, and finding new business partners. Financial Information Technological Targeting Marketing Case Study: Setting Examination of the development Business partners Identifying Market Needs development theme policy M&A candidate Search for a new theme Road Map for Precision Global research and reduction gears macro-analysis of patent information Growth Macro-survey of patents for the entire factory system Customer needs Industrial robots Technological trends Players Provide safety, comfort and a Search for a new market sense of security New business themes Analysis of new applications Ensure management transparency Overall Picture of Intellectual Property Strategy 04 —Measures to Enhance Our Core Value— Nabtesco makes use of the results of technology marketing hancement organization, to examine and analyze the possibilCorporate Profile and formulates an intellectual property strategy for each segities of lateral utilization across al l business segments of the ment by the Intellectual Property Intelligence. We implement core values upheld by each of the segments. Through these the intellectual property strategies in line with the Intellectual strategic activities, we are promoting to create synergies of Property Strategy Road Map (RM) as an action plan, and the the core values between the business segments by searching results are evaluated and reviewed through the PDCA cycle. for opportunities to apply or make commercial use of the We have established the Intellectual Property Enhanceintellectual properties in the individual markets. Disclosure Policy ment Committee, a company-wide intellectual property enOverall Picture of Intellectual Property Strategy Ensure superiority Sustainable growth of the company and enhancement of the brand value in the market [Enhance business competitiveness, expand core values, and strengthen intellectual assets] Search for Technological customer marketing Commercial Construction New needs Robots Energy Railroads Marine vessel Aircraft Buildings Food vehicles machinery markets Formulation of intellectual property strategy suitable for the each business strategy Enhance Intellectual Property Precision New Railroad Marine Commercial Aircraft Hydraulic Automatic Packaging Headcore value Intelligence Reduction Energy Vehicle Vessels Vehicle Equipment Equipment Doors Machines quarters Gears Equipment Equipment Equipment Equipment Future Future Future Future Future Future Future Future Future Future core value core value core value core Deliberation value core intellectualcore of value value strategy/ property core value core value core value core value The Intellectual Property Sales, Technology, The Intellectual Property Enhancement Committee Create synergies for Current Current Company-wideCurrent utilization of synergies Current core values among Current of theCurrent each businesses Current Current Current Current core value core value core value core value core value core value core value core value core value core value Use in a core value Enhancement Committee Manufacturing, Service Future Future Future Future Future Future Future Future Future Future core value core value core value core value Application core value ofvalue core core value core value new coremarket value core value Existing existing core value Current core value Current Current Current Current Current Current Current Current Current core value core value core value core value core value core value core value core value core value core value Implement Intellectual strategies property RM Implementation in line with the road maps (RM) for intellectual property strategies, and evaluation/review Nabtesco Value Report 2016 78 00 Nabtesco Group’s Approach to CSR Materiality (Material CSR Issues) Materiality General ESG We use the concept of materiality (identification of mateMaterial CSR Issues Category Category rial CSR issues) to implement systematic CSR activities in Strengthen corporate governance fulfilling our corporate social responsibility. (For details Ensure management transparency Dialogue on Governance P.29 on the process of reexamining materiality, see P.09.) The Corporate Governance P.130 chart on the right summarizes the major impacts on our corporate activities from the identified issues. We will inGovernance (G) Promote risk management and compliance put resources to deal with a range of ESG-related issues behavior in an efficient and effective manner by recognizing the Risk Management P.137 Compliance P.139 potential impact of each issue. Ensure proactive dialogue with stakeholders IR Activities P.146 Support the External Initiatives Enhance customer satisfaction Ensure quality and safety Participation in the United Nations Capital That Underpins Value Creation P.35 Global Compact Road Map for Growth Research & Development P.59 P.75 Quality and PL Management P.81 The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is an international initiative that calls on companies and organizations Develop human capital and promote to demonstrate responsible and creative leadership and workplace diversity take action as good corporate citizens for the achievement Provide safe and comfortable workplaces Management of Occupational Health and Safety P.93 of sustainable growth. Signatories of the UNGC are reFostering Workplace Diversity P.95 quired to comply with the “ten principles” set in the areas Society (S) Human Capital Developmen P.99 of human rights, labor standards, the environment, and anti-corruption, and implement voluntary measures with a Respect human rights and prevent corruption Provide safety, comfort and a sense of security strong commitment from their senior management. Human Rights and Labor Practice P.91 Nabtesco signed the UNGC to show its support for the Compliance P.139 initiative in April 2014. Since then, the Company has been donating a certain amount of money every year to contribute to the implementation of the aforementioned ten Fair, proper and transparent procurement principles including the protection of human rights. We activities have been proactively participating in symposiums and Promote CSR through Supply Chain P.117 study groups organized by the Global Compact Network Japan. Namely, we have participated in the study groups Local community development on SRI/ESG, reporting, environmental management, diConsideration of Community and Society P.121 saster prevention and mitigation, supply chains, anti-corruption, and human rights due diligence. Building on the cooperation and dialogues with external initiatives that we Countermeasures for climate change have engaged in by participating in these events, we will Combating Climate Change P.106 continue to interact with other participating companies and learn from advanced examples how to better foster CSR-oriented management at our Company. Environmentally friendly manufacturing Environment (E) Environmental Management P.101 Management of Waste and Other Emissions P.112 Measures for SDGs (Sustainable Reduction of environmental impact through Development Goals) products and services Environmental Management P.101 We have taken proactive measures for achieving the Recycling, reuse and remanufacture of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). By setting targets products Message from General Manager of Corporate Planassociated with those goals among the 17 SDGs that have ning Division and General Administration & Human strong relevance to our material CSR issues, and thereby Resources Division P25 addressing materiality, we are striving to realize a more Management of Waste and Other Emissions P.112 sustainable society. (For details on SDGs, see P.03.) 79 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Major Impacts on Our Corporate Activities PART 2 Major SDGs of Negative Impact: Positive impact: Relevance Trust of stakeholders declines Trust of stakeholders is gained As a result of the enhancement of management supervision As a result of functional deficiency of corporate function, faster decision-making and ensuring of management governance, transparency, Financial corporate value is damaged. corporate value can be maintained or improved. Information As a result of appropriate risk management, As a result of the realization of risks and breaches c ompetitiveness in the product market is maintained or improved; or of compliance, business operations can be continued. business operations are interrupted or suspended; or As a result of the reinforcement of the global compliance financial cost increases. system, corporate value can be maintained or improved. Road Map for As a result of cooperation with stakeholders and development As a result of the decline in trust of stakeholders, of relationships of trust, b  usiness operations can be continued and business opportunities can be Growth competitiveness decreases; or generated; or reputation is damaged. talented people can be secured; or reputation can be maintained or improved. As a result of the lack of meeting of customer and As a result of the pursuit of customer needs, social needs, in-house technologies are enhanced, or human resources are developed. Provide safety, competitiveness in the product market declines. As a result of the provision of products that provide safety, As a result of deficiencies, accidents, etc. involving comfort and a sense of security, comfort and a products, trust of customers is gained. business operations are interrupted/suspended or finanAs a result of the contribution to solving social issues through sense of security cial loss is incurred; or business operations,  nancial cost increases. fi competitiveness in the product market is improved. As a result of the acquisition and development of capable and Due to the lack of ability to develop human versatile human resources, Ensure resources and the lack of diversity,  rganizational capabilities and loyalty of employees improve. o organizational power and loyalty of employees decrease. management As a result of the realization of safe and pleasant working As a result of labor issues or labor accidents, environments, transparency productivity decline. productivity is enhanced. As a result of the realization of human rights and corruption risks, reputation is damaged; or business operations are interrupted or suspended. As a result of preventing human rights and corruption risks, Corporate Profile reputation is maintained and improved. As a result of the strengthening of relevant laws and regulations, fi  nancial cost increases. As a result of the realization of procurement risks, As a result of controlling procurement risks, supply of raw materials and components is suspended. raw materials and components are procured sustainably. As a result of the interruption or suspension of As a result of securing high-quality suppliers, business operations, competitiveness in the product market is improved. Disclosure Policy fi  nancial cost increases. As a result of the development of trust with local communities As a result of sluggish local economy/society, and contribution to local communities, the product market shrinks and employment opportunities are lost. reputation is maintained and improved, or the product market expands and employment opportunities are gained. As a result of the realization of natural disaster As a result of preventing natural disaster risks and energy risks and energy risks, risks, business operations are disrupted. business operations can be continued. As a result of the strengthening of climate changeAs a result of contributing to mitigating climate change issues, related laws and regulations, reputation is maintained and improved. financial cost increases. As a result of the realization of environmental risks (violation of environmental laws and regulations As a result of the contribution to solving environmental issues, or environmental pollution caused by business reputation is maintained and improved. operations), financial cost due to damages, compensation, etc. increases. As a result of environmental pollution caused by As a result of the provision of products and services with high the provision of products and services, environmental performance, competitiveness in the product market declines. the product market expands and competitiveness is enhanced. As a result of a shortage of resources, As a result of the recycling of raw materials and components, business activities become stagnant. sustainability of business activities is improved. As a result of the lack of environmental As a result of the contribution to developing a recyclingperformance for products, oriented society, competitiveness in the product market declines. competitivness in the product market increases. Nabtesco Value Report 2016 80 00 Socially Beneficial Products and Services Quality and PL Management Incorporating Safety, Comfort and a Sense of Security into Products The Nabtesco Group has long been creatstability requirements, as well as the high ing new markets, developing products and functionality and performance necessary ensuring the safety of our products with for realizing maximum comfort. our customers, who have a trustworthy As a result, we have received positive relationships with us. Besides achieving evaluations from corporate customers “safety, comfort and a sense of security” of demanding high technology in various products, we also ensure them for customfields and can now offer products and ers who purchase our products as well as services—many of which take top spots in for end users by collecting and analyzing their respective markets. information on the actual conditions and In the future, we will continue striving to environment in which products are used. ensure safety, comfort and a sense of seWe then utilize and reflect the gathered curity, with high value based on our unique information in manufacturing our prodmotion control technology, throughout the ucts to achieve the safety, reliability, and life cycles of our products. Nabtesco Group Quality and PL (Product Liability) Policy The Nabtesco Group, as a provider of which are all outcomes from functionality high level of products for a wide range of and performance of products. With this fields and markets, recognizes that one understanding, the Nabtesco Group has of our material CSR issues (materiality) is established the Nabtesco Group Quality & to provide customers with products with PL Policy. safety, comfort and a sense of security Nabtesco Group Quality and PL Policy To fulfill our corporate social responsibility (CSR) by delivering products with the highest levels of safety, comfort, security and reliability, we will: 1. Give priority to safety over anything else, based on the principle of respect for people; 2. Meet safety and other quality needs of products through the integration of business activities and quality and PL activities; and 3. Realize product quality, which satisfies market demand, by conducting safety and other quality evaluations prior to the release of products to the market. Promotion Framework by Quality & PL Committee The Quality & PL Committee promotes those for product safety management) manufacturing procedures, which incorthrough listening to the opinions of cusporate quality engineering, quality control tomers and end users to meet the ever and PL management processes (including changing needs of society. 81 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Structure of Quality and PL Management, Education System of R&D and High Manufacturing Quality PART 2 CEO ESH Committee Quality & PL Committee Production General Administration & Technology and Financial Innovation Div. Human Resources Div. R&D Div. Information Human Resources Development Dept. Structure of quality & PL management activity Individual meetings with inRoad Map for PL Committee house companies management activity (audits and consultations) activities and Growth serious incident Risk Response Organizations in charge of response Team in in-house companies Headquarters Education system of quality and PL management Provide safety, Training on CAE & CAE CAE application design Materials Dept. Intellectual Training on Intellectual comfort and a sense of security property idea-generating methods Property Dept. Company-wide Electronics engiTraining on Electronics Accessibility Innovations Company Marine Control Systems Company education neering software design methods Engineering Dept. Precision Equipment Company Railroad Products Company Power Control Company Training on Ensure Aerospace Company Affiliated companies Design quality engineers-oriented quality Quality management PL and Training on Promotion Dept. product safety PL theory and product safety transparency Secretariat Training for Procurement Training for managers in managers in quality charge of procurement quality charge of qualiTraining for managers in Manufacturing ty management charge of manufacturing Corporate Profile quality quality Technology and Study groups on quality quality-related Improvement engineering/management issues study groups Product safetyStudy groups on related issues PL and product safety Disclosure Policy Structure of production innovation activities Manufacturing Manufacturing engineering and Engineering Study Group on manufacturing manufacturing management Department Procurement Training for those in charge of Quality management for suppliers Secretariat Department procurement Environment & Training for those in charge Promotion of environment & safety Safety Department of ESH Organizations of in-house activities and that with affiliated companies (including the quality & PL committees of the in-house companies) Promotion of Quality and PL Management Activities Nabtesco Group holds annual meetings it is difficult to audit the activities of all of our of the Quality & PL Committee to decide in-house companies according to the common on activity policies for the coming year by rules and criteria. Therefore, we regularly identifying what problems and issues have hold meetings with each individual in-house arisen in the Group. Based on these policies, company to better understand their unique our in-house companies conduct specific situations, to give tailor-made advice and to activities as a part of their daily operations. consider what kind of support we can offer in However, since each in-house company order to make improvements and to impledeals with different products and customers, ment more effective Quality and PL measures. Nabtesco Value Report 2016 82 00 Socially Beneficial Products and Services Systematized and Routinized Activities of the Quality & PL Committee 1. The Quality & PL Committee has been established within the company (Secretariat: Quality Promotion Department). 2. The objective of the committee is to formulate the criteria for quality control and product liability and safety management at the Nabtesco Group, to establish standard processes to prevent any instances of inferior quality, such as safety-related defects, and to respond appropriately to any quality or product liability problem should it occur, so as to maintain and improve the quality and safety of products. The committee contributes to the Group’s sustainable growth through building trust with our customers. 3. According to the operating rules, the committee also reviews activities implemented throughout the Group in the previous fiscal year, discusses matters such as annual policies, and main issues to be tackled in the upcoming year, which will be promoted through all in-house companies after approved. In recent years, upholding the basic policy of en“how” questions that arise from their daily hancing fundamentals of design and manufacturoperations, as part of “Knowwhy Nabtesco ing quality, we have been working on the intensive activities.” These meetings are expected to training of new employees on quality basics as have positive impacts on operation quality well as provision f instructions to our overseas and technology inheritance though higher bases and suppliers for the improvement of 5S common awareness at their worksites. (workplace safety activities) and also establishIn result of the continued efforts over the ment of necessary processes at their sites. long period of time, losses caused by quality Since FY2015, we have been holding defects have steadily been decreasing, and our meetings at each site that give participating foundation for the provision of customer safety, employees opportunities to ask “why” and comfort and security have strengthened. Measures against Product Accidents Web Prevention System Inquiries related to We have various product lineups such as tomers who use our component products, we products (24 hours a day) aircraft flight control actuation systems, brake foster close communications and cooperation components for railroad vehicles, remote to ensure the quality and safety of their prodhttp://www.nabtesco.com/ en/inquiry/index.html control systems for marine vessels, platform ucts and thus prevent any product-related doors for railroad stations and automatic accidents. Consequently, we have gained a doors for buildings. Due to the very nature high rating over the reliability of products. We of these products, they could pose serious also provide a consultation service about our risks to human life in the event of a malfuncproducts 24 hours a day through the website. tion-related worst case scenario. Based on Until the present moment since the this recognition, we have a complete support foundation of Nabtesco, we have not had system to enable us to respond appropriately any major casualty incidents incurred by to any contingency. In particular, with custhe use of our products (product liability). Response System for Accidents from Faulty Products and Quality Defects Customers and markets Information about complaints Responses Measures related to product accidents for the market External Inspection In-house and Group companies Receiving market information agencies, etc. Identifying the cause of the problem (Marketing, quality assurance, design, etc.) Nabtesco Group Supervisory authorities Headquarters Reporting Mass media Quality Promotion Dept. Industrial associations Business partners Other related parties CEO Quality & PL Committee Public relations Announcement General Administration Dept. and recall 83 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Certification for Quality Management System All the production bases of Nabtesco Corporaterms of the amount of sales, over 90% of the Web PART 2 tion as well as major Nabtesco Group comGroup’s products are manufactured under panies in Japan and major overseas Group certified quality management systems. Today, Quality MGS Public cercompanies have obtained certification for their the numbers of certifications obtained amount tification situation quality management system according to the to 13 in Japan and 16 overseas including those https://www.nabtesco. Financial Information com/en/csr/public.html corresponding local industrial standards. In based on the industry specific standards. Quality and PL Activities Conducted in FY2016 Road Map for Growth Enhancing the Manufacturing Quality of Suppliers To be responsible for the quality of products Quality Promotion Department of Nabtesco’s sold to our customers, Nabtesco internally Technology and R&D Division sent their deleProvide safety, manufactures and processes most of the key gates to a total of five suppliers in FY2016. parts of our finished products. However, at The fact that we received these requests the same time, we outsource processing and from suppliers clearly displays a good relationcomfort and a procure components from suppliers, so it is ship of trust between suppliers and our departsense of security essential for us to help these suppliers mainments of procurement/quality assurance. tain and improve their manufacturing quality. We have held seminars to help suppliers Ensure improve their manufacturing quality. These management seminars have now become regular events. transparency Upon the request from suppliers who attended the seminars and asked us to give the same lectures to other employees, we visited their facCorporate Profile tories to provide site-specific guidance including quality lectures and on-site instructions (for 5S and establishment of necessary processes). The Quality education (quality lectures) for supplier staff Enhancing the Manufacturing Quality of Overseas Group Disclosure Policy Companies and Overseas Suppliers To enhance the manufacturing quality of our our overseas suppliers, along with measures overseas bases, the Quality Assurance Departfor better understanding of cultural differencment in each in-house company cooperates es among employees in Japan, employees with the Quality Promotion Department of the stationed overseas, and local human resourcTechnology and R&D Division at the Headquares. In FY2016, a total of 128 employees particiters to conduct quality audits and provide the pated in our lectures. employees there with trainings and education focusing on their own issues. In addition to the theories of quality management methods, we also aim to convey knowledge about onsite control points and management methods in a specific and easy-to-understand manner to participants. In FY2016, approximately 137 employees in total from six companies participated in our lectures. In the future we plan to promote Nabtesco’s quality culture and Seminar on quality for an overseas Group company expand quality enhancement activities toward (Nabtesco Oclap S.r.l. (Italy)) Nabtesco Value Report 2016 84 00 Socially Beneficial Products and Services Activities on Enhancing the Manufacturing Quality *Provided by Quality Promotion Department FY2013–2015 FY2016 Overseas Group CompaSubject Suppliers in Japan Suppliers in Japan nies Lectures on quality and Lectures on quality and Lectures and instructions site-specific instructions in site-specific instructions on quality in responding Measures responding to the suppliers’ in responding to the to local language and requests. suppliers’ requests. cultures FY2013 292 companies, 573 persons 6 companies, 137 persons AchieveFY2014 325 companies, 824 40 companies, 124 (quality guidance) 128 perment persons persons sons (lectures on multiculFY2015 7 companies, approx. tural workplace) 300 persons 85 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Education and Training PART 2 (R&D and Manufacturing Quality) Financial Group-Wide Quality and PL Management Activities and the Information REFERENCE Educational System that Drives Innovation Socially Beneficial Products and Services Under the mediumto long-term strategy “safety, comfort and a sense of security” as Structure of Quality and of developing human capital, the Human added value. Road Map for PL Management, Education System of R&D Resources Development Department of the As the competition over technology Growth and High Manufacturing General Administration & Human Resourcdevelopment is intensifying not only with Quality es Division cooperates with the Technology existing competitors but also with new Page 82 and R&D Division to provide employees with companies both in Japan and overseas, education on quality and PL as part of the including emerging economies, we seek quality and PL management activities. (Reto expand our areas of value creation by Provide safety, comfort and a fer to the diagram P.82 “Structure of Quality solving new technological problems and and PL Management and Education System developing new applications of our curof R&D and High Manufacturing Quality) rent technologies. As an education system sense of security In the company-wide technical training, to drive Technology Innovation, which is employees learn that they should give first set forth as one of the Basic Policies of Ensure priority to safety and making sure that the the Medium-Term Management Plan, we management company’s products are in line with the provide employees with technical traintransparency international safety standards so that the ing on front-loading design based on the products are accepted in the market and high-precision use of CAE*, sophistication society. Moreover, we tell our employees, of the motion control technology utilizing by combining safety considerations with motorization, digitization and systematizaCorporate Profile our high technology and high manufaction, and on other methodologies to discovturing quality, we can provide society with er new ideas more promptly and efficiently. *CAE: Computer Aided Engineering Disclosure Policy Company-Wide Education (Technical Training) Quality Management Training for Young Leaders With a view to nurture the sense of high quality among engineers in the mediumto longterm strategy, we have started an internal Quality Management Training Program in FY2007, which we run every year. The program especially targets those who are expected to play important roles in the next generation. The attendees range from young to mid-career design engineers. Quality Management Training for young employees: functionality assessment of a plastic model car Nabtesco Value Report 2016 86 00 Socially Beneficial Products and Services Technical Training Seminars on PL and Product Safety We have been holding Group-wide training seminars since FY2007 to raise the product liability awareness and to encourage every employee engaging in aspects of designing, manufacturing, marketing, and servicing to apply the concepts into their daily jobs in order to deliver safety, comfort, and a sense of security not only to our customers, but also to end users of our products. Training on PL doctrine and product safety: Workshop on risk assessment methods using electrical appliances Training for Higher CAE Analysis and 3D Designing Technologies In order to reduce the number of prototyping gradually increasing. These training proand testing in product development, it is grams have helped develop more personnel critical to use 3D designs and CAE analysis who can think in a multifaceted manner. to examine product shapes in a virtual space. Nabtesco has established a unique curriculum through which not only our experts, but also our designers can learn to perform the CAE analysis. The CAE training is now a mandatory part of new employees training and contributes to the development of professionals who can naturally draw 3D images. The number of trainees who participate in specialist training courses started in FY2016, 3D CAD/CAE training (New personnel training: such as fluid analysis and system analysis, is Presentation of an assignment) 87 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Introductory Idea Generation Training (Nabtesco Version of TRIZ PART 2 Method of Inventive Problem Solving) To realize business growth strategies and are instructed to identify the core value of enhance corporate value, Nabtesco is the business and tasks they are in charge strengthening the (present and future) core of and to actually generate ideas for realizvalue of our business and implementing ining customer needs. Our aim is to develop Financial tellectual property strategies to secure our leaders in idea generation who can come Information competitive advantage. The most importup with ideas for developing new products ant effort with regard to the intellectual and improving existing products by drawing property strategies is to create core value on their experience and the idea generation based on the accurate anticipation of marskills they learn through this course. ket trends and customer needs and to take Road Map for Growth strategic measures for intellectual property (to secure know-how and rights). In particular, to expedite the creation of core value, we have continuously offered an introductory idea generation course based Provide safety, on the TRIZ (theory of inventive problem solving) method since FY2010. This training comfort and a sense of security provides participants with an opportunity to learn methods of generating ideas for developing and improving products. Trainees Introductory idea generation course Ensure management transparency Training on Software Design Quality In response to an increase in the imporon model-based development methods Corporate Profile tance of software applied in products, in with an eye to developing software with FY2013 we began to provide training on higher design quality. high design quality and the substantive demonstration of software reliability. In line with the software development process, we have been providing training on Disclosure Policy using the following three steps: requirement analysis, software design, and software verification. In FY2017, we will continue to conduct training in line with the software development process and also upgrade a course Basic model-based development training Nabtesco Value Report 2016 88 00 Socially Beneficial Products and Services Product Quality Manager Training Training for Managers in Charge of Manufacturing Quality Since FY2012, we have held a full-scale practical training program on quality improvement methods. The program is mainly targeting managers who are responsible for providing instructions on quality at our manufacturing bases. This program improves their abilities to analyze problems and to provide education on quality-related issues at their workplaces. In addition, we also enhance our quality education at our overseas Product quality manager course: Product quality control manufacturing bases, especially those in the United States, China, and Thailand. Improvement Study Group Responding to Demand for Higher Quality In line with the diversification and gloTo manage the product quality, includbalization of the economy and society, we ing managing the quality of products actureceive a broader range of requests really in use, it is necessary to implement a garding our products. range of measures. Accordingly, Nabtesco It is no longer enough to provide prodis fostering education of personnel with ucts that meet the needs of customers in expertise in such quality management thoterms of functions and performance. We rugh quality improvement workshops. At must also ensure that the products can these workshops, quality managers share demonstrate the necessary functions and their past experiences and examine quality performance stably under various condiimprovement measures. tions of use. In response, in addition to the ordinary performance test, we also conduct tests to examine the behaviors of our products under various foreseeable environments by considering all the possible usages from our customer data. Thereby we continuously make further technical and quality improvements on our products to ensure customer safety. Quality improvement study: Reviewing quality control methods 89 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Product Safety With regard to product safety, our in-house ic framework in line with international PART 2 companies have previously implemented safety standards as well as promoting the all safety measures required by the stanawareness of employees on and practical dards of related industries, and we have use of this framework. In particular, since established a satisfactory level of product FY2015, we have been working to provide Financial safety. customers with easy-to-read and intelInformation Out in the market, however, even firstligible user instructions in line with the class manufacturers are facing a range of relevant international standards to have product safety issues, such as abnormal our customers use our products correctly product breakages and problems due to and safely. defective components, which often lead to Road Map for Growth product recalls. Product safety has, therefore, been attracting an increasing amount of public attention and there is growing recognition that manufacturers should be Provide safety, responsible for product stewardship as one of their CSR activities. In response to this trend, the Nabtesco Group is committed to comfort and a sense of security ensuring even greater safety and security for its products by building a systematResearch on product safety: review of instruction manuals Ensure management transparency Corporate Profile Disclosure Policy Nabtesco Value Report 2016 90 00 Focusing on Employees’ Growth and Development Human Rights and Labor Practice Human Rights Policy Respecting human rights in all aspects of corruption as its material CSR issues of corporate activities is the basis of Cor(materiality). In FY2016, we overhauled the porate Social Responsibility (CSR). Since Nabtesco Group Code of Corporate Ethics FY2014, Nabtesco has been developing its and the Nabtesco Group Code of Conduct CSR-oriented management as a signatory and established the Nabtesco Group Code of the United Nations Global Compact and of Ethics, which, under the “Respect for as a supporter of the Universal Declaration Human Rights” section, declares that the of Human Rights. Nabtesco Group will adhere to internationWe respect basic human rights, and al standards of conduct regarding human make sure that any discrimination based rights, respect cultural diversity and on race, beliefs, gender, age, social status, different values, and will not engage in or nationality, ethnicity, religion, disability; utilize child labor or forced labor. The Code Web any workplace harassment; or any act that of Ethics also declares that Nabtesco will Nabtesco Group Code of may infringe personal dignity is not conthoroughly familiarize all executives and Ethics ducted, allowed, or overlooked. employees with this Code and monitor the https://www.nabtesco. The Nabtesco Group is committed to the status of compliance with this Code. com/en/ir/policy/compliance.html upholding of human rights and prevention Human Rights Monitoring System In order to ensure that the recruitment of promoting awareness of human rights in employees is carried out fairly, seven Human FY2017. The new subcommittee, organized Rights Promotion Officers have been appointunder CSR Committee which reports directly ed to the Headquarters and each of six sites. to the president, is tasked with formulating We also conduct trainings for job interviewhuman rights policies and establishing a ers every year to educate them on human system for human rights due diligence. rights-related issues that they should considThe Nabtesco Group takes part in the er, including questions to be asked of canGlobal Compact Network Japan’s Human didates and tips for evaluating international Rights Due Diligence Working Group in an graduates. As of FY2016, we have not received effort to deepen our understanding of huany complaints regarding human rights. man rights issues and enhance our ability To ensure systematic and comprehensive to effectively address risks associated with human rights risk management within the human rights. We continue to work on varNabtesco Group and its supply chain, the ious challenges related to human rights in Nabtesco Group established a Human Rights business through cooperation and dialogue Promotion Special Committee dedicated to with initiatives outside the Group. Nabtesco Corporation Headquarters Personnel Department, General Administration & Human Resources Division Kobe Plant Seishin Plant Konan Plant Gifu Plant Tarui Plant Tsu Plant General AdminGeneral AdminGeneral AdminGeneral AdminisGeneral AdminisGeneral Adminisistration Section, istration Section, istration Section, tration Section tration Section tration Section General AdminisGeneral AdminisAdministration tration tration Dept. Dept. Dept. 91 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Prevention of Child Labor and Forced Labor Based on the Universal Declaration of ducted an employment survey and confirmed PART 2 Human Rights, we are committed to elimithat there were no cases of child labor or nating child labor and forced labor. To this forced labor at Group companies in China, and end, in FY2014 we have dispatched an emthat these companies employ people in comployee in charge of personnel affairs to the pliance with the labor-related laws enforced Financial corporation supporting the management by the government departments. To prevent Information of Group companies in China, and provided child labor in specific, we have revised and local employees with a consulting service instructed on the rules of Group companies for personnel and labor affairs. and amended the minimum age for an emAfter dispatching the employee, we conployment to be 18 across the Group. Road Map for Growth Labor Management Relations Labor Union Provide safety, Nabtesco Corporation was established followmeeting to exchange opinions regarding busiing the integration of Teijin Seiki Co., Ltd. and ness management, environment and occucomfort and a sense of security Labor Union NABCO Ltd. in October 2004, and the labor pational health and safety, and salaries and Participation Rate unions of the two companies were united on bonuses. The written agreement between the (non-consolidated / October 30, 2010. The union is a union shop company and the union includes a clear stateas of Dec. 31, 2016) system and currently has approximately 1,850 ment on management’s obligations to make efEnsure 73.0 members, including part-time employees. forts to implement the no overtime day system management The labor and management of Nabtesco and encourage employees to take planned transparency maintains good relations with the union by annual paid leaves. The labor and management jointly discussing ways to improve the compacooperate with the union to help maintain the % ny’s various systems and programs, regularly work-life balance of its employees. Corporate Profile Protection of Right to Bargain Collectively Nabtesco holds labor-management their best efforts for a peaceful solution, meetings regularly with the labor union. with management supporting and protecting Disclosure Policy Through these meetings the union obtains union members’ right to bargain collectively. important information about the company’s 1  abor-management meeting L management, which helps maintain sound (twice a year) labor-management relationships. 2 In-house company labor-manageWhen labor and management need to disment meeting (twice a year) cuss working conditions and the treatment 3 Onsite labor-management meeting of union members, in addition to the afore(every month) mentioned meetings, extra meetings will 4 Study meeting on personnel be held; and if the two parties do not reach affairs and labor relations (three agreement on the issues, they will make times a year) Guaranteeing Payment of Minimum Wages Based on the minimum wages set by region and union to the revised wages, thereby improvindustry under the Minimum Wage Act, Nabteing the treatment of employees and presco agrees with the labor union about its own venting noncompliance with related laws. minimum wages to be paid at each of the sites. Also at the Nabtesco Group companies Legal minimum wage levels are revised outside Japan, employee wage levels are every year, and Nabtesco calculates its own set in accordance with laws stipulating minimum wages for the year by adding a minimum wages in the relevant country to certain amount agreed upon with the labor ensure legal compliance. Nabtesco Value Report 2016 92 00 Focusing on Employees’ Growth and Development Management of Occupational Health and Safety ESH Basic Policy and Management Targets The Nabtesco Group manages environItem Description ment, safety and health (ESH) issues in Safety first: Always make safety the first accordance with the basic policy and manpriority based on the principle of respect for human life. agement targets shown in the table on the Basic Safety is a responsibility of the entire propolicy duction line: Each employee is responsible right. Management of ESH issues pertains for him/herself and his/her co-workers. to all employees of the Nabtesco Group as Safety should be a built-in operation: ESH = your job. well as its partner companies and is led by Environment: Zero cases of environmental the Group ESH Committee. problems Manage* See ESH Promotion Framework on page 103. Safety: Zero cases of industrial accidents ment Accident prevention: Zero cases of explotargets sions or fire Health: Zero cases of occupational diseases Activities There have been no cases of fatal accidents Lost-Work Time Injuries Frequency Rate Web among regular and non-regular employees All industries in Japan Manufacturing industry of the Nabtesco Group for the past five in Japan Nabtesco Group THIRD PARTY VERIFICATION years. Over the past three years, howev(%) Nabtesco Group’s er, industrial accidents accompanied by 2.0 environmental and social absence from work include those resulting indicators 1.66 1.61 1.63 in bone fractures, more than 80% of which 1.59 1.58 *Occupational accident rate involved workers being cut/scratched, 1.5 https://www.nabtesco. com/en/ir/library/report. being pinched/caught, and falling. 1.15 html 1.06 1.06 In FY2017, we therefore started 1.00 1.0 the STOP3 activities to eradicate the 0.94 above-mentioned, three most frequently 0.76 0.53 occurring types of accidents with the ob0.5 0.61 jective of achieving zero cases of industrial 0.40 0.47 accidents. Moreover, we began initiatives to foster a culture of safety to enhance 0.0 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 workers’ safety awareness. * Data for the all industries average and the manufacturing industry average are from the 2016 Survey on Industrial Accidents, Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. * The figure for the Nabtesco Group in FY2015 was calculated with the scope of the survey being the 12 months from January to December 2015. Occupational Health and Safety Management System (Acquisition of OHSAS 18001 certification) The three major plants (Gifu, Tarui and Tsu), body every year in their efforts to improve their which engage in more processing work than othoccupational health and safety level. er plants and together employ around 40% of our We will continue to pursue preventive safedomestic plant workers, have acquired OHSAS ty management through risk assessments, 18001 certificationi as an effective tool to ensure and to increase safety awareness at each occupational safety. These plants are establishing workplace. Moreover, we will improve the edand operating their occupational health and safety ucation of new employees, reinforce efforts to management systems in line with the standards. raise perception of existing risks, and promote The three plants undergo audit by a certification the creation of workplaces without accidents. 93 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 OHSAS 18001 Certification PART 2 Name of plants Date of certification Last update Certification body Gifu Plant (Gifu pref.) July 6, 2004 Tarui Plant (Gifu pref.) (Joint acquisition July 6, 2013 LRQA Tsu Plant (Mie pref.) by the three plants) Financial Information Evaluation of Safety and Health Risks Associated with New Businesses and Projects Road Map for The Nabtesco Group makes it mandatory sessment results before implementation. to assess ESH risks associated with new In FY2016, we conducted risk assessments businesses and projects and to report ason 11 businesses and projects. Growth Health Management Provide safety, Efforts to Eliminate Mental Health Problems comfort and a sense of security For a corporation to achieve a growth, it is check recipient rate among companies conessential that it have a physically and mentally ducting the test, according to the tabulation by healthy workforce that can drive the organizaa test outsourcer. The stress check revealed Ensure management tion forward. We have two nurses in residence that 13% of our employees have a high level of to provide counseling as needed to employees stress, which is 2.6 points higher than average. transparency experiencing mental health problems and We will work to improve our workplace envihelp them return to work. For employees ronments by making physicians available for whose workload is considered high, the consultation and conducting follow-up meaCorporate Profile nurses monitor their mental health through sures, thereby reducing the rate of employees regular interviews. In order to promote the with a high level of stress to less than 10%. mental health of employees in a more proactive way, we also host various seminars and lecture events on a regular basis as well as run the Employee Assistance Program (EAP), Disclosure Policy which is available to employees on overseas assignment and their family members. In line with the revised Industrial Safety and Health Act, in FY2016 we conducted stress checks for the first time. The rate of employees who received the check was 93.4%, which Joint meeting held by the Personnel Department, nurses was five points higher than the average stress and the Health Insurance Society Countermeasures against Lifestyle Diseases Improving the lifestyles of employees who time and holiday work hours of such emare suffering or at risk of metabolic synployees. The Nabtesco Group is committed drome, one of the causes of lifestyle-relatto raising its employees’ health awareness ed diseases, is important not only for safeand improving their actual health status guarding the health of those employees but through ensuring workplace environments also for reducing future medical costs. are conducive to supporting employees with We oblige employees found by physical health risks and using labor-management examination to have a high risk of brain or meetings as opportunities for regularly reheart disease to receive health guidance. porting the implementation status of health We also impose certain restrictions on overguidance and working hour restrictions. Nabtesco Value Report 2016 94 00 Focusing on Employees’ Growth and Development Fostering Workplace Diversity Active Employment of Non-Japanese Nationals Including Foreign Students Studying in Japan Non-Japanese Employees as a Due to the maturity of the economy and the fact As a result of implementing measures such Percentage of that the Japanese population is decreasing as a as holding job fairs to provide information on Total Number of Employees result of the declining birthrate, we can no lonour company targeted specifically at foreign ger expect significant economic growth to take students studying in Japan and conducting place in the domestic market, and therefore recruiting activities at overseas colleges, as of Japanese employees 97.0% need to promote further globalization. December 31, 2016, foreign nationals from nine Non-Japanese Non-Japanese employees have different countries have joined Nabtesco’s workforce. employees 3.0% ways of looking at things and active attitudes We set the goal for the ratio of non-Jap* The calculation scope covers toward work, and as such, they are expected anese new graduates hired for managerial only Nabtesco Corporation. The figures are based on the human to have positive effects on other personnel. positions to around 30% each year. resources data. Total Number of Newly Recruited Main Career Track Employees (New Graduates) and Percentage of Non-Japanese Nationals (Unit: persons) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total number of newly recruited 41 30 29 15 27 main career track employees Number of non-Japanese 16 8 10 2 4 nationals Percentage of non-Japanese Breakdown of Non39.0% 26.7% 34.5% 13.3% 15.0% Japanese Employees nationals (as of December * The calculation scope covers only Nabtesco Corporation. The figures are based on the human resources data 31, 2016) Proactive Employment of Women (Unit: persons) China 46 To promote employment of female emTotal Number of Newly Recruited Main Republic of Korea 8 ployees, we hold job fairs specifically for Career Track Employees (New Graduates) Malaysia 1 female college students. and Percentage of Women Vietnam 2 At these job fairs, we provide students with an Total number of newly recruited main career track Germany 1 opportunity to directly hear the voices from the employees Total number of newly recruited main career track women Women as a percentage of total Czech Republic 1 female employees about their experiences, avail(No. of Person) (%) Ghana 1 able childcare schemes, and work-life balance. 50 30 India 1 Thus, we had achieved the goal of maintain27.6 26.7 U.S.A. 1 ing the ratio of females among new graduates 41 23.3 for managerial positions at no less than 20% 40 24 * Employees naturalized in Japan each year up to FY2016. In FY2017, however, it are counted as the citizens went under the goal due to the scarcity of female 30 19.5 30 29 18 of their countries of origin; graduates who majored in mechanical engi27 employees from Hong Kong are counted as Chinese citizens neering and electrical/electronic engineering, who are our primary recruitment targets. Going 20 12 15 forward, we will continue to uphold this goal and 7.4 continue our efforts to recruit female workers. 10 6 8 7 8 Nabtesco has established three action plans 4 pursuant to the Act on the Promotion of Wom2 en’s Participation and Advancement in Work0 0 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 place (enforced on April 1, 2016). We continue to make efforts to implement these action plans. * The calculation scope covers only Nabtesco Corporation. The figures are based on the human resources data. Our Action Plan Following the Act to Advance Women's Success in Their Working Life Measure 1: Propose new work styles to employees on the shorter work hour scheme by introducing home working and teleworking systems Measure 2: Introduce a mechanism to formulate a medium-term development plan to educate employees in a systematic manner Measure 3: Review evaluation elements and criteria by analyzing evaluation results 95 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Promoting Employment of Senior Persons Nabtesco’s continued employment system Re-Employment Rate of Retirees PART 2 provides a consolidated environment for Number of retired employees re-employed experienced employees to maximize their Percentage of retired employees re-employed performance levels, such as special benefit Financial (Persons) (%) 100.0 for those with advanced expertise. 100 100 Due to the revision of the National Information 82.5 Pension Act, the rate at which Nabtesco 80 73.1 83.7 80 re-employs retired employees will further 74.4 68 increase beyond the present level of over 60 60 70%. Road Map for 52 Experienced employees are sharing Growth 40 36 40 their skills with their successors and at 29 each production site team members are 24 conducting activities to turn their tacit 20 20 knowledge into explicit knowledge. These Provide safety, activities have become an intellectual asset 0 0 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 to support our current technical capabilities. *T  he culculation scope covers only Nabtesco Corporation. comfort and a sense of security The figures are based on the human resources data. Promoting Employment of Persons with Disabilities Ensure management In FY2013, the statutory employment rate transparency of persons with disabilities was raised from 1.8% to 2%. Since FY2015, we have achieved the 2% rate by actively hiring Corporate Profile persons with disabilities as a result of our new graduate recruitment. In FY2015, we established Nabtesco Link Corporation, a Group company intended to promote employment of persons with disabilities in Gifu Prefecture, as part of Nabtesco Link Corporation Disclosure Policy efforts to fulfill our social responsibilities. In FY2016, the company was approved by Employment Rate of Persons with Disabilities the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare as a Specialized Subsidiary Company that (%) meets the requirements under the Act on 2.2 Promotion of the Employment of Persons 2.19 2.10 with Disabilities. 2.1 Statutory employment rate of persons with disabilities Nabtesco Link hires its employees 2.0 (Since April 1, 2013) directly from special needs schools locat1.98 ed in the prefecture, thus contributing to 1.9 1.89 local employment. Moreover, Nabtesco has 1.83 1.8 fostered exchanges with these local special Statutory employment rate of persons with disabilities (Before April 1, 2013) needs schools by arranging factory tours 1.7 and by offering space on factory premises 1.6 for the students to sell products they have made. 1.5 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 The Nabtesco Group continues its concerted efforts to hire persons with disabili* The FY2015 employment rate is the average of the nineties in order to promote employment in our month fiscal period. The culculation scope covers only operating regions. Nabtesco Corporation. The figures are based on the human resources data. Nabtesco Value Report 2016 96 00 Focusing on Employees’ Growth and Development Work-Life Balance A good balance between work and a satemployees to take leave repeatedly for isfying private life provide a source of new up to a total of two years, as well as other values and concepts, and will help each support systems and consultation services employee demonstrate high-quality perto provide employees with alternatives to formance. Based on this belief, we have giving up their careers while committing to a wide spectrum of schemes in place to family responsibilities. promote a healthy work-life balance. We created a childcare support handbook that summarizes childcare-related laws and internal systems to help employees understand the difficult systems in place and undertake necessary procedures more easily. In January 2016, we created a nursing care support handbook to explain the nursing care leave system, which allows Brochures Support for Childcare and Eldercare 1. Parental leave: Up to two years. This leave can be taken even when the spouse is devoted to full-time child-rearing. 2. Nursing care leave: Up to a total of two years per family member who needs eldercare, but if the number of days taken off by an employee under the system does not exceed 93 days during the two-year period, the employee can take the leave also after the end of the period. (revised in April 2013) 3. Shorter working hours for childcare: Working hours can be reduced by two hours per day until the beginning of the child’s fourth grade of elementary school. 4. Sick/injured childcare leave: This leave is available until the beginning of the child’s fourth grade of elementary school. Ten days (unpaid) or any necessary number of days that can be covered by the accumulated expired paid leave system (paid) 5. Paternity leave: This leave can be taken when the employee’s wife gives birth to a child. Five days (paid) 6. Shorter working hours for nursing care: Working hours can be reduced by two hours per day. 7. Financing by the Kyosaikai employee cooperative society to support employees taking childcare/eldercare leave 8. Consideration for employees who are engaged in childcare/eldercare when transferred (avoiding change of workplace, etc.) Other Support 1. Integrated benefits program 2. Nabtesco corresponding education program 3. Qualification support program 4. English/Chinese lessons at each site 5. Support for club activities 97 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Stability of Workforce Nabtesco promotes labor management Rate of those who resigned for personal reasons PART 2 and related measures based on employee Male (Total turnover rate) Female (Total turnover rate) turnover data that details the reasons for Rate of those who resigned for personal reasons leaving the company. Financial (%) The graph on the right shows the rates 7.0 of male and female employees that re6.0 Information 6.0 5.7 tired or resigned from Nabtesco. The rate of employees who resigned for personal 5.0 reasons has remained around 1%, which 4.0 shows that Nabtesco provides its employRoad Map for 3.8 3.5 3.1 ees with a good work environment 3.2 2.9 3.0 Growth 3.1 1.8 2.0 1.7 1.1 1.0 1.0 0.7 0.6 0.7 Provide safety, 0 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 * The culculation scope covers only Nabtesco Corporation. comfort and a sense of security The figures are based on the human resources data. Breakdown of Employees who Resigned or Retired (FY2016)  (Unit: persons) Ensure Those who resigned (1) Retirees for reasons related Those who resigned management for personal reasons Total number among (1) to the company transparency among (1) among (1) Managers 16 11 0 5 General 50 32 0 18 Corporate Profile employees Total 66 43 0 23 * The number of voluntary resignation of executive officers and those who had been re-employed are excluded. The calculation scope covers only Nabtesco Corporation. The figures are based on the human resources data. Breakdown of Regular Employees (as of December 31, 2016) (Unit: persons) Disclosure Policy (1) (2) Number of managNumber of new Number of permaNumber of newly ers among (1) graduates among (2) nent employees hired employees Male 1,940 323 68 40 Female 210 2 15 11 Total 2,150 325 83 51 * The calculation scope covers only Nabtesco Corporation. The figures are based on the human resources data. Nabtesco Value Report 2016 98 00 Focusing on Employees’ Growth and Development Human Capital Development Basic Policy on Human Capital Development We clearly state, “Employees are essential Basic Policy on Human Capital Development assets” in The Nabtesco Way. In order to share the company’s ideal imDevelop personnel who can think age of the human capital where it is the peoand learn on their own at all times as ple who make the company, and to define the members of a global corporate group, and create a culture that values and direction that all employees should follow, the supports learning. Nabtesco Group established the Basic Policy on Human Capital Development and has been providing a range of educational opportunities in line with this policy ever since. FY2015 Education Scheme (as of May 2017) Mandatory Global Human Position-specific Training for Resource Category Technical training training specific purposes Development Training Human Manufacturing Human Quality Compliance Lead Human Resource Human Resource Technology Resources Resource Human Intellectual Promotion Promotion department Development Dept. Development Dept. Dept. Dept. Development Resources Dept. Property Dept. Department Dept. Dept. General Training for Newly Appointed General managers Managers Managers Training for Managers Training for Newly Appointed Managers’ Managers Management Training for Newly Employed Mid-career-hire Employees Grade 7 Interviewer Training Target Setting Training Fundamental Compliance Training (provided within the position specific training) Upper-level Problem-solving Grade 6 Training (Training OJT Staff Training Seminar on life after retirement Pre-overseas Posting Training for employees promoted to Grade 6) 10th-Year Intellectual Property Training Training for Candidate Foremen Grade 5 5th-Year Intellectual Property Training General employees Entry-level Problem-solving Grade 4 Training (Training for employees promoted to Grade 4) Fundamental Training for clerical position Ethics Edification Training as a Manufacturer Fundamental Skill Training for Engineers Grade 3 Fundamental Technical Training for Grade 2 Training for Engineers New Employees Grade 1 99 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Position-specific training...................................... To meet qualification requirements when PART 2 joining the company or being promoted Target Purpose-specific training...................................... To achieve personal goals regarding operation of management and human resources systems Global human resource development training.... To enhance skills and knowledge to fulfill duties on a global scale Financial Technical training.................................................. To improve technical knowledge and skills Information Number of Trainees (Training Provided by the Human Resources Development Department from January to December in FY2016) Annual total number of participants Training for New Employees 59 Second-year Training for Clerical Position 14 (for training provided by Human Resources Road Map for Entry-Level Problem-Solving Training (for Third-year Training for Engineers 33 Development Dept.) 53 those promoted to Grade 4) Third-year Training for Clerical Position Growth 8 Upper-Level Problem-Solving Training (for 42 Third-year Retrospective Training (head those promoted to Grade 6) 43 office worker) Total hours of training: 23,780 Training for Newly Appointed Managers 24 Basic Management Program 19 Training for Newly Appointed General Managers 10 Studying at domestic and overseas business hours Provide safety, 12 schools Training for Candidate Foremen 21 comfort and a Studying overseas (overseas trainee) 4 The number of hours Training for Newly Employed Mid-Careerof training per person: 11 132 English Writing Training 21 sense of security Hire Employees Intensive Study Camp for English Selective Training for One and Second-year 3 hours 24 Conversation Engineers English Presentation Training 13 Second-Year Research Report & Presentation 34 Training on Marketing 15 Ensure Second-year Retrospective Training (office worker) 28 Workshop on Designing 15 management Second-year Training at the Head Office Training for those to be transferred transparency 35 7 Technical Department overseas * The number of trainees above includes also trainees from subsidiaries. * Number of Training for Newly Employed Mid-Career-Hire Employees inclues transferring employees from Hyest Corporation Corporate Profile Development of Globally Competitive Human Capital As overseas business is expected to conrequired for global business commutinue to expand, it is becoming increasingly nications. In FY2012, we introduced the Disclosure Policy important to develop globally competitive “Overseas Trainee Program” in which our human capital. We introduced a system to employees can study and work aboard. By register in advance employees slated to the end of FY2016 we had sent a total of 17 work overseas so that we can provide them employees overseas under this program. with essential training in a planned manner. It also builds a database of the experiences of those actually working overseas to share useful information on overseas work among employees, thereby enhancing the entire Nabtesco Group’s global abilities. We organize regular English writing and presentation classes to provide our employees with opportunities to gain and improve basic English language skills English Writing Training Nabtesco Value Report 2016 100 00 Focusing on Employees’ Growth and Development Improving Basic Skills of Young Employees to Immediately Become an Effective Workforce We provide new graduates who have joined that they can become an effective memthe company with intensive training in a bers of the workforce as soon as possible. planned and systematic manner during Under the OJT system, OJT staff members their first three years of work, deeming this provide careful instructions to individual time to be optimal for enhancing their basic trainees, while the trainers themselves skills. Specifically, we provide them with also receive training to maintain their annual training programs in consideration high ability to provide such instruction. In Second-Year Research Report & Presentation of their individual growth stage, thereby addition, a common training plan workhelping them to improve year by year. sheet designed to visualize the contents We also give new employees on-the-job and progress of the training is used for all (OJT) training, believing it to be important trainees to create a uniform, high-quality to offer them hands-on work experience so training environment. Development of Human Capital at Overseas Group Companies The Nabtesco Group is proactively endeavvehicle equipment, hydraulic equipment and oring toward the development of human recommercial vehicle equipment businesses. sources at Group companies outside Japan. By offering opportunities to deepen their For example, we are implementing various understanding of the Nabtesco Group’s training programs aimed at improving the corporate culture and The Nabtesco Way that skills of locally hired personnel. In addition, supports it, and to learn specialist skills, we we offer an OJT-based training program are developing workers who can contribute to designed for skill enhancement, in which economic development in their home counemployees of overseas Group companies tries. We will continue these efforts to reinare assigned, for a certain period of time, force our overseas operational bases and to to factories in Japan belonging to various contribute to the economic and social develbusiness segments, including the railroad opment of the countries in which we operate. Activity to Increase Employees’ Awareness of The Nabtesco Way “The Nabtesco Way Month” (Workplace Meeting) Participants in FY2016 We established The Nabtesco Way in October We have also held the “Nabtesco Way 2012. The Nabtesco Way is a collective term that Month” every April since FY2013 to raise emmeans our Corporate Philosophy, Our Promisployee awareness about The Nabtesco Way. Group companies in Japan es, Action Guidelines and Action Declaration. In For the fourth Nabtesco Way Month, marked in 9 FY2016, the fifth year since the establishment FY2016, “Way” meetings were held at 412 workof The Nabtesco Way, we held a workshop for places across Nabtesco, including nine Group employees who exhibited a certain attribute. companies in Japan, with the participation of a companies 412 The diagnosis of our organization conducted total of 3,921 employees. Participants discussed in 2015 revealed that newer employees—those and shared The Nabtesco Way experiences and who joined the company after Nabtesco Corpodiscussed how they could apply The Nabtesco workplaces ration was founded—had a poorer understandWay in their own business operations. ing of and felt less affinity for The Nabtesco Way, as compared to more longstanding employees. We therefore invited 196 such newer employees 3,921 persons to join the workshop to share positive aspects of their workplaces and examples of practices they perceived as being unique to Nabtesco, from the perspective of The Nabtesco Way. The workshop provided them with a deeper understanding of the background to The Nabtesco Way as well as helped them share its aims. Workshop on The Nabtesco Way 101 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Striving for Harmony with Global Environment Environmental Management PART 2 Financial Environmental Policy Information The Nabtesco Group formulated the Envireflecting our strong sense of social ronmental Philosophy and Environmental responsibility and to help realize a sustainRoad Map for Action Plan in 2005 to promote activities able society. Growth Nabtesco Group Environmental Philosophy/Environmental Action Plan Nabtesco Group Environmental Philosophy Provide safety, At all times, we acknowledge the impact of our business activities on the global environment; we strive to create products and an environment which are both peoplefriendly and nature-friendly; and we aim to achieve a future society which is enriched comfort and a sense of security and comfortable. Nabtesco Group Environmental Action Plan We acknowledge that the preservation of the global environment is a crucial issue that is common to humankind. With participation by all employees, we will actively promote Ensure the establishment of targets which aim to improve the results of our environmental management transparency preservation activities, and we will actively promote initiatives for sustainable improvements. We will strive to improve energy, resource and recycling efficiency during the planning, development and design stages of each product by understanding the impact on the Corporate Profile environment throughout the life cycle of the product. We will strive to reduce the burden on the environment during the production, sales, distribution and servicing of each product by actively employing or engineering advanced environmental technology, such as for the conservation of energy, the effective use of resources and meeting the challenge of zero emissions. We are committed to voluntary activities designed to realize environmental targets. We will comply with environment-related laws and regulations, as well as with social Disclosure Policy norms, and we will set independent control standards as necessary. We will actively promote exchange and links with society, and strive to gain wider understanding and trust through such action as the disclosure of environment-related information and participation in social activities. Nabtesco Value Report 2016 102 00 Striving for Harmony with Global Environment ESH Promotion Framework We have set up the Group ESH Commitimpact on the Group’s business are reporttee as the organization that promotes the ed to the Management Committee, where management of environment-, safety-, and highest-level management decisions are health (ESH)-related issues across the made for execution of business and reflectNabtesco Group. The Group ESH Commited in formulation of business strategies. tee directly reports to the president. (The meetings are held at least once a year. ESH Management Organization The Environment & Safety Department CEO (President) serves as the secretariat for the meetings.) The chairman and the other members of this committee are selected from among ESH Committee officers including directors and appointed by the president. Environment & Safety The Group ESH Committee collects Heads of In-house Department Companies, etc. (Secretariat) important information on the environment, safety and health, including climate change-related risks and opportunities; Company ESH Committee assesses the materiality of related issues; and discusses measures for issues that are deemed to be important. Based on Sites, etc. the results of the discussions, particularly Departments important issues that might have a serious Group ESH Committee Members General Manager, Production Chairman Corporate Officer Isao Shimizu Innovation Division President, Aerospace Company Deputy Chief Member and in charge of Production Nobutaka Osada Executive Officer Innovation Managing General Manager, Technology and Member Toshio Yoshikawa Executive Officer R&D Division Managing President, Precision Equipment Member Shinji Jyuman Executive Officer Company General Manager, Corporate Managing Planning Division and General Member Daisuke Hakoda Executive Officer Manager of General Administration & Human Resources Division Managing President, Railroad Products Member Yukihiro Imuta Executive Officer Company Managing President, Marine Control Systems Member Taizo Tsuri Executive Officer Company Managing President, Accessibility Innovations Member Koji Kaminaka Executive Officer Company General Manager, Compliance Member Executive Officer Goro Hashimoto Division Representative Director, Nabtesco Member Executive Officer Michio Ogawa Automotive Corporation Member Executive Officer President, Toyo Jidoki Co., Ltd. Akiyoshi Kitamura Member Executive Officer President, Power Control Company Kazuyoshi Kimura 103 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 ESH Audits The chairperson of the Nabtesco Group’s the audit results and follow-up surveys. PART 2 ESH Committee visits each site to carry out Results of the FY2016 ESH audits are an audit that includes checking the results summarized below. Key guidance provided of ESH-related activities. Instructions are based on the audits includes the formulathen given based on the results of the audit. tion of more environment-friendly plans Financial At the end of each fiscal year, the company’s such as promoting the replacement of Information management team reviews the ESH manexisting air-conditioning equipment with agement system based on the report about non-CFC products in the following fiscal the results of the ESH activities, including year and thereafter. Road Map for Results of FY2016 ESH Audits Growth Type of audit Outline Auditor Audited organizations On-site audit: Check the results of Chairperson of the activities conducted in the previous ESH Committee, PresNabtesco: 6 plants Group fiscal year and the activity plan for ident of the in-house ESH audit I companies: 6 companies the current fiscal year; check the company, Manager Number of guidance: 129 responses to accidents/disasters of the Environment & Provide safety, and their appropriateness Safety Dept. On-site audit: Check the measures Environment & Nabtesco: 6 plants comfort and a Follow-up implemented in response to the Safety Dept. (ESH Group companies: 6 comaudit issues pointed out in the ESH audit I secretariat) panies Nabtesco: 7 plants sense of security Documentary examination: On-site Group companies: 8 companies examination will also be carried out Environment & Improvement completed ESH audit II as necessary. Check the achieveSafety Dept. (ESH number: 112 Ensure ments (to be made by the end of the secretariat) Improvement completed fiscal year) of the ESH activities number: 17 management transparency Environmental Management System Web The Nabtesco Group acknowledges that the of overseas Group companies including Group ISO14001 Corporate Profile ISO 14001 international standard is an effeccompanies in China since FY2016. Pubic Certification Situation tive tool for environmental management and ​The Nabtesco Group is aiming to establish https://www.nabtesco. therefore uses it in building and operating our a sustainable system that integrates ecology com/en/csr/public.html environmental management system. Since the and economy and is also working to maintain Konan Plant (Automatic door business) first consistency and alignment in our environobtained ISO 14001 certification in October 1999, mental activities across the entire Group by Disclosure Policy all Nabtesco Corporation plants, as well as five promoting information sharing and collaboraplants operated by major Group companies, tion among our sites. In order to enhance the have become ISO 14001 certified. With regard to performance of our environmental managedomestic Group companies that have not yet obment in a sustainable manner, we incorpotained ISO 14001 certification, we will check the rated the indicator of environmental objective status of environmental management during the (reduction of CO2 emissions) achievement ESH audit. Headquarters staffs have also started ratio into the performance evaluation of busichecking the environmental management status ness departments in FY2017. Nabtesco Energy Management System (NEMS) In April 2015, we introduced an environmental of a monitoring system at six of Nabtesco’s information management tool and changed factories since 2015 that allows real-time data biannual environmental information reporting verification and aggregation on energy usage. by branch offices into monthly reporting, in The monitoring system will enable the factories purpose of speeding up collection, aggregation to easily compare and analyze their energy and analysis of the environmental information. usage to abnormality and previous data. The This has lead us to take quicker actions against results will also be shared at monthly meetgaps between our target numbers and actual ings (of the Environmental Committee, Energy data identified through the monthly reporting to Conservation Committee, and Energy Study the Corporate Officers Committee. Group) and used to encourage all employees to Furthermore, we have began installations participate in energy conservation activities. Nabtesco Value Report 2016 104 00 Striving for Harmony with Global Environment Environmental Education The Nabtesco Group provides its employees site to share such information as the latest with diverse environmental education to ESH-related trends and revisions of imraise their awareness about environmenportant laws and regulations. tal protection, safety, and health. For the environmental education to new employees, we explain the company’s environmental activities and achievements, and emphasize that every small step made by each employee will eventually result in a great stride in the reduction of our environmental impact. We also organize ESH trainings and energy saving committees for ESH managers and those in charge of ESH at each Meeting for energy conservation committees Number of Trainees (Unit: persons) FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Energy conservation (Frequency: 6/year) 76 80 123 ESH (Frequency: 1/year) 14 18 17 Safety (Frequency: 2/year) 13 14 34 * Object persons: ESH managers and those in charge of ESH Violation of Environmental Regulations The Nabtesco Group identifies laws and it was presumed that the ingredients in the regulations applied to our business and soap used at the employees’ handwashing compiles the list and confirms the compaarea and insufficient cleaning of the septic ny’s compliance with them to prevent the tank had caused the water quality to exceed occurrence of legal violations. In FY2016, one the specified standards, we took the followviolation of the environmental regulations ing countermeasures to prevent a recuroccurred at a plant in China (Shanghai) that rence of similar incidents. produces hydraulic equipment. As part of the (i) Changed the soap to be used water quality inspection on wastewater and (ii) Increased the frequency of visual insewage by the waterworks bureau in Songjispections and cleaning of the septic tank ang District, Shanghai City, it was pointed out (iii) Conducted employee training aimed at prethat the water quality at the plant had exventing a recurrence of similar incidents ceeded the standards specified by Shanghai (iv) Made it obligatory to report a status at the City, and we paid a fine of 50,000 yuan. Since monthly safety meetings within the plant Participation in the United Nations Global Compact Study Group on Environmental Management Nabtesco has been participating in varindustries, while discussing issues around ious organizational activities related to climate change, water-related risks, environmental conservation including the biodiversity, energy and other themes. United Nations Global Compact Network Through this type of proactive collaboration Japan's study group on environmental and dialogues with external initiatives, we management. In this study group, we strive to assimilate advanced initiatives in collect information from NGOs and experts order to enhance our own environmental and share information with a wide range management. of companies, including those in other 105 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Combating Climate Change PART 2 Financial Measures Against Climate Change *1 An international treaty to curb Information climate change beyond 2020 that was adopted by multiple nations on December 12, 2015 Based on its material CSR issues (maemissions, which has been approved by the in Paris, following the 21st teriality), the Nabtesco Group has been SBT (Science Based Targets)*3 Initiative. Session of the Conference of Parties to the United Nations Road Map for promoting Group-wide efforts to reduce We also advocate the measures taken Framework Convention on greenhouse gas emissions and to enby the CDP*4 of the United Kingdom to Climate Change (COP 21) Growth *2 An international target set force energy-saving activities as part of mitigate the impact of climate change and under the Paris Agreement to its measures against climate change. By reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Accordmaintain the average global temperature rise to well below introducing the energy-saving product ingly, to enhance the transparency of our 2 degrees Celsius (°C) compared to pre-industrial levels certification system and the energy conserown efforts, we have disclosed the Nabte*3 A framework that encourages Provide safety, vation activity commendation program in sco Group’s climate change strategies companies to set their medium-term targets (for five to FY2012, we have set improvement themes, and greenhouse gas emissions to the CDP comfort and a 15 years ahead) at a level that including the certification standards for since FY2010. In FY2016, our efforts were will enable achievement of the sense of security 2°C target. Such targets are energy-saving products and reduction of recognized at the highest level when we certified following a screening energy consumption, in order to realize were included in the Climate A List and the by the SBT initiative. *4 The CDP is an international energy conservation through product deSupplier Climate A List. non-profit organization. It sign, equipment operations, maintenance The Nabtesco Group has also been parurges companies that boast Ensure management the world’s top-ranked total and management. In addition, we strive to ticipating in various organizational activities market value to disclose their transparency steadily reduce greenhouse gas emissions related to environmental conservation, climate change strategies and greenhouse gas emissions by monitoring the status and effects of including the United Nations Global Compact levels. Based on the inforsuch efforts in a quantitative manner. Network Japan's study group on environmation disclosed, the CDP annually evaluates the comIn November 2016, the Paris Agreemental management, and is striving to aspanies and announces their Corporate Profile scores to the public. The CDP ment*1, an international framework for similate advanced initiatives to tackle climate represents 803 institutional countermeasures against climate change change through collaboration and dialogues investors with total assets of 100 trillion US dollars (as beyond 2020, came into effect and the 2 with external initiatives. We will further of 2017 survey), and calls on degrees Celsius target*2 was adopted as an develop our motion control technology, which Japan’s top 500 companies in terms of market capitalization international target. Under such circummoves and stops objects in a precise man(that is, the constituents of the stances, the Nabtesco Group set a longner, thereby making greater contributions to FTSE Japan Index) to disclose Disclosure Policy information. term target for reducing greenhouse gas the prevention of climate change. Reduction Targets for Greenhouse Gas Emissions Group’s long-term targets < Global target > In FY2016, the Nabtesco Group set longfor reducing greenhouse gas emissions Total CO2 emissions term greenhouse gas emissions targets for has been approved by the SBT Initiative. (per unit of sales) FY2050 with the aim of preventing global In terms of the medium-term target FY2030 30 % reduction warming. With regard to the total amount for FY2020, we aim to manage our total FY2050 80 % reduction (Relative to FY2015) of CO2 emissions from the sites of Group amount of CO2 emissions below the level companies in Japan and our overseas proof FY2015 and reduce our emissions per duction sites, we aim to reduce emissions unit of (global) sales by 9% or more in light Group’s medium-term target relative to our sales (per unit of sales) by of the anticipated increase in production (To be achieved by FY2020) 30% in FY2030 and by 80% in FY2050 comvolumes and reinforcement of plants and < Global target > pared to the FY2015 levels. Moreover, the equipment in line with our expected future Total CO2 emissions (per unit of sales) 9 long-term target of Nabtesco Corporation operational growth. FY2015 FY2030 FY2050 % reduction CO2 emissions target FY2020 (Relative to FY2015) (base year) (30% reduction) (80% reduction) Total CO 2 emissions [In Japan] 46,100 46,100 32,270 9,220 Per unit of sales [Global] 0.239 0.217 0.167 0.048 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 106 00 Striving for Harmony with Global Environment 2016 Targets and Results Web In FY2016, our total amount of CO2 placement of existing equipment with enTHIRD-PARTY VERIFICATION emissions from Japanese operations were ergy-saving products as well as relentless Nabtesco Group’s CO2 8% over the FY2016 target, although the efforts to reduce standby power. emissions data for the level of emissions remained virtually unThe Nabtesco Group has been adFY2016 changed from the previous fiscal year as a vancing energy-saving activities toward https://www.nabtesco. com/en/ir/library/report result of our efforts to save energy and inachieving our long-term targets through crease solar power generation equipment the improvement of efficiency of production despite an increase in production volumes. equipment and air-conditioning equipment Our global emissions, which combines and the utilization of energy monitoring CO2 emissions per unit emissions from both Japanese and oversystems. Although our production capacity of sales [Global] seas sites, increased by 6% from the previis expected to continue to expand in line ous fiscal year, reflecting the commencewith operational growth in the future, it is FY2016 ment of operations of a new plant in China a prerequisite that new plants to be estarget was over-achieved by in January 2016 in the precision reduction tablished in Japan and overseas cut their gear business as well as the rebound of the Chinese market for construction machinery in the hydraulic equipment business. energy consumption by 40% or more relative to that of existing plants. It is our plan to leverage energy-saving technologies to 14 % Meanwhile, our CO2 emissions per unit of be developed at these new plants for use at sales target for FY2016 was overachieved our existing plants, thus achieving the reby 14% on a global basis due to the reduction of CO2 emissions across the Group. Targets and Results of FY2016 *1 T  he calculation policy and standards comply with the Item FY2016 Targets FY2016 Results Performance Status Act on the Regional Use of Energy and the Act on Total CO2 emissions [In Japan] 8% above the Promotion of Global 45,551 49,292 Not Achieved Warming Countermeasures, *1 *2 *3 *4 target and are aligned with the 14% below internal Guidelines on the Per unit of sales [Global] *1 *3 *5 *6 0.277 0.238 Achieved target Management of Environmental Information. *2 T  he management of the results for the total CO2 The Amount of CO2 Emissions [in Japan] The Amount of CO2 Emissions [Global] emissions is based on the number derived from the internal management index. Internal management index basis Sales The amount of CO2 emissions [in Japan] The CO2 conversion factors Actual factor basis*5 The amount of CO2 emissions [Global] used to calculate actual (t-CO 2) (Billion yen) (t-CO2) results are the FY2008 60,000 250 244.6 75,000 factors, except the factor 228.9 for electricity, for which the 219.7 49,053 49,154 49,292 default value of 0.555 kg-CO2/ 50,000 46,745 48,162 202.3 200 179.5 60,000 kWh is used. 45,955 46,100 58,124 *3 The calculation period covers 45,657 44,826 45,049 55,274 56,322 56,024 54,803 40,000 January to December 2016. 150 45,000 *4 The calculation scope includes 45,657 44,826 45,955 46,100 45,049 Nabtesco Corporation and 30,000 domestic Group Companies 100 30,000 (10 companies and 24 sites), 20,000 which are listed at “Scope of Environment and Other Data,” 50 15,000 P.116. 10,000 *5 The CO2 conversion index published by the Ministry of 0 0 0 Environment for each industry (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015* 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015* 2016 is used as the actual emission factor. *6 The calculation scope includes *T  he figure for the Nabtesco Group in FY2015 was calculated with the scope of the survey being the 12 months Nabtesco Corporation, from January to December 2015. domestic Group companies (10 companies and 24 sites), and overseas Group companies (12 companies and 12 sites), which are listed at “Scope of Environment and Other Data,” P.116. 107 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 CO2 Emissions per Unit of Sales [Global] PART 2 (Amount of CO2 emissions/sales) Sales Per unit of sales (Billion yen) (Per unit of sales) 250 244.6 0.500 Financial 228.9 219.7 Information 202.3 200 0.400 179.5 150 0.300 0.308 0.278 0.255 Road Map for 100 0.239 0.238 0.200 50 0.100 Growth 0 0.000 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015* 2016 Provide safety, *T  he figure for the Nabtesco Group in FY2015 was calculated with the scope of the survey being the 12 months comfort and a from January to December 2015. sense of security Calculation of Scope 3 Emissions Web Ensure The Nabtesco Group had begun to calcuvironmental impact of our business activiTHIRD-PARTY VERIFImanagement CATION late greenhouse gas emissions from the ties as a whole. The following table shows Nabtesco Group’s CO2 transparency entire supply chain in FY2013 with a view to the calculation results of past three years. emissions data for the identifying and effectively reducing the enFY 2016 https://www.nabtesco. Corporate Profile com/en/ir/library/ Emissions from the entire supply chain  (Unit: t-CO2) Classification FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 *7 The calculation scope includes Direct emissions (Scope 1) * * 7 8 7,439 7,074 7,259 only domestic operations: Indirect emissions through the use of electricity Nabtesco Corporation 48,584 47,729 50,865 and Group companies (10 and others (Scope 2)*7 *8 Disclosure Policy companies and 24 sites, 12 Emissions from the supply chain (Scope 3)*9 845,068 826,842 885,494 overseas Group companies and 12 sites), which are listed * The figure for the Nabtesco Group in FY2015 was calculated with the scope of the survey being the 12 months from January to at “Scope of Environment and December 2015. Other Data,” P.116. *8 The calculation policy and standards comply with the The following table shows the breakdown in the precision reduction gear business Act on the Regional Use of Energy and the Act on of our Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions. and the hydraulic equipment business. the Promotion of Global “Purchased goods and services” (cateWe will continue to identify and reduce Warming Countermeasures, and are aligned with the gory 1) accounts for the largest percentgreenhouse gas emissions from our entire internal Guidelines on the age (84.3% of the total CO2 emissions supply chain. Management of Environmental for FY2016 in global terms), followed by In order to ensure the reliability of the Information. *9 The calculation scope includes “Upstream transportation and distribution” calculation results, we had them verified Nabtesco Corporation only. (category 4, 10.8%). As described earlier, by Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance our Scope 3 emissions increased mainly Limited. due to the increase in production volumes Nabtesco Value Report 2016 108 00 Striving for Harmony with Global Environment Scope 3 Emissions (FY2016) Emissions (t-CO2) Category Rate (%) Remarks FY2016 Scope 3 Purchased goods and Emissions 1 746,844 84.3% services 2 Capital goods 17,973 2.0% Fueland energy-relat3 2,951 0.3% ed activities Upstream transportaPurchased goods and 4 96,004 10.8% services tion and distribution Waste generated in Capital goods 5 1,114 0.1% operations Fueland energy6 Business travel 3,901 0.4% related activities 7 Employee commuting 1,388 0.2% Upstream transportation and distribution 8 Upstream leased assets — N/A (No corresponding leased assets) Waste generated in Downstream transporN/A (Completed products transported on operations 9 — tation and distribution consignment are included in Category 4) Business travel N/A (Nabtesco products are completed Processing of sold Employee commuting 10 — products and not processed after being products sold) Use of sold products 11 Use of sold products 14,280 1.6% End-of-life treatment End-of life treatment of of sold products 12 1,039 0.1% sold products Downstream leased The Scope 3 calculations for 13 — N/A (No corresponding leased assets) FY2016 were made by the assets following method and for the 14 Franchises — N/A (No corresponding franchises) following period and scope. 15 Investments — N/A (No corresponding investments) • Calculation method: As shown in the basic guidelines on the Total 885,494 100.0% calculation of greenhouse gas emissions from supply chains set by the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Economy, Trade Reduction in Energy Consumption and Industry • Targeted period: January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2016 The Nabtesco Group is continuously ities. In FY2016, Aerospace Company (Gifu working to conserve energy and replace Plant), Toyo Jidoki Co., Ltd. (Iwakuni Plant) existing equipment with energy-saving and Accessibility Innovations Company alternatives, thereby we aim to achieve (Konan Plant) received the commendations the target to reduce energy consumption under this program. per unit of sales by 2% per year. We have Energy Consumption [Global] installed electricity meters to our energy-heavy production facilities to monitor Electricity Bunker A oil LPG Other excessive use of electricity and standby power, repair equipment and improve (MWh) 150,000 operational methods. We also introduced a monitoring system 120,000 16,281 using the intranet where employees can 12,666 12,571 12,126 7,272 7,250 7,387 6,889 see their energy use data in an effort to 11,555 12,038 15,260 12,246 enhance visualization and engage in activ90,000 ities to raise awareness on energy saving at the same time. Through these efforts, 60,000 our global energy consumption per unit of 88,146 90,161 90,684 95,532 sales has been steadily improving. 30,000 To raise awareness of energy-saving, in September 2012 the Nabtesco Group 0 has established the energy conservation (FY) 2013 2014 2015* 2016 activity commendation program to give * The figure for the Nabtesco Group in FY2015 was commendations to the sites which achieved calculated with the scope of the survey being the 12 successful results in energy-saving activmonths from January to December 2015. 109 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Renewable Energy The Nabtesco Group is promoting the use the operation to produce 494 kW of elecPART 2 of renewable energy equipment including tricity in April 2016. In addition, we have solar panels at its facilities. In 2012, The installed solar panels with a total capacity Tarui plant (Gifu Prefecture) began genof 161 kW for the two new plant buildings erating 400 kW of electricity through solar constructed within Gifu plant (Gifu PrefecFinancial power, and in February 2016 the Tsu plant ture) and commenced solar power generInformation Solar panels at Tsu plant (Mie Prefecture) started its operation proation. The Nabtesco Group will continue its ducing 500 kW of electricity. Furthermore, proactive measures to promote the use of the Kobe plant (Hyogo Prefecture) started renewable energy in the future. Road Map for Mitigation of Environmental Impact Caused by Products and Services Growth Certification System for Energy-Saving Products Provide safety, This certification system was established aging machine business, was certified as an Solar panels at Kobe plant to foster the design and the development of energy-saving product. The “TT-10CW Type energy-saving products in order to promote 2” high-speed packaging machine has been comfort and a sense of security environmental protection and the developimproved the filling and packaging capability ment of a sustainable society. Through this by 50% through enhancement of the mechsystem we are contributing to the mitigation of anism and the product lifespan has been global warming while increasing the environextended by 260%, a significant improvement Ensure mental awareness of our employees. in comparison with conventional products. management transparency For products that have obtained the certification, we issue certificates, approve the use of the certification mark and make Solar panels at Gifu plant announcements about the certification in Corporate Profile our in-house magazine. For energy-saving product certifications, we internally evaluate products to be released on the market to see whether they meet more than one certification criteria and exceed existing levels in non-requisite criteria items. Disclosure Policy In FY2016, a product developed by Toyo Jidoki Co., Ltd., which engages in the packTT-10CWType2 Certification Criteria Downsizing and Higher efficiency and weight reduction less energy use By 15% or more By 15% or more compared with compared with Nabtesco’s eco label and previous models previous models Certificate Non-use of Longer life hazardous substances By 20% or longer compared with Not contained previous models Certified Product in FY2016 Evaluation criteria Product name Downsizing and Higher efficiency and No-use of hazardLonger life weight reduction less energy loss ous Substances High-speed packaging On par with previPackaging capability Improved by machine Not contained ous models improved by 50% 260% TT-10CWType2 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 110 00 Striving for Harmony with Global Environment Cost of Implementing Anti-Climate Change Measures The Nabtesco Group is collecting important The Nabtesco Group pursues higher information about the environment, safety, energy efficiency in a range of business and health, including climate change-refields based on the motion control techlated risks and opportunities, and is asnology, which has developed for precision sessing the materiality of related issues reduction gears for industrial robots, travel and discussing measures to implement unit for excavators, aircraft flight control for those that are deemed to be important. actuation systems, brake operating units, In FY2016, as a part of measures against and door operators for railroad vehicle, climate change-related risks, we updated engine control systems for marine vessels, air conditioners, and implemented meaand automatic doors for buildings and sures against snow, wastewater, and rain other structures. Thereby we contribute leakage, for which we spent approximately to reducing greenhouse gas emissions 28.2 million yen in total. generated through the use of end products Furthermore, in FY2016, Nabtesco spent by our customers. about 7.4 billion yen on R&D related to climate change measures and development of green products. 111 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Management of Waste and Other Emissions PART 2 Financial Waste Reduction Information Web Activities to Reduce Landfill Waste THIRD PARTY VERIFICATION Nabtesco Group’s Road Map for The Nabtesco Group is fostering the activEmission rate was 0.13%, exceeding the environmental and social indicators ities to reduce landfill waste to zero based FY2016 target rate of 0.2% or below. This Growth *Waste generated and on the approach of 3Rs (reduce, reuse, year we will continue to promote the 3Rs in landfilled recycle)—the basic practice for establishorder to achieve the Zero Emissions goal of https://www.nabtesco. ing a resource-circulating society—for all 0%* by FY2020. com/en/ir/library/report. html types of emissions generated in the course The Nabtesco Group landfills sludge, of our business. waste plastics, and waste glass that do not Provide safety, comfort and a In FY2016 we continued to implement contain hazardous substances. For hazardTarget for waste reduction the separation of waste bound for landfill ous water-soluble waste oil and alkalis, we sense of security Zero emissions and enhanced waste heat recovery prodetoxify them so as not to release waste < Group target (for FY2020) > cesses, thus achieving a 71% reduction containing hazardous substances. from the previous fiscal year. The Zero * Here “zero” means 0.05% or lower 0 % Zero emissions rate of Ensure management (percentage of landfill waste vs. total emissions) transparency Targets and Results of FY2016 Targets Results Status Corporate Profile Zero emissions rate: 0.2% or below Zero emissions rate: 0.13% Achieved Volume of Landfill Waste and Zero Volume of Waste Generated Emissions Ratios Breakdown of emissions Valuable materials Material recycling Sludge Plastic General waste Slag Thermal recycling Incineration Detoxification Valuable materials Disclosure Policy Glass, etc. Zero emissions rate Landfill metal, oil, cardboard, etc. (ton) Volume of landfill waste (ton) Zero emissions ratios (%) 7,000 9 40 0.8 Material recycling 26 31 31 18 oil, sludge, wood, liquid, 1,314 6,000 plastic, etc. 1,215 1,226 1,544 1,361 343 2 1 30 0.6 Thermal recycling 5,000 494 527 400 389 1 343 289 421 286 0 packaging, general waste, 0 0.46 4,000 307 1,741 plastic, etc. 1,235 1,331 1,251 0.48 0 1,187 20 0.4 1 18 Incineration 3,000 0.41 25 general waste, plastic, etc. 24 0.29 0 0 2,000 10 0.2 Detoxification 3,150 3,090 3,109 3,117 0 2,845 15 water-soluble oil, alkalis, 1,000 0 0 etc. 11 0.13 01 01 00 8 3 0 0 0.0 Landfill (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015* 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015* 2016 sludge, plastic, glass * The figure for the Nabtesco Group in FY2015 was calculated with the scope of the survey being the 12 months from January to December 2015. Nabtesco Value Report 2016 112 00 Striving for Harmony with Global Environment Measures to Reduce Use of Raw Materials By reusing components and reducing nance, repair, and overhaul) business to the production of new ones, Nabtesco is optimized the use of resources and exworking to minimize the use of resources. pand sales in the service field. We have been fostering the MRO (maintePrevention and Reduction of Pollution The Nabtesco Group is working to identify, substances that impact the environment as reduce the use, and prevent the leakage of a result of its business operations. Targets and Results of FY2016 for Prevention and Reduction of Pollution Item Target FY2016 results Status Usage of PRTR substances: 61.8 Not 72.3 tons Control of tons or less Achieved chemical Volatile organic compound substances Not (VOC) emissions: 37.8 tons or 42.8 tons Achieved less Prevent the outflow of Soil hazardous substances inside No soil contamination observed Achieved contamination and outside the sites Low concentration PCB equipment: Identify, manage, store Disposal completed and dispose the equipment High concentration PCB Waste containing containing low and high equipment: Stored at Gifu Plant, Achieved PCBs concentrations of PCBs at the Tarui Plant and Konan Plant. sites and prevent the outflow Waiting for acceptance by a of PCBs designated disposal business operator (JESCO). Identify and manage the Demolished buildings using Asbestos building materials containing materials containing asbestos Achieved management asbestos and prevent dispersal while taking measures to prevent of asbestos dispersal of asbestos Volume of Major PRTR Substances Used VOC Emissions Web Toluene Xylene Hexamine Ethylbenzene HCFC-225 Others Methylnaphthalene THIRD PARTY VERIFICATION Volume (ton) (ton) Nabtesco Group’s 80 50.0 environmental and 42.8 social indicators 40.0 Chemical substances 13.6 40.0 38.2 37.7 37.8 60 26.4 18.6 controlled under the 14.4 13.1 PRTR scheme in Japan 14.0 0 30.0 https://www.nabtesco. 12.5 15.8 7.1 2.1 2.6 14.1 7.2 com/en/ir/library/report. 40 1.8 0 4.1 html 4.6 5.8 4.7 4.9 5.2 20.0 4.3 4.1 4.6 11.3 7.7 8.8 20 8.8 8.7 10.0 21.8 18.9 20.5 16.5 16.0 0 0 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015※ 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015* 2016 * The figure for the Nabtesco Group in FY2015 was calculated with the scope of the survey being the 12 months from January to December 2015. 113 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Conservation of Water Resources Basic Approach to Water Use PART 2 The Nabtesco Group does not require a The amount of water used and discharged Financial large amount of water nor water of a cerat each base are measured every month, and tain quality for its business operations. the Group data are accumulated through the However, we deem it important to environmental information system. As for Information manage water resources, and accordingbases found using a large amount of water ly conduct water-related risk analyses, per month, we conduct surveys to identify measure the amount of water used and contributing factors for the increased water Road Map for discharged, monitor water quality, and imusage, and implement measures to reduce plement measures to prevent the leakage the water use as necessary. Growth of hazardous substances into water. The As for water quality control, we continuGroup has the following targets for the use ously monitor through monthly voluntary tests of water and management of water quality. and regular inspections by external experts. Provide safety, <Target of Water Use Activities and FY2016 Results> comfort and a Item Targets FY2016 results Status sense of security Year-on-year change rate at Global water use 0.714M m3 Not Achieved 10%: 0.702 M m3 or less Ensure Water quality control in In-house management criteria* Japan Excessive number: zero 0 Achieved management transparency * Set criteria that are stricter than local standards, and monitor and manage the discharge of water. Global Water Use Management Web Corporate Profile In 2012 the Nabtesco Group started to measure global water risks, we continue measuring the THIRD PARTY VERIFICATION water consumption in its production activities water consumption in our overseas operations. Nabtesco Group’s on a global level *1 *2 *3, including the data for the In addition, while we used to manage environmental and social overseas subsidiaries. The water consumption the amount of water discharged only for indicators W  ater consumption at the overseas subsidiaries remains relative Group companies in Japan, we commenced Disclosure Policy https://www.nabtesco.com/ low, constituting a mere 8% of the Group wastewater management on a global basis en/ir/library/report.html consumption; however, in order to respond to in FY2016. Global Water Consumption Global Wastewater *1 The calculation scope includes Nabtesco Corporation, domestic Group companies (10 Overseas Domestic Overseas Domestic companies and 17 sites) and overseas Group companies (M m3) (M m3) (12 companies and 12 sites), 0.75 0.75 which as listed at “Scope of Environment and Other Data,” 0.05 P.116. 0.04 0.04 0.60 0.60 *2 The calculation period for 0.06 Nabtesco Corporation and 0.07 domestic Group companies 0.45 0.45 is from January 2016 to December 2016. 0.66 *3 To ensure data credibility, 0.30 0.60 0.30 0.61 all data received the third0.55 0.52 party verification from Lloyd 0.50 0.46 0.49 Register Quality Assurance 0.15 0.15 Limited. 0 0 (FY) 2013 2014 2015* 2016 (FY) 2013 2014 2015* 2016 * The figure for the Nabtesco Group in FY2015 was calculated with the scope of the survey being the 12 months from January to December 2015. Nabtesco Value Report 2016 114 00 Striving for Harmony with Global Environment Water Use and Water Discharge Management in Japan The Nabtesco Group in Japan uses groundincreased production volumes resulted in water mainly to cool test stands and melt longer operation hours for test stands. snow in snowy regions (Yamagata and Gifu). Due to heavy rain falls caused by recent We discharge the used groundwater to rivclimate change, the risk of rainwater flooders under the strict water quality control criing our plants is increasing. The Nabtesco teria set by the Group. In FY2016, there were Group uses oil-based type and water-soluno cases wherein used groundwater did not ble type cutting fluids in its business opermeet the water quality control criteria. ations and recognizes the risk of hazardous The total volume of water used by the substances contained in these cutting Nabtesco Group in FY2016 amounted to fluids discharged to rivers if rainwater 660,000 m3, an increase of 9% (55,000 m3) floods the manufacturing facilities. To compared to the previous fiscal year. The prevent this, we have been making capital major contributor to this increase was an expenditure to install oil-water separation expansion in production volumes at Tarui tanks and oil recovery equipment. Plant (which supplies hydraulic equipment In FY2016, we spent around 7.5 million for construction machinery) on the back yen to enhance the rainwater discharging of the rebound of demand for construction function, install drainage pipes, and make machinery in the Chinese market. The our facilities more water-resistant. Addressing water risks In FY2014, water-related risks in the quality on our production. Meanwhile, as *4 C  DP Water: CDP’s survey program to find each areas where the Nabtesco Group’s seven there is a high risk of floods in the region company’s risk awareness plants (Yamagata, Gifu, Tarui, Tsu, Kobe, where we have our Shanghai district plant, and the strategies against the Seishin, and Konan Plants) are located which supplies hydraulic equipment for water risks. were evaluated using the Aqueduct tool construction machinery, we took measures provided by the World Resources Instiagainst floods, including the elevation of tute and referencing the “water vision” power supply systems, etc., with the aim of announced by the local municipalities. reducing risks associated with the suspenThe evaluation results confirmed that sion of production activities. our Group has no water-related risks. In To reduce water use, the Nabtesco FY2016, regarding our overseas plants, we Group has since FY2014 been replying to assessed water-related risks in the areas the CDP Water*4 questionnaire in collabin which we have plants that use water oration with external organizations. Furduring production process, including those thermore, from the perspective of harmony in China (two plants) and Thailand (two with local communities, we proactively parplants). As a result of the assessment of ticipate in the local environment/water-rerisks related to water quality in China, we lated councils, implement water conservaconcluded that water-related risks were tion activities and exchange opinions. low in light of the low impact of water Name Area Hyogo Environmental Conservation Liaison Committee Kobe Toban Regional Groundwater Useage Measure Council Kobe Hyogo Prefecture Atmosphere Environment Kobe Conservation Liaison Council Gifu Prefecture Environment Promotion Association Gifu Seino Area Groundwater Useage Measure Council Gifu 115 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Scope of Environment and Other Data PART 2 The scope of the calculation covers the major domestic and overseas production bases and business sites. (Domestic Bases) Corporation Location CO2 Water Waste PRTR Disaster Tokyo Headquarter ◎ ◎ ◎ Sensor Technology Group ◎ ◎ ◎ Financial Gifu Plant ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ Information Tarui Plant (Surface ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ Treatment Plant) Tarui Plant ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ Road Map for Nabtesco Corporation Tsu Plant ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ Growth Kobe Plant Konan Plant ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ Seishin Plant ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ Nagoya Office ◎ ◎ Osaka Office ◎ ◎ Provide safety, comfort and a Tokyo Headquarter ◎ ◎ sense of security Yamagata Plant ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ Nabtesco Automotive Corporation Yokosuka Technical ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ Center Diavac Limited Tokyo Headquarter ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ Ensure CMET Inc. Headquarter ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ management transparency Yokohama Techno-Center ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ Nabtesco Service Co., Ltd. Kobe Techno-Center ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ NABCO DOOR Ltd. Headquarter ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ Corporate Profile Headquarter Plant ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ TS Precision Co., Ltd. Matsuyama Plant ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ Toyo Jidoki Co., Ltd. Iwakuni Plant ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ Hyest Corporation* Headquarter ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ Nabtesco Link Corporation Headquarter ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ Disclosure Policy * On April 1, 2016, Hyest Corporation was absorbed in a merger with Nabtesco Corporation. Therefore, the FY2016 environmental data for Hyest Corporation was collected during the period from January to March 2016. (Global Bases) Corporation Country CO2 Water Nabtesco Automotive Products (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Thailand ◎ ◎ Nabtesco Power Control (Thailand) Co., Ltd Thailand ◎ ◎ Changzhou Nabtesco Precision Machinery Co., Ltd. China ◎ ◎ Nabtesco (China) Precision Equipment Co., Ltd. China ◎ ◎ Jiangsu Nabtesco KTK Railroad Products Co., Ltd. China ◎ ◎ NABCO Auto Door (Beijing) Co., Ltd. China ◎ ◎ Shanghai Nabtesco Hydraulic Co., Ltd. China ◎ ◎ Nabtesco Marine Machinery (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. China ◎ ◎ Gilgen Door Systems AG Switzerland ◎ ◎ Nabtesco Oclap S.r.l. Italia ◎ ◎ Nabtesco Aerospace Inc. USA ◎ ◎ NABCO Entrances, Inc. USA ◎ ◎ Nabtesco Value Report 2016 116 00 Fair, Proper and Transparent Procurement Activities Promote CSR Throughout Supply Chain Fundamental Approach for Fair, Proper and Transparent Procurement Activities We are well aware of the importance of meetthrough fair, proper, and transparent transacing the demands and expectations of society tions, we are committed to meeting our social regarding social and environmental impacts responsibilities not just through the efforts of of activities in our supply chain. By developing the Nabtesco Group alone but with the coopmutual trust relationships with suppliers eration of the entire supply chain. Promotion Framework for Nabtesco Group’s CSR-Oriented Procurement We at the Nabtesco Group have been taking purchasing departments. Therefore, the Purmeasures for manufacturing innovation by chasing Planning Department of the Producpursuing collaboration with suppliers with tion Innovation Division, in collaboration with the aim of strengthening our comprehensive the head office departments, plays a central procurement capabilities from the perspectives role in promoting CSR-oriented procurement, of sustainability, including quality, cost and including supporting the activities conducted to delivery (QCD) and technological development. this end by the in-house companies and Group In order to achieve mediumto long-term companies. The Purchasing Planning Departgrowth for the Group, it is essential to secure ment discusses and decides on the related a sustainable supply chain. We are promoting policies and measures at the Group PurchasCSR-oriented procurement by recognizing fair, ing Meeting held with the participation of the proper and transparent procurement activities procurement departments of each in-house as one of our material CSR issues (materiality). and Group company, providing education and In order to promote CSR-oriented procuretraining for procurement managers. Through ment, we need to have expertise and know-how these Group-wide efforts, we endeavor to fulfill on environmentand human rights-related our social responsibility throughout the supply issues, which are not conventionally handled by chain in cooperation with our suppliers. Suppliers Nabtesco Group Procurement Meeting Nabtesco Production Innovation Division Supports and promotes production innovation across the Nabtesco Group Procurement Planning Department In addition to procurement activities, promotes CSR activities based on advice and support from the Environment & Safety Dept. the Compliance Promotion Dept. and the Legal Dept. Precision Equipment Company Power Control Company Railroad Products Company Aerospace Company Nabtesco Automotive Marine Control Systems Accessibility Innovations Toyo Jidoki (purchasing) CMET TS Precision (purchasing) Diavac (purchasing) (purchasing) (purchasing) Company (purchasing) Company (purchasing) (purchasing) (purchasing) 117 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Establishment of Nabtesco Group CSR-Oriented Procurement Policy In accordance with the globalization of our we referred to the ISO 26000 standard, Web PART 2 business, we increasingly need to respond the United Nations Guiding Principles on appropriately in our supply chain to the Business and Human Rights, the Electronic Nabtesco Group’s worldwide demands related to the environIndustry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Code CSR-Oriented ment and human rights. On April 1, 2014, of Conduct, and other international guideProcurement Policy Financial Information https://www.nabtesco.com/ aiming to further foster CSR activities lines, and also incorporated into the policy en/csr/procurement.html across the supply chain, we established the ideas expressed in the Nabtesco Group the Nabtesco Group CSR-Oriented ProCode of Ethics. curement Policy. In formulating this policy, Road Map for Nabtesco Group’s CSR-Oriented Procurement Policy Growth 1. Compliance with Laws and Regulations and the Establishment of Corporate Ethics (1) C  ompliance with the laws, regulations and social norms implemented in the countries and Provide safety, regions where the company conducts business activities comfort and a (2) T  ransparent transactions, which are based on fair and free competition and in compliance with the antimonopoly-related laws and regulations sense of security (3) Appropriate export and import control based on the related laws and regulations (4) P  rohibition of the inappropriate transfer of money and other benefits and of illegal political contribution and donation (5) P  rohibition of the inappropriate treatment of confidential information, personal information Ensure and intellectual property rights in relation to business activities management (6) Assurance of accountability and transparency to society through proactive disclosure of information transparency 2. Respect for Human Rights (1) Prohibition of inhumane labor, including forced labor and child labor (2) Elimination of all forms of discrimination based on race, nationality, religion, age, gender and others Corporate Profile 3. Consideration to Employees (1) R  espect for workers’ rights, including the payment of appropriate salaries and proper management of working hours (2) Provision of safe and clean workplaces where employees can work healthily and with ease of mind 4. Provision of Valuable Products and Services (1) E  stablishment of a business process to ensure the provision of safe and comfortable Disclosure Policy products and services that people can use with a sense of security (2) E  stablishment of a system to ensure the stable supply of products and services that are competitive in the market in terms of quality, pricing and delivery deadlines 5. Consideration to the Environment (1) Establishment of an environmental management system to foster sustainable business activities (2) R  eduction of environmental impact through the development of environmentally friendly products, contribution to the mitigation of climate change, reduction of waste and strict management of chemical substances 6. Consideration to Local Communities and Society (1) R  espect for cultures and customs of the regions and society where the company conducts business activities (2) H  armony with local communities and society and contribution to the communities and society Internal Training Based on Nabtesco CSR Procurement Policy We provide practical training to procureresearch and interviews. Upon completion ment managers of in-house companies and of the training, the procurement managGroup companies to deepen their underers, equipped with a full understanding of standing of the Nabtesco CSR ProcureCSR-oriented procurement, work to ensure ment Policy and how to ask for cooperation that the Policy is thoroughly implemented from suppliers with regard to the survey by gaining support from the suppliers. Nabtesco Value Report 2016 118 00 Fair, Proper and Transparent Procurement Activities Organization of Briefing Sessions for Suppliers in Japan and Abroad We have been visiting suppliers in China, of the Policy and enhancing partnerships Thailand and South Korea to brief them with existing suppliers under the Nabtesco on the Nabtesco Group CSR-Oriented Group CSR-Oriented Procurement Policy. Procurement Policy since the latter half of FY2014, thereby accelerating the global penetration of the policy. Specifically, since FY2014, we have briefed approximately 600 suppliers on the Policy each year, including FY2016. We will further promote and foster CSR-oriented procurement across the Group in order to meet the expectations of a wide range of stakeholders, including customers, by making new suppliers aware Briefing session for suppliers Self-Assessment Questionnaire Survey for Suppliers We at the Nabtesco Group have identified contains a total of 38 subcategories, which No. of Suppliers key suppliers from the perspective of were assessed in descending order of priBriefed on the Policy (in FY2016) business continuity based on transaction ority. While our goal for FY2016 was to see volume, QCD (quality, cost and delivery) a score of 80 points out of 100 in all six catperformance, ability to develop technoloegories, we saw a score of 80 points for two Approx. 600 gies, soundness of financial position, etc. out of the six categories in FY2016. Survey With the aim of enhancing the effectiveness results are analyzed and assessed by each of CSR-oriented procurement, we have supplier and the results are communicated conducted the self-assessment questionin writing as feedback. In addition, we have companies naire (SAQ) survey for primary (Tier 1) visited and interviewed specific suppliers suppliers including key suppliers in and out with the aim of jointly developing initiaof Japan every year since FY2014. tives for further promoting CSR activities. In FY2016, we expanded the scope of Specifically, we have identified matters to No. of Respondents to the survey to include China and asked 992 be addressed and risks associated with the the SAQ suppliers to reply to the CSR-Oriented environment, health and safety and made (in FY2016) Policy-based SAQ survey. some improvement plans. We will continue 992 The questionnaire consists of six cateto improve the SAQ survey in the future by gories aligned with the paragraphs of the considering adding some questions on the CSR-Oriented Procurement Policy and reduction of CO2 emissions, etc. companies Nabtesco’s Basic Purchase Agreement In the Basic Purchase Agreement that we the environment and occupational health conclude with new suppliers, we list not and safety and the elimination of anti-soonly compliance, including the prevencial forces as the most important items to tion of any form of corruption such as bid be observed by our suppliers. rigging or bribery, but also consideration to Basic Purchase Agreement (Examples) Article 10: Ensuring occupational health and safety and appropriate working conditions (including prohibiting forced labor and child labor) Article 29: Obligation to prevent pollution, manage the environment, and manage the use of specified hazardous substances Article 30: Obligation to prevent workplace disasters Article 32: Prohibition of bid rigging and bribery Article 47: Elimination of anti-social forces 119 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Participation in United Nations Global Compact Nabtesco signed the United Nations Global group on supply chains. In FY2016, Nabtesco Web PART 2 Compact in April 2014 to show that it supports was appointed a corporate leader for the this international initiative, and has since been supply chain study group and contributed to Global Compact Network proactively participating in the activities conthe completion of an SAQ (self-assessment Japan study group actividucted by the Global Compact Network Japan. tool for CSR-oriented procurement) that can ties in FY2016 Financial Information http://ungcjn.org/activities/ We have worked to set norms and criteria and be used across the industry. We will continue help/index.html to solve problems for global CSR-oriented to work on the enhancement of the SAQ while procurement in cooperation with peers and promoting its use in collaboration with extercompanies in other industries in the study nal initiatives in the future. Road Map for Measures for Conflict Minerals* Growth As neither Nabtesco Corporation nor its tional peace and security. To this end, we will Group companies are listed on US stock marconduct the Reasonable Country of Origin * The term “conflict minerals”rekets, we are not subject to the Dodd-Frank Inquiry (RCOI) in cooperation with our suppliProvide safety, fers to four mined minerals Act or the reporting obligation with regard ers in response to requests from customers (gold, tantalum, tin and tungcomfort and a sten), which may be partially to the use of conflict minerals. The Nabteto conduct surveys on conflict minerals. We used to fund armed groups sense of security sco Group, however, is focused on strategic aim to establish a responsible procurement and exacerbate conflicts in the measures for conflict minerals from the system to avoid becoming complicit in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and surrounding counperspective of risk management through esactivities of armed groups and conflicts by tries. In the United States, purEnsure tablishing a sustainable supply chain system working closely with our suppliers and Group suant to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer while keeping an eye on maintaining internacompanies. Protection Act established in management transparency 2010, companies using these minerals are required to report Consolidation of Risk Management Systems in Response to Supply Risk such use to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Corporate Profile Nabtesco has begun identifying risks for each necks likely to hinder stable supply as well as operational company, leveraging lessons developing countermeasures, and is premised learned in the Great Hanshin Earthquake on our having understood numerous potential of 1995, the Great East Japan Earthquake risks to the Group, for instance, impacts from of 2011, and recurring floods in Thailand, in anticipated external factors such as natural order to recognize potential risks and build disasters and suspension of production lines Disclosure Policy countermeasures against them, and ultimateattributed to business partners and clients. ly turn these risks into growth opportunities. We will continue to strengthen our supply Practically, the procedure for the above risk response system in every operational includes identifying possible challenges in company in light of identified challenges aristhe supply chain that could result in bottleing from risks to the supply chain in the future. Supply Risk Response Crisis Management in the Supply Chain Nabtesco Tier1 Tier2 Tier3 Tier4 Company Company Company Company Nabtesco A B C D Measures required Company Company H I Company Company Company E F G Measures being prepared Risk Level ...... No identifiable challenges/Not applicable (process & assembly) ...... Alternate production/Stock handled ...... Stock building ...... Measures required Grasp the full spectrum of the supply chain via a “tree” diagram Understand production plant locations of suppliers and clients on a “map” Nabtesco Value Report 2016 120 00 Consideration of Community and Society Consideration of Community and Society Policies on Consideration of Community and Society The Nabtesco Group formulated The (material CSR issues) identified, indicating Web Nabtesco Way in FY2012. In it, our coma policy to actively implement efforts for mitment to achieving harmony with local the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The Nabtesco Way communities and cultures is expressed In line with the above, in addition to https://www.nabtesco. in the Action Guidelines applicable to all contributing to local economies by the com/en/company/greeting. html Group members: “To grow together within establishment of a local production and our society, we will participate in social local consumption system, we are fostering activities, actively foster exchange and exchange with local educational institutions REFERENCE cooperation with local communities, and and the implementation of environmental promote harmony.” Moreover, the Nabteeducation and sports promotion projects Nabtesco Group’s CSR sco Group’s CSR Basic Policy stipulated in for the development of the next generation Basic Policy FY2016 includes local community developof leaders, with an eye to contributing to Page 10 ment among the 12 issues of materiality the development of local communities. Donation of Assist Wheel® Electric Wheelchairs We developed the Assist Wheel® (AW) to ular ground is particularly useful. In 2015, help ease the physical burden of caretakwe donated the AW to West Japan Railway ers of wheelchair-bound people in moving Company in addition to local governments. their chargers from place to place. The AW So far, We have donated 300 AW wheelis an electric wheelchair equipped with a chairs in total. sensor that automatically switches on the We aim to be able to contribute to motor and brake and delivers superior improving the lives of even more people performance, especially on both ascending through the provision of the AW wheeland descending slopes, irregular ground chairs. Electric Wheelchair and other places where moving ordinary “Assist Wheel” wheelchairs is difficult. The grip sensor detects the Since FY2008 we have been donating AW force being used to operate the wheelchair, and the electric wheelchairs to local governments in areas motor assists the caregiver in which the Nabtesco Group has bases on slopes and pebbled paths. The electric wheelchair thus or where many of its employees reside. In reduces the burden imposed on FY2011, we also began donating the AW caregivers. wheelchairs to areas afflicted by the Great East Japan Earthquake, where the superior performance of the wheelchairs on irregDonation to Imabari City in Ehime prefecture 121 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Numbers of Donated Assist Wheel® Wheelchairs PART 2 Local government/ Site/Region 2016 Total Number Public Institution Tokyo, Kanagawa Pref., 2 18 Chiba Pref. Nabtesco Headquarters in Tokyo Financial West Japan Railway 0 10 Company Information Nabtesco Tarui and Gifu Plants Gifu Pref. 2 17 Nabtesco Tsu Plant Mie Pref. 2 18 Nabtesco Kobe, Konan, Seishin Plant Hyogo Pref. 3 32 Road Map for NAM Yamagata Plant Yamagata Pref. 2 18 TSP and Toyo Jidoki Yamaguchi Pref. 2 16 TSP Matsuyama Plant and Shikoku Growth Ehime Pref. 2 14 Marine Customer Service Iwate Pref. 5 41 Provide safety, 3 Prefectures in Tohoku Miyagi Pref. 5 44 Fukushima Pref. 5 42 comfort and a Total Number of AW donated 30 270 NAM: Nabtesco Automotive Corporation TSP: TS Precision Co., Ltd. sense of security Ensure Support for Employees’ Community Contribution Activities management transparency The Nabtesco Group believes that emand information to employees. In addition, ployees’ participation in local community to promote employees’ community contricontribution activities helps nurture diverbution activities, our working regulations Corporate Profile sified values and establish trust with the provides for the use of accumulated leave communities in which we operate, thus for participating in volunteer activities we are actively providing relevant support organized by international NGOs. Development of the Next Generation of Leaders Disclosure Policy Exchange with Local Educational Facilities In order to contribute to the development other facilities for tours and internship of next-generation human resources as programs. In FY2016, the Group hosted 260 a member of the local community, the groups comprising 2,476 people in such Nabtesco Group invites students, teachevents held to foster exchange with local ers and general citizens to its plants and people. Nabtesco Value Report 2016 122 00 Consideration of Community and Society Support for an Environmental Education Program Nabtesco has been supporting Asahi will be provided at elementary schools in Shimbun’s Environmental Education November and December, and participatoProgram in since FY2014. The Program is ry events will be held for the children, who held to help children learn about the Earth will be asked to write articles and essays in a pleasant manner, and encourage for some of the events. them to voluntarily take actions for the planet. We will continue to support this program also in FY2016. Under the Program, free-of-charge educational materials, which Asahi Shimbun created with four supporting companies including Nabtesco, will be distributed to 240,000 children in about 3,000 elementary schools located across Japan (as of FY2016). Moreover, an environmental event will be held in September, special classes Special class provided in the Program Development of the Next Generation through Sports Promotion Projects U10 Starter League co-sponsored by Nabtesco and DyDo held for the first time The Nabtesco Group, in partnership with participating, the first championship, held DyDo DRINCO, INC., hosted a soccer in February 2017, was great success. championship in Mie Prefecture, where both companies have operational bases. Given the decrease in the number of children joining soccer teams and the widening gaps in performance levels between teams, this championship aims to provide children with an opportunity to participate on an equal footing, thereby offering more opportunities for exchange between teams and developing the next generation through sports. With approximately 560 children Soccer Championship 123 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Mangrove Planting Activity Conducted by Overseas Group Company Nabtesco Automotive Products (Thailand) 1,000 mangrove seedlings, taking the total PART 2 Co., Ltd. and Nabtesco Power Control number of seedlings planted in this activ(Thailand) Co., Ltd. have been conducting ity to 2,250. Mangroves grow in intertidal a mangrove planting activity on tideland zones where seawater mingles with fresh located within the premises of the Bang Pu water, and there are hopes that mangroves Financial Nature Education Center in the province will help purify marine water, maintain and Information of Samut Prakan. The activity was carried recover ecosystems, mitigate the damage out three times in the past. In August 2016, caused by natural disasters, and prevent the two companies conducted the fourth global warming. The Nabtesco Group will event jointly for the first time. A total of continue to regularly conduct social contri160 employees and their families planted bution activities into the future. Road Map for Growth Provide safety, comfort and a sense of security Ensure Planting mangrove seedlings A commemorative photo of the mangrove planting activity management transparency Corporate Profile Disclosure Policy Nabtesco Value Report 2016 124 00 Management Team Board of Directors (as of March 28, 2017) Katsuhiro Teramoto Kazuaki Kotani (Dec. 13, 1955) Chairman of the Board Representative Director, (Sep. 15, 1951) President & CEO Sep. 2003 Vice President of P. T. Pamindo Tiga T Jun. 2007 General Manager, Sales Department No. 1, Precision May 2008 General Manager, Sales Department, Power Control Equipment Company of Nabtesco Corporation Company of Nabtesco Corporation Jul. 2008 General Manager, Overseas Sales Department, Precision Jun. 2009 Executive Officer of Nabtesco Corporation Equipment Company of Nabtesco Corporation Jun. 2010 Director and General Manager, Planning Division of Jun. 2009 General Manager, Planning Department, Accessibility Nabtesco Corporation Innovations Company of Nabtesco Corporation Jun. 2011 Representative Director, President & CEO of Nabtesco Jun. 2011 Executive Officer of Nabtesco Corporation Corporation Oct. 2011 Vice President and General Manager of Planning Mar. 2017 Chairman of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) Department, Accessibility Innovations Company of Nabtesco Corporation Reasons for appointment Mr. Kazuaki Kotani, as the chairperson Feb. 2013 Deputy General Manager, Corporate Planning Division, and General Manager, Corporate Planning Department of of the Board of Directors, has worked to create an environment for Nabtesco Corporation frank and constructive dialogue and the free exchange of ideas and has improved the decision-making functions of the Board of Directors. He Jun. 2015 Representative Director, Managing Executive Officer and General Manager of Corporate Planning Division of has broad experience at the Company and extensive insight concerning Nabtesco Corporation global business. Due to these factors, he has been determined to be an appropriate person to realize continued improvement in corporate Mar. 2017 Representative Director, President & CEO of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) value, and thus appointed as Director. Reasons for appointment Mr. Katsuhiro Teramoto, based on broad experience in business sectors and corporate planning division, takes a leading role in debates at Board of Directors meetings from the viewpoint of overall business promotion. Due to these factors, he has been determined to be an appropriate person to realize continued improvement in corporate value, and thus appointed as Director. Nobutaka Osada Toshio Yoshikawa (Sep. 14, 1953) (Nov. 14, 1954) Representative Director, Director, Deputy Chief Executive Officer and Managing Executive Officer in charge of Production Innovation General Manager of President of Aerospace Company Technology and R&D Division Feb. 2005 President of Nabtesco Aerospace Inc. Oct. 2004 General Manager, Sales Department No. 2, Precision Jun. 2007 General Manager, Gifu Plant, Aerospace Company of Equipment Company of Nabtesco Corporation Nabtesco Corporation Jun. 2007 General Manager, Planning Department, Precision Equipment Company of Nabtesco Corporation Jun. 2009 Executive Officer of Nabtesco Corporation Aug. 2009 Assistant to General Manager, General Administration & Jun. 2010 President, Aerospace Company of Nabtesco Corporation (to Human Resources Division and General Manager, General present) Administration Department of Nabtesco Corporation Jun. 2011 Director of Nabtesco Corporation Jun. 2010 President of Precision Equipment Company of Nabtesco Jun. 2013 Director and Managing Executive Officer of Nabtesco Corporation Corporation Jun. 2011 Executive Officer of Nabtesco Corporation Jun. 2015 Representative Director and Senior Managing Executive Jun. 2014 Director and General Manager, Technology Division of Officer of Nabtesco Corporation Nabtesco Corporation (to present) Mar. 2016 Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Nabtesco Corporation and Jun. 2015 Managing Executive Officer of Nabtesco Corporation (to in charge of Production Innovation (to present) present) Reasons for appointment Mr. Nobutaka Osada has broad experience Reasons for appointment Mr. Toshio Yoshikawa has broad experience and extensive insight concerning the aircraft equipment business. He and extensive insight concerning the precision equipment business and has therefore been determined to be an appropriate person to realize technology overall. He has therefore been determined to be an approcontinued improvement in corporate value and appointed as Director. priate person to realize continued improvement in corporate value and appointed as Director. 125 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 PART 2 Daisuke Hakoda (Oct. 25, 1957) Shinji Juman Financial Director, (Aug. 28, 1957) General Manager of Corporate Information Director, Planning Division and Managing Executive Officer General Manager of General President of Precision Equipment Administration & Human Resources Company Division Jan. 2006 General Manager, Cost Control Department, Tsu Plant, Jun. 2007 President of Nabtesco Aerospace Inc. Road Map for Precision Equipment Company of Nabtesco Corporation Jun. 2009 General Manager, Accounting & Finance Department of Jun. 2006 General Manager, Manufacturing Department, Tsu Plant, Nabtesco Corporation Growth Precision Equipment Company of Nabtesco Corporation Jun. 2010 General Manager, Corporate Planning Department of Jun. 2009 General Manager, Tsu Plant, Precision Equipment Company Nabtesco Corporation of Nabtesco Corporation May. 2013 General Manager of Shanghai Nabtesco Hydraulic Co., Ltd. Jun. 2011 Executive Officer of Nabtesco Corporation and President, Jun. 2013 Executive Officer of Nabtesco Corporation Nabtesco Automotive Corporation Jun. 2015 Director and General Manager of General Administration Jun. 2014 President, Precision Equipment Company of Nabtesco & Human Resources Division of Nabtesco Corporation (to Corporation (to present) present) Provide safety, Jun. 2015 Managing Executive Officer (to present) Mar. 2017 Managing Executive and General Manager of Corporate Mar. 2017 Director of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) Planning Division (to present) Reasons for appointment Mr. Shinji Juman has broad experience and Reasons for appointment Mr. Daisuke Hakoda has broad experience comfort and a sense of security extensive insight concerning the precision equipment business, and has as General Manager, includeing his role of Shanghai Nabtesco Hydrauexperience as a corporate manager, including his role as President of lic Co., Ltd., and has extensive insight concerning overall management, Nabtesco Automotive Corporation. Due to these factors, he has been supervision and operations. He has been determined to be an approdetermined to be an appropriate person to realize continued improvepriate person to realize continued improvement in corporate value and ment in corporate value, and thus appointed as Director. thus appointed as Director. Ensure management transparency Corporate Profile Goro Hashimoto (Feb. 7, 1957) Director, Executive Officer Disclosure Policy General Manager of Compliance Division Jan. 2009 General Manager, Legal Department of Nabtesco Corporation Jun. 2015 Director, Executive Officer and General Manager of Compliance Division of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) Reasons for appointment Mr. Goro Hashimoto has broad experience and extensive insight concerning legal matters, compliance and risk management. He has therefore been determined to be an appropriate person to realize continued improvement in corporate value and appointed as Director. Nabtesco Value Report 2016 126 00 Management Team Yutaka Fujiwara Norio Uchida (Apr. 20, 1951) (Oct. 22, 1950) Outside Director Outside Director Apr. 1974 Joined MODEC, Inc. Apr. 1973 Joined Tokyo Optical Co., Ltd. (current TOPCON Nov. 1987 Joined The Yasuda Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. (current CORPORATION) Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. Jun. 1980 General Manager of Topcon Singapore Pte. Ltd. Aug. 1994 Deputy General Manager, New York Branch of Yasuda Trust Feb. 1989 President of Topcon Australia Pty Ltd. & Banking Co., Ltd. Oct. 1994 Senior Vice President of Topcon Laser Systems, Inc. Jun. 1996 General Manager, Chicago Branch of Yasuda Trust & (current Topcon Positioning Systems, Inc.) Banking Co., Ltd. Jun. 2003 Executive Officer of TOPCON CORPORATION Jul. 1998 Retired from Yasuda Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. Jul. 2003 President and Director of Topcon Sales Co., Ltd. Aug. 1998 Joined OMRON Corporation Jun. 2005 Director and Executive Officer of TOPCON Jul. 2001 General Manager, Corporate Planning Department, CORPORATION Corporate Strategic Planning Group, Kyoto Head Office of Jun. 2007 Director, Managing Executive Officer, Supervising OMRON Corporation Sales Promotion Group, and Chief of Positioning Oct. 2002 General Manager, Corporate IR Department, Corporate Business Unit of TOPCON CORPORATION Planning Division of OMRON Corporation Jun. 2010 Director, Senior Managing Executive Director and Jun. 2005 Executive Officer and General Manager, Financial IR Supervising Corporate Planning Group of TOPCON Department of OMRON Corporation CORPORATION Mar. 2007 Executive Officer and General Manager, Group Strategy Jun. 2011 President & Representative Director of TOPCON Department of OMRON Corporation CORPORATION Jun. 2008 Managing Officer and General Manager, Group Strategy Jun. 2013 Advisor of TOPCON CORPORATION Department of OMRON Corporation Jun. 2015 Director of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) Dec. 2008 Managing Officer and General Manager, IR & Corporate Sep. 2015 External Director of ULVAC, Inc. (to present) Information Department of OMRON Corporation Jun. 2011 Retired from OMRON Corporation Aug. 2011 President & CEO of Cross-Border Bridge Corporation (to present) Reasons for appointment Mr. Norio Uchida has served as RepreJun. 2013 Director of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) sentative Director of Topcon Corporation and has broad experience and extensive knowledge and insight as a corporate executive. The ComReasons for appointment Mr. Yutaka Fujiwara has worked overseas pany, having high regard for his experience and insight, has appointed for a number of years and has a broad range of experience and extenMr. Norio Uchida as Outside Director so that we may benefit from his sive knowledge and insight regarding global business. He has expertise supervision and advice on technical development and global business in advanced corporate strategies and financial affairs, having been in overall. charge of the financial affairs and investor relations sections of a listed company. The Company, having high regard for his experience and insight, has appointed Mr. Yutaka Fujiwara as Outside Director so that he may utilize his knowledge to provide supervision and advice. Naoko Yamazaki (Dec. 27, 1970) Outside Director Apr. 1996 Joined the National Space Development Agency of Japan (currently Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA)) Sep. 2001 Certified as International Space Station (ISS) onboard astronaut May 2004 Acquired certification for Flight Engineer, Soyuz Spacecraft Feb. 2006 Acquired certification for Mission Specialist, Space Shuttle Apr. 2010 Crew Member of Space Shuttle Discovery as Mission Specialist, participated in Construction and Supply for ISS Aug. 2011 Retired from JAXA Sep. 2011 Honorary Chairperson of the National Soroban Education Association (to present) Apr. 2012 Visiting Professor of Ritsumeikan University (to present) Jul. 2012 Member of Committee on National Space Policy, Cabinet Office (to present) May. 2013 Visiting Professor of Joshibi University of Art and Design (to present) Jul. 2015 President of Japanese Rocket Society (to present) and Chairperson of Sorajo Committee (to present) Dec. 2015 Advisory Board Member of International Robot Competition Executive Committee (to present) Jan. 2016 Specialist Member of Council on Science Technology and Academics (Marine Resource Development Subcommittee) (to present) Mar. 2016 Director of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) Jul. 2016 Member of the Long-term Global Warming Countermeasures Platform, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (to present) Nov. 2016 Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Japan , Women’s Initiative in Developing STEM Career (WINDS) ambassador.(to present) Reasons for appointment Ms. Naoko Yamazaki has broad insight as an engineer regarding the latest developments in aerospace engineering and the field of manned space machinery systems including robotic arms. As an astronaut, she has experience in conducting crisis management in the harsh, resource-limited environment of spacecraft, etc., and has broad skills in risk management. The Company, having high regard for her experience and insight, has appointed Ms. Yamazaki as Outside Director so that we may benefit from her supervision and advice on decisions based on an objective and fair viewpoint. 127 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Audit & Supervisory Board Members (as of March 28, 2017) PART 2 Financial Information Takayuki Onishi Kensuke Ioku (Nov. 25, 1954) Audit & Supervisory Board Member Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Jan 30, 1954) General Manager, Accounting & Finance Department of Mar. 2006 General Manager, Product Development Department, Jul. 2007 Road Map for Nabtesco Corporation Power Control Company of Nabtesco Corporation Nov. 2007 CompanyManager, General Manager, Business Auditing Department of General Technology Department, Power Control Jun. 2009 of Nabtesco Corporation Nabtesco Corporation Growth General Manager, Railway Products Company of Nabtesco General Manager, Manufacturing Department, Tarui Plant, Apr. 2013 Jun. 2010 Power Control Company of Nabtesco Corporation Corporation General Manager, Production Management Department and Audit & Supervisory Board Member of Nabtesco Jun. 2012 General Manager, Tarui Plant, Power Control Company of Jun. 2015 Corporation (to present) Nabtesco Corporation Jun. 2013 Executive Officer of Nabtesco Corporation Jun. 2014 General Manager, Production Innovation Division and General Manager, Purchasing Planning Department of Nabtesco Corporation Provide safety, Audit & Supervisory Board Member of Nabtesco Mar. 2016 Corporation (to present) comfort and a sense of security Ensure Hisao Katayama Zenzo Sasaki management Audit & Supervisory Board Member Audit & Supervisory Board Member transparency (Independent) (Independent) (Jul 19, 1948) (Nov 1, 1952) May. 1972 Joined Toyota Motor Co., Ltd. (current Toyota Motor Apr. 1979 Appointed Public Prosecutor Corporate Profile Corporation) Apr. 2000 Deputy General Manager, Special Investigation Department of Jun. 1999 General Manager, Machinery Department No. 2, Kamigo Tokyo District Public Prosecutor’s Office Plant of Toyota Motor Corporation Sep. 2002 Manager, Facilities Division, Minister’s Secretariat of Ministry Jan. 2002 General Manager, Production Engineering Department, of Justice Kamigo Plant of Toyota Motor Corporation Jan. 2004 General Manager, Public Safety Department and General Manager, Jun. 2007 President of ART METAL MFG. CO., LTD. Transportation Department of Tokyo District Public Prosecutor’s Office Jun. 2014 Special Advisor of ART METAL MFG. CO., LTD. (to present) Aug. 2006 Chief Public Prosecutor of Wakayama District Public Prosecutor’s Office Jun. 2014 Outside Director of YUSHIRO CHEMICAL INDUSTRY CO., Jan. 2008 Public Prosecutor of Supreme Public Prosecutor’s Office LTD. (to present) Oct. 2008 Chief Public Prosecutor of Mito District Public Prosecutor’s Office Jun. 2015 Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Independent) of Disclosure Policy Jul. 2010 Chief Public Prosecutor of Sendai District Public Prosecutor’s Office Nabtesco Corporation (to present) Aug. 2011 Chief Public Prosecutor of Kyoto District Public Prosecutor’s Office Nov. 2012 Retired as Public Prosecutor Feb. 2013 Registered with Tokyo Bar Association, Joined Harumi-kyowa Law Offices (to present) Mar. 2016 Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Independent) of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) Takemi Nagasaka Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Independent) (Jan 24, 1956) Oct. 1978 Joined Musashi Audit Corporation (currently Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC) Aug. 1981 Joined Sony Corporation Sep. 1986 Sony Corporation of America / Director, Tax Department Apr. 2004 Statutory Auditor of Sony Financial Holdings Inc. Jun. 2004 General Manager, Accounting Department of Sony Corporation Jun. 2004 Statutory Auditor of Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. Jun. 2006 Auditor of Sony Music Entertainment (Japan) Inc. Apr. 2007 Senior General Manager, Accounting Division of Sony Corporation Jun. 2010 Senior Vice President, Corporate Executive, Senior General Manager, Accounting Division of Sony Corporation Jun. 2013 Director of Sony Financial Holdings Inc. Jun. 2015 Senior Advisor of Sony Corporation (to present) Mar. 2016 Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Independent) of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) Audit & Supervisory Board Member of Solize Corporation (to present) Jun. 2016 Audit & Supervisory Board Member of DAIO Paper Corporation (to present) Nabtesco Value Report 2016 128 00 Management Team Executive Officers (as of March 28, 2017) Katsuhiro Chief Executive Officer Representative Director, President Teramoto Deputy Chief Executive Nobutaka President, Aerospace Company and in charge of Production Innovation Officer Osada Managing Executive Toshio General Manager, Technology and R&D Division Officer Yoshikawa Managing Executive Shinji Jyuman President, Precision Equipment Company Officer Managing Executive Daisuke General Manager, Corporate Planning and Division Officer Hakoda General Manager, General Administration & Human Resources Division Managing Executive Yukihiro President, Railroad Products Company Officer Imuta Managing Executive Taizo Tsuri President, Marine Control Systems Company Officer Managing Executive Koji Kaminaka President, Accessibility Innovations Company Officer Goro Executive Officer General Manager, Compliance Division Hashimoto Vice President, Accessibility Innovations Company (in charge of overseas Executive Officer Shigeto Kunii business) Deputy General Manager, Technology and R&D Division Executive Officer Kiyoo Amako Manager, Business Planning Department Executive Officer Jakob Gilgen President, Gilgen Door Systems AG Executive Officer Shigeru Naoki Vice President, Railroad Products Company Executive Officer Michio Ogawa Representative Director, Nabtesco Automotive Corporation Deputy General Manager, Technology and R&D Division Executive Officer Toshiaki Akita (in charge of technology) and Representative Director, NABTEC Co., Ltd. Executive Officer Kiyoshi Ando Technology and R&D Division in charge of European business Norimasa Executive Officer Vice President, Manager of Customer Support Center, Aerospace Company Takagi Executive Officer Shoji Ijuin Director, NABCO Systems Co., Ltd. Akiyoshi Executive Officer President, Toyo Jidoki Co., Ltd. Kitamura Kazuyoshi Executive Officer President, Power Control Company Kimura Executive Officer Habe Atsushi Manager of Sales Management Department, Precision Equipment Company 129 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Corporate Governance Basic Approach to Corporate Corporate Governance System (As of March 31, 2017) PART 2 Governance General Meeting of Shareholders Appointment Appointment Appointment and removal and removal and removal Nabtesco is committed to achieving sustainAudit 監査 Audit & Supervisory able growth, increasing its corporate value on Board of Directors Board Members Accounting 10 directors a mediumto long-term basis, and earning Financial Auditor 5 Members greater trust from stakeholders based on (incl. 3 outside directors) (incl. 3 outside members) Information the principles and spirit of Japan’s Corporate Governance Code, which is incorporated into Nomination Committee the Securities Listing Regulations of the Tokyo Accounting Audit Stock Exchange. To fulfill this commitment audit Remuneration Committee by improving our corporate governance so as Compliance Committee to ensure transparency and fairness in our business and foster prompt decision-makRoad Map for ing, we established the Nabtesco Corporate Governance Basic Policy on October 30, 2015. Growth Management CEO The Policy is found on our website. Committee (President) Compliance Division Measures to Enhance Business Auditing Provide safety, Department Corporate Governance comfort and a Legal Department sense of security Given the content and characteristics of Compliance business operations covered by our Group, Promotion we have adopted an executive officer system Department and an in-house company system as a means of expediting decision-making and clarifying Ensure the responsibility for executing certain busimanagement transparency ness operations. As a means of controlling CSR Committee these systems, we have established corporate Quality & PL (Product governance under which the Board of DirecLiability) Committee tors, Audit & Supervisory Board (Members), Accounting Auditors, and the Management Environment, Safety and Corporate Profile Health Committee Committee—an organization tasked with carrying out the deliberation of important issues Risk Management relating to executing business operations— Corporate Officers Corporate Committee Committee Officers have been set up to clearly divide the functions of decision-making, the control and execution Headquarter divisions, in-house companies and of business, and the monitoring and superviGroup companies sion of management. Disclosure Policy Explanation of Company Organizations Organization Frequency of meetings Roles and Responsibilities No. of People Name in FY2016 18 times Board of Formulates the Group’s basic policies and strategies, makes decisions about the execution of 10 (incl. 3 outside (At least once a month, Directors important business matters and supervises the way business is carried out. directors) in principle) Deliberates on candidates for Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board Members and the CEO as Nomination 5 (incl. 3 outside well as succession plans for the CEO etc, and reports the results to the Board of Directors. The 2 times Committee members) Committee consists of five members including three Outside Directors. Deliberates on policies and management of remuneration for directors and corporate officers Remuneration 3 (incl. 2 outside and reports the results to the Board of Directors. The Committee consists of three members 2 times Committee members) including two Outside Directors. Compliance The Committee is responsible for promoting compliance in the Nabtesco Group by providing advice on 7 (incl. 2 outside 2 times Committee basic policies and priority issues related to the Group-wide compliance system to the Board of Directors. members) Audit & The Audit & Supervisory Board is briefed on auditing plans in advance and receives reports on audit results Supervisory from Accounting Auditors, as well as exchanging opinions as necessary. To reinforce coordination with the 5 (incl. 3 outside 13 times Board internal audit division, the accounting division in charge of promoting internal control and the compliance risk auditors) (Members) management division, the Audit & Supervisory Board holds information-sharing conferences twice a year. Corporate The Corporate Officers Committee is the body devoted to the execution of business pursuant Officers to the policies and strategies of the Board of Directors under the supervision of the Board. It 20 13 times Committee is composed of 20 members including the corporate officers of the Group’s four subsidiaries. In line with the policies decided by the Board of Directors, the Management Committee serves as the 20 times Management body that discusses important matters relating to execution of the Group’s business and reports on — (At least once a month Committee results and the execution of business. It is composed of full-time directors, corporate officers (general in principle managers and in-house company presidents) and full-time Audit & Supervisory Board Members. With the aim of contributing to sound management control and in an attempt to improve Business the effective operation and quality of Group management activities, the Business Auditing Auditing 7 — Department was established to strengthen internal business auditing. It conducted internal Department business audits of headquarter divisions, in-house companies and consolidated subsidiaries. * No. of people and frequency of meetings show the aggregated figures of FY2016. No. of members of the Nomination Committee is as of March 31, 2017. Nabtesco Value Report 2016 130 00 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Effort 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Representation Shigeo Iwatare Chairman of the right Board No representation Makoto Okitsu right Representative Director, President Makoto Okitsu Kazuyuki Matsumoto 10 directors Number of Board of Directors (incl. 2 outside 10 directors (incl. 1 outside director) directors) Number of Audit & Supervisory 5 Audit & Supervisory Board Members (incl. 3 outside Board Members members)*1 Group ESH (Environment, Safety, and Health) Committee Group PL (Product Liability) Committee Group Quality & PL (Product Liability) Committee Group Quality Committee Remuneration Committee Committees Monthly remuneration and retirement benefit Remuneration for Inside Directors*2 Accounting Standard Settlement of account in March (JGAAP) Corporate Philosophy Long-term Vision (Final year: FY2014) Basic Policies for the Construction of an Internal Control System Nabtesco Group Code of Corporate Ethics Corporate Philosophies etc Nabtesco Group Code of Conduct Group ESH Rules Group Quality Management Rules Group PL Management Rules Group Quality and PL Management Rules Nabtesco Group Environmental Philosophy/Environmental Action Plan Pre-warning Anti-takeover Anti-takeover Measures Measures*4 *1. In FY2011 and FY2015, the number of Audit & Supervisory Board Members was temporarily four (including three Outside members) due to the resignation of a members for personal reasons. *2. Outside Directors are paid on a monthly basis. *3. Remuneration is linked to medium-term and long-term business results. *4. The pre-warning anti-takeover measures were introduced with the resolution of the 4th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 26, 2007. However, they were abolished at the conclusion of the 7th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 24, 2010. 131 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 PART 2 Kazuyuki Matsumoto Kazuaki Kotani Financial Information Katsuhiro Kazuaki Kotani Teramoto 10 directors 10 directors 10 directors 10 directors (incl. 3 outside directors) (incl. 2 outside (incl. 3 outside (incl. 2 outside directors) *Including a female outside director directors) directors) Road Map for *1 *1 Growth Provide safety, Nomination Committee comfort and a Compliance Committee sense of security CSR Committee Risk Management Committee Ensure management transparency Monthly remuneration (Fixed compensation and shorttem performance-based fee) Stock-based compensation stock option (Long-tem Board Benefit Stock-based compensation stock option*3 performance-based fee) Trust*3 Corporate Profile Settlement Settlement of account in December of account in (JGAAP) December (IFRS) The Nabtesco Way Disclosure Policy Long-term Vision (Final year: FY2020) Nabtesco Corporate Governance Basic Policy Risk Management Rules Nabtesco Group Code of Ethics Nabtesco Group CSR-Oriented Procurement Policy Nabtesco Group CSR Basic Policy Nabtesco Value Report 2016 132 00 Corporate Governance Composition and Nomination Policy of Directors and Web Audit & Supervisory Board Members Nabtesco Corporate Governance Basic Policy Nomination Committee https://www.nabtesco.com/ en/ir/policy/governance. html With the aim of ensuring independence the CEO, succession plans for the next CEO and objectivity in the process of selecting and development of the next generation of the directors and the audit & supervisory senior executives. It reports the results to Web board members and fulfilling the compathe Board of Directors. ny’s accountability obligations, we estabWhen nominating candidates to serve as Appointment Criteria for Directors and Auditors lished the Nomination Committee, which executives, directors and audit & superviNotice of Convocation of is composed of two directors and three sory board members, Nabtesco selects inthe 14th Annual General independent outside directors/audit & dividuals who, based on their career record Meeting of Shareholders (P.4-10) supervisory board members. The commitand abilities, can contribute to the growth https://www.nabtesco. tee deliberates on candidates for directors, and advancement of the entire Group. com/library/pdf/ audit & supervisory board members and shareholders_meeting/ shoushuu_14_en.pdf Composition of Board of Directors Web The Board of Directors is composed of up sonal qualities, expertise and abilities, Activities conducted to ten directors, of which three are indeexhibit advanced professionalism and by external directors pendent outside directors. For the Board of strong ethics, and can demonstrate abunand external corporate Directors to fulfill its roles and responsibildant experience. This helps ensure the auditors Notice of Convocation of the 14th ities to the fullest, members are selected well-balanced Board of Directors having Annual General Meeting from inside and outside the company and diverse expertise, talent, experience and of Shareholders(P.42) among those who have outstanding perother qualifications. https://www.nabtesco. com/library/pdf/ shareholders_meeting/ shoushuu_14_en.pdf Independent Outside Directors Nabtesco has at least two independent Nabtesco’s Criteria for the Impartiality Web outside directors who can give advice and of Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Criteria for the supervise management to help increase Supervisory Board Members. Impartiality of Outside the corporate value in a sustainable manOutside directors meet by themselves Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors ner and on a mediumto long-term basis. as necessary in order to freely discuss and https://www.nabtesco. All independent outside directors are exchange information and views objectively com/en/ir/policy/goverwell experienced, have versatile knowland independently, apart from the execunance.html#column4 edge, can take a broader view for various tion of business. stakeholders of the company, and meet Composition of Audit & Supervisory Board Members The Audit & Supervisory Board Members financial and accounting issues. is composed of up to five members, of The Audit & Supervisory Board Memwhom at least half (three) are independent bers organically combines the robust outside members. Members are selected independence of outside members and the from among those who have outstanding advanced information collection ability of personal qualities, expertise and abilities, internal members so that it may fulfill its exhibit advanced professionalism and roles and responsibilities effectively. All strong ethics, and can demonstrate abunindependent Audit & Supervisory Board dant experience. The Audit & Supervisory Members meet Nabtesco’s Criteria for the Board Members includes at least one Impartiality of Outside Directors and Outperson who is appropriately well versed in side Audit & Supervisory Board Members. 133 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Remuneration for Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members Remuneration Committee PART 2 With the aim of ensuring independence and tives to strive to improve the business Financial objectivity in the process of deciding the performance of the company on a continual remuneration of the directors and fulfilling and mediumto long-term basis, thereby the company’s accountability obligations, meeting the expectations of shareholders Information we established the Remuneration Commitin line with the management policies. The tee, which is composed of one director and system is thus expected to contribute to two independent outside directors/audit & increasing the corporate value of the entire Road Map for supervisory board members. Nabtesco Group. The Board of Directors makes decisions To this end, the Remuneration CommitGrowth on the remuneration and other payments to tee sets the policies on the remuneration be made to directors, based on the results and other payments to be made to individof deliberation made by the Remuneration ual directors, deliberates on these issues, Committee. and then reports the results to the Board Provide safety, The remuneration system for directors of Directors. is basically designed to give them incencomfort and a sense of security Compensation System for Directors Ensure Compensation to directors comprises dition, a new stock compensation plan, a management “monthly compensation,” which is made up Board Benefit Trust (BBT), was introduced. transparency of fixed compensation and short-term perThis revision aims to establish a level of formance-linked compensation, and “stock remuneration that will further increase the compensation-type stock options,” which motivation of each director to contribute are offered in consideration of mediumto to improving business performance and Corporate Profile long-term performance. ROE, net sales, boosting corporate value as well as further operating income, net income, R&D indicaincrease their shareholder-centric mantors and environmental indicators are used agement awareness. as the major performance indicators. In the event of a significant retrospective Compensation of independent outside change in the business results of a past Disclosure Policy directors is only paid on a fixed basis in year, based on which performance-linked light of their roles and independence. compensation was calculated, as a result With the resolution of the 14th Ordinary of the revision of operating results due General Meeting of Shareholders held to inappropriate accounting or for other on March 28, 2017, the amount of remureasons, or if the company incurs serious neration of directors was revised from a loss due to a director’s wrongful or illegal maximum of 350 million yen per annum acts, the company will, with the resolution (of which a maximum of 30 million yen per of the Board of Directors, demand that annum for outside directors) to a maximum the director concerned return part of the of 400 million yen per annum (of which 50 compensation. million yen for outside directors). In adCompensation Structure for Audit & Supervisory Board Members Compensation given to audit & supervisory for audit & supervisory board members board members is decided through consulcomprises only the base salary and no tation with the auditors. Due to the nature performance-based incentives. of auditing, the compensation structure Nabtesco Value Report 2016 134 00 Corporate Governance Total Amount of Compensation Paid to Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members (for FY2016)  (Unit: Million yen) Types of Compensation Number of Total Stock Directors Amount of Monthly Monthly Compensationand Audit & Compensation Compensation Compensation Type Stock Supervisory Options Board Members Directors (excl. 270 198 0 71 8 Outside Directors) Audit & Supervisory Board Members (excl. 45 45 — — 2 Outside Members) Outside Directors 42 42 — — 8 (Notes) 1. The number of directors shown above includes one director who resigned during the FY2016/12. 2. The number of outside directors /audit & supervisory board members shown above includes 2 audit & supervisory board members who resigned during the term. 3. Monthly remuneration consists of basic monthly salary and performance-based compensation, paid out in total on a monthly basis. 4. Since none of the directors /audit & supervisory board members receives a compensation exceeding JPY100 million, disclosure of compensation on an individual level is omitted (according to Japanese legislation, a compensation exceeding JPY100 million should be publicly disclosed) Introduction of New Stock Compensation Plan (Board Benefit Trust) The company takes the view that, compared Directors share with shareholders not only with existing stock compensation-type stock the benefits of rising share prices, but also the options, the Plan, as a remuneration sysdrawbacks of falling share prices. The company tem, has the potential to further increase the thus decided to introduce the Plan. motivation of directors and executive officers The company abolished both the long-term (excluding outside directors, hereinafter “Diperformance-linked stock compensation-type rectors”) to contribute to improving the medistock option compensation and the mediumto long-term business performance of the um-term performance-linked stock compensaGroup as a whole and boosting corporate value, tion-type stock option compensation upon the as well as to further increase shareholder-cenintroduction of the Board Benefit Trust (BBT) tric management awareness by additionally Plan. However, any subscription rights to shares clarifying the link between compensation of already awarded to Directors as stock compenDirectors and the business performance and sation-type stock options that have not been share value of the company, and by having exercised will continue to be retained. Measures to Ensure Effectiveness of Board of Directors and Its Evaluation Nabtesco analyzes and evaluates the effectherefore, considered to be well secured. tiveness of the Board of Directors by way of On the other hand, in order to further self-evaluation performed every year by each deepen discussions and increase deliberation director. In FY2016, the company conducted efficiency at Board meetings, respondents to an anonymous self-evaluation questionnaire the survey offered constructive comments resurvey (with the design of questions and garding issues pointed out in FY2015 such as aggregation of responses performed by an how to discuss mediumto long-term growth independent third party) of the Directors and strategies and how to improve the operation Audit & Supervisory Board Members, and of the Board. They also indicated the need for the Board analyzed and evaluated the survey conditions that encourage the active participaresults. According to the results, the directors tion of Outside Directors and Outside Audit & positively believe that the establishment of the Supervisory Board Members. Compliance Committee as an advisory body for Nabtesco will further enhance its corporate the Board of Directors in FY2016 has helped governance system to increase its corporate establish a system to enhance the Board’s value through better corporate management. supervision function and to nurture a culture of Based on the aforementioned evaluation reopen and constructive discussion and opinion sults, we will maintain and further enhance the exchange. The effectiveness of the Board is, effectiveness of the Board on a continual basis. 135 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Attendance Rates of Members at Board of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members PART 2 Meetings in FY2016 Average Attendance Board of Directors Audit & Supervisory Board Members Rate of Board of Average Attendance Rate 99.5% Directors (FY2016) Average Attendance Rate 100.0% 99.5 Average Attendance Rate of Outside 97.4% Average Attendance Rate of Outside Directors 100.0% Financial Representative Audit & Supervisory Board Members Kazuakai Kotani Director, President & CEO 100.0% Takayuki Onishi Audit & Supervisory 100.0% % Information Representative (Outside Directors Nobutaka Osada 100.0% Board Member Director 97.4%) Representative Audit & Katsuhiro 100.0% Kensuke Ioku Supervisory 100.0% Teramoto Director Average Attendance Rate Road Map for Board Member of Audit & Supervisory Hiroaki Sakai Director 100.0% Board Members (FY2016) Audit & Growth Toshio Yoshikawa Director 100.0% 100 Daisuke Hakoda Director 100.0% Supervisory Hisao Katayama 100.0% Board Member Goro Hashimoto Director 100.0% (Independent) Yutaka Fujiwara Norio Uchida Outside Director Outside Director 100.0% 100.0% Audit & % Provide safety, Supervisory (Outside Audit & Naoko Yamazaki Outside Director 92.3% Zenzo Sasaki 100.0% Board Member Supervisory Board Audit & (Independent) Members 100%) comfort and a Takayuki Onishi Supervisory 100.0% Board Member Audit & sense of security Takemi Supervisory 100.0% Audit & Nagasaka Board Member Kensuke Ioku Supervisory 100.0% (Independent) Ensure Board Member management Audit & Supervisory transparency Hisao Katayama 100.0% Board Member (Independent) Audit & Corporate Profile Supervisory Zenzo Sasaki 100.0% Board Member (Independent) Audit & Takemi Supervisory 100.0% Nagasaka Board Member Disclosure Policy (Independent) Current Status of Internal Control System Based on its Basic Polices for the Conactivities, and requiring the Group’s direcstruction of an Internal Control System, the tors, audit & supervisory board members Nabtesco Group is working to enhance all the and all employees to comply with these areas associated with internal control—such norms and rules. as increased efficiency of management, The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) shall compliance, information management, risk be the top executive responsible for the management and collaboration with the promotion of internal control. The Board of Audit & Supervisory Board Members under Directors shall examine the maintenance consistent principles, and integrate them to of internal control systems on a continual construct an internal control system. basis in line with changes in the business Internal control for the Nabtesco Group environment and social needs, revisions to shall be based on making The Nabtesco laws and regulations, risk diversification Way and the Nabtesco Group Code of Ethics and other factors, and shall conduct a recornerstones of proper and fair business view yearly and whenever else necessary. Nabtesco Value Report 2016 136 00 Risk Management/Compliance Risk Management Risk Management in General The Nabtesco Group has a system in place rules on risk management, which specify Web to ensure that profits and losses, capital escalation rules and departments in charge efficiency, quality issues, extraordinary in the event that risks materialize. Risk Factors accidents and other matters concerning Given that risks faced by corporations https://www.nabtesco. the execution of business operations are have been multiplying and becoming com/en/ir/policy/risk_ factors.html reported to the Board of Directors approincreasingly diversified, we have estabpriately and in a timely manner, thereby lished the Risk Management Committee as detecting risks at their early stages and a forum for Group-wide risk management minimizing losses. activities. The Committee is tasked with In FY2016, to properly implement risk identifying serious risks and discussing and crisis management at the Nabtesco countermeasures. Group and to maintain and improve its In FY2016, we managed the following corporate value, we overhauled the risk types of risks and prevented losses. management rules and stipulated detailed (1) Risks relevant to the economy and (7) Risks relevant to competition markets (8) Risks relevant to information security (2) Risks relevant to overseas operations (9) Risks relevant to intellectual property (3) Risks relevant to large-scale disasters (10) Risks relevant to laws, ordinances and (4) Risks relevant to exchange rate regulations fluctuations (11) Risks relevant to environment (5) Risks relevant to procurement (6) Risks relevant to product quality We also ensure the rationality, appropriateand proper information communication and ness and legality of decision-making and emergency response system in case of a manage risks through compliance with, and contingency. thoroughgoing implementation of, the Group With regard to monitoring, expert regulations for responsibility and authority. members at the Headquarters, such as the We have also established company reguBusiness Auditing Department, conduct lations that set forth reporting procedures cross-organizational audits of operational in the event of accidents, disasters, critical risk management and offer necessary and quality problems and other incidents that appropriate advice with regard to operamay have a seriously negative impact on the tional improvement. Group’s business results, financial standing or credit. We thus have established a prompt 137 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Risk Management Activities of the Group In response to the globalization of our busiment in connection with corruption risks PART 2 ness operations, we are fostering activities such as bribery and human rights risks asto identify a range of risks faced by our sociated with child and forced labor. Using business sites in Japan and overseas, and the review results, we will formulate and to prevent the materialization of serious implement measures to address key risk Financial risks. factors on a continuous basis. We also conInformation In FY2016, based on the risk managetinue efforts to raise awareness by covering ment rules, we reviewed the risks related risk management issues in compliance to five Asian companies in the Nabtesco newsletters. Group identified in the FY2014 risk assessRoad Map for Growth Business Continuity Plan (BCP) Activities Provide safety, To prepare for major natural disasters such Production Innovation Division. This change as large earthquakes and other contingenprompted the establishment of a business cies, the Nabtesco Group has been fostered continuity system for our entire produccomfort and a sense of security activities to create BCPs since FY2010. tion activities, the revision of policies, and Risks faced by business sites were asthe identification of issues to increase the sessed in FY2015. The risk assessment on effectiveness of BCPs. in-house companies and domestic Group In FY2017, we launched the restrucEnsure companies revealed that natural disasters turing of BCP systems for major factories management posed the greatest risk against the conin Japan. To ensure that critical materials transparency tinuation of our business due to possible can be purchased even in an emergency, damage to facilities of Nabtesco and its we started efforts for BCPs for purchasing, suppliers. It therefore became imperative with an eye to mitigating risks associated Corporate Profile that BCPs be reviewed and enhanced. with supply chains. In FY2016, the office responsible for We will further strengthen our business promoting Group-wide BCP efforts was continuity through integrated effort by transferred out of the Compliance Divibases and the BCP office together. sion and put under the supervision of the Disclosure Policy Nabtesco Value Report 2016 138 00 Risk Management/Compliance Compliance Rules Surrounding Compliance Establishment of the Nabtesco Group Code of Ethics Web WEB To strengthen the Group-wide and global by members of the Nabtesco Group for the Web Nabtesco Group Code of Ethics compliance system, the Nabtesco Group implementation of Corporate Philosophy in https://www.nabtesco. https://www.nabtesco.com/ has overhauled the Nabtesco Group Code their business activities. com/en/ir/policy/complien/ir/policy/compliance. of Corporate Ethics and the Nabtesco In order to help employees deepen html ance.html Group Code of Conduct and, in December their understanding of this Code of Ethics 2016, we formulated the Nabtesco Group and take actions that are in line with it, we Code of Ethics. have prepared a Compliance Handbook, The Compliance Promotion Department, which is used for compliance education a department in charge of compliance and awareness-raising activities. The Japaissues, fulfills a central role by increasnese and English version of the Compliing employees’ compliance awareness in ance Handbook is available on Nabtesco’s addition to fostering their compliance with website, and other language versions will laws and regulations in order to enhance be published later. We will make efforts the Group’s corporate value over the to disseminate the Code of Ethics and the medium to long term. The Nabtesco Group handbook to all Nabtesco Group companies Code of Ethics shows, from the compliance in and outside Japan. viewpoint, the basic approach to be taken Nabtesco Group Code of Ethics Scope of Application 3. Fair and Honest Business Activities (1) Fair Transactions Implementation of the Nabtesco Group (2) Anti-bribery, Gifts and Entertainment Code of Ethics (3) Trade Control (1) Behavioral Requirements for Directors, (4) Relationship with Politics and Officers and Employees Governments (2) Behavioral Requirements for Executives (5) Relationship with Anti-Social Forces and Managers 4. Management of Company Assets and (3) Reporting a Violation of this Code Other Property (4) Discipline (1) Management of Company Assets (2) Management of Confidential 1. General Standards Information 2. Relationships with Company (3) Management of Financial Information (1) Respect for Human Rights (4) Protection of Personal Information (2) Discrimination and Harassment (5) Protection and Respect for Intellectual (3) Building Safe and Positive Workplace Property Environments (6) Insider Trading (4) Political and Religious Activities 5. Relationships with Society (5) Conflicts of Interest (1) Relationships with Society (2) Disclosure of Company Information 139 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Reinforcement of Compliance System The Board of Directors stipulated the Rules ers (to support the supervisors) for every PART 2 for Group Compliance Promotion System divisions, in-house companies and Group in FY2016. Based on the Rules, the Comcompanies, we have launched the system pliance Committee, which includes experts to promote compliance on a global scale. from outside the company, was established Moreover, a Compliance Liaison ConferFinancial as an advisory body for the Board of Dience was held in March 2017 for compliInformation rectors. By strengthening the Group-wide ance supervisors and managers to share compliance system and appointing compliand exchange information on compliance. ance supervisors and compliance managRoad Map for Compliance Promotion System Growth Report Board of Directors Advice Compliance Committee (Chairperson) Provide safety, comfort and a (Secretariat: Compliance Promotion Department) sense of security CEO Compliance Division Compliance Supervisor (Every divisions, in-house companies Ensure and Group companies) management Compliance Manager Compliance Liaison Conference transparency (Every divisions, in-house companies (Secretariat: Compliance Promotion and Group companies) Department) Corporate Profile Fostering Compliance Awareness Compliance Training for Employees Disclosure Policy (1) Position-Specific Training Breakdown of Position-Specific Training We incorporated compliance education into the training provided by the Human • Training for Newly Appointed Resources Development Department to Executive Officers employees for each position. • Training for Newly Appointed Managers (2) Training for All Group Employees • Entry-Level Problem-Solving Training In addition to the training provided by the Hu• Upper-Level Problem-Solving man Resources Development Department to Training • Training for Newly Employed Midemployees for each position, the Compliance Career-Hire Employees Promotion Department provided all Group • Training for Candidate Foremen employees in Japan with training, including • Training for Second-Year Employees raising awareness of human rights, during the period from the latter half of 2015 to 2016. (3) Compliance Education Through E-Learning We continued the e-learning program launched in FY2011 and offered courses on the basics of Security export control and the Subcontract Act. We will also conduct this program in FY2017 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 140 00 Risk Management/Compliance Compliance Education Through E-learning (FY2016) Security Export Security Export Control, Applicability The Subcontract Act Control, Basics assessment Eligible employees 344 persons 380 persons 300 persons Employee who have 298 persons 345 persons 276 persons completed Completion rate 87 91 92 Training for Candidate Foremen Fundamental Compliance Training for Group companies in Japan Compliance Awareness Survey We have been conducting biennial surveys and “Perhaps yes” to the question asking to evaluate the penetration degree of the if they understand the word “compliance” compliance awareness among all employincreased by 4.8% from the FY2014 survey. ees of Nabtesco Corporation and its Group We will continue to implement the companies in Japan since FY2006. survey and related activities to further The results of the Compliance Awareincrease compliance awareness among ness Survey in FY2016 show that the employees. number of respondents replying “Yes” Do you understand the meaning of the word “compliance”? 5.6% 0.8% 2016 42.1% 51.4% 2.6% 2014 43.1% 45.6% 8.6% 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Yes Perhaps yes Perhaps no No 141 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Promotion of Compliance at Overseas Group Companies (1) China (2) Southeast and South Asia PART 2 In June 2016, the Compliance PromoIn September 2016, at the meeting of local tion Department took the opportunity corporate association of Group companies to announce the new policy to develop in the region, Nabtesco outlined the plan a compliance promotion framework in to promote a global compliance system Financial China at the meeting of local corporate aimed at preventing bribery in Southeast Information association which our Group companies and South Asia, where there is a higher in China attended. In September, as a new risk of it. initiative, China’s regional headquarters As in China, Nabtesco publishes a organized a compliance training session bi-monthly newsletter on compliance in under the theme of protection of trade Thai. Road Map for Growth secrets, selected by the headquarters as a critical issue in the region. The session was (3) Training for Overseas Postings attended by 289 employees from 11 Group In coordination with the Human Resources and partner companies. We will continue to Development Department, we provide emProvide safety, support compliance activities led by local ployees preparing for overseas assignments companies. with training on legal risks specific to the Moreover, we publish a bi-monthly host country on an as-needed and individual comfort and a sense of security newsletter on compliance in Chinese, and basis. In FY2016, the training was provided strive to foster employees’ awareness of to employees assigned to Switzerland, the compliance. Netherlands, Germany, China and the US. Ensure management transparency Information Dispatch and Enlightenment Activities Corporate Ethics Month Corporate Profile Since FY2011, we have designated every October as “Nabtesco Group Corporate Ethics Month” and have been conducting an intensive campaign, led by top management, to raise awareness of compliance Disclosure Policy among employees of Nabtesco Corporation and its Group companies in Japan. In FY2016, the CEO offered a message for the month-long campaign. Moreover, compliance meetings were conducted at each workplace. A total of 4,256 employees participated in the campaign activities for the fiscal year, including participation from two overseas group companies. Poster for Corporate Ethics Month in FY2016 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 142 00 Risk Management/Compliance Activities To raise employees’ compliance awareness, Examples of Activities Conducted in FY2016 we used the intranet as well as handouts to disseminate information to all employees. • Publication of the newsletter on We will continue these activities using a compliance (Japanese language: wider range of tools. monthly; Chinese and Thai languages: bimonthly) • Introduction of a case study on compliance in the in-house magazine • Distribution of the e-mail newsletter on compliance • Dispatch of risk managementand compliance-related information, including news, quizzes, articles, and information about Corporate Ethics Month Global Expansion of Internal Reporting System (Hotline) We have established a “hotline” system for anonymously, and a system is in place to the purpose of preventing, discovering and safeguard whistleblowers from any disadrectifying instances of bribery, bid rigging vantageous treatment. and misconduct. In FY2016, we received 30 reports/inquiThis hotline system, which offers a ries through the hotline system. Each was contact point not only within the company investigated and appropriately dealt with. (Compliance Promotion Department) but Also in FY2016, a new hotline was also outside the company (a law firm), is launched for some Group companies in available to all directors and employees China. We plan to implement a hotline sys(including fixed-term non-regular, tempotem for other companies in China, as well rary and part-time employees and interns) as in Europe, North America and Southeast at Nabtesco Corporation and its Group and South Asia in FY2017. companies in Japan. Contact can be made Flow of “Nabtesco Hotine” Contact window inside the company Investigation (Staff, Compliance Internal Promotion Department) requestor Report Company’s (All Directors and anonymously employees at countermeasure Nabtesco Group in Japan) Contact window outside the company (Lawyer, Law Office) Feedback 143 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Anti-Corruption Measures We established the Nabtesco Group Global internal rules and guidelines and conducts PART 2 Web Anti-Bribery Policy through the resolution compliance education and awareness-raisof the Board of Directors in FY2016. Appliing activities. Anti-Bribery cable to Nabtesco Corporation and all its Furthermore, a compliance education Financial https://www.nabtesco. Group companies in and outside Japan, this session focused on anti-bribery and ancom/en/ir/policy/compliInformation ance.html policy clearly prohibits any acts of bribery ti-corruption was provided at a Corporate including facilitation payments, requires Officers Committee meeting. the establishment of internal rules and We participated in the anti-corruption Initiatives on Antiguidelines regarding entertainment and working group organized by the Global Corruption Measures gifts, and rules out any engagement with Compact Network Japan and actively third parties who may pose a bribery risk. exchanged opinions and information with Road Map for Growth This Policy is published on the website of other companies. Nabtesco Corporation both in Japanese Nabtesco has not been fined for any FY2017 Scheduled to provide and English, along with a message from bribery offense since its establishment in all Nabtesco Group the CEO. FY2003. We have made no political donaemployees with anProvide safety, The Nabtesco Group Global Anti-Bribery tions since 2003. ti-bribery education Policy has been disseminated to compliIn FY2017, we will disseminate the comfort and a FY2016 ance supervisors and compliance managPolicy to all overseas companies of the Established the sense of security ers at all Group companies in and outside Nabtesco Group, assess their bribery risks Nabtesco Group Code of Ethics and Japan. We are further promoting Groupand establish anti-bribery internal rules the Nabtesco Group wide anti-bribery efforts by ensuring that and guidelines for them. Anti-Bribery Policy each Group company establishes relevant Ensure FY2014 Signed the United management transparency Nations Global Compact Prevention of Bid Rigging Corporate Profile To ensure compliance with competition conduct to the same effect in FY2017. Measures implemented laws and regulations on an international Nabtesco also puts an emphasis on to prevent bid rigging scale, Nabtesco established the Global education for the prevention of bid rigging Antitrust Compliance Guidebook in FY2013 and, since FY2013, we have held semiin Japanese, English and Chinese. nars on the Global Antitrust Compliance Disclosure Policy FY2016 In FY2015, we stipulated the Code of Guidebook at Nabtesco’s offices/plants and Provided e-learning Conduct for Prevention of Bid Rigging, a Group companies in and outside Japan. In programs on prevention of bid rigging set of internal rules that defines the pracFY2016, a training session for preventing provided tices that are prohibited, rules on contact bid rigging was provided at a meeting of with competitors, authority of audits by the the Corporate Officers Committee, and FY2015 Established the Code Legal Department and the Business Audite-learning programs were extended to of Conduct for Preing Department, among others. In FY2016, Nabtesco’s sales personnel. vention of Bid Rigging all Group companies in Japan completed We will continue to undertake measures established the establishment of their respective codes to prevent bid rigging in order to maintain FY2013 of conduct for the prevention of bid rigging, and enhance the corporate value of the Published the Global and Group companies outside Japan are Nabtesco Group. Antitrust Complischeduled to establish their own codes of ance Guidebook published Nabtesco Value Report 2016 144 00 Risk Management/Compliance Compliance Committee Message from Outside Corporate In recent years, a series of incidents its compliance system in such a way of noncompliance have been reas to encompass its overseas Group ported, threatening the existence of companies. The Compliance Commitmany prominent corporations. This tee, which was established in FY2016 has heightened the global business as an advisory body to the Board of community’s awareness that compliDirectors, deliberates on the basic ance is a critical basis for ensuring policy and priority issues related sustainable corporate growth and to the Group’s compliance system. strengthening competitiveness. As an independent member of the The Nabtesco Group Code of Committee, I deliver opinions from an Zenzo Sasaki, Outside Ethics defines compliance not only external point of view to ensure the Corporate Auditor (Attorney at Law, as complying with laws and internal effectiveness of internal control of Harumikyowa Law Office) rules (manuals, guidelines and other the Group. operational rules) but also as meetIn order for the Nabtesco Group ing needs of stakeholders (customto achieve sustainable growth, each ers, employees, business partners, employee is expected to conduct shareholders and local communities) business with high ethical standards through acting in compliance with and transparency. I am committed ethics and social norms. to contributing to the reinforcement As a prerequisite for expanding of the Nabtesco Group’s compliance its global business operations, the system through various initiatives of Nabtesco Group needs to reinforce the Compliance Committee. 145 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 IR Activities Fundamental Approach (Policy on Disclosure of Information) Under Nabtesco Corporate Governance Bapotentially high impact on decision-making PART 2 Web sic Policy, to assure appropriate disclosure of investors. of corporate information and transparency, In order to gain the understanding Other IR information we disclose information in accordance and receive the appropriate evaluation by Financial https://www.nabtesco. with: the Companies Act, the Financial our stakeholders both within and outside com/en/ir/policy.html Instruments and Exchange Act, and other Japan, such as shareholders and invesInformation laws and regulations, as well as Timely tors there, we disclose management and Disclosure Rules mandated by Tokyo Stock financial information that we believe to be Exchange for the listed companies. We also relevant to their investment decision-makpledge to disclose any other information ing. Moreover, we also disclose non-finanbut not required under the aforementioned cial information regarding our measures Road Map for Growth rules, when the information, both financial for the environment, society and corporate and non-financial, is considered to have governance (ESG) in a proactive manner. Measures for Facilitating Participation in General Meeting of Provide safety, Shareholders and Execution of Voting Rights comfort and a sense of security Facilitating Participation in General Meetevery effort to consolidate the environment ing of Shareholders and Execution of Voting where shareholders are given enough time Rights Nabtesco regards the General to assess proposals and effectively exercise Ensure management Meeting of Shareholders as a precious their voting rights. opportunity and place. Therefore, we make transparency Item Outline Early dispatch of the notice We have been sending the notice of convocation to shareholders Corporate Profile of convocation three weeks prior to the Meeting since FY2007. Early disclosure of the We have been making early disclosure of the notice of convocation notice of convocation since FY2013. In FY2016, the disclosure was made approximately one (disclosed on the website) month before the day of the General Meeting. We have participated in the ICJ platform in FY2007 to enable Participation in the ICJ institutional investors and others in Japan and abroad who cannot Disclosure Policy platform* attend the Meeting to execute their voting rights via the Internet. Since FY2009, following the General Meeting of Shareholders, we Organization of a meeting have been holding a further meeting to explain our business activities to explain the Group’s to shareholders and deepen their understanding of the Nabtesco business activities Group. We translated the summary of the notice of convocation and posting Provision of an English it on our website since FY2011. Additionally, in FY2016, we have summary of the notice of published an English edition of parts of business report and financial convocation statements on our website. * ICJ platform: Infrastructure to facilitate the disclosure of information concerning the agenda of shareholders’ meetings, execution of shareholders’ voting rights and tabulation of voting results. The platform was established by ICJ, a joint venture launched by three companies including the Tokyo Stock Exchange, and has been in operation since 2005. Nabtesco Value Report 2016 146 00 IR Activities Investor Relations (IR) Activities for Institutional and Individual Investors IR Activities for Institutional investors We organize meetings following the end of the second and fourth Briefings on financial results quarters in which the CEO reports the financial results to participants. For the first and third quarters, we hold telephone conferences. Participation in IR conferences In order to foster communication with institutional investors both in and implementation of Japan and overseas, we participated in five IR conferences in Japan and overseas roadshows two overseas, and also held five overseas roadshows in FY2016. We proactively share information with securities analysts and institutional Organization of one-on-one investors to gain their understanding and help them to make appropriate interviews and small evaluations. In FY2016, we accepted over 400 requests from analysts and meetings investors for one-on-one interviews including telephone inquiries. We organize factory tours at our production bases in Japan and overseas Factory tours as often as deemed appropriate. In FY2016, we conducted IR activities in Europe, the United States, Overseas IR activities Canada, Singapore, Hong Kong and Malaysia. IR Activities for Individual Investors We held IR briefings across Japan, with an eye to fostering Briefing on the company communication with individual investors through new approaches. We post financial information, securities reports, Kabunushi Tsushin Posting of IR information on shareholder newsletter, integrated reports and various other IR the website documents on our website and also provide streaming video of meetings held to announce our financial results Global IR Activities Asia Edinburgh London Toronto Paris Seoul Montreal Dublin Geneva Beijing Boston Seattle Shanghai New York San Francisco Taipei Los Angeles Chicago Hong Kong San Diego Europe and Middle East Kuala Lumpur North America Singapore Nabtesco is proactively conducting overseas IR activities to keep in touch with overseas investors and shareholders, who account for as much as 54% ownership of the company’s outstanding shares. (as of December 31, 2016) Outside Japan, we held a total of 164 in FY2014, a total of 87 in FY2015 and a total of 97 in FY2016. With a vision of our shares to be held by investors who have a long-term perspective as possible, we proudly believe that reaching out a wide range of investors interested in long-term assets using a targeting method will result in formation of a group of loyal shareholders. We proactively seek out candid investor opinions on our capital policy at meetings, and endeavor to engage in two-way communication with our investors, which includes accepting feedback to improve our management. General Manager Through continuous communication, we have already succeeded in making our company recognized General Administration Dept. to a certain extent by both domestic and overseas institutional investors. We therefore now intend to General Administration focus our efforts on attracting more attention from individual investors. & Human Resources Div. Toshihiro Matsumoto 147 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 External Assessments The DJSI is a well-known socially responsible investment PART 2 (SRI) index compiled by S&P Dow Jones Indices in the US and RobecoSAM in Switzerland. The index showcases the best overall Dow Jones Sustainability companies each year, evaluated in terms of corporate social Financial Indices (DJSI) World Index responsibility (CSR) and sustainability from the three perspectives of economy, environment and society. Nabtesco was included in the DJSI World Index for the first time in FY2016, and has been Information included in the Asia Pacific Index every year since FY2013. FTSE4Good is a well-known SRI index created by the FTSE Group in the UK. The index showcases the best overall companies each year, evaluated in terms of corporate social responsibility (CSR) FTSE4Good Index Series Road Map for and sustainability from the three perspectives of environment, society and corporate governance (ESG). Nabtesco has been Growth included in the index every year since September 2009. The MSCI Global Sustainability Index is an index developed by US organization MSCI Inc. It is composed of companies that have MSCI Global Sustainability been highly recognized in light of ESG criteria, and has been used Index globally as one of the leading SRI indices. Nabtesco has been Provide safety, included in the index every year since FY2015. The STOXX Global ESG Leaders index is an SRI index compiled by STOXX Global ESG Leaders STOXX. Leading global companies that meet the ESG criteria are comfort and a sense of security Index selected for inclusion in the index. Nabtesco was included in the index for the first time in FY2016. In the IR Ranking 2017, a ranking targeting listed companies in Japan conducted by globally renowned US financial magazine Institutional Investors, Nabtesco was ranked 3rd in both the Best Ensure Institutional Investor Best IR Professional IR Companies (sell-side category) section and Best IR Websites management (sell-side category) section. (machinery sector, buy side) transparency Previously, Nabtesco was ranked 1st in the Best IR Professionals section in FY2014 and 2nd in both the Best CEOs (buy-side category) and Best IR Companies (sell-side category) sections in FY2013. Daiwa Investor Relations Co., Ltd. evaluates the IR websites Corporate Profile Internet IR awards by Daiwa of listed companies in Japan based on its own criteria. Since Investor Relations FY2006 Nabtesco has received IR awards from the company for 10 consecutive years, including an excellence award won in FY2016. Nikko Investor Relations Co., Ltd. evaluates the website quality of all Listed Company Website listed company in Japan in terms of its intelligibleness, usability and Quality Ranking by Nikko information quantity. Nabtesco has received a high placing for 11 Investor Relations consecutive years since FY2006, including the best award won in 2016. DisclosureProfile Corporate Policy The MSCI Japan Index is an index developed by U.S. organization, MSCI Inc. It is composed of shares listed on Japanese securities MSCI Japan Index exchanges and is globally used as a leading investment benchmark for Japanese shares. Nabtesco has been continuously included in the index since November 2009. Nabtesco has been included in this index for which Japan Exchange Group, Inc., Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc. and Nikkei Inc. have begun making the calculations in January 2014. One of the features in the JPX-Nikkei Index 400 criteria for selecting the companies is the fact that they reflect the requirements of global investment standards, such as efficient use of capital and investor-focused management perspectives. CDP is an international non-profit organization that requests the world’s largest companies in terms of market capitalization to disclose anti-climate change strategies and GHG emissions data, CDP evaluates the information and publishes the scores for public Climate A List view. The Nabtesco Group is recognized by CDP, based on its 2016 survey, as one of the world’s leaders in corporate activities for anti-climate change measures and strategies and is included in the Climate A List, which is composed of 193 companies worldwide. The Nabtesco Group is included in the Supplier Climate A List (consisting of 112 companies worldwide) and recognized as one of the CDP suppliers evaluated as global leaders in anti-climate change actions Supplier Climate A List and strategies under the CDP Supply Chain Program, in which CDP gathers information on supplier companies’ activities to mitigate climate change and evaluates them on behalf of global companies. Nabtesco Value Report 2016 148 00 Corporate Profile Corporate Profile (as of December 31, 2016) Breakdown of Shareholding by Investor Type Company Name Nabtesco Corporation Established September 29, 2003 Address 7-9, Hirakawa-cho 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku,Tokyo 102-0093, Japan TEL +81-3-5213-1133 FAX +81-3-5213-1171 Capital 10 billion yen Number of issued 125,133,799 shares Employees Non-consolidated 2,222 Overseas investors 54.01% Consolidated 7,162 Individuals, etc. 9.80% Consolidated In Japan 15 (excl. 4 equity method affiliates) Other corporations 12.62% companies Overseas 41 (excl. 4 equity method affiliates) Financial institutions 22.81% Treasury stock 0.76% Management Structure Board of Directors Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Compliance Committee Chairman President & CEO Corporate Planning Department Corporate Planning Division Accounting & Finance Department Corporate Officers Committee Information System Department General Administration Department CSR Committee General Administration & Human Personnel Department Quality & PL Committee Resources Division Human Resources Development ESH* Committee *Environment, Department Safety, and Health Risk Management Committee Advanced Mobility System Department Strategic Business Development Audit & Supervisory Board Department Audit & Supervisory Board Quality Promotion Department Members Intellectual Property Department Technology and R&D Division Electronics Engineering Department CAE Engineering Department AM Engineering Department System Development Department Manufacturing Engineering Department Production Innovation Division Procurement Planning Department Environment & Safety Department Business Auditing Department Compliance Division Legal Department Compliance Promotion Department Precision Equipment Company Accessibility Innovations Company Power Control Company Aerospace Company Railroad Products Company Marine Control Systems Company 149 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Disclosure Policy Boundary of the Report The Nabtesco Group’s CSR initiatives are highly Nabtesco Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries appreciated on an international level, which is proven by PART 2 This report covers activities conducted by Nabtesco Corporation the fact that Nabtesco is included in the Dow Jones and its consolidated subsidiaries. However, a portion of the nonSustainability World Index, FTSE4Good, FTSE Blossom financial data pertains to only Nabtesco Corporation. Japan Index, MSCI ESG Leader Indexes, MSCI Japan ESG Select Leaders Index and STOXX Global ESG Leaders Period Covered Index. The Group is also included in the Climate A List January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2016 and the Supplier Climate A List 2016 of the CDP, which Financial Information In light of the importance of providing up-to-date evaluates corporate anti-climate change measures and information, some activities conducted after the period are strategies. Since 2014, the company has been selected also reported. to be included in the JPX-Nikkei Index 400. Date of Publication Published in June 2017 (Published annually; previous report published in June 2016) Road Map for Performance Data Growth Nabtesco has changed the accounting closing date of fiscal year from March 31 to December 31 since FY2015. In this report, the results for FY2015 are calculated on a basis of 9 Provide safety, months for Nabtesco Corporation and the other consolidated subsidiaries in Japan, and 12 months for the overseas consolidated subsidiaries. comfort and a Please note that the estimates for FY2015/12 (Reference) were calculated for the period of 12 months to make sense of security comparisons with the plan for FY2016/12 under the same conditions. Ensure Note about the Forecasts management Forecasts made in this report about numerical figures and transparency measures for the future are based on currently available information and on certain judgments and assumptions that Nabtesco considers reasonable. Actual results may vary significantly from such forecasts due to a variety of Corporate Profile important factors, including the economic situations of the company’s major markets in and outside Japan and changes in the foreign exchange market. Guidelines Referenced I nternational Integrated Reporting Framework published by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) Disclosure Policy  ICI Intangible Reporting Framework published by the W World Intellectual Capital/Assets Initiative (WICI)  4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines published by the G Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) I SO26000 (International standard on the social responsibilities of organizations) Participation in External Initiatives and External Evaluation The Nabtesco Group announced our support for and signed the United Nations Global Compact in April 2014, thereby further fostering its CSR-oriented management. Our longterm greenhouse gas emission targets have been officially approved by the Science Based Targets (SBT) Initiative. * THE INCLUSION OF Nabtesco Corporation IN ANY MSCI INDEX, AND THE USE OF MSCI LOGOS, TRADEMARKS, SERVICE MARKS OR INDEX NAMES HEREIN, DO NOT CONSTITUTE A SPONSORSHIP, ENDORSEMENT OR PROMOTION OF Nabtesco Corporation BY MSCI OR ANY OF ITS AFFILIATES. THE MSCI INDEXES ARE THE EXCLUSIVE PROPERTY OF MSCI. MSCI AND THE MSCI INDEX NAMES AND LOGOS ARE TRADEMARKS OR SERVICE MARKS OF MSCI OR ITS AFFILIATES. Nabtesco Value Report 2016 150 00 Nabtesco Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 (With Independent Auditors’ Report) 151 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Nabtesco Value Report FY Ended December 31, 2016 Consolidated Balance Sheets Nabtesco Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries December 31, 2016 and nine-month period ended December 31, 2015 (Thousands of U.S. dollars) (Millions of yen) (Note 1) Dec. 2016 Dec. 2015 Dec. 2016 Assets Current assets: Cash and deposits (Note 4) ¥ 29,946 ¥ 22,068 $ 257,067 Notes and accounts receivable-trade 65,712 59,751 564,102 Less allowance for doubtful receivables (319) (238) (2,740) Short-term investment securities (Note 6) 12,000 13,000 103,013 Inventories (Note 7) 32,619 28,422 280,019 Deferred tax assets (Note 10) 2,274 1,976 19,524 Other current assets 3,759 3,597 32,267 Total current assets 145,991 128,576 1,253,252 Property, plant and equipment (Note 9) Land 17,559 13,737 150,738 Buildings and structures 54,644 50,637 469,089 Machinery and equipment 97,425 95,836 836,334 Construction in progress 6,715 1,551 57,646 Sub-total 176,343 161,761 1,513,807 Less accumulated depreciation (108,520) (105,845) (931,586) Property, plant and equipment, net 67,823 55,916 582,221 Investments and other assets Investment securities (Note 6) 20,741 23,058 178,049 Deferred tax assets (Note 10) 658 466 5,652 Goodwill (Note 22) 17,031 19,424 146,205 Other intangible assets 3,896 4,234 33,441 Assets for retirement benefits (Note 13) 177 205 1,522 Other assets 2,718 1,585 23,325 Less allowance for doubtful receivables (89) (83) (760) Total investments and other assets 45,132 48,889 387,434 Total assets ¥ 258,946 ¥ 233,381 $2,222,907 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 152 00 Nabtesco Value Report FY Ended December 31, 2016 (Thousands of U.S. dollars) (Millions of yen) (Note 1) Dec. 2016 Dec. 2015 Dec. 2016 Liabilities and Net assets Current liabilities: Notes and accounts payable-trade ¥ 16,926 ¥ 38,643 $ 145,300 Electronically recorded obligations 25,635 — 220,065 Short-term loans payable 5,648 5,257 48,481 Current portion of bonds (Note 8) — 10,000 — Current portion of long-term loans payable (Note 8) 146 77 1,256 Income taxes payable (Note 10) 5,408 1,057 46,428 Provision for product warranties 696 612 5,971 Provision for loss on order received 27 5 234 Others 20,316 17,350 174,397 Total current liabilities 74,802 73,001 642,132 Non-current liabilities: Bonds (Note 8) 10,000 — 85,844 Long-term loans payable (Note 8) 1,202 — 10,315 Provision for directors’ retirement benefits 289 180 2,481 Liability for retirement benefit (Note 13) 9,343 7,340 80,205 Deferred tax liabilities (Note 10) 2,901 2,094 24,907 Others 1,888 1,842 16,210 Total non-current liabilities 25,623 11,456 219,962 Total liabilities 100,425 84,457 862,094 Net assets (Note 12) Common stock: Authorized: 400,000,000 shares as at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 Issued: 125,133,799 shares as at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 10,000 10,000 85,844 Capital surplus 14,237 14,237 122,218 Retained earnings 119,345 107,487 1,024,509 Treasury stock, at cost 1,608,476 shares as at December 31, 2016 and 1,639,476 shares as at December 31, 2015 (2,649) (2,718) (22,738) Total shareholders’ equity 140,933 129,006 1,209,833 Accumulated other comprehensive income Valuation difference on other securities 2,015 2,159 17,299 Deferred gains (losses) on hedges (36) 3 (308) Foreign currency translation adjustments 8,504 11,599 73,005 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans (1,295) (698) (11,119) Total accumulated other comprehensive income 9,188 13,063 78,877 Subscription rights to shares 467 379 4,002 Non-controlling interests 7,933 6,476 68,101 Total net assets 158,521 148,924 1,360,813 Total liabilities and net assets ¥258,946 ¥233,381 $2,222,907 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 153 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Nabtesco Value Report FY Ended December 31, 2016 Consolidated Statements of Income Nabtesco Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries Year ended December 31, 2016 and nine-month period ended December 31, 2015 (Thousands of U.S. dollars) (Millions of yen) (Note 1) Dec. 2016 Dec. 2015 Dec. 2016 Net sales (Note 22) ¥ 244,619 ¥ 187,001 $2,099,913 Cost of sales (Notes 14 and 22) 175,380 136,577 1,505,533 Gross profit 69,239 50,424 594,380 Selling, general and administrative expenses (Notes 14 and 22) 45,767 35,129 392,886 Operating income 23,472 15,295 201,494 Other income (expenses): Interest and dividend income 188 260 1,610 Interest expenses (153) (148) (1,315) Foreign exchange gain (loss), net (260) (986) (2,232) Equity in earnings of affiliates 1,111 1,710 9,540 Gain on sales of investment securities 6 2,064 55 Gain on sales of property, plant and equipment 744 32 6,386 Gain on negative goodwill (Note 11) 353 — 3,029 Gain on step acquisitions (Note 11) 786 — 6,751 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (106) (337) (913) Impairment loss (Notes 20 and 22) — (2,111) — Business structure improvement expenses (Note 21) — (288) — Loss on valuation of investments securities (2) — (19) Loss on valuation of golf club membership — (4) — Loss on revision of retirement benefit plan (Note 13) (390) (385) (3,349) Environmental expenses — (32) — Others, net 373 289 3,206 Total 2,650 64 22,749 Income before income taxes 26,122 15,359 224,243 Income taxes (Note 10): Current 8,264 5,348 70,942 Deferred (44) 384 (379) Total 8,220 5,732 70,563 Net income 17,902 9,627 153,680 Net income attributable to non-controlling interests 317 (1,432) 2,723 Net income attributable to owners of the parent ¥ 17,585 ¥ 11,059 $ 150,957 (U.S. dollars) (Yen) (Note 1) Dec. 2016 Dec. 2015 Dec. 2016 Earnings per share of common stock; Basic net income per share ¥ 142.37 ¥ 88.85 $ 1.22 Diluted net income per share 142.12 88.75 1.22 Net assets per share 1,215.31 1,150.41 10.43 Cash dividends per share applicable to the period/year 50.00 44.00 0.43 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. Nabtesco Value Report 2016 154 00 Nabtesco Value Report FY Ended December 31, 2016 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Nabtesco Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries Year ended December 31, 2016 and nine-month period ended December 31, 2015 (Thousands of U.S. dollars) (Millions of yen) (Note 1) Dec. 2016 Dec. 2015 Dec. 2016 Net income ¥17,902 ¥ 9,627 $153,680 Other comprehensive income (Note 15) Valuation difference on other securities (137) (1,268) (1,176) Deferred gains (losses) on hedges (3) 6 (27) Foreign currency translation adjustments (3,579) (1,772) (30,727) Remeasurements of defined benefit plans (641) (522) (5,501) Share of other comprehensive income (loss) of affiliates accounted for using equity method (111) (67) (952) Total other comprehensive income (4,471) (3,623) (38,383) Comprehensive income ¥13,431 ¥ 6,004 $115,297 Comprehensive income attributable to: Owners of the parent 13,710 7,875 117,696 Non-controlling interests (279) (1,871) (2,399) See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 155 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Nabtesco Value Report FY Ended December 31, 2016 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Net Assets Nabtesco Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries Nine-month period ended December 31, 2015 (Millions of yen) Number of shares of Total common stock Common Capital Retained Treasury shareholders’ (Shares) stock surplus earnings stock equity Balance at April 1, 2015 128,265,799 ¥10,000 ¥18,990 ¥107,554 ¥ (2,928) ¥133,616 Cash dividends — — — (5,785) — (5,785) Net income attributable — — — 11,059 — 11,059 to owners of the parent Purchase of treasury stock — — — — (10,002) (10,002) Disposal of treasury stock — — (94) — 212 118 Retirements of treasury stock (3,132,000) — (4,659) (5,341) 10,000 — Staff and workers bonuses — — — (0) — (0) and welfare fund Net changes of items other — — — — — — than shareholders’ equity Balance at December 31, 2015 125,133,799 ¥10,000 ¥14,237 ¥107,487 ¥ (2,718) ¥129,006 (Millions of yen) Total Foreign RemeasureAccumulated Valuation Deferred gains currency ments of other Subscription Nondifference on (losses) on translation defined benefit comprehensive rights to controlling Total other securities hedges adjustments plans income shares interests net assets Balance at April 1, 2015 ¥ 3,447 ¥(3) ¥12,978 ¥(176) ¥16,246 ¥391 ¥ 8,411 ¥158,665 Cash dividends — — — — — — — (5,785) Net income attributable — — — — — — — 11,059 to owners of the parent Purchase of treasury stock — — — — — — — (10,002) Disposal of treasury stock — — — — — — — 118 Retirements of treasury stock — — — — — — — — Staff and workers bonuses — — — — — — — (0) and welfare fund Net changes of items other (1,288) 6 (1,379) (522) (3,183) (12) (1,935) (5,131) than shareholders’ equity Balance at December 31, 2015 ¥ 2,159 ¥3 ¥11,599 ¥(698) ¥13,063 ¥379 ¥ 6,476 ¥148,924 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. Nabtesco Value Report 2016 156 00 Nabtesco Value Report FY Ended December 31, 2016 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Net Assets Nabtesco Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries Year ended December 31, 2016 (Millions of yen) Number of shares of Total common stock Common Capital Retained Treasury shareholders’ (Shares) stock surplus earnings stock equity Balance at January 1, 2016 125,133,799 ¥10,000 ¥14,237 ¥107,487 ¥(2,718) ¥129,006 Cash dividends — — — (5,712) — (5,712) Net income attributable — — — 17,585 — 17,585 to owners of the parent Purchase of treasury stock — — — — (3) (3) Disposal of treasury stock — — — (15) 72 57 Net changes of items other — — — — — — than shareholders’ equity Balance at December 31, 2016 125,133,799 ¥10,000 ¥14,237 ¥119,345 ¥(2,649) ¥140,933 (Millions of yen) Total Foreign RemeasureAccumulated Valuation Deferred gains currency ments of other Subscription Nondifference on (losses) on translation defined benefit comprehensive rights to controlling Total other securities hedges adjustments plans income shares interests net assets Balance at January 1, 2016 ¥2,159 ¥ 3 ¥11,599 ¥ (698) ¥13,063 ¥379 ¥6,476 ¥148,924 Cash dividends — — — — — — — (5,712) Net income attributable to — — — — — — — 17,585 owners of the parent Purchase of treasury stock — — — — — — — (3) Disposal of treasury stock — — — — — — — 57 Net changes of items other (144) (39) (3,095) (597) (3,875) 88 1,457 (2,330) than shareholders’ equity Balance at December 31, 2016 ¥2,015 ¥(36) ¥ 8,504 ¥ (1,295) ¥ 9,188 ¥467 ¥7,933 ¥158,521 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 157 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Nabtesco Value Report FY Ended December 31, 2016 (Thousands of U.S. dollars) (Note 1) Number of shares of Total common stock Common Capital Retained Treasury shareholders’ (Shares) stock surplus earnings stock equity Balance at January 1, 2016 125,133,799 $85,844 $122,218 $ 922,715 $ (23,336) $1,107,441 Cash dividends — — — (49,033) — (49,033) Net income attributable — — — 150,957 — 150,957 to owners of the parent Purchase of treasury stock — — — — (23) (23) Disposal of treasury stock — — — (130) 621 491 Net changes of items other — — — — — — than shareholders’ equity Balance at December 31, 2016 125,133,799 $85,844 $122,218 $1,024,509 $ (22,738) $1,209,833 (Thousands of U.S. dollars) (Note 1) Total Foreign RemeasureAccumulated Valuation Deferred gains currency ments of other Subscription Nondifference on (losses) on translation defined benefit comprehensive rights to controlling Total other securities hedges adjustments plans income shares interests net assets Balance at January 1, 2016 $18,536 $ 29 $ 99,562 $ (5,990) $112,137 $3,256 $55,597 $1,278,431 Cash dividends — — — — — — — (49,033) Net income attributable — — — — — — — 150,957 to owners of the parent Purchase of treasury stock — — — — — — — (23) Disposal of treasury stock — — — — — — — 491 Net changes of items other (1,237) (337) (26,557) (5,129) (33,260) 746 12,504 (20,010) than shareholders’ equity Balance at December 31, 2016 $17,299 $(308) $ 73,005 $(11,119) $ 78,877 $4,002 $68,101 $1,360,813 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. Nabtesco Value Report 2016 158 00 Nabtesco Value Report FY Ended December 31, 2016 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Nabtesco Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries Year ended December 31, 2016 and nine-month period ended December 31, 2015 (Thousands of U.S. dollars) (Millions of yen) (Note 1) Dec. 2016 Dec. 2015 Dec. 2016 Operating activities: Income before income taxes ¥ 26,122 ¥ 15,359 $ 224,243 Adjustments to reconcile income before income taxes to net cash provided by operating activities: Depreciation and amortization 7,407 6,364 63,581 Amortization of goodwill 1,424 1,608 12,227 Gain on negative goodwill (353) — (3,029) Share-based compensation expenses 143 106 1,228 Changes in asset and liability for retirement benefits 74 38 621 Changes in allowance for doubtful receivables 61 42 524 Equity in earnings of affiliates (1,111) (1,710) (9,540) Interest and dividend income (188) (260) (1,610) Interest expenses 153 148 1,315 Gain on sales of property, plant and equipment (744) (32) (6,386) Gain on sales of investment securities (6) (2,064) (55) Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 106 337 913 Gain on step acquisitions (786) — (6,751) Impairment loss — 2,111 — Loss on valuation of golf club membership — 4 — Changes in notes and accounts receivable—trade (468) (618) (4,014) Changes in inventories (1,099) (2,737) (9,432) Changes in other assets (31) (487) (267) Changes in notes and accounts payable—trade (261) (392) (2,238) Changes in consumption tax payable (65) 188 (560) Changes in other liabilities 443 (1,029) 3,804 Others, net 204 (52) 1,759 Sub-total 31,025 16,905 266,333 Interest and dividend income received 980 891 8,409 Interest expenses paid (106) (150) (914) Income taxes paid (4,169) (8,900) (35,785) Net cash provided by operating activities 27,730 8,746 238,043 159 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Nabtesco Value Report FY Ended December 31, 2016 (Thousands of U.S. dollars) (Millions of yen) (Note 1) Dec. 2016 Dec. 2015 Dec. 2016 Investing activities: Deposit in time deposits ¥ (5) ¥ (7) $(44) Proceeds from withdraw of time deposits 177 310 1,523 Purchases of property, plant and equipment (14,474) (6,193) (124,255) Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment 1,314 930 11,276 Purchases of intangible assets (920) (875) (7,901) Proceeds from sales of intangible assets 96 — 822 Purchases of investment securities (14) (13) (119) Proceeds from sales of investment securities 120 3,314 1,034 Purchases of investments in affiliates (80) (29) (689) Purchases of investments in capital of subsidiaries (32) — (270) Payments of loans receivable (3) — (23) Payments for business transfer — (38) — Purchase of investments in subsidiaries resulting in change (778) (2,220) (6,680) in scope of consolidation Others, net (390) (66) (3,347) Net cash used in investing activities (14,989) (4,887) (128,673) Financing activities: Net decrease in short-term loans payable (289) (3,298) (2,480) Repayments of long-term loans payable (206) (81) (1,772) Proceeds from long-term loans payable 1,254 — 10,765 Proceeds from issuance of bonds 10,000 — 85,844 Redemption of bonds (10,000) — (85,844) Proceeds from stock issuance to non-controlling shareholders 275 34 2,362 Purchases of treasury stock (3) (10,002) (23) Proceeds from sales of treasury stock 1 0 10 Dividends paid (5,840) (5,743) (50,137) Net cash used in financing activities (4,808) (19,090) (41,275) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (863) (514) (7,404) Changes in cash and cash equivalents 7,070 (15,745) 60,691 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of period/year 34,710 50,455 297,965 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of period/year (Note 4) ¥ 41,780 ¥ 34,710 $ 358,656 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. Nabtesco Value Report 2016 160 00 Nabtesco Value Report FY Ended December 31, 2016 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Nabtesco Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries Year ended December 31, 2016 and nine-month period ended December 31, 2015 1. Description of Business and Basis of Presenting Consolidated Financial Statements (1) Description of business Nabtesco Corporation (the “Company”), a Japanese corporation, was established as a holding company on September 29, 2003 through a stock transfer process by TS Corporation (formerly Teijin Seiki Co., Ltd.) and NABCO Ltd. As a result of the stock transfer, both TS Corporation and NABCO Ltd. became wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company. The Company completed its business integration through the acquisition of the two wholly owned subsidiaries on October 1, 2004. The main products of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries (the “Companies”) include precision equipment, transport equipment, aircraft and oil hydraulic equipment, and industrial equipment. (2) Basis of presenting consolidated financial statements The accompanying consolidated financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with the provisions set forth in the Japanese Financial Instruments and Exchange Law and its related accounting regulations, and in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in Japan (“Japanese GAAP”), which are different in certain respects as to application and disclosure requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards. The accounts of consolidated overseas subsidiaries are prepared in accordance with either International Financial Reporting Standard or U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, with adjustment for the specific four items as applicable. The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been restructured and translated into English from the consolidated financial statements of the Company prepared in accordance with Japanese GAAP and filed with the appropriate Local Finance Bureau of the Ministry of Finance as required by the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law. Certain supplementary information included in the statutory Japanese language consolidated financial statements, but not required for fair presentation, is not presented in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. The translation of the Japanese yen amounts into U.S. dollars is included solely for the convenience of readers outside Japan, using the prevailing exchange rate at December 31, 2016, which is ¥116.49 to U.S. $1.00. The convenience of the translation should not be construed as representations that the Japanese yen amounts have been, could have been, or could in the future be, converted into U.S. dollars at this or any other rate of exchange. 161 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Nabtesco Value Report FY Ended December 31, 2016 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (1) Principles of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its 56 subsidiaries. All significant inter-company transactions, account balances and unrealized profits are eliminated in consolidation. Investments in 8 affiliated companies (generally 20% to 50% owned), over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence over operating and financial policy, are accounted for by the equity method. (2) Cash and cash equivalents For the purpose of the consolidated statements of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on hand, deposits with banks withdrawable on demand and short-term investments which are readily convertible to cash subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value and which are purchased with an original maturity of three months or less. See Note 4 as to reconciliation to cash and deposits on the balance sheets. (3) Allowance for doubtful receivables The allowance for doubtful receivables is provided in amounts management considers sufficient to cover possible losses on collection. The allowance is based on past collection experience and management estimate of the collectability of individual receivables. (4) Provision for loss on order received To cover the future losses relating to order received, a provision is recorded when the future losses are anticipated and the losses are reasonably estimated. (5) Securities The Companies are required to examine the intent of holding each security and classify those securities as (a) securities held for trading purposes (hereafter, “trading securities”), (b) debt securities intended to be held to maturity, (c) equity securities issued by subsidiaries and affiliated companies, and (d) for all other securities that are not classified in any of the above categories (hereafter, “other securities”). The Companies have no trading securities at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015. Held-to-maturity debt securities are expected to be held to maturity and are recognized at amortized cost computed based on the straight-line method. Other securities with available fair market values are stated at fair market value. Unrealized gains and losses on these securities are reported, net of applicable income taxes, as a separate component of net assets. Realized gains and losses on sale of such securities are computed using the movingaverage cost method. Other securities with no available fair market value are stated at moving-average cost. If the market value of equity securities and other securities declines significantly, such securities are written down to their fair market value and the difference between fair market value and the carrying amount is recognized as loss in the period of the decline. For equity securities with no available fair market value, if the net asset amount of the investee declines significantly, such securities are written down to the net asset amount in the income statement in the period of decline. In these cases, such fair market value or net asset amount will be the carrying amount of the securities at the beginning of the next year. Nabtesco Value Report 2016 162 00 Nabtesco Value Report FY Ended December 31, 2016 (6) Inventories Inventories of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries are stated at the lower of the cost or net realizable value. The evaluation methods for the cost of inventories are as follows: Inventories Evaluation method Finished goods and Work in process Mainly weighted average method (however certain finished goods and work in process are determined by the specific identification method) Raw materials and Supplies Mainly weighted average method (however certain raw materials and supplies are determined by moving average method) (7) Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment, including building and building fixtures, are stated at cost. The Company and its consolidated domestic subsidiaries calculate depreciation by the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the respective assets. In addition, the Company and its consolidated domestic subsidiaries depreciate machinery and equipment, of which acquisition cost is ¥100 thousand or more but less than ¥200 thousand, over a period of three years on a straight-line basis. The consolidated foreign subsidiaries calculate depreciation mainly by the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the respective assets. Depreciation of assets acquired by the domestic companies after March 31, 2007 is calculated mainly by the straightline method under the amended tax code for building, not including building fixtures and by the declining-balance method under the amended tax code for the remaining assets. (8) Lease assets Property, plant and equipment capitalized under finance lease arrangements are depreciated over the lease term of the respective assets. (9) Derivative financial instruments and hedging transactions The Companies use derivative financial instruments only for the purpose of mitigating fluctuation risk of interest rates with respect to loans payable and future risk of fluctuation of foreign currency exchange rates with respect to foreign currency receivables and payables. The following summarizes hedging derivative financial instruments used by the Companies and items hedged: Hedging instruments Hedged items Interest rate swap contracts: Loans payable Forward foreign exchange contracts: Foreign currency trade receivables and trade payables The Companies evaluate hedge effectiveness by comparing the cumulative changes in cash flows from or the changes in fair value of hedged items and the corresponding changes in fair value of the hedging derivative instruments. The Companies are required to state derivative financial instruments at fair value and to recognize changes in the fair value as gains or losses unless derivative financial instruments meet the criteria for hedge accounting. If derivative financial instruments are used as hedges and meet certain hedging criteria, the Companies defer recognition of gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments until the related losses or gains on the hedged items are recognized. 163 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Nabtesco Value Report FY Ended December 31, 2016 If interest rate swap contracts are used as hedges and meet certain hedging criteria, the net amount to be paid or received under the interest rate swap contract is added to or deducted from the interest on the assets or liabilities for which the swap contract is executed. If forward foreign exchange contracts are used as hedges and meet certain hedging criteria, hedging instruments and hedged items are accounted for in the following manner: a When a forward foreign exchange contract is executed to hedge an existing foreign currency receivable or payable, (a) the difference, if any, between the Japanese yen amount of the hedged foreign currency receivable or payable translated using the spot rate at the inception date of the contract and the book value of the receivable or payable is recognized in the income statement in the period which includes the inception date, and (b) the discount or premium on the contract (that is, the difference between the Japanese yen amount of the contract translated using the contracted forward rate and that translated using the spot rate at the inception date of the contract) is recognized over the term of the contract. b When a forward foreign exchange contract is executed to hedge a future transaction denominated in a foreign currency, the future transaction will be recorded using the contracted forward rate, and no gains or losses on the forward foreign exchange contract or the forward foreign currency options are recognized. (10) Amortization Goodwill is amortized using the straight-line method over a period within twenty years. However, if the amount is insignificant, it is expensed as incurred. Software is amortized using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives (five years). (11) Research and development costs Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. (12) Income taxes The Companies recognize tax effects of timing differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts for tax reporting purpose. Income taxes are comprised of corporation tax, enterprise tax and prefectural and municipal inhabitants taxes. (13) Provision for product warranties Provision for product warranties is provided to cover the estimated cost for customers’ claims relating to after sales repairs. (14) Translation of foreign currencies Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Japanese yen at the year-end rates. Financial statements of consolidated foreign subsidiaries are translated into Japanese yen at the year-end rates, except that shareholders’ equity are translated at historical rates and income statement items resulting from transactions with the Company are translated at the rates used by the Company when the transactions occurred. Foreign currency translation adjustment is reported in net assets. (15) Appropriation of retained earnings Under the Japanese Corporate law, the appropriation of retained earnings with respect to a given financial period is made by a resolution of the shareholders at the general shareholders meeting held subsequent to the close of such financial period. Therefore, the accounts for that period do not reflect such appropriations. Nabtesco Value Report 2016 164 00 Nabtesco Value Report FY Ended December 31, 2016 (16) Retirement benefits The Company and certain consolidated subsidiaries provide two types of retirement and severance benefit plans, unfunded lump-sum payment plans and funded non-contributory pension plans, under which all eligible employees are entitled to benefits based on the level of wages and salaries at the time of retirement or termination, length of service and certain other factors. a Allocation of estimated retirement benefit obligation Expected retirement benefits are attributed to the respective fiscal years by a Benefit formula basis. b Past service costs and actuarial gains and losses Past service costs are recognized as expense when incurred, and actuarial gains and losses are recognized as expense from the following fiscal year using the declining-balance method over a certain period (10 years) not exceeding the average of estimated remaining service period. c Simplified method in small consolidated subsidiaries Certain consolidated subsidiaries calculate retirement benefit liabilities and expenses using the simplified method that assumes their benefit obligation is equal to the benefits payable if all employees voluntarily retired at the fiscal year-end. (17) Provision for director’s retirement benefits Certain consolidated subsidiaries accrue liabilities for retirement benefits, which is estimated at the end of the fiscal year, for their directors and corporate statutory auditors based on their internal policies. (18) Earnings per share The computation of basic net income per share is calculated based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the fiscal year. Diluted net income per share is calculated based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock after consideration of dilution that securities or other contracts to issue common stock are exercised or converted into common stock, or resulted into issuance of common stock. Amounts per share of net assets are calculated based on the number of shares of common stock outstanding at the year-end. Cash dividends per share include interim dividends of the Company proposed by the Board of Directors in addition to year-end dividends approved by shareholders at the general shareholders’ meeting held subsequent to the end of fiscal year. (19) Recognition of significant revenues and expenses Accounting for construction of completions When the construction work is in progress at the year end and the progress rate of construction work up to that time is deemed certain, the percentage-of-completion method is applied. The progress rate is estimated using cost-to-cost method. When the above condition is not met, the completed-contract method is applied. 165 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Nabtesco Value Report FY Ended December 31, 2016 3. Additional Information Effective from the fiscal year ended on December 31, 2016, “Revised Implementation Guidance on Recoverability of Deferred Tax Assets” (ASBJ Guidance No. 26, March 28, 2016 (hereinafter, “Guidance No.26”)) is permitted to be applied. The Company and its domestic subsidiaries adopted Guidance No.26 from the current year. 4. Cash Flow information (Cash and Cash Equivalents) Reconciliation of cash and time deposits shown in the consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 and cash and cash equivalents shown in the consolidated statements of cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2016 and for the nine-month period ended December 31, 2015 is as follows: (Thousands of (Millions of yen) U.S. dollars) Dec. 2016 Dec. 2015 Dec. 2016 Cash and deposits in the consolidated balance sheets ¥29,946 ¥22,068 $257,067 Time deposits with maturities extending over three months (166) (358) (1,424) Short-term investment securities 12,000 13,000 103,013 Cash and cash equivalents ¥41,780 ¥34,710 $358,656 in the consolidated statements of cash flows (Assets and liabilities of newly consolidated subsidiaries by acquisition of shares) The company acquired NABCO Systems and its three subsidiaries through purchasing its stocks resulting in scope of consolidation in April 1, 2016. The details of the net cash flow and Assets and liabilities of the acquired companies were as follows: (Thousands of (Millions of yen) U.S. dollars) Dec. 2016 Dec. 2016 Current assets ¥12,483 $107,156 Non-current assets 7,460 64,042 Current liabilities (8,525) (73,186) Non-current liabilities (2,848) (24,447) Non-controlling interests (1,352) (11,607) Negative goodwill (353) (3,029) Gain on step acquisitions (786) (6,751) Previously held equity interest before obtaining control (2,398) (20,582) Acquisition cost of shares 3,681 31,596 Cash and Cash Equivalents (3,454) (29,648) Net cash for acquisition of acquired companies ¥227 $1,948 Assets and liabilities of newly consolidated subsidiaries through acquisition of shares for the year ended December 31, 2016, other than noted above, were omitted due to immateriality. Nabtesco Value Report 2016 166 00 Nabtesco Value Report FY Ended December 31, 2016 5. Financial Instruments (1) Qualitative information on financial instruments a Policies for using financial instruments The Company raises required fund for its business primarily from loans payable and bond issues, and manages surplus funds using financial instruments that carry low or no risk. The Company uses derivatives to mitigate the risk that are described below, and as a matter of policy does not use derivatives for speculative transactions. b Details of financial instruments used and the exposures to risk and how they arise Trade notes and accounts receivable are exposed to customer credit risk. In addition, the Company is exposed to foreign currency exchange risk arising from receivables denominated in foreign currencies. The Company uses derivative transactions including forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge the risk of exchange fluctuations associated with receivables denominated in foreign currencies. Short-term investment securities and other securities mainly consist of held-to-maturity debt securities and securities for strengthening the relationship with counterparty and exposed to market price risk. Loans payable and bonds payable are taken out principally for the purpose of making capital investments. The repayment dates of long term loans payable extend up to five years beyond the date of the closing of accounts. The Company uses foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce the risk of foreign exchange rate fluctuation that arise from receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies. c Policies and processes for managing the risk (a) Credit risk management (counterparty risk) The Company has prepared policies for managing its credit exposure and business receivables. The Company manages amounts and settlement dates by counterparties and works to identify and mitigate payment risk that may result from situations including deterioration of the financial condition of counterparties at an early stage. Consolidated subsidiaries are subject to the same risk management rules. Held-to-maturity debts securities carry low credit risk because they are managed in high liquidation. The Company conducts only with highly creditworthy financial institution under the risk management policy when using derivatives. (b) Market risk management The Company and some consolidated subsidiaries use derivative transactions including forward foreign exchange contract to hedge the risk of exchange fluctuations associated with receivables denominated in foreign currencies. For short-term investment securities, the Company examines fair value and the financial condition of the issuing entities. In addition, for all securities other than those classified as held-to-maturity debt securities, the Company regularly revises its portfolio based on its relationships with issuing entities, and interest rate swap transactions to hedge against interest rate risks on long-term loans payable. For derivative transactions, the basic policies for executing the derivative transactions are managed by the Board of Directors of the Company. Based on such policies, the finance departments of each company establish the internal policies which prescribe the specified limits and procedures on the derivative transactions. After execution, each finance department reports certain information on derivative transactions to the Board of Directors of the Company. (c) Liquidity risk management The Accounting Department manages liquidity risk for the Company by making and updating a capital deployment plan based on reports from each division. In addition, the Company manages liquidity risks by keeping high leveled liquidity on hand due to the unstable financial market. 167 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Nabtesco Value Report FY Ended December 31, 2016 d Supplemental information on fair values The fair value of financial instruments is based on market prices, or a reasonable estimate of fair value for instruments for which market prices are not available. Estimates of fair value are subject to fluctuation due to the variable factors and assumptions. In addition, the contractual amounts of the derivative transactions discussed in “Derivative Financial Instruments” below are not an indicator of the market risk associated with derivative transactions. (2) Fair value of financial instruments Fair value and difference compared to the book value reported in the balance sheets as of December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 are as follows. Please note that for those items of which obtaining an estimates fair value is deemed to be extremely difficult, such differences are not shown (Please refer to Note 2). (Millions of yen) Dec. 2016 Book value Fair value Difference (1) Cash and deposits ¥ 29,946 ¥ 29,946 ¥ — (2) Trade notes and accounts receivable 65,712 65,712 — (3) Short-term and long-term investment securities a Held-to-maturity debt securities 12,000 12,000 — b Other securities 4,612 4,612 — c Securities issued by affiliated companies 5,764 53,056 47,292 Assets ¥118,034 ¥165,326 ¥47,292 (1) Trade notes and accounts payable ¥ 16,926 ¥ 16,926 ¥ — (2) Electronically recorded obligations 25,635 25,635 — (3) Short-term loans payable 5,648 5,648 — (4) Current position of long-term loans payable 146 146 — (5) Bonds payable 10,000 9,999 (1) (6) Long-term loans payable 1,202 1,202 0 Liabilities ¥ 59,557 ¥ 59,556 ¥ (1) Derivatives ¥ 0 ¥ 0 ¥ — (Millions of yen) Mar. 2015 Book value Fair value Difference (1) Cash and deposits ¥ 22,068 ¥ 22,068 ¥ — (2) Trade notes and accounts receivable 59,751 59,751 — (3) Short-term and long-term investment securities a Held-to-maturity debt securities 13,000 13,000 — b Other securities 4,741 4,741 — c Securities issued by affiliated companies 5,151 48,293 43,142 Assets ¥104,711 ¥147,853 ¥43,142 (1) Trade notes and accounts payable ¥ 38,643 ¥ 38,643 ¥ — (2) Short-term loans payable 5,257 5,257 — (3) Current position of Bonds payable 10,000 10,000 — (4) Current portion of long-term debt 77 77 — Liabilities ¥ 53,977 ¥ 53,977 ¥ — Derivatives ¥ 5 ¥ 5 ¥ — Nabtesco Value Report 2016 168 00 Nabtesco Value Report FY Ended December 31, 2016 (Thousands of U.S. dollars) Dec. 2016 Book value Fair value Difference (1) Cash and deposits $ 257,067 $ 257,067 $ — (2) Trade notes and accounts receivable 564,102 564,102 — (3) Short-term and long-term investment securities a Held-to-maturity debt securities 103,013 103,013 — b Other securities 39,592 39,592 — c Securities issued by affiliated companies 49,481 455,454 405,973 Assets $1,013,255 $1,419,228 $405,973 (1) Trade notes and accounts payable $ 145,300 $ 145,300 $ — (2) Electronically recorded obligations 220,065 220,065 — (3) Short-term loans payable 48,481 48,481 — (4) Current position of long-term loans payable 1,256 1,256 — (5) Bonds payable 85,844 85,836 (8) (6) Long-term loans payable 10,315 10,315 0 Liabilities $ 511,261 $ 511,253 $ (8) Derivatives $ 4 $ 4 $ — Note: The value of assets and liabilities arising from derivatives is shown at net value. Note1: Methods for computing the estimated fair value of financial instruments and securities and derivative transactions Assets (1) Cash and deposits and (2) Trade notes and account receivable Since these items are settled in a short period of time and their fair values approximate their book values, the book value is used. (3) Short-term and long-term investment securities Stocks are valued at the exchange trading price. Bonds are valued at the exchange trading price or at the price provided by the financial institutions. For information on securities classified according to holding purposes, please refer to the note.6 “Securities” section of the notes to the financial statements. Liabilities (1) Trade notes and accounts payable, (2) Electronically recorded obligations, (3) Short-term loans payable and (4) Current position of long-term loan payable Since these items are settled in a short period of time and their fair values approximate their book values, the book value is used. (5) Bonds payable Bonds payable is valued at the exchange trading price or at the price provided by the financial institutions. (6) Long-term loans payable The fair values of long-term bank loans are calculated based on the total present value of future principal and interests expenses discounted by the interest rates that would apply if similar borrowings were conducted anew. Derivatives Please refer to the note. 16 “Derivatives” section of the notes to the financial statements. 169 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Nabtesco Value Report FY Ended December 31, 2016 Note 2: Items for which obtaining an estimated fair value is deemed to be extremely difficult (Thousands of (Millions of yen) U.S. dollars) Dec. 2016 Dec. 2015 Dec. 2016 Items Book value Unlisted stocks ¥ 172 ¥ 158 $ 1,477 Securities issued by affiliate companies 10,195 13,007 87,518 The unlisted stocks and securities issued by affiliate companies in the above table are not included in ”(3) Short-term and long-term investment securities, Other securities and Securities issued by affiliated companies” because there is no fair value available. Note 3: Scheduled redemption of monetary claims and short-term and long-term investment securities at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015. (Millions of yen) Dec. 2016 Over 1 year Over 5 years Within 1 year but within 5 years but within 10 years Over 10 years (1) Cash and deposits ¥ 29,946 ¥— ¥— ¥— (2) Trade notes and account receivables 65,712 — — — (3) Short-term and long-term investment securities a Held-to-maturity debt securities Certificate of deposit 12,000 — — — Total ¥107,658 ¥— ¥— ¥— (Millions of yen) Dec. 2015 Over 1 year Over 5 years Within 1 year but within 5 years but within 10 years Over 10 years (1) Cash and deposits ¥22,068 ¥— ¥— ¥— (2) Trade notes and account receivables 59,751 — — — (3) Short-term and long-term investment securities a Held-to-maturity debt securities Certificate of deposit 13,000 — — — Total ¥94,819 ¥— ¥— ¥— (Thousands of U.S. dollars) Dec. 2016 Over 1 year Over 5 years Within 1 year but within 5 years but within 10 years Over 10 years (1) Cash and deposits $257,067 $— $— $— (2) Trade notes and account receivables 564,102 — — — (3) Short-term and long term investment securities a Held-to-maturity debt securities Certificate of deposit 103,013 — — — Total $924,182 $— $— $— Nabtesco Value Report 2016 170 00 Nabtesco Value Report FY Ended December 31, 2016 Note 4: Maturities of bonds payable and long-term loans payable at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015. (Millions of yen) Dec. 2016 Over 1 year Over 2 years Over 3 years Over 4 years Within 1 year but within 2 years but within 3 years but within 4 years but within 5 years Over 5 years Bonds payable ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥10,000 ¥ — Long-term loans payable 146 102 162 144 144 649 Total ¥146 ¥102 ¥162 ¥144 ¥10,144 ¥649 (Millions of yen) Dec. 2015 Over 1 year Over 2 years Over 3 years Over 4 years Within 1 year but within 2 years but within 3 years but within 4 years but within 5 years Over 5 years Bonds payable ¥10,000 ¥— ¥— ¥— ¥— ¥— Long-term loans payable 77 — — — — — Total ¥10,077 ¥— ¥— ¥— ¥— ¥— (Thousands of U.S. dollars) Dec. 2016 Over 1 year Over 2 years Over 3 years Over 4 years Within 1 year but within 2 years but within 3 years but within 4 years but within 5 years Over 5 years Bonds payable $ — $ — $ — $ — $85,844 $ — Long-term loans payable 1,256 877 1,389 1,238 1,239 5,572 Total $1,256 $877 $1,389 $1,238 $87,083 $5,572 171 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Nabtesco Value Report FY Ended December 31, 2016 6. Securities Information on securities at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 are shown below. The following tables summarize acquisition costs, book values and fair values of securities with available fair values as of December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015: (Held-to-maturity debt securities) (Millions of yen) Dec. 2016 Type Fair value Book value Difference Certificate of deposit ¥12,000 ¥12,000 ¥— Total ¥12,000 ¥12,000 ¥— (Millions of yen) Dec. 2015 Type Fair value Book value Difference Certificate of deposit ¥13,000 ¥13,000 ¥— Total ¥13,000 ¥13,000 ¥— (Thousands of U.S. dollars) Dec. 2016 Type Fair value Book value Difference Certificate of deposit $103,013 $103,013 $— Total $103,013 $103,013 $— (Other securities) (1) Securities with book values exceeding acquisition costs: (Millions of yen) Dec. 2016 Type Acquisition cost Book value Difference Equity securities ¥1,707 ¥4,542 ¥2,835 Total ¥1,707 ¥4,542 ¥2,835 (Millions of yen) Dec. 2015 Type Acquisition cost Book value Difference Equity securities ¥1,638 ¥4,731 ¥3,093 Total ¥1,638 ¥4,731 ¥3,093 (Thousands of U.S. dollars) Dec. 2016 Type Acquisition cost Book value Difference Equity securities $14,657 $38,989 $24,332 Total $14,657 $38,989 $24,332 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 172 00 Nabtesco Value Report FY Ended December 31, 2016 (2) Securities with book values not exceeding acquisition costs: (Millions of yen) Dec. 2016 Type Acquisition cost Book value Difference Equity securities ¥74 ¥70 ¥(4) Total ¥74 ¥70 ¥(4) (Millions of yen) Dec. 2015 Type Acquisition cost Book value Difference Equity securities ¥12 ¥9 ¥(3) Total ¥12 ¥9 ¥(3) (Thousands of U.S. dollars) Dec. 2016 Type Acquisition cost Book value Difference Equity securities $632 $602 $(30) Total $632 $602 $(30) The Companies recognize impairment loss on the securities, whose available fair values decline more than 50% of the carrying amount, based on the Japanese accounting standard for financial instruments and guidelines concerning the accounting for financial instruments. Total sales of other securities and the related gain and loss for the year ended December 31, 2016 and nine-month period ended December 31, 2015 are as follows: (Thousands of (Millions of yen) U.S. dollars) Dec. 2016 Dec. 2015 Dec. 2016 Sales of other securities ¥120 ¥3,314 $1,034 Gain on sales of other securities 6 2,064 55 Loss on sales of other securities — 1 — 7. Inventories Inventories at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 consisted of the followings: (Thousands of (Millions of yen) U.S. dollars) Dec. 2016 Dec. 2015 Dec. 2016 Finished goods ¥ 6,368 ¥ 5,579 $ 54,668 Works in process 14,325 11,622 122,975 Raw materials and supplies 11,926 11,221 102,376 Total inventories ¥32,619 ¥28,422 $280,019 173 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Nabtesco Value Report FY Ended December 31, 2016 8. Long-term Debt Long-term debt at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 consisted of the followings: (Thousands of (Millions of yen) U.S. dollars) Dec. 2016 Loans, principally from banks due within 1year ¥ 146 $ 1,256 due over 1 year but within 2 years 102 877 due over 2 years within 3 years 162 1,389 due over 3 years within than 4 years 144 1,238 due over 4 years within 5 years 144 1,238 due more than 5years 650 5,573 Straight bonds due more than 4 years, less than 5 years 10,000 85,844 Total ¥11,348 $97,415 Less current portion (146) (1,256) Long-term debt, net ¥11,202 $96,159 (Millions of yen) Dec. 2015 Loans, principally from banks due October 2016 ¥ 77 Straight bonds due December 2016 10,000 Total ¥ 10,077 Less current portion (10,077) Long-term debt, net ¥ — Maturities of long-term debt at the year-end are shown in “Note 5 Financial Instruments”. 9. Leases (Operating leases) Future minimum lease payments (including the interest portion thereon) subsequent to January 1, 2017 and January 1, 2016 under non-cancelable operating leases are summarized as follows: (Thousands of (Millions of yen) U.S. dollars) Dec. 2016 Dec. 2015 Dec. 2016 Under non-cancelable operating leases: Payments due within one year ¥363 ¥167 $3,114 Payments due after one year 538 530 4,620 Total ¥901 ¥697 $7,734 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 174 00 Nabtesco Value Report FY Ended December 31, 2016 10. Income Taxes and Deferred Income Taxes (1) The details of the significant portion of the deferred tax assets and liabilities The tax effects of temporary differences, which give rise to a significant portion of the deferred tax assets and liabilities at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, are summarized as follows: (Thousands of (Millions of yen) U.S. dollars) Dec. 2016 Dec. 2015 Dec. 2016 Deferred tax assets: Liability for retirement benefit ¥ 2,756 ¥ 2,105 $ 23,658 Provision for directors’ retirement benefits 81 45 697 Other accrued expenses 883 613 7,584 Loss on valuation of inventories 149 175 1,279 Accrued employees’ bonuses 636 623 5,459 Net operating loss carry forwards 2,308 1,542 19,812 Allowance for doubtful receivables 32 19 272 Loss on valuation of investments in securities 6 8 53 Loss on valuation of investments in affiliates 132 174 1,131 Loss on valuation of golf club membership rights 56 58 481 Provision for product warranties 164 128 1,412 Provision for loss on order received — 2 — Impairment loss 501 528 4,300 Others 796 783 6,829 8,500 6,803 72,967 Less valuation allowance (2,925) (2,333) (25,112) Total deferred tax assets 5,575 4,470 47,855 Deferred tax liabilities: Deferred taxation on government contributions ¥ 1,526 ¥ 1,145 $ 13,097 for acquisition of property, plant and equipment Valuation difference on other securities 921 1,000 7,909 Unrealized gains on real properties 971 — 8,334 Adjustments to taxable income from inventories 276 — 2,372 Adjustments to taxable income from investments 425 — 3,653 Effect of differences between tax rates in Japan and 1,261 1,347 10,828 other countries on undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries Others 244 723 2,095 Total deferred tax liabilities 5,624 4,215 48,288 Deferred tax assets (liabilities), net ¥ (49) ¥ 255 $ (433) 175 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Nabtesco Value Report FY Ended December 31, 2016 (2) The details of the significant differences between the effective tax rates and the actual tax rates The following table summarizes the significant differences between the effective tax rates and the actual tax rates for financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2016 and for the nine-month period ended December 31, 2015: Dec. 2016 Dec. 2015 Effective tax rate 33.1% 33.1% Different tax rates applied to consolidated overseas subsidiaries (1.2) 0.3 Unrecognized tax benefits from losses of subsidiaries 2.7 5.7 Changes in valuation allowances (1.1) 3.4 Non-deductible expenses for tax purpose such as meals and entertainment, etc. 0.9 0.4 Per capita inhabitant tax 0.3 0.4 Equity in earnings of affiliates (1.4) (3.7) Tax credit for R&D costs (1.8) (2.7) Foreign tax credit (0.1) (0.2) Tax credit for salary growth — (1.6) Amortization of goodwill 1.2 3.5 Decrease in deferred tax assets resulting from changes in the statutory tax rates 0.3 — Transfer of retained loss from merged subsidiary (1.9) — Others 0.5 (1.2) Actual tax rate 31.5% 37.4% (3) The reestimation of the deferred tax assets and liabilities by the change in statutory income taxes On March 29, 2016, amendments to the Japanese tax regulations were enacted into law. Based on the amendments, the statutory income tax rates utilized for the measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities expected to be settled or realized from January 1, 2017 to December 31, 2018 and on or after January 1, 2019 were changed from 32.3%to 30.9% and 30.6%, respectively, as of December 31, 2016. Due to these changes in statutory income tax rates, net deferred tax assets (after deducting deferred tax liabilities) decreased by 49 million yen, net unrealized gains on securities increased by 46 million yen, remeasurement of defined benefit plans decreased by 12 million yen as of December 31, 2016 and deferred income tax expense recognized for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016 increased by 82 million yen. Nabtesco Value Report 2016 176 00 Nabtesco Value Report FY Ended December 31, 2016 11. Business Combinations Business combinations resulting from acquisitions during the year ended December 31, 2016 (1) Outlines of the transaction (a) Name and business of acquired company NABCO Systems Co., Ltd. Sale, design, construction and maintenance of automatic doors (b) Purpose of the acquisition The Company has decided to acquire additional shares in NABCO Systems, which is currently an equity-method affiliate and became a consolidated subsidiary, with a view to further strengthening the business relationship between the two companies and accelerating the movement of unification of value chains across the country. Based on the view that such measures will contribute to the further development of the automatic doors business, the agreement that shares in NABCO Systems Co., Ltd. will be transferred to the Company was agreed between the Company and Mr. Taizo Yamamura, as a major shareholder of NABCO Systems Co., Ltd., Taiei Limited Liability Company, of which Mr. Taizo Yamamura is a major shareholder, and six other companies. (c) Effective date of the business combination April 1, 2016 (d) Legal form of the business combination Share Acquisition (e) Name of the company after the business combination NABCO Systems Co., Ltd. ( f ) Share of the voting rights acquired Before the acquisition 37.9% Additional acquisition 48.0% After the acquisition 85.9% (g) Description of how the Company obtained control of acquired company The Company acquired shares by cash. (2) Period of operation of the acquired company included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements From April 1, 2016 to December 31, 2016 (3) The details of the consideration of the acquired company (Thousands of (Millions of yen) U.S. dollars) Dec. 2016 Fair value of shares acquired prior to the date of the business combination ¥3,184 $27,333 Fair value of shares acquired on the date of the business combination 3,681 31,596 The total of the consideration ¥6,865 $58,929 (4) Acquisition cost Advisory cost 51 million yen (439 thousand U.S. dollars) (5) Difference of total value of acquisition and individual acquisition costs Gain on step acquisition 786 million yen (6,751 thousand U.S. dollars) 177 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Nabtesco Value Report FY Ended December 31, 2016 (6) Negative goodwill and the reason for recognizing native goodwill (a) Negative goodwill 353 million yen (3,029 thousand U.S. dollars) (b) The reason of the recognition The Company recognized the difference between the consideration and the assets and liabilities of the acquired company as the negative goodwill. (7) Assets and liabilities of the acquired company as of the date of the business combination (Thousands of (Millions of yen) U.S. dollars) Dec. 2016 Current assets 12,483 107,156 Non-current assets 7,460 64,042 Total assets 19,943 171,198 Current liabilities 8,525 73,186 Non-current liabilities 2,848 24,447 Total liabilities 11,373 97,633 (8) Estimated impact on the consolidated financial results if the business combination had been completed at the beginning of the fiscal year (January 1, 2016) Sales 4,956 million yen (42,545 thousand of U.S. dollars) The estimated sales above was calculated based on the difference between the assumption that the business combination was completed at the beginning of the fiscal year and the acquired company’s sales on the consolidated statement of income . The estimated impact has not been audited by the Company’s independent auditor. 12. Net Assets Under the Japanese Corporate Law, upon issuance of common stock, the entire amount of the issue price is required to be accounted for as common stock, although companies may, by resolution of the Board of Directors, account for an amount not exceeding one-half of the issue price of the new shares as additional paid-in capital, which is included in capital surplus. Under the Japanese Corporate Law, in cases where dividend distribution of surplus is made, the smaller of an amount equal to 10% of the dividend or the excess, if any, of 25% of common stock over the total of additional paid-in-capital and legal earnings reserve must be set aside as additional paid-in-capital or legal earnings reserve. Legal earnings reserve is included in retained earnings in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Under the Japanese Corporate Law, legal earnings reserve and additional paid-in capital could be used to eliminate or reduce a deficit by a resolution of the shareholders’ meeting. Additional paid-in capital and legal earnings reserve may not be distributed as dividends. Under the Japanese Corporate Law, however, all additional paid-in-capital and all legal earnings reserve may be transferred to other capital surplus and retained earnings, respectively, which are potentially available for dividends. The maximum amount that the Company can distribute as dividends is calculated based on the non-consolidated financial statements of the Company in accordance with the Japanese Corporate Law. Nabtesco Value Report 2016 178 00 Nabtesco Value Report FY Ended December 31, 2016 13. Employee’s Severance and Retirement Benefits The liabilities for severance and retirement benefits included in the liability section of the consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2016 are consisted of the followings: Retirement benefit obligations (1) Movement in retirement benefit obligations, except for the plan applying the simplified method (Thousands of (Millions of yen) U.S. dollars) Dec. 2016 Dec. 2015 Dec. 2016 Balance at the beginning of the period ¥21,804 ¥20,120 $187,178 Service cost 1,994 1,303 17,116 Interest cost 195 221 1,673 Actuarial loss 931 195 7,996 Benefits paid (507) (258) (4,352) Past service cost (697) 5 (5,981) Increase through business combinations 4,370 288 37,512 Effect of change from simplified method 696 — 5,972 Decrease by the end of plan (354) — (3,042) The effect of changes in foreign exchange rates (893) (69) (7,668) Balance at the end of the period ¥27,539 ¥21,805 $236,404 (2) Movement in plan assets, except for the plan applying the simplified method (Thousands of (Millions of yen) U.S. dollars) Dec. 2016 Dec. 2015 Dec. 2016 Balance at the beginning of the period ¥15,691 ¥14,661 $134,701 Expected return on plan assets 144 187 1,240 Actuarial loss (gain) 20 (42) 169 Contributions by the employer 697 439 5,987 Contributions by the employee 380 513 3,266 Benefits paid (169) (1) (1,447) Increase through business combinations 2,888 — 24,793 The effect of changes in foreign exchange rates (868) (66) (7,472) Balance at the end of the period ¥18,783 ¥15,691 $161,237 (3) Movement in liability for retirement benefits plan applying the simplified method (Thousands of (Millions of yen) U.S. dollars) Dec. 2016 Dec. 2015 Dec. 2016 Balance at the beginning of the period ¥1,022 ¥ 997 $ 8,774 Retirement benefit costs 138 128 1,185 Benefits paid (57) (74) (494) Contributions to the plans — (26) — Effect of change into principle method (696) — (5,972) The effect of changes in foreign exchange rates 3 (2) 24 Balance at the end of the period ¥ 410 ¥1,023 $ 3,517 179 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Nabtesco Value Report FY Ended December 31, 2016 (4) Reconciliation from retirement benefit obligations and plan assets to liability (asset) for retirement benefits (Thousands of (Millions of yen) U.S. dollars) Dec. 2016 Dec. 2015 Dec. 2016 Funded retirement benefit obligations ¥ 20,289 ¥ 15,871 $ 174,173 Plan assets (18,783) (15,691) (161,237) 1,506 180 12,936 Unfunded retirement benefit obligations 7,660 6,955 65,747 Total Net liability (asset) for retirement benefits at the end of the period 9,166 7,135 78,683 Liability for retirement benefits 9,343 7,340 80,205 Asset for retirement benefits (177) (205) (1,522) Total Net liability (asset) for retirement benefits at the end of the period ¥ 9,166 ¥ 7,135 $ 78,683 (5) Retirement benefit costs (Thousands of (Millions of yen) U.S. dollars) Dec. 2016 Dec. 2015 Dec. 2016 Service cost, excluding contributions by employees ¥1,613 ¥ 790 $13,849 Interest cost 195 221 1,673 Expected return on plan assets (144) (187) (1,240) Net actuarial loss amortization 46 (437) 392 Past service costs amortization (697) 5 (5,981) Retirement benefit costs calculated by the simplified method 138 128 1,185 Total retirement benefit costs at the end of the period ¥1,151 ¥ 520 $ 9,878 (6) Remeasurements of defined benefit plans (before tax effects) (Thousands of (Millions of yen) U.S. dollars) Dec. 2016 Dec. 2015 Dec. 2016 Actuarial gains and losses ¥867 ¥674 $7,443 Total ¥867 ¥674 $7,443 (7) Cumulative remeasurements of defined benefit plans (before tax effects) (Thousands of (Millions of yen) U.S. dollars) Dec. 2016 Dec. 2015 Dec. 2016 Actuarial losses that are yet to be recognized ¥1,858 ¥992 $15,953 Total ¥1,858 ¥992 $15,953 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 180 00 Nabtesco Value Report FY Ended December 31, 2016 (8) Plan assets 1. Plan assets comprise: Dec. 2016 Dec. 2015 Bonds 42% 50% Equity securities 27% 34% Cash and deposits 4% 4% Others 27% 12% Total 100% 100% 2. Long-term expected rate of return Current and target asset allocations, historical and expected returns on various categories of plan assets have been considered in determining the long-term expected rate of return. (9) Actuarial assumptions The principal actuarial assumptions at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 (expressed as weighted averages) are as follows: Dec. 2016 Dec. 2015 Discount rate: 0.5%—1.1% 0.8%—1.1% Long-term expected rate of return: 0.5%—1.1% 0.8%—1.1% 3. Defined contribution plan (Retirement benefit costs) (Thousands of (Millions of yen) U.S. dollars) Dec. 2016 Dec. 2015 Dec. 2016 Contributions to a defined contribution plan ¥1,085 ¥799 $9,314 14. Research and Development Costs Research and development costs included cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses for the years ended December 31, 2016 and the nine-month period ended December 31, 2015, amount to ¥7,362 million ($63,199 thousand) and ¥5,800 million, respectively. 181 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Nabtesco Value Report FY Ended December 31, 2016 15. Other Comprehensive Income Amounts reclassified to net income in the current period that are recognized in other comprehensive income in the current or previous periods and tax effects for each component of other comprehensive income are as follows: (Thousands of (Millions of yen) U.S. dollars) Dec. 2016 Dec. 2015 Dec. 2016 Valuation difference on other securities Increase (decrease) during the year ¥ (226) ¥ 94 $ (1,937) Reclassification adjustments (6) (2,064) (55) Sub-total, before tax (232) (1,970) (1,992) Tax effect 95 702 816 Sub-total, net of tax (137) (1,268) (1,176) Deferred gains or losses on hedges Increase during the year 0 5 4 Reclassification adjustments (5) 4 (47) Sub-total, before tax (5) 9 (43) Tax effect 2 (3) 16 Sub-total, net of tax (3) 6 (27) Foreign currency translation adjustments Decrease during the year (3,579) (1,772) (30,727) Remeasurements of defined benefit plans Adjustments arising during the year (913) (241) (7,835) Reclassification adjustments to profit or loss 46 (432) 392 Sub-total, before tax (867) (673) (7,443) Tax effect 226 151 1,942 Sub-total, net of tax (641) (522) (5,501) Share of other comprehensive income of associates accounted for using equity method Decrease during the year (111) (67) (952) Total other comprehensive income ¥(4,471) ¥(3,623) $(38,383) Nabtesco Value Report 2016 182 00 Nabtesco Value Report FY Ended December 31, 2016 16. Derivative Financial Instruments According to the accounting standards for derivative financial instruments, forward foreign exchange contracts which qualify for hedge accounting and such amounts of which are assigned to hedged assets or liabilities and are recorded on the balance sheets at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, are not subject to disclosure of market value information. There is no derivative financial instrument, for which hedge accounting is not applied, and therefore there is no derivative financial instrument subject to disclosure of market value information as of December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015. (Foreign exchange forward contracts) Derivative financial instruments for which hedge accounting is applied as of December 31, 2016 are as follows: (Millions of yen) Hedge accounting method Type of derivative, etc Main hedged items Contract amount Portion over 1 year Fair value Foreign exchange Deferral forward contract Trade notes and ¥47 ¥— ¥0 hedge method Sold option account receivable U.S. dollars (Thousands of U.S. dollars) Hedge accounting method Type of derivative, etc Main hedged items Contract amount Portion over 1 year Fair value Foreign exchange Deferral forward contract Trade notes and $400 $— $4 hedge method Sold option account receivable U.S. dollars Note 1: Fair values are stated at the price provided by financial institutions etc. Derivative financial instruments for which hedge accounting are applied as of December 31, 2015 are as follows: (Millions of yen) Hedge accounting method Type of derivative, etc Main hedged items Contract amount Portion over 1 year Fair value Foreign exchange Deferral forward contract Trade notes and ¥293 ¥— ¥5 hedge method Sold option account receivable U.S. dollars Foreign exchange forward contract Trade notes and Allocation method 1,657 — Note 2 Sold option account receivable U.S. dollars Notes 1: Fair values are stated at the price provided by financial institutions etc. 2: Since amounts in foreign currency forward contracts treated by the allocation method are handled together with accounts receivable that are subject to hedging, the estimated fair value of such accounts receivable is shown as the estimated fair value in the table above. 183 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Nabtesco Value Report FY Ended December 31, 2016 17. Earnings per Share Earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2016 and the nine-month period ended December 31, 2015 are as follows. (Thousand of (Millions of yen) U.S. dollars) Dec. 2016 Dec. 2015 Dec. 2016 Basic earnings per share Net income attributable to owner of parent ¥ 17,585 ¥ 11,059 $150,957 Weighted average number of shares issued (thousands) 123,518 124,471 123,518 (Yen) (U.S. dollars) Dec. 2016 Dec. 2015 Dec. 2016 Basic earnings per share ¥142.37 ¥88.85 $1.22 Dec. 2016 Dec. 2015 Dec. 2016 Diluted earnings per share Increase in common shares (thousands) Stock option rights 213 144 213 (Yen) (U.S. dollars) Dec. 2016 Dec. 2015 Dec. 2016 Diluted earnings per share ¥142.12 ¥88.75 $1.22 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 184 00 Nabtesco Value Report FY Ended December 31, 2016 18. Stock Based Compensation Plan (1) Stock based compensation plans as of December 31, 2016 are as follows. Share subscription Share subscription Share subscription Share subscription Share subscription rights-1 rights-2 rights-3 rights-4 rights-5 Date of grant July 30, 2009 July 30, 2010 July 29, 2011 July 31, 2012 July 31, 2013 Number of Common stock Common stock Common stock Common stock Common stock shares granted 99,000 70,000 70,000 77,700 64,500 Directors and Directors and Directors and Directors and Directors and Grantee corporate officer corporate officer corporate officer corporate officer corporate officer of the Companies of the Companies of the Companies of the Companies of the Companies August 22, 2009 August 21, 2010 August 20, 2011 August 21, 2012 August 21, 2013 Exercisable through through through through through period August 21, 2034 August 20, 2035 August 19, 2036 August 20, 2037 August 20, 2038 Outstanding at the end of the fiscal 12,000 9,000 28,600 32,300 36,000 year (shares) Share subscription Share subscription Share subscription Share subscription rights-6 rights-7 rights-8 rights-9 Date of grant July 31, 2014 May 28, 2015 July 31, 2015 April 28, 2016 Number of Common stock Common stock Common stock Common stock shares granted 55,500 3,000 29,300 53,000 Directors and Directors and Directors and Directors and Grantee corporate officer corporate officer corporate officer corporate officer of the Companies of the Companies of the Companies of the Companies August 21, 2014 June 15, 2018 August 21, 2015 May 21, 2016 Exercisable through through through through period August 20, 2039 June 14, 2025 August 20, 2040 May 20, 2041 Outstanding at the end of the fiscal 34,000 3,000 25,300 53,000 year (shares) Price information Date of grant July 30, 2009 July 30, 2010 July 29, 2011 July 31, 2012 July 31, 2013 July 31, 2014 Exercise price ¥ 1 ¥ 1 ¥ 1 ¥ 1 ¥ 1 ¥ 1 Average stock price ¥2,327 ¥2,327 ¥2,327 ¥2,327 ¥2,327 ¥2,327 upon exercise Fair value at grant date ¥1,026 ¥1,285 ¥1,529 ¥1,393 ¥1,978 ¥2,241 Date of grant May 28, 2015 July 31, 2015 April 28, 2016 Exercise price ¥ 1 ¥ 1 ¥ 1 Average stock price ¥ — ¥2,327 ¥ — upon exercise Fair value at grant date ¥2,980 ¥2,420 ¥2,564 185 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Nabtesco Value Report FY Ended December 31, 2016 (2) Valuation technique used for estimating fair value of stock option granted in the fiscal year (April 28, 2016) Valuation technique: Black-Scholes option-pricing model Principal parameters used in the option-pricing model: Calculated based on the actual stock prices Expected volatility 32.272 % from May 12, 2013 to May 20, 2016. It is estimated assuming that the options were exercised Average expected period 3.002 years at the midpoint of the exercise period. Expected dividends are based on the actual dividends Expected dividends ¥44 per share for the fiscal Year ended December 31, 2015. Japanese government bond yield corresponding Risk-free interest rate -0.223% to the average expected period (3) Method of estimating number of stock option vested Only the actual number of forfeited stock option is reflected since a reasonable estimate is not possible. 19. Investment and Rental Property Information about fair value of investment and rental property included in the consolidated financial statements at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 are as follows: (Millions of yen) Book value as of Book value as of Fair value as of Increase/(decrease) January 1, 2016 December 31, 2016 December 31, 2016 Purpose of use Rental property ¥2,877 ¥ 1,369 ¥4,246 ¥6,693 Idle property 321 (321) — — Total ¥3,198 ¥1,048 ¥4,246 ¥6,693 (Thousands of U.S. dollars) Book value as of Book value as of Fair value as of Increase/(decrease) January 1, 2016 December 31, 2016 December 31, 2016 Purpose of use Rental property $24,699 $11,754 $36,453 $57,453 Idle property 2,759 (2,759) — — Total $27,458 $ 8,995 $36,453 $57,453 Notes 1: The book value of each property on the balance sheet is its acquisition cost less accumulated depreciation. 2: Main rental properties are rental land and building in Tokyo, land in Kobe and land and building in Ehime prefecture. 3: Increase is mainly the rental property of NABCO Systems, which was purchased as a subsidiary on April 1, 2016 and decrease is mainly a sale of the land where old Yokohama factory once stood in Kanagawa prefecture. 4: Fair value of property as of December 31, 2016 is primarily calculated based on real estate appraisal standards provided by the external licensed appraiser. Nabtesco Value Report 2016 186 00 Nabtesco Value Report FY Ended December 31, 2016 (Millions of yen) Book value as of Book value as of Fair value as of Increase/(decrease) April 1, 2015 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2015 Purpose of use Rental property ¥3,899 ¥(1,022) ¥2,877 ¥5,224 Idle property 321 — 321 989 Total ¥4,220 ¥(1,022) ¥3,198 ¥6,213 Notes 1: The book value of each property on the balance sheet is its acquisition cost less accumulated depreciation. 2: Main rental properties are rental building in Tokyo, land in Kobe and land and building in Ehime prefecture. 3: Main idle properties are vacant land of the old Yokosuka factory in Kanagawa prefecture. 4: Decrease is mainly a sale of a rental building in Tokyo. 5: Fair value of property as of December 31, 2015 is primarily calculated based on real estate appraisal standards provided by the external licensed appraiser. Revenue and expense related to investment and rental property are as follows: (Millions of yen) Dec. 2016 Rental revenues Rental expenses Net Other expenses ¥434 ¥183 ¥251 ¥10 (Millions of yen) Dec. 2015 Rental revenues Rental expenses Net Other expenses ¥259 ¥153 ¥107 ¥10 (Thousands of U.S. dollars) Dec. 2016 Rental revenues Rental expenses Net Other expenses $3,725 $1,573 $2,152 $83 Notes 1: Rental expenses are mainly depreciation, repair, insurance, tax and dues related to the rental properties. 2: Other expenses are mainly depreciation, repair, insurance, tax and dues related to the idle properties. 20. Impairment loss The Companies recognized impairment loss on fixed assets for the following subsidiary for the nine-month period ended December 31, 2015. CGU Location Nature of the asset (Millions of yen) Buildings and structures ¥ 410 Shanghai, Machinery and equipment 1,649 Shanghai Nabtesco Hydraulic Co., Ltd. Production China Others 52 Total ¥2,111 The Company classified an in-house company in the Company and each subsidiary as a CGU. Hydraulic equipment business has been affected by the sluggish market condition in China in this fiscal period. As a result, the subsidiary recognized impairment loss for its fixed assets to a recoverable amount and recorded the impairment loss in extraordinary loss. The recoverable amount was calculated based on a value in use. The future cash flow was discounted by interest rate of 14.0%. 187 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Nabtesco Value Report FY Ended December 31, 2016 21. Business structure improvement expenses The business structure improvement expenses include mainly loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and property relocation expenses due to production reorganization in Oil hydraulic equipment business for the nine-month period ended December 31, 2015. 22. Segment Information (1) General information about reportable segments Reportable segments are components of the Companies for which discrete financial information is available, and whose operating results are reviewed regularly by the board of directors to make decisions about resources to the segment and assess performance. The Companies manufacture and sale products based on motion control technology and their segments are divided into four reportable segments, “Precision Equipment”, “Transport Equipment”, “Aircraft and Oil Hydraulic Equipment” and “Industrial Equipment”. Main products and main industries of each reportable segment are as follows: Segment Main products Main industries High precision reducers and actuators, wafer ndustrial robots, machine tools, factory transfer unit, vacuum pumps, vacuum valves, Precision automation systems, electronic devices, vacuum devices, rapid prototyping systems, Equipment semiconductor manufacturing equipment solar tracking equipments and actuation units automobiles and home electronic appliances for wind turbine Automatic door drive unit, automobile air brake Transport system, automatic testing and training Railway vehicle, automobile and marine vessels Equipment equipment, remote control systems for marine vessels. Aircraft and Flight control systems, various types of Aircraft, space, construction equipment, Oil Hydraulic actuators, oil hydraulic drive motors, and agricultural and other vehicles Equipment various types of motors for winches Automatic door systems, prosthetic products, Building and general industry, welfare, food, Industrial automatic measuring and packing machines, medicine, cleaning material, chemicals, Equipment multi-forming machines and constant velocity precision equipment, automobiles, and home joint processing machines electronic appliances (2) Basis of measurement for reportable segment profit or loss, segment assets, segment liabilities and other material items The basis of measurement for reportable segment profit or loss, segment assets, segment liabilities and other material items is basically consistent with the description in “Summary of significant accounting policies”. Intersegment transactions are based on current market prices. Nabtesco Value Report 2016 188 00 Nabtesco Value Report FY Ended December 31, 2016 (3) Information about reportable segment profit or loss, segment assets, segment liabilities and other material items Reportable segment information as of and for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016 and the nine-month period December 31, 2015 is as follows: (Millions of yen) Dec. 2016 Aircraft and Oil Precision Transport Hydraulic Industrial Equipment Equipment Equipment Equipment Total Adjustment Consolidated Sales External sales ¥56,932 ¥61,075 ¥47,806 ¥78,806 ¥244,619 ¥ — ¥244,619 Intersegment sales 148 293 3,109 142 3,692 (3,692) — Total sales 57,080 61,368 50,915 78,948 248,311 (3,692) 244,619 Operating income or loss 8,617 10,336 (27) 4,546 23,472 — 23,472 Total assets 43,780 47,597 52,916 84,442 228,735 30,221 258,946 Total liabilities 18,021 15,800 14,516 29,673 78,010 22,415 100,425 Depreciation 1,788 1,472 2,036 1,401 6,697 710 7,407 Amortization of goodwill 32 30 356 1,006 1,424 — 1,424 Capital expenditures 4,328 1,935 4,697 3,114 14,074 456 14,530 (Millions of yen) Dec. 2015 Aircraft and Oil Precision Transport Hydraulic Industrial Equipment Equipment Equipment Equipment Total Adjustment Consolidated Sales External sales ¥45,328 ¥46,849 ¥39,524 ¥55,300 ¥187,001 ¥ — ¥187,001 Intersegment sales 67 222 1,244 271 1,804 (1,804) — Total sales 45,395 47,071 40,768 55,571 188,805 (1,804) 187,001 Operating income or loss 6,824 7,891 (2,030) 2,610 15,295 — 15,295 Total assets 52,197 41,922 48,376 64,410 206,905 26,476 233,381 Total liabilities 17,926 14,061 13,467 19,631 65,085 19,372 84,457 Depreciation 1,068 1,179 2,457 1,200 5,904 460 6,364 Amortization of goodwill — — 267 1,341 1,608 — 1,608 Capital expenditures 3,556 1,229 1,650 1,661 8,096 887 8,983 189 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Nabtesco Value Report FY Ended December 31, 2016 (Thousands of U.S. dollars) Dec. 2016 Aircraft and Oil Precision Transport Hydraulic Industrial Equipment Equipment Equipment Equipment Total Adjustment Consolidated Sales External sales $488,726 $524,290 $410,391 $676,506 $2,099,913 $ — $2,099,913 Intersegment sales 1,271 2,518 26,685 1,214 31,688 (31,688) — Total sales 489,997 526,808 437,076 677,720 2,131,601 (31,688) 2,099,913 Operating income or loss 73,968 88,728 (229) 39,027 201,494 — 201,494 Total assets 375,823 408,597 454,254 724,888 1,963,562 259,345 2,222,907 Total liabilities 154,696 135,633 124,618 254,731 669,678 192,416 862,094 Depreciation 15,352 12,635 17,475 12,028 57,490 6,091 63,581 Amortization of goodwill 270 257 3,057 8,643 12,227 — 12,227 Gain on negative goodwill — — — (3,029) (3,029) — (3,029) Capital expenditures 37,156 16,615 40,323 26,731 120,825 3,915 124,740 Notes: Adjustment is referred to below: (1) Adjustment of intersegment sales represents elimination of intersegment transactions. (2) Adjustment of total assets primarily represents corporate assets. (3) Adjustment of total liabilities primarily represents corporate liabilities. (4) Adjustment of capital expenditures represents capital expenditures of corporate assets. (Related information) (1) Information about products and services Since the segments of products and services are the same as the reportable segments, information by products or services is omitted. (2) Information by geographical area Information by geographical area for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 is as follows: (Note) Sales are divided into country and region based on the locations of the customers. (Millions of yen) Dec. 2016 Japan China Asia (Others) North America Europe Other areas Total Sales ¥141,412 ¥27,837 ¥16,779 ¥20,706 ¥37,229 ¥656 ¥244,619 Property, 54,567 6,446 1,734 2,080 2,996 — 67,823 Plant and equipment (Millions of yen) Dec. 2015 Japan China Asia (Others) North America Europe Other areas Total Sales ¥93,550 ¥19,111 ¥16,875 ¥21,471 ¥35,107 ¥887 ¥187,001 Property, 42,815 6,484 2,014 2,179 2,424 — 55,916 Plant and equipment (Thousands of U.S. dollars) Dec. 2016 Japan China Asia (Others) North America Europe Other areas Total Sales $1,213,940 $238,968 $144,035 $177,751 $319,591 $5,628 $2,099,913 Property, 468,426 55,334 14,888 17,853 25,720 — 582,221 Plant and equipment Nabtesco Value Report 2016 190 00 Nabtesco Value Report FY Ended December 31, 2016 (3) Information about major customers Information about major customers is omitted, since there is no major customer that makes up more than 10% of consolidated net sales. (Information about impairment loss in reportable segments) Information on impairment loss in reportable segments for the nine-month period ended December 31, 2015 is as follows: (Millions of yen) Dec. 2015 Aircraft and Oil Precision Transport Hydraulic Industrial Equipment Equipment Equipment Equipment Total Adjustment Consolidated Impairment loss ¥— ¥— ¥2,111 ¥— ¥2,111 ¥— ¥2,111 (Information about goodwill in reportable segments) Information on amortization of goodwill and unamortized balance in reportable segments for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 is as follows: (Millions of yen) Dec. 2016 Aircraft and Oil Eliminations and Precision Transport Hydraulic Industrial General Equipment Equipment Equipment equipment Corporate Total Goodwill Amortization ¥32 ¥30 ¥ 356 ¥ 1,006 ¥— ¥ 1,424 Balance at year-end — — 2,225 14,806 — 17,031 (Millions of yen) Dec. 2015 Aircraft and Oil Eliminations and Precision Transport Hydraulic Industrial General Equipment Equipment Equipment equipment Corporate Total Goodwill Amortization ¥— ¥— ¥ 267 ¥ 1,341 ¥— ¥ 1,608 Balance at year-end — — 2,581 16,843 — 19,424 (Thousands of U.S. dollars) Dec. 2016 Aircraft and Oil Eliminations and Precision Transport Hydraulic Industrial General Equipment Equipment Equipment equipment Corporate Total Goodwill Amortization $270 $257 $ 3,057 $ 8,643 $— $ 12,227 Balance at year-end — — 19,105 127,100 — 146,205 (Information about negative goodwill in reportable segments) The Company purchased NABCO Systems as a part of Industrial Equipment segment on April 1, 2016. As a result, the Company recognized negative goodwill ¥353 million ($3,029 thousand) for the year ended December 31, 2016. 191 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Nabtesco Value Report FY Ended December 31, 2016 23. Appropriation of retained earnings The following appropriation of retained earnings on a non-consolidated basis, which has not been reflected in accompanying consolidated financial statements, was approved at the general shareholders’ meeting held on March 28, 2017: (Thousands of (Millions of yen) U.S. dollars) Cash dividends (¥26 (= $0.22) per share) ¥3,229 $27,718 24. Subsequent events The Company acquired 100% of the shares of OVALO GmbH on March 1, 2017. (1) Outlines of the transaction (a) Name and business of acquired company OVALO GmbH Development, manufacturing, and Sale system products with the wave gears for the automobile industry. (b) Purpose of the acquisition The Company decided this acquisition to ensure the European market and to accelerate development of mechatronics systems. (c) Effective date of the business combination March 1, 2017 (d) Legal form of the business combination Share Acquisition by cash (e) Name of the company after the business combination OVALO GmbH (f) Share of the voting rights acquired 100% (g) Main reason determining the acquiring company The Company acquired by the cash. (2) The details of the consideration of the acquired company (Thousands of EUR) Consideration given (Cash) 82,000* Consideration received 82,000 *This figure includes the amount of the loan from its previous parent company. Nabtesco Value Report 2016 192 00 Nabtesco Value Report FY Ended December 31, 2016 (3) Acquisition cost Not yet settled on the reporting date. (4) Goodwill and the reason for recognizing goodwill Not yet settled on the reporting date. (5) Assets and liabilities of the acquired company as of the date of the business combination Not yet settled on the reporting date 193 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 Nabtesco Value Report FY Ended December 31, 2016 Nabtesco Value Report 2016 194 00
