BEING THE CHANGE Diamonds are known for their qualities of purity, absolute strength and clear, classic beauty; attributes that have guaranteed their value and appreciation over time. Most natural diamonds are formed over billions of years, miles beneath the Earth’s surface in high temperatures and pressure conditions. The subsequent process of cutting and transforming a rough stone into a faceted gem combines both science and art, requiring specialised tools, technology and craftsmanship. Diamond production has several stages: planning, sawing, checking for smoothness and polishing with a final inspection for the quality of symmetry, polish and cut. It is a complex task requiring patience and commitment to the meticulous work of change and transformation that eventually results in the creation of this valuable gem. DIMO has always been a Company of the future. Innovation, creativity and progressive thinking have defined the way we have used our talent and resources to chart our corporate journey. For over 79 years, we have been at the forefront of Sri Lankan business and industry, simply by being a Company that has lived by its corporate purpose to ‘create value responsibly’. Today, more than ever before, we see the need for transformative social, economic and environmental change in the way Sri Lankans live, the way we work and the way we look at our future. We want to play our part in driving such change and that’s why our future focus includes the broader issues of alternative energy, intelligent mobility, structured farming, climate change and the creation of sustainable value that benefit everyone. We know that a business enterprise can only be economically viable if it is genuinely sustainable. We recognize that good business is responsible business and that is why we are investing to build awareness, launching long-term projects and striving to ensure that our work and values resonate with our stakeholders, for their belief is what drives us to keep excelling year after year. We’re going into a future that we see as challenging, yet full of potential for those who regard such challenges as opportunities for positive transformation. And we’re excited to lead the way yet again; inspiring ourselves and inspiring others to be the change we all want to see. CONTENTS Change is visionary Change is progressive Change is prudent CONTEXT STRATEGY ENTERPRISE GOVERNANCE This section sets the context for the broader Here we present important information about Our commitment to good governance remains analyses that follow. Here we offer an overview DIMO’s corporate strategy. The section describes strong. This section examines our responsibilities of the Group, through the Company history how our value creation model drives our strategy, and practices in planning and implementing and Group Structure, together with a guide which includes the three key elements of our strategic direction. Enterprise Governance to reading this report and a description of the collaboration, differentiation and diversification. includes the two important aspects of frameworks and basis on which it was prepared. We also show how DIMO’s strategy has resulted conformance and performance, as applied to DIMO’s performance is further analysed in the in five important outcomes achieved through the management of our value creation activities; management reviews by the Chairman/ Managing our model of value creation. This is also where including our capitals and impacts and across the Director and Group Chief Executive Officer. the reader can learn about how we engage with value chain. Finally, this section introduces the reader to our our stakeholders, together with an analysis of our Board of Directors and Senior Management team. sustainability performance. Our Aspiration and Purpose 05 Corporate Strategy 29 Enterprise Governance 41 The DIMO Annual Report at a Glance 06 From Purpose to Action 30 Senior Independent Directors Statement 52 Chairman’s Message 08 Basis For Resource Allocation 31 Committee Reports Group Chief Executive Officer’s Review 12 Value Creation Model 32 Audit Committee Report 53 How to Read the Report 16 Stakeholder Engagement 34 Remuneration Committee Report 55 Our History 18 Materiality Analysis 37 Related Party Transaction Review Committee Group Structure 19 Sustainability Performance Objectives 39 Report 56 Board of Directors 20 Nomination Committee Report 57 Group Management Committee 26 Responsibility Statement of Chairman/ Managing Director, Group Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer 58 The HTML version of the Annual Report 2017/18 can be read at: http://www.dimolanka.com/annual-reports/dimo2017ar/home.html Supplementary information of the Annual Report 2017/18 can be read at: http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ Code of Best Practices of Corporate Governance detail disclosure of the Annual Report 2017/18 can be read at: http://www.dimolanka.com/stewardship/ 2 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 Change is positive Change is valuable Change is perceptive VALUE CREATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Value creation is ultimately the primary purpose Here we give the reader a detailed account of our This section includes information complementary of our operations and thus, it is always a very monetised resources and the monetised results of to the main body of the report. important section of our report. We start by our value chain management activities, one of the analyzing the capitals that provide inputs. We five key outputs we aim to achieve. We provide then evaluate the business segment performance the reader with detailed notes and give context and the economic, social and environmental to the numbers in the financial statements. The impacts of our value creation activities, outlining Accounting policies and Basis of Preparation are the value we have created for our stakeholders. also presented here. We end the section with a description of our Risk Management framework and policies. Management of Capitals 61 Annual Report of the Board of Directors 140 Appendix I Share Information 207 Management of Value Chain 93 Director’s Interests in Contracts with the Appendix II GRI Content Index 209 Management of Impacts 113 Company 144 Appendix III Independent Assurance Management of Risk 133 Board of Directors’ Statement on Internal Statement on Non-Financial Reporting 215 Controls 145 Appendix IV Ten Year Summary 218 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities for Appendix V Glossary 219 Financial Statements 146 Corporate Information 221 Financial Calendar 147 Notice of Meeting 222 Independent Auditor’s Report 148 Form of Proxy 223 Financial Statements 152 Section 2 Corporate Information 158 Section 3 Basis of Accounting 159 Section 4 Specific Accounting Policies and Notes 164 Section 5 Other Disclosures 204 3 CHANGE IS VISIONARY Context This section sets the context for the broader analyses that follow. Here we offer an overview of the Group, through the Company history and Group Structure, together with a guide to reading this report and a description of the frameworks and basis on which it was prepared. DIMO’s performance is further analysed in the management reviews by the Chairman/ Managing Director and Group Chief Executive Officer. Finally, this section introduces the reader to our Board of Directors and Senior Management team. Our Aspiration and Purpose 05 The DIMO Annual Report at a Glance 06 Chairman’s Message 08 Group Chief Executive Officer’s Review 12 How to Read the Report 16 Our History 18 Group Structure 19 Board of Directors 20 Group Management Committee 26 OUR ASPIRATION AND PURPOSE Change is visionary BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information OUR ASPIRATION To be the corporate role model that inspires and touches the life of every Sri Lankan, every day. OUR PURPOSE To create value responsibly. OUR VALUES Responsible : To be a responsible corporate citizen. To act with responsibility towards all our stakeholders and the environment Righteous : To stand for righteousness with resolve Responsive : To be approachable and responsive to every stakeholder we serve Reliable : To be reliable and trustworthy, whatever we undertake to do Respectful : To always treat people with dignity and respect Resilient : To be resilient in adversity 5 THE DIMO ANNUAL REPORT AT A GLANCE Three Pronged Strategy that Sets A Value Creation Model for Navigation A Governing Body that Leads the Way the Road Map Page 29 Pages 32-33 Page 42 Diversification Capital Business Outputs and inputs activities Outcomes Board of Directors B DIMO A C Competitive Triangle D Performance Conformance A-Management of capitals, B-Management of value chain, Collaboration Differentiation C-Management of impacts, D-Management of risks A. Management of Capitals – Our Stores of Value Page 60-91 Monetised Capital Group Revenue (Net) Group PAT Earnings per share Dividend per share (Rs. Mn.) (Rs. Mn.) (Rs.) (Rs.) 43,435 In 2016/17 44,272 554 In 2016/17 657 62 In 2016/17 74 20 In 2016/17 24 Relationship Capital Number of foreign business Foreign business partners with Customer satisfaction index Customer interaction points partners more than 50 years relationship including branches 90 In 2016/17 94 7 In 2016/17 7 88% In 2016/17 90% 58 In 2016/17 65 Human Capital Number of employees (as at Total training hours Employee satisfaction index Employee engagement score the year-end) out of 5 1,850 In 2016/17 1,725 49,486 In 2016/17 36,818 66.3% In 2016/17 64.6% 4In 2016/17 3.88 Intellectual Capital Natural Capital Number of employees with Energy consumed to generate Water consumed to generate ISO 9001:2015 more than 5 years of work one million turnover one million turnover Accredited Quality experience at DIMO (GJ) (M3) Management System 706 In 2016/17 581 1.76 In 2016/17 1.67 2.41 In 2016/17 2.40 6 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Change is visionary Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information This year too we have consciously looked Our capitals define our inimitability as the at transformative, social, economic and uniqueness of the value proposition that we environmental change that will inspire others offer is influenced by the quality and availability and transform the world we live in... of capitals... A.R. PANDITHAGE Chairman/Managing Director A.G. PANDITHAGE Director/Group Chief Executive Officer Pages 8-11 Pages 12-15 B. Management of Value Chain – Our Six Business Segments Pages 92-111 Revenue contribution of each business segment 9% 8% 11% 10% 6% Vehicles sales Vehicles – after services Marketing and 6% distribution 2016/17 4% 7% 6% 66% 6% 61% 2017/18 Construction and material Agriculture Electro-mechanical, handling equipment bio-medical and marine engineering C. Management of Impacts – Triple Bottom Line Pages 112-131 D. Management of Risks Pages 132-138 Economic Monetised value added Jobs created outside Western impact (Rs. mn) Risks that Exceed Group’s Risk Province 18,112 367 Appetite 01. Volatility of import regulations and In 2016/17 307 government tariff policy on automobiles. In 2016/17 18,204 02. Risk of disruptions to the relationship with Environmental Total carbon emission Reduction in non-hazardous key business partners impact (tCO2e) solid waste disposal 7, 679 In 2016/17 7,923 22% In 2016/17 reduction of 10% 03. Possible events/incidents that could cause employee health and safety issues. 04. Risk of losing confidential and operational data due to security breaches / system Social Investments in voluntary Number of apprentices breakdowns in the IT systems. impact community development initiatives enlisted for training 05. Negative impact on reputation that may (Rs. mn) 108 254 arise from unaccepted corporate behaviour 06. Possible damages to people and property from disasters such as fire. In 2016/17 122 In 2016/17 221 7 CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE The change we all want to see... Dear stakeholder, The year under review was a complex one. We have however achieved a number of strategic goals that were defined last year, while keeping our focus on providing products and services of world-class quality and value to our customers. The year’s highlights were our many new projects which included ventures into Myanmar and the Maldives, two new acquisitions in Sri Lanka and the addition of two new business lines into our portfolio. These investments, while promising well for the future, helped bring renewed vigour to our tribe, in a challenging year. BEING THE CHANGE As a company keeping abreast of the needs of the contemporary world, this year too we have consciously looked at transformative, social, economic and environmental change that will inspire others and transform the world we live in. We are exploring business solutions related to the current discourses on alternative energy, hybrid and electric vehicles, battery technology and even structured farming, as we strive to ‘be the change’ we want to see in the world. UNCONDUCIVE MACROECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT The macroeconomic factors during the year created a challenging business environment. The two parameters AWPR and GDP growth rate, which stimulate the economic environment for business were discouraging to our portfolio in particular, for capital goods. Against the backdrop of an unhelpful external environment, the Group’s performance suffered a reduction in its Turnover of 1.8% The year’s highlights were our many new projects which included (increase of 18.0%2016/17), with gross profit margin reducing to 16.3% (16.7%ventures into Myanmar and the Maldives, two new acquisitions in Sri 2016/17) and the Group profit after tax by Lanka and the addition of two new business lines into our portfolio. 16.2% to Rs 554 million (Rs. 657 million These investments, while promising well for the future, helped bring 2016/17) for the year. renewed vigour to our tribe, in a challenging year SOUND TARIFF STRUCTURE A fool-proof and equitable tariff structure is the key to providing a level playing field 8 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Change is visionary Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information for automobile-related businesses in the Collaboration with employees is a key aspect of our strategy to country. The new tariff regime for vehicles compete. This aspect receives a high priority in our human resource that came into effect from November 2017 is strategy. The results of these efforts are manifested in our achievement a clear step towards this end. The calculation which is based solely on engine capacity is of the Great Place to Work Laureate award, as we have been named a an unambiguous method, which reduces the Great Place to Work for five consecutive years subjectivity of tariff calculations. We also welcome the easing of the tariff structure for electric vehicles which came into effect COST HEALTHY Dividend per share during the year. We perceive cost as a hygiene factor in Rs. establishing a healthy business model. A 30 THREE PRONGED STRATEGY study on effective cost reduction reveals that 24 Collaboration, differentiation and we need to pay more attention to this area. 18 diversification are the pillars on which our This aspect receives our constant attention. value creation and competitive strategies are 12 built. Technological excellence, aftercare, INNOVATION IS KEY 6 market presence, customer relationship A key component of our differentiation 0 management, innovation and responsible strategy is innovation. This has a significant 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 behaviour are the areas in which we bearing on the outcome and eventually the seek strategic differentiation. These six value proposition to our customers and NEW ACQUISITIONS IN areas are delivered through collaboration stakeholders. My tribe members are always AGRICULTURE with employees and business partners. encouraged to be innovative throughout the Our original plans for the agriculture segment Diversification, both related and geographic, value chain. included venturing into other agricultural leads the other pillar of strategy. inputs such as seeds and agro-chemicals. VENTURING OUT To build up an organic growth in these two A GREAT PLACE TO WORK The Group undertook new ventures during areas would have taken a considerable time. Collaboration with employees is a key the year by investing locally in agriculture and Therefore the acquisition of a majority stake aspect of our strategy to compete. This in marine repairs and vehicle after services in Plant Seeds (Pvt) Ltd. and PlantChem (Pvt) aspect receives a high priority in our human overseas. A total of Rs. 442 million was Ltd. during the financial year gave us instant resource strategy. The results of these efforts invested in these projects during 2017/18, entry into these two businesses, that now are manifested in our achievement of the with further investments earmarked in the form a well-rounded portfolio in agriculture. Great Place to Work Laureate award, as we ensuing year. It is noteworthy that this is the have been named a Great Place to Work for Group’s first venture to invest overseas. ENTRY INTO MYANMAR five consecutive years. The initial steps towards geographical AGRICULTURAL INTERESTS diversification were taken in August 2017 with SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY We are aggressively pursuing our the formation of our fully owned subsidiary Our statement of purpose and differentiation participation in the agricultural sector and in Myanmar. This will serve as our vehicle strategy command that we ‘create value strengthening our resources in agricultural for investments and business in Myanmar. responsibility’. In order to facilitate inputs. Our portfolio, which consisted of The first investment was made in November responsible corporate behaviour in every tractors, harvesters and other agri-machinery, 2017 by subscribing to a 70% stake in a joint respect, we have institutionalised it through has been further expanded with the venture in United DIMO Lanka Company our social accountability management introduction of DIMO Fertiliser, during the Ltd. This company is presently engaged in system, the implementation of which has first half of this year. The performance of the the repair and service of motor vehicles. been accredited by SA8000. The stringent fertiliser business, though not yet impactful, This investment marks our longanticipated requirements demanded by the certification has exceeded its initial plans. The recentlyarrival in Myanmar and we hope to make it a process ensure that we demonstrate the announced reintroduction of the fertiliser viable destination for the Group. responsible behaviour sought by our mission subsidy scheme is bound to have an adverse and differentiation strategy. impact on this industry; however, we are well equipped to face the challenge. 9 CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE REACHED THE SHORES OF THE us a platform to view our enterprise in a Lankan Government’s current policy of MALDIVES more holistic manner and to communicate preferential tariff for EVs is speeding up Pursuing our interests in marine repairs, we our value creation story in its totality. This the local transition too. As a key player in commenced operations in the Maldives with stakeholder responsive approach harmonises the automobile sector, the Group is well a 40% investment in a joint venture. An well with our stakeholder centred corporate equipped to manage this transition. However, equity investment of US Dollars 375,000 was philosophy. the regulatory framework for charging of made in February 2018, towards establishing electric vehicles is a vacuum that currently a ship repair yard in Thilafushi island. Further THE MILLENNIAL STAKEHOLDER exists in the country and requires the investments are anticipated in the ensuing Understanding the millennial mindset is an immediate attention of regulators. year, to increase the capacity of the repair important factor for our future success. The facility. millennials who become our customers, EMISSIONS AND SAFETY employees, leaders and stakeholders will STANDARDS ESCALATORS AND ELEVATORS ENTER bring their influence on the outcomes of The government has announced its intention OUR PORTFOLIO our value creation process. This calls for our to issue regulations that will require vehicles The Electro-Mechanical Engineering Segment leadership and all members of the DIMO imported to have engines with Euro 4 received a boost during the year with the tribe to attune their minds to this reality in the standards, Dual Airbags and Anti-lock addition of the world renowned Thyssen design and delivery of value propositions that Braking Systems (ABS), in order to improve Krupp Elevators and Escalators to its portfolio. cater to millennials. emissions and safety standards of motoring. This fills a vacuum that existed in our offering Whilst we recognise the regulation of in Building Technologies. NATURAL ENVIRONMENT emissions standards as a positive step, much The Group focuses on two key aspects more needs to be done to regulate the adverse FIRST STEPS IN RENEWABLE ENERGY relating to the natural environment. Firstly, impacts of emissions from motor bicycles and Entering the power generation segment has as a provider of natural capital in the form of three wheelers. It is yet unclear whether the been part of our strategy for the power sector. land, water and energy sources and secondly, proposed emissions and safety standards will During the year, initial steps were taken to in managing the impact that our business be applicable to the quadracycle, the vehicle implement this plan by securing a tender for activities bring about on the environment. category recently added for registration a one mega watt solar power plant to supply In this annual report, we have dedicated two purposes. If not, it will be a situation akin to power to the CEB under a power purchase sections for these two aspects, under capitals blowing hot and cold. agreement. We consider this as an infant step and impacts. These will provide more details towards securing a larger portfolio in power of our ecological foot-print and the initiatives A FILLIP TO BUSINESS TIES WITH generation. taken for its responsible management. GERMANY The office of “Delegation of German Industry SUSTAINABILITY CARBON FOOTPRINT and Commerce was opened in Sri Lanka” Our statement of purpose, “Create Value Managing our carbon footprint is a key area recently. This is expected to provide a boost Responsibly”, drives our commitment to be in impact management. Our carbon footprint to our business interests with Germany. The a responsible corporate citizen. Responsible decreased by 3.1% during the year. tCO2e establishment of this office is supported by behaviour has been institutionalised through per Rs.1.0 million of turnover reduced from the German Ministry for Economic Affairs and the implementation of a management 0.1790 to 0.1768. The actual footprint was Energy, and is coordinated by the Association system that incorporates the management of below the carbon footprint curve of DIMO, of German Chambers of Commerce and economic, social and environmental impacts a curve constructed by using actual data for Industry and the Network of German arising from our value creation process. In the past five years. A fiveyear master plan is Chambers of Commerce Abroad. This is a order to improve transparency, we have being formulated to manage our carbon foot fillip to strengthening our relationships with also complied with the GRI standards when print in the short/ medium term. our current twenty plus principals of German reporting matters relating to sustainability. origin, and the others that would come on COMBUSTION ENGINES TO board in future. INTEGRATED REPORTING ELECTRIC VEHICLES The adoption of integrated reporting reThe transition from internal combustion NEW INCOME TAX REGIME directed us in corporate reporting and made engine driven vehicles to electric drive The new Inland Revenue Act came in to us tread beyond excellence in financial vehicles (EV) in road transportation is taking effect from the beginning of April 2018. A key and sustainability reporting. It has provided place world-wide at a rapid pace. The Sri change that may impact the Group is income 10 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Change is visionary Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information tax liability arising on the sale of land, which READY FOR THE FUTURE OF pipeline of contracts and what has already was earlier not subject to tax. The increase in MOTORING been secured in the power engineering and PAYE tax rates of employees in higher income The developments in battery technology will building technologies businesses suggest brackets and withdrawal of tax free travelling accelerate the transition to electric vehicles. that these segments will report an improved allowance for travelling will also bear an This will have implications for our aftersales performance. indirect impact. We trust that the objectives business, both in technical and commercial The prospects and initiatives discussed above of simplification and improved tax revenues terms. We are focussed on being up to date will be well complemented by efforts and targeted from the new legislation will be with the technology and technical skills to initiatives to elevate employee alignment and achieved, as desired. provide the required aftercare, while closely engagement. watching for possible financial implications CODE OF BUSINESS ETHICS of the transition on the aftercare businesses. Overall, I am optimistic for an improved Responsible corporate behaviour is one of From a longterm perspective, the imminent performance. our foremost guiding principles, and it is our changes in mobility such as car sharing and endeavour to promote the ethical behaviour autonomous driving will have consequences FAREWELL AND WELCOME of employees in carrying out our business on our current business models. At the same Mr. R.C. Weerawardane, who has been an activities. To institutionalise ethical behaviour, time we are aware of the opportunities that Executive Director of the company since we have placed a Code of Business Ethics that come with it. year 2002, and an employee since 1990, every employee has to abide by. There were opted for early retirement. I thank him for the no breaches of the Code of Business Ethics OUTLOOK services rendered to the company during his reported during the year. The ventures in Myanmar and the Maldives tenure. I extend a warm welcome to Mr. A.N. are expected to enter a maturity phase during Ranasinghe who joined the Board from July OVERCOMING CHALLENGES the ensuing year, though it is too early to 2017. Issues relating to tariff, regulations, permits expect any impactful return. More investment and the macro environment as discussed in these two ventures are expected during the ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS earlier pose multiple challenges to the year. New overseas investments are also being I appreciate my tribe members who stood vehicles business. Such a situation tests the currently evaluated. Therefore, the investment up to the challenges of a not so friendly agility, resourcefulness and strength of my momentum is expected to continue into external business environment. They are the tribe yet I am confident of their ability to 2018/19. Whilst these new investments form driving force behind DIMO’s achievements. formulate and implement effective counter part of our growth strategy, they contribute The continued support we receive from our strategies. towards our aim to expand our businesses foreign principals is invaluable and I thank beyond the automobile industry. them for making us their business partner The increasing demands from our foreign of choice in Sri Lanka. Finally, I thank my principals for investments to support their We have formulated strategies to counter colleagues on the Board, who make an product portfolio continues. It is imperative the external adversities in terms of tariff and exceptional contribution towards guiding that we assess the viability of such regulation on vehicle imports. The drive to DIMO on the path to success. expectations carefully and take all aspects improve market shares of vehicles will be into consideration prior to any investment. further energised as a measure to counter possible reduction in total industry volumes The scarcity of technically skilled labour in of passenger and commercial vehicles. vocations related to our business is placing Specific plans are in place to broaden the constraints on our growth plans. This supply offering of electric vehicles. shortage can be attributed mainly to the lack of a quality vocational training system The re-activation of road projects and A.R. PANDITHAGE and migration of labour. Making available other mega projects such as the Port City is Chairman/Managing Director skilled personnel is receiving priority on promising for the prospects of the Construction 30th May 2018 our recruitment and training agenda. As a Machinery and Material Handling Segment. Colombo responsible corporate, we play our part in Renewable energy and overseas contracts vocational training through our automobile are the areas earmarked to expand the power training school and the provision of engineering business and plans are afoot apprenticeships. to ramp up our offering in these areas. The 11 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW Because good business is responsible business OVERVIEW Macroeconomic factors and fiscal measures play an influential role in creating demand for the capital goods that we offer. Factors such as relatively higher interest rates, the depreciation of Rupee against the Euro, the lowest GDP rate in sixteen years and tariff changes relating to motor vehicle imports among others, created a challenging environment for business during the year. The description of the economic environment given on page 93 provides more details of the external factors that influenced our performance. RESULTS A 10.4% dip (increase of 17.8% 2016/17) in the Vehicle Sales segment turnover led to Group Turnover reducing by 1.8% (increase of 18.0% 2016/17). Pressures from both the cost and demand sides made the overall gross profit margin reduce from 16.7% in the previous year to 16.3% in the year under review. The consequent reduction in gross profit and a 23.6% increase in finance cost led to a 28.3% reduction in profit before tax. The Marketing and Distribution, Construction Machinery and Material Handling and Electro-Mechanical, Bio-Medical and Marine Engineering segments showed improved results while the Vehicle sales, Vehicle After Services and Agriculture segments recorded a lower result compared to the previous year. More segment information is available on page 92 to 111. EXTERNALLY INFLUENCED OUTCOMES The outputs, outcomes and impacts are a result of our strategies and value creation endeavours, which are subject to the The outputs, outcomes and impacts are a result of our strategies and influences of the external environment. value creation endeavours, which are subject to the influences of the Whilst internally controlled elements such external environment. Whilst internally controlled elements such as as strategy, inputs from capitals and value creation efforts made their due contribution, strategy, inputs from capitals and value creation efforts made their due the adverse conditions brought about by contribution, the adverse conditions brought about by external factors external factors heavily influenced the heavily influenced the monetised outcomes monetised outcomes. 12 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Change is visionary Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information ENGINE CAPACITY BASED TARIFF The Marketing and Distribution, Construction Machinery and MECHANISM FOR VEHICLES A new mechanism to calculate excise duty Material Handling and Electro-Mechanical and Bio-Medical Engineering on vehicles was introduced in November segments showed an improved segment result whilst Vehicle sales, 2017. The new method is based solely on Vehicle After Services and Agriculture segments recorded a lower engine capacity, as opposed to the earlier segment result compared to the previous year system which was based on the dual factors of CIF value and engine capacity. This new mechanism narrowed the price gap between longterm decision making. It is, therefore, which saw significant losses during the vehicles of European origin and others. imperative that tariffs remain unchanged previous financial year, made a remarkable Our vehicle portfolio which consists of for a reasonable period of time, to facilitate recovery during the financial year under Mercedes Benz Passenger and Commercial investment and employment creation in the review. This recovery led to a 143.7% Vehicles, TATA Passenger and Commercial mobility and transport sector. increase (decrease of 35.5% 2016/17) in Vehicles, Jeep and Chrysler was impacted in the segment result for the year. varying degrees from extremely adverse to VEHICLES AFTER SERVICES favourable, due to this change. The negatives This segment comprises of after services CONSTRUCTION MATERIAL outweighed the positives. businesses of the vehicle franchises that HANDLING SEGMENT we hold. During the year, Rs. 91.9 million The lower growth reported by the VEHICLE REGISTRATIONS was expended as investment in capital construction sector, cement production and The registration of vehicles, excluding two expenditure for this segment. The capacity imports, and bank lending to the private and three wheelers reduced 4.6% from of our main commercial vehicle workshop sector for construction activities suggest a 96,051 to 91,632 units during the year 2017. in Siyambalape was expanded with the nonconducive external environment for our The registration of dual purpose vehicles, addition of a new hangar. The workshop construction and material handling segment. under which the DIMO ‘Batta’ and pickup facilities installed in Batticaloa also added to However, a turnaround in the storage and trucks are registered, declined 36% from the total number of work-bays. The segment material handling business enabled the 25,989 to 16,511 units. result increased by 0.1% (54% 2016/17) segment to record a 62.5% growth in the during the year. segment results. VEHICLE SALES SEGMENT The number of vehicles sold by the Group ROAD SIDE ASSISTANCE ELECTRO-MECHANICAL, reduced by 46.6%, with commercial vehicles DIMO Road Side Assistance (RSA) was BIOMEDICAL AND MARINE recording a decline of 51.1%. Deterrents introduced as a new venture to cater to ENGINEERING SEGMENT such as increased duty, loan to value (LTV) vehicle breakdowns in Sri Lanka. This service The fortunes of this business are influenced ratio and higher interest rates adversely operates via a mobile app and provides by the external environment relating to the affected the number of units sold. Sales of the solutions for lock-outs, tyre troubles, empty construction, water & energy and health popular DIMO ‘Batta’ and the pick-up truck tanks, flat batteries and anything in-between sectors. The available statistics indicate were the worst affected, recording declines that can be carried out by the roadside. a lower growth rate in the construction of 75.5% and 70.5% respectively in terms of The service is offered through membership sector, an increase in capital expenditure the number of units sold. Consequently, the and is available to owners of any vehicle at in the government health sector and a vehicle sales segment’s turnover declined by anytime and anywhere in the country. A total growth in power generation and new water 10.4%, resulting a 21.9% reduction in the of Rs.21Mn was invested in vehicles, tools connections. Against this backdrop, the segment result. and equipment during the year as the initial power solutions, building technologies and investment for this new operation. fluid management businesses recorded an NEED FOR CONSISTENCY IN IMPORT improved performance that led to a 30.4% TARIFF MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION improvement in the segment result. A consistent tariff policy and a sound tariff SEGMENT structure for automobiles have been a longThe portfolio of this segment comprises of ANOTHER FIRST IN SRI LANKA IN felt need. The multiple revisions of the non-franchised spare parts, tyres, lighting, BIO MEDICAL ENGINEERING vehicle tariff we have recently experienced power tools and allied businesses which DIMO imported the first Positron Emission encourage short termism rather than are of a trading nature. Lighting related Tomography (PET) Scanner in Sri Lanka, which providing a platform for medium and businesses and Bosch auto components was supplied to the Neuro Trauma Unit of 13 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW the National Hospital of Sri Lanka, Colombo. DIMO imported the first Positron Emission Tomography (PET) This was followed by the installation of a Scanner in Sri Lanka, which was supplied to the Neuro Trauma Unit second PET Scanner from Siemens at the of the National Hospital of Sri Lanka, Colombo. This was followed by Apeksha Hospital in Maharagama. Both machines were installed and commissioned the installation of a second PET Scanner from Siemens at the Apeksha by our engineers. Hospital in Maharagama BROADENED PORTFOLIO IN AGRICULTURE The country’s agriculture sector which is developed in a manner that will be beneficial The product portfolio in Agriculture related heavily influenced by weather patterns, to themselves and to the organisation. businesses expanded rapidly during the year, recorded a negative growth of 0.8% for the Employee engagement forms one of the three which warranted the recognition of a new year 2017. In this scenario, the agricultural pillars of our human capital management segment titled “Agriculture”. This included a equipment business, which recorded an strategy, as we firmly believe in the positive successful entrance into the fertiliser business encouraging result during the previous year, relationship between an employee’s level of where results exceeded the initial plans. did not perform up to expectation, with many engagement and their contribution to value The recent re-introduction of the fertiliser factors including adverse weather playing a creation. We measure employee engagement subsidy scheme, imposing quota limitations part. As a result, the segment result declined annually and I am pleased to state that our on importers is viewed as a temporary setby 39.6%. The expansion of the portfolio, employment engagement score increased to back to this business. We are determined supported by counter strategies to beat the 4.00 from 3.88 last year, out of a score of 5. to reverse the set-back and make an impact external impact, is expected to deliver an through our own differentiation strategies. improved performance in the following year. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS A multipurpose centre of excellence was It is part of our business philosophy to ensure INIMITABILITY set up on our twenty eight acre property in that we carry out our business activities Our capitals define our inimitability as the Dambulla, acquired during the previous with a sense of responsibility, whilst being uniqueness of the value proposition that financial year. This will also serve as the a partner in sustainable development. Being we offer is influenced by the quality and research and innovation centre for the a signatory to the UN Global Compact availability of capitals. Whilst monetised “DIMO-Agri” brand. (GC), we have committed ourselves to capital, which is reflected in our balance the GC principles and the Sustainability The acquisition of 51% of PlantChem (Pvt) sheet plays a key role in the success of our Development Goals (SDG). Depending on Ltd. and Plant Seeds (Pvt) Ltd. towards the end organisation, the nonmonetised capitals, affordability, we also lend a helping hand of the financial year, helped us to fast track which have a significant bearing on our towards addressing issues that lie beyond our plans to add seeds, agrochemicals and longterm competitiveness and sustenance, our organisation’s business boundaries. The speciality fertilisers to our portfolio, as these play a significant role in executing the turtle conservation project is one such project products were already part of the established collaboration strategy. This integrated annual we support with the voluntary participation portfolios of the two companies. Together report provides information relating to nonof our employees. A separate report on our with the harvesters and tractors that were monetised capitals, providing an assessment participation towards the SDGs is presented already in our portfolio, these businesses will of the capitals and their value to the on pages 114 to 115. create a formidable segment that is expected organisation. The capitals report is available to significantly contribute to future growth. from page 60 to 91. MANAGING IMPACTS Our value creation activities result in AGRICULTURE SEGMENT THE CATALYST economic, social and environmental The final result of this segment weighed Nurturing capitals is a key aspect in value impacts, which we manage through the heavily on the agricultural equipment creation. Amongst all the capitals, our human various management systems installed, business, as the fertiliser business was in capital or employees hold a special place, as including the quality management system, its infancy and was not significant enough it is they who create value, using the inputs the environmental management system to make an impact. The acquisitions of provided by other capitals. I often refer to and the social accountability management agrochemicals, seeds and speciality fertiliser our employees as the “Soul” of DIMO. Given system. The manner in which we manage businesses too were made only towards the the important role played by them in value our impacts throughout the value chain, our end of the financial year. creation in the short, medium and long term, voluntary initiatives, and their outcomes are our employees are continuously nurtured and 14 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Change is visionary Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information discussed in the impact management report Our flagship training programme on technical skills in appearing from page 116 to 131. automotive and related fields of engineering continue to provide Sri Lankan youth with quality training and a widely accepted CAPITAL INPUTS FROM STAKEHOLDERS qualification. The training methods and the course content are Dependence on stakeholders is important to constantly reviewed and upgraded to meet the technological us as they are instrumental in the supply of demands of the industry inputs through capitals such as monetised, relationship, intellectual and human capital, as depicted in our value creation OUTLOOK The introduction of the fertiliser subsidy model. Our stakeholder engagement The current engine capacity based tariff scheme is bound to curtail the momentum process, as discussed from page 34 to 35, policy places pressure on our small and gathered since the launch of the business. is aimed at identifying the expectations of medium commercial vehicles with relatively However, we expect to be compensated by our stakeholders, which will be given due low CIF values that catered to market the contribution from new investments made consideration in our strategy formulation. segments seeking an affordable, relatively in seeds and agrochemicals through the low cost vehicle. In the absence of a change acquisitions made during the year. PROJECT SHARK in policy, a change in fortunes of this vehicle Flowing from our philosophy, we are always In 2016, DIMO had tremendous success in category cannot be expected in the ensuing geared to be responsive to stakeholder sponsoring a team of engineering students year. expectations and we strive to deliver superior from the University of Moratuwa for the A resurgence in the vehicle after services value to them. From a financial perspective, Formula Student World Competition where business is expected and indications are that the budgets prepared for the financial year they bagged three awards in their inaugural this segment will deliver significant growth 2018/19 indicate a much improved financial international event. Building on this success, in the segment result. This encourages us to result DIMO will once again sponsor the team in seek further areas for improvement, which 2018, where this year’s team will focus on will receive due management attention. designing and locally developing integrated systems that will help them to construct the Businesses in the Marketing and Distribution racing car to be used this year, at a lower Segment are receiving close attention and cost. This project titled “Project Shark” also the current structures and processes are serves as a relationship building exercise being reviewed with a view to reforming the between top engineering talent in Sri Lanka business units. and the Company. A.G. PANDITHAGE The heightened building construction Director/Group Chief Executive Officer activity that can now be observed is DIMO ACADEMY FOR TECHNICAL expected to positively impact our building 30th May 2018 SKILLS (DATS) Colombo technologies business. However, its impact Our flagship training programme on in terms of bottom line will be seen only in technical skills in automotive and related the subsequent years, as our revenue streams fields of engineering continues to provide will follow the progress of the construction Sri Lankan youth with quality training contract. The significant volume of business and a widely accepted qualification. The in the pipeline is expected to provide a boost training methods and the course content are to the power solutions business and record an constantly reviewed and upgraded to meet improved performance in the ensuing year. the technological demands of the industry. Budgets of the Medical Engineering business Over 450 students have been beneficiaries of too indicate an improved performance. the academy, which has been in operation for over 27 years. Rs. 10.5 million was invested After several consecutive seasons marred during the year as capital expenditure by floods and droughts, there are hopes of towards its improvement. improved weather. Such an eventuality will provide a boost to the tractor and harvester sales during the ensuing year. 15 HOW TO READ THE REPORT GRI 102 45, 102 46, 102 49 INTEGRATED THINKING AND MATERIALITY This report covers the This report focuses on those aspects that materially affect DIMO’s ability to create value in activities of Diesel & Motor short medium and long term. Our value creation model presented on page 32 identifies four Engineering PLC (DIMO) and broad areas that affects the Group’s ability to achieve its strategic outcomes; Group’s material its Subsidiaries, collectively dependencies and resources, value creation activities, outputs and enterprise governance. Each section of this report present a comprehensive analysis of material information related referred to as the DIMO Group, to each area of the value creation model together with the Group’s strategy. Where necessary, spanning the 12-month period additional information are disclosed to enhance the clarity and understandability. ended 31st March 2018. The Stakeholder material issues identified through stakeholder engagement, important topics of section 01 of the Consolidated Board and General Management Committee (GMC) discussions and results of the Group’s Financial Statements of the risk management process provide indications on significance of each material aspects. Such Group appearing from pages indications are analysed and the Group’s value creation model is adjusted accordingly. Below presented is a summary of significant changes conducted to the value creation model to reflect 139 to 205 provides information the shift in materiality during the year. on financial reporting boundary of the Group Significant Change Area The shift in material aspects Page Affected reference Significant Capital Identification of natural capital as a capital Natural investments in Management input to the business model. (In previous Capital THE EIGHTH INTEGRATED ANNUAL agricultural sector Annual Integrated Reports, the Group only Management REPORT in the last few years reported on impacts on the Environment) Report on Board’s stewardship role brings upon it an which include Page 88 – 91 fertilisers, agro Value Chain With the new investment the Group’s Agriculture obligation to be transparent and accountable. chemicals and seeds Management value chain now operates in six business business Potential investors seek information relating operations. segments including the agriculture segment segment on to the value creating ability of the Group in page 107-108 the short, medium and long term. Laws and regulations require publication of Financial Statements, reports, other statements and REPORT BOUNDARIES This report covers the activities of Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC (DIMO) and its Subsidiaries, disclosure of specified information. This collectively referred to as DIMO Group, spanning a 12-month period ending 31st March 2018. Annual Report is prepared and presented to The section 01 of the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group appearing from pages satisfy the aforesaid requirements and needs. 139 to 205 provides information on financial reporting boundary of the Group. Value Chain In here we explain basic information that Management Report appearing from pages 92 to 111 identifies the activities of the Group. provide the basis of preparation of this When reporting on non-monetised information, some disclosures excludes the information Annual Report and that will be useful to pertaining to the key changes to the Group structure during the year and such exclusion is understand this report. mentioned where applicable. The key changes to the Group Structure during the year include “VALUE” WE PURSUE the investments on DIMO Lanka Company Limited and United DIMO Lanka Company Limited Bearing the Group’s statement of purpose in and acquisition of PlantChem (Private) Limited, Plant Seeds (Private) Limited in August 2017 mind; “Create value responsibly”, at DIMO November 2017 and February 2018 respectively. we see value as more than simply financial The operations of the DIMO Coastline (Pvt) Ltd which is an equity accounted investee has returns. Value that we pursue is manifested not been considered for reporting on sustainability performance as Group does not exercise in the five strategic outcomes stated in the significant management control over the company. strategy statement presented on page 29 Except for these new acquisitions there have been no changes in reporting scope and/or and capitals that provide inputs for value boundaries from the previous year. creation. Those outcomes seek to deliver sustainable returns to our shareholders whilst This report also cover risks, opportunities and outcomes that could materially affect the balancing the Company’s responsibilities organisation’s ability to create value which arises from our operating and economic towards its diverse stakeholders including the environment. society and the environment. 16 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Change is visionary Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information GRI 102 45, 102 46, 102 48 LAWS, REGULATORY FRAMEWORKS, Reporting principles including Stakeholder Inclusiveness, Sustainability Context, Materiality STANDARDS, GUIDELINES AND and Completeness have been given due consideration in determining the report content. PROTOCOLS This report also contains the Sustainability Objectives set by the Sustainability Committee, This report was prepared in accordance with which are formulated based on material aspects identified. The test of materiality embedded the following laws, regulatory frameworks, in our processes has ensured that we report on all material issues relating to sustainability standards, guidelines and protocols; regarding aspects internal and external to the organisation within the sphere of influence of the Sri Lankan Laws, Regulatory Frameworks, Company. The DIMO stakeholder identification process ensures stakeholder inclusiveness. The and Standards Sustainability Committee has approved all the information and data relating to sustainability • The Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 objectives that are contained in this report. • The Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option. Exchange (CSE) The GRI content index is available from page 209 to 214. • Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (LKASs / SLFRSs) This report also acts as a Communication on Progress (COP) for the United Nations Global International Guidelines, Standards and Compact. Protocols Non-financial information in this report pertaining to the previous year has not been restated, • International Integrated Reporting unless otherwise stated. Framework (International <IR> Framework), of which the Company is a business INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE network member The Board has obtained following independent assurances relating to information presented • GRI Standards issued by the Global in this Annual Report. Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) • Assurance from the Independent Auditors on the Consolidated Financial Statements • The Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate (Independent Auditors’ Report) Standard published by World Resource • Assurance from DNV GL Business Assurance Lanka (Pvt) Ltd on NonFinancial Information Institute (WRI) and World Business (Appendix III – independent Assurance Statement on Non-Financial Reporting) according Council for Sustainable Development the AA1000 Assurance Standard. (WBCSD) used to measure and report on the Group’s carbon footprint BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ STATEMENT ON THE EIGHTH INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT VIRTUAL PRESENCE AND WEB The Board of Directors; DISCLOSURES • acknowledges that reasonable care has been taken in the preparation and presentation A soft copy of this Annual Report is available of this Integrated Annual Report, to preserve its integrity on the Company website: www.dimolanka. • agrees that the integrated Annual Report has been presented in accordance with com. In addition, the manner in which the International Integrated Reporting Council’s International Integrated Reporting the Group has complied with the Code of Framework V1.0; and Best Practice on Corporate Governance • believes that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, the integrated annual report jointly issued by the Institute of Chartered addresses all material issues and fairly presents the integrated performance of the Group Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) and and its impacts. Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Signed for and on behalf of the Board, Lanka (SEC) issued in 2017 is also available in the Company website. Specific online references are given on page 02. A.R. Pandithage A. D. B. Talwatte SUSTAINABILITY Chairman/Managing Director Chairman Audit Committee The information content of the report also covers the economic, social and environmental impacts resulting from the A.G. Pandithage B.C.S.A.P Gooneratne value creation activities of the Company and Director/Group Chief Executive Officer Director/Chief Financial Officer its subsidiaries, and includes a reasonable assessment of potential impacts. Sustainability 30th May 2018 17 OUR HISTORY Stephen Peries Pandithage Don Alexander Harold Algama Cyril Algama HUMBLE BEGINNINGS of DIMO’s business and within three years, WHAT WE ARE TODAY Stephen Peries, Pandithage Don Alexander, a showroom, stores and a workshop were all Today, DIMO has a strong islandwide Harold Algama and Cyril Algama were four open for business. presence that includes a state of the art young Sri Lankans who worked together workshop in Siyambalape, Biyagama, at Heller & Co. Ltd., which held the DIMO GOING PUBLIC logistics hub in Weliweriya, Gampaha and a distributorship of several world renowned DIMO became a Publicly Quoted Company growing network of regional showrooms and German brands such as Mercedes Benz, in 1964, by obtaining a listing with the branches that offers easy access to customers Bosch, and Siemens. World War 2 in 1939 Colombo Brokers’ Association. DIMO’s from the remotest regions. saw the government acquiring the business growth trajectory since has seen it diversify into multiple related business enterprises The company is committed to enhancing from German national Mr. F K Heller as it while remaining true to its core expertise local expertise through the DIMO was deemed to be enemy property. in automobile and heavy-vehicle sales and Automobile Training School in the Western The four young men launched out on their services. and Northern provinces, which offer a own that year, opening a workshop in two-year comprehensive service and rented premises off Prince of Wales Avenue, GROWING UP maintenance course in collaboration with Panchikawatte – the humble beginnings The portfolio now includes iconic automobile Daimler AG, Germany. The DIMO NaSevana of what was to become Diesel & Motor brand names such as Mercedes, Chrysler, Technical Training Institute in the Deep South Engineering PLC. These ambitious men set Jeep and TATA while Bosch, MTU, Komatsu, also supports the development of youth skills. their sights high on conducting business Siemens, Michelin, Osram and Mahindra Nearing 80 years of operations, DIMO ethically and with excellence. & Mahindra, all leaders in their respective remains an indomitable spirit, with deep Sri segments. Starting out by manufacturing gaskets and Lankan roots and strong global partnerships. parts, DIMO diversified over time into the DIMO has the distinction of being the oldest DIMO’s achievements are driven by the sale of electrical parts and fittings for motor distributor for Mercedes Benz passenger inherent ‘tribal’ culture, which provides the vehicles. DIMO was incorporated as a and commercial vehicles in the entire Asian platform for shared beliefs and a learning Private Limited Liability Company in 1945, region and the sophisticated “DIMO 800 environment that is inclusive, evolutionary and in 1949, entered into partnership with Mercedes Centre” in Colombo is a testament and continuous. DIMO takes immense pride Lohmann & Company, Breman, Germany to the relationship, offering best in class in its purposefully crafted business model through Mr. Heller, who was then a sales and aftercare services in a space that that delivers stakeholder value through the prominent businessmen in Germany. This showcase the Mercedes Benz experience. excellence of its products and processes, and partnership inspired a significant expansion the passion of the DIMO tribe. 18 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 GROUP STRUCTURE Change is visionary BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information GRI 102 45 Company Division Segment Name of the Directors Diesel & Motor Vehicles-Sales A.R. Pandithage (Chairman/Managing Director), Engineering PLC A.G. Pandithage (Group CEO), A.N. Algama, S.C. Algama, Automobile Parent M.V. Bandara, Dr. H. Cabral, B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne, Vehicles-After P.K.W. Mahendra, A.M. Pandithage, A.N. Ranasinghe, Founded 1939 Services S.R.W.M.C. Ranawana, R. Seevaratnam, A.D.B. Talwatte Inc. 1945 DIMO Lanka A.R. Pandithage (Chairman), A.G. Pandithage, Company Limited B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne 100% Subsidiary Inc.2017/18 United DIMO Lanka A.R. Pandithage (Chairman), A.G. Pandithage, Company Limited Construction Construction & U.M.Z Aung, B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne, U.T Zin & Material Material Handling Handling Equipment 70% Subsidiary Inv.2017/18 DIMO Industries A.R. Pandithage (Chairman), A.G. Pandithage, S.C. Algama, (Private) Limited B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne 100% Subsidiary Inc.1979 DIMO Travels (Private) A.R. Pandithage (Chairman), S.C. Algama, M.V. Bandara, Limited Marketing & Marketing & E.D.C. Kodituwakku Distribution Distribution 100% Subsidiary Inc.1975 PlantChem (Private) A.R. Pandithage (Chairman), A.G. Pandithage, Limited H.M.P.D.B Dematawa(Managing Director), B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne, A.G.J. Gunathilaka, U. Wanigasinghe, W.P.S.A. Weerawardhana 51% Subsidiary Acq.2017/18 Plant Seeds (Private) A.R. Pandithage (Chairman), A.G. Pandithage, Limited H.M.P.D.B Dematawa (Managing Director), Agri Agriculture B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne, A.G.J. Gunathilaka, U. Wanigasinghe, W.P.S.A. Weerawardhana 51% Subsidiary Acq.2017/18 DIMO (Private) Limited A.R. Pandithage (Chairman), A.G. Pandithage, S.C. Algama (Managing Director), R.H. Fernando, B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne, P.K.W. Mahendra, S.R.W.M.C. Ranawana 100% Subsidiary Inc.1980 DIMO Coastline A.R. Pandithage, A.G. Pandithage, A.U Maniku (Managing (Private) Limited Electro-Mechanical, Director), R.H. Fernando, H.M Fulhu, Industrial Bio-Medical & B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne, I.G.M Haleem, S.A Maniku Solutions Marine Engineering 40% Joint venture Acq.2017/18 Shareholding by the parent Inc.Incorporated Acq.Acquired Inv.Investment Except for United DIMO Lanka Company Limited, for all other companies holding Company is Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC. 19 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Leading the way Standing left to right: DR. H. CABRAL Independent Non-Executive Director A.N. RANASINGHE Independent Non-Executive Director M.V. BANDARA Executive Director A.M. PANDITHAGE Non-Executive Director S.C. ALGAMA Executive Director P.K.W. MAHENDRA Executive Director S.R.W.M.C. RANAWANA Executive Director Seated left to right: A.G. PANDITHAGE Director/Group Chief Executive Officer B.C.S.A.P. GOONERATNE Director/Chief Financial Officer A.R. PANDITHAGE Chairman/Managing Director R. SEEVARATNAM Independent Non-Executive Director/Senior Independent Director A.N. ALGAMA Executive Director A.D.B. TALWATTE Independent Non-Executive Director 20 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Change is visionary Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information 21 BOARD OF DIRECTORS A.R. PANDITHAGE QUALIFICATIONS AND EXPERTISE QUALIFICATIONS AND EXPERTISE Chairman/Managing Director Fellow member of the Chartered Institute Fellow of the Institute of Incorporated Appointed: of Management Accountants, UK. Alumni Engineers (SL). Council Member and To Company June 1973 of Harvard Business School Advance Chairman-Transport & Automobile Industries To Board June 1977 Management Programme (AMP) Committee of the National Chamber of % of Shares Held* 11.17% Commerce, Sri Lanka. Counts over twenty POSITIONS HELD IN OTHER four years of experience in Industrial Recipient of Order of Merit of the Federal COMPANIES Solutions division of DIMO. Republic of Germany. Director of A & G Investments. M.V. BANDARA APPOINTMENTS AT DIMO Executive Director A.N. ALGAMA Appointed as Joint Managing Director in Executive Director Appointed: November 1984 and as Managing Director in To Company February 1995 Appointed: 1986. Appointed as the Managing Director/ To Company June 1973 To Board June 2016 Chief Executive Officer in 1994. Appointed To Board November 1984 % of Shares Held* 0.02% as the Chairman/Managing Director and CEO in July 2004 and continues as the Chairman/ % of Shares Held* 2.41% QUALIFICATIONS AND EXPERTISE Managing Director from April 2012 to date. QUALIFICATIONS AND EXPERTISE Postgraduate certificate holder from the DIMO COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIPS Counts over forty five years of experience at University of Southern Queensland, DIMO Australia. Possesses a Diploma in Business NC Management from the University of POSITIONS HELD IN OTHER Colombo. Counts over twenty three years of QUALIFICATIONS AND EXPERTISE COMPANIES experience in Sales and Marketing. Holder of Dip. Ing. from Germany. Member of the Institute of Engineers, Germany (VDI). Past Chairman of The Ceylon Motor Traders’ DR. H. CABRAL Association and Sri Lanka Tyre Importers’ Independent Non-Executive Director POSITIONS HELD IN OTHER Association. Executive Committee member Appointed: COMPANIES of the Ceylon Motor Traders’ Association. To Board October 2006 Director of Dial Textiles Ltd., Vice President % of Shares Held* None S.C. ALGAMA of Sri Lanka Germany Business Council of Executive Director the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce. DIMO COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIPS Appointed: A.G. PANDITHAGE NC . RC . AC . RPTRC To Company November 1984 Director/Group Chief Executive Officer To Board November 1984 QUALIFICATIONS AND EXPERTISE Appointed: % of Shares Held* 6.40% President’s Counsel in Sri Lanka with thirty To Company September 1986 years experience in the field of Company To Board December 1995 APPOINTMENTS AT DIMO Law, Intellectual Property Law, Commercial % of Shares Held* 5.92% Member of the Board in a Non-Executive Law, International Trade Law & Commercial capacity from November 1984 to 1994. Arbitration. President’s Counsel for twelve APPOINTMENTS AT DIMO Appointed as an Executive Director in 1994. years and commands an extensive practice Appointed as the Deputy Chief Executive Appointed as Managing Director of DIMO in the Commercial High Courts and the Officer with effect from April 2006 and as (Pvt) Ltd from April 2009. Supreme Courts of Sri Lanka. Holds a Group Chief Executive Officer from April doctorate in Corporate Law from the 2012. University of Canberra, Australia. Sitting * Does not include shareholdings of spouse AC – Audit Committee, RC – Remuneration Committee, RPTRC – Related Party Transactions Review Committee, NC – Nomination Committee 22 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Change is visionary Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information member of the International Chamber of POSITIONS HELD IN OTHER P.K.W. MAHENDRA Commerce (ICC) International Court of COMPANIES Executive Director Arbitration in Paris. Member of the Law Chairman Tokyo Cement Company (Lanka) Appointed: Commission of Sri Lanka, a Council Member PLC, Immediate past Chairman of LOLC To Company July 2006 of the University of Colombo, University Finance PLC. He serves as Independent NonTo Board June 2016 Grants Commission (UGC) Nominee on the Executive Director of Hayleys PLC, Alumex % of Shares Held* None Post Graduate Institute of Medicine (PGIM), PLC, Tokyo Super Cement Company Lanka member of the Board of Management of the (Private) Limited, Tokyo Cement Power Lanka QUALIFICATIONS AND EXPERTISE NSBM Green University and a member of (Private) Limited, Tokyo Eastern Cement the UGC Committee on Higher Education. Mechanical Engineer and holder of a Company (Private) Limited, Tokyo Super As a member of the Advisory Commission Bachelor’s Degree from the University of Aggregate (Private) Limited, Tokyo Supermix on Company Law in Sri Lanka he has Greenwich, UK. Counts over twenty three (Private) Limited & World Export Centre contributed heavily to the corporate sector years of experience in Engineering and Limited. and the legal fraternity and has been one General Management including twelve years of the architects of the Companies Act No. B.C.S.A.P. GOONERATNE at DIMO. 7 of 2007. Course Director for the Diploma Director/Chief Financial Officer/Company Secretary A.M. PANDITHAGE in Commercial Arbitration at the Institute Non-Executive Director for the Development of Commercial Law & Appointed: Practice (ICLP) in Sri Lanka. As a member of Appointed: To Company January 2001 the Council of Legal Education in Sri Lanka, To Board September 1982 To Board April 2006 as a member the Ministerial Committee % of Shares Held* 2.05% % of Shares Held* None appointed to reform Commercial Arbitration in Sri Lanka, as a member of the Senate DIMO COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIPS QUALIFICATIONS AND EXPERTISE Aquinas University College, as a member NC . RC . AC . RPTRC Fellow member of the Institute of Chartered of the Corporate Governance Committee Accountants of Sri Lanka (ICASL) and of the Institute of Chartered Accountants QUALIFICATIONS AND EXPERTISE holder of Master of Business Administration of Sri Lanka and as the current Vice Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Logistics degree from the Postgraduate Institute President of BRIPASL (Business Recovery and Transport (UK). of Management, University of Sri & Insolvency Practitioners Association of Jayewardenepura. Sri Lanka), he has contributed immensely POSITIONS HELD IN OTHER to the legal academia. Serves on several COMPANIES POSITIONS HELD IN OTHER Audit Committees, Nomination Committees, COMPANIES Chairman and Chief Executive of Hayleys PLC. Remuneration Committees and Integrated Non-Executive Director of Hunas Falls Honorary Consul of United Mexican States Risk Management Committees, chairing Hotels PLC. (Mexico) to Sri Lanka. Committee Member of most of them. Visiting lecturer at several the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce. Council Universities and a regular speaker at public Member of the Employers’ Federation of seminars, author of several books and has Ceylon. Member of the Advisory Council of presented several papers on Corporate Law, the Ceylon Association of Ships’ Agents. Intellectual Property Law, International Trade Law & Commercial Arbitration in Sri Lanka and abroad. In addition to his active practice in courts and lecturing, he has been counsel for either the Claimant or the Respondent in many a Arbitration and has served as SoleArbitrator, Co-Arbitrator, Chairman in a large number of Arbitrations domestic and international in Sri Lanka and abroad. * Does not include shareholdings of spouse AC – Audit Committee, RC – Remuneration Committee, RPTRC – Related Party Transactions Review Committee, NC – Nomination Committee 23 BOARD OF DIRECTORS A.N. RANASINGHE S.R.W.M.C. RANAWANA Colombo Fort Land & Building Co PLC, Independent Non-Executive Director Executive Director Omega Line Ltd, Sirio Ltd, Benji Ltd, Alpha Appointed: Apparels Ltd, Nestle Lanka PLC, Distilleries Appointed: Company of Sri Lanka PLC, Lankem Ceylon To Board July 2017 To Company November 2002 PLC, Colombo Fort Land Investments PLC % of Shares Held* None To Board June 2016 E.B. Creasy & Company PLC. % of Shares Held* None DIMO COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIPS A.D.B. TALWATTE NC . AC . RPTRC QUALIFICATIONS AND EXPERTISE Independent Non-Executive Director Holder of MBA from Wanaborough University Appointed: QUALIFICATIONS AND EXPERTISE UK and a Diploma in Business Management To Board June 2016 Chartered Marketer & Fellow of The from SLBDC. Possesses over thirty two years % of Shares Held* None Chartered Institute of Marketing, UK. A of experience in Industrial Sales & Marketing Chemistry Special Hons graduate from specialising in storage, material handling DIMO COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIPS University of Colombo. Holder of MBA from equipment and construction machinery NC . RC . AC . RPTRC the Postgraduate Institute of Management, businesses including sixteen years of work University of Sri Jayewardenepura and also experience at DIMO. QUALIFICATIONS AND EXPERTISE a Professional Post Graduate Diploma in Marketing (DipM MCIM) from The Chartered R. SEEVARATNAM Fellow member of the Institute of Chartered Independent Non-Executive Director/Senior Accountants of Sri Lanka (ICASL) and Institute of Marketing, UK. Visiting lecturer in Independent Director the Chartered Institute of Management marketing and strategy at the Postgraduate Institute of Management, University of Sri Appointed: Accountants (CIMA), U.K. Possesses PostJayewardenepura. Counts close to 25 years To Board January 2007 Graduate Diploma in Business and Financial corporate experience at Unilever in Research Administration awarded by ICASL and the % of Shares Held* None & Development, Manufacturing and Supply University of Wageningen, Holland and Chain. Current President of the Chartered DIMO COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIPS holder of MBA from the University of Sri Institute of Marketing, Sri Lanka. Jayewardenepura, Sri Lanka. Participated NC . RC . AC . RPTRC in a Kellogg Executive Programme at the POSITIONS HELD IN OTHER Kellogg Graduate School of Management, QUALIFICATIONS AND EXPERTISE COMPANIES Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Fellow member of The Institute of Chartered Worked at Ernst & Young in Assurance, Group Marketing Director & Sector Managing Accountants of Sri Lanka (ICASL) and Business Risk and Advisory Services for Director – Consumer & Retail of LAUGFS England & Wales and holder of General thirty seven years of which ten years was Holdings PLC. Previously held positions of Science Degree from the University of as Country Managing Partner. Worked with Marketing Director of Unilever, Sri Lanka London. Former Senior Partner of KPMG Ernst & Young in Cleveland, Ohio and served Ltd., Vice President of Unilever, Pakistan and Ford, Rhodes, Thornton & Company. on Ernst & Young’s Far-East Area Executive CEO of Brandix Lanka Limited. Committee, the Area Advisory Council and POSITIONS HELD IN OTHER served on the ASEAN Leadership Committee. COMPANIES Past President of the Institute of Chartered Independent Non-Executive Director of Acme Accountants of Sri Lanka (ICASL) for a two Printing & Packaging PLC, Acme Packaging year period in 2002/03 and the Chartered Solutions (Pvt) Ltd, Tea Smallholder Factories Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) PLC, Tokyo Cement Company (Lanka) PLC, U.K-Sri Lankan division in 1995/96. Served Lanka Aluminium Industries PLC, Metecno as the Chairman of the Statutory Accounting Lanka (Pvt) Ltd, Green Farms (Pvt) Ltd, Standards Committee and the Auditing * Does not include shareholdings of spouse AC – Audit Committee, RC – Remuneration Committee, RPTRC – Related Party Transactions Review Committee, NC – Nomination Committee 24 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Change is visionary Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information Standards Committee, the Urgent Issues Task Force and the Examinations Committee of ICASL and closely associated with the development of Corporate Governance in Sri Lanka. Actively involved with the Code of Corporate Governance of 2003 and the Code of Audit Committees in 2002, Cochaired the Committee which revised the Code of Corporate Governance of 2008 and the Listing Rules, Co-chaired a Committee on Corporate Governance set up by ICASL jointly with the SEC to review and revise the Code of Corporate Governance in 2012 and the voluntary code of 2017. Chairs the Integrated Reporting Council in Sri Lanka. POSITIONS HELD IN OTHER COMPANIES Chairman of Management Systems (Pvt) Limited (MSL). Serves as a Non-Executive Director on boards of listed companies, public and private companies. 25 GROUP MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE Inspiring ourselves, inspiring others Standing left to right: C.R. PANDITHAGE General Manager – Mercedes – Benz Vehicle Sales E.D.C. KODITUWAKKU General Manager – Finance & Controlling M.V. BANDARA Executive Director R.K.J. GUNASEKERA General Manager – Business Development & Innovation S.R.W.M.C. RANAWANA Executive Director P.K.W. MAHENDRA Executive Director N. MUDANNAYAKE General Manager – Information Technology Seated left to right: B.C.S.A.P. GOONERATNE Director/Chief Financial Officer A.G. PANDITHAGE Director/Group Chief Executive Officer A.R. PANDITHAGE Chairman/Managing Director D.N.K. KURUKULASURIYA Chief Human Resources Officer S.C. ALGAMA Executive Director 26 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Change is visionary Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information 27 CHANGE IS PROGRESSIVE STRATEGY Here we present important information about DIMO’s corporate strategy. The section describes how our value creation model drives our strategy, which includes the three key elements of collaboration, differentiation and diversification. We also show how DIMO’s strategy has resulted in five important outcomes achieved through our model of value creation. This is also where the reader can learn about how we engage with our stakeholders, together with an analysis of our sustainability performance. Corporate Strategy 29 From Purpose to Action 30 Basis For Resource Allocation 31 Value Creation Model 32 Stakeholder Engagement 34 Materiality Analysis 37 Sustainability Performance Objectives 39 CORPORATE STRATEGY BEING THE CHANGE Context Change is progressive Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information Our Aspiration To be the corporate role model that inspires and touches the life of every Sri Lankan, every day Our Purpose To create value responsibly Expected Strategic Create value for Value to Superior brand Responsible Business partner corporate Outcomes shareholders stakeholders reputation of choice citizen Corporate strategy Collaboration with two most precious capitals to execute our differentiation Diversification strategy. Our products and services are diversified Collaboration with employees into six business segments. It is the basis for Superior expertise and loyalty of the our long-term sustenance. DIMO TRIBE, as we call our employees, ensure DIMO stays ahead of all. Vehicle sales DIMO Collaboration with business partners Competitive Vehicle after services Business partner network we have Triangle built over 79 years provides the access to most advanced and innovative products. Marketing & distribution Collaboration Differentiation Construction & material handling Agriculture Value chain of each segment is developed to ensure the differentiation of its value proposition Electro mechanical, bio-medical in six areas and marine engineering Customer Technological relationship excellence management Aftercare Innovation Market Responsible presence behaviour Guided by our aspiration and purpose, the This three pillar strategy is aimed at achieving impacts will help us to project ourselves as overarching corporate strategy of DIMO is five strategic outcomes while delivering a responsible corporate citizen. The resulting built on three key pillars – Diversification, returns to our shareholders and enhancing outcomes and impacts will in turn help us to Differentiation and Collaboration. We our value stores our capitals. For this, we boost our ability to create value in the short, collaborate with employees and business continually seek refinement of our value medium and long term. This is the story partners, two key providers of capital inputs, creation process. Our six capitals, for which behind our value creation model presented to execute our differentiation strategy to we depend on our critical stakeholders, on pages 32 and 33. compete. Related diversification, the other deliver inputs for our four value creation The desired outcomes expected from the pillar of corporate strategy, seek that we offer activities, which leads to the outputs, and corporate strategy and the value creation our competitive value proposition in diverse our desired strategic outcomes. The way model, deliver our purpose, “create value areas, also providing a platform for growth. we do business and the way we manage responsibly”, which is driven by our aspiration. This is our corporate strategy in a nutshell. our economic, environment and social 29 FROM PURPOSE TO ACTION Create value for shareholders Dividend Per Share Earnings per Share Price Earnings Ratio Increase in Net Asset per Share (Rs.) (Rs.) (Times) 20 2016/17 24 62 2016/17 – 74 7.50 2016/17 – 7.57 16% 2016/17 – 2% Value to stakeholders Value shared with employees Customer Satisfaction Index Employee Satisfaction Index Taxes and Tariff paid to (Rs. Mn) (CSI) (ESI) Government (Rs. Mn) 3,335 2016/17 3,326 88% 2016/17 – 90% 66.3% 2016/17 – 64.5% 12,513 2016/17 – 12,446 Superior brand equity “DIMO is undoubtedly one Gold award for the best National Award for Quality Winner of Sri Lanka’s “Best of Sri Lanka’s most respected Integrated Annual Reportand Productivity Gold Employer Brand Award” 2017 and leading brands.” 2017 by The Institute of award for Siyambalape and by World HRD Congress Ashish Mishra Chartered Accountant of Ratmalana workshops Managing Director Sri Lanka Interbrand India Business partner of choice 22 7 More than 50 years of Recognised for the relationships with world Best Spare Parts retail leaders such as Daimler Network Development Number of overseas business Business partners featured in AG, TATA Motors Limited, in 2017 by TATA Motors partners with more than 20 Fortune 500 list in 2017 Siemens AG and Robert Limited years relationship Bosch GmbH Responsible corporate citizen SA 8000:2014 accredited for Social Accountability Management Rs. 107 mn Investment in voluntary ISO 14001:2015 accredited System initiatives that promotes environmental management sustainable development system. Participate in Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 30 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BASIS FOR RESOURCE ALLOCATION BEING THE CHANGE Context Change is progressive Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information Businesses are clustered together based on activity may be different from the capital chain activity, thus establishing connectivity their similarities and guidance provided by input requirement of another. Therefore, between each business segment and each the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards, and a connection can be identified between capital. Establishing this connection helps us are called business segments. The value the business segments and the criticality of to allocate resources or in other words inputs chain activities are found to be similar by different capitals to that business segment from capitals, based on the requirement of the businesses within one segment while through value chain activities. The following each value chain activity and consequently it can differ for two different businesses in illustration depicts the criticality of each value for each business segment. two business segments. On the other hand chain activity to each business segment and capital inputs required by one value chain the criticality of each capital for each value Supply Chain Activities’ Connectivity with Business Segments and Capitals Vehicle Sales Vehicles After Services Business Segment Marketing & Distribution Construction & Material Handling Equipment Agriculture Electro-Mechanical, Bio-Medical & Marine Engineering Warehousing Customer Solution Engineering Delivering Aftercare Support Supply Chain Activity Sourcing Engagement Mapping Services Monetised Capital Relationship Capital Capital Human Capital Intellectual Capital Natural Capital Legend Value Creation Activity and Description Criticality of Supply Chain Activity to Sourcing Evaluation of requirements, identification of suppliers and inward carriage Business Segment and Criticality of Capital to the Supply Chain Activity Warehousing Unloading and storing Customer Engagement Marketing, identification of customer needs, prospecting and selling Extremely Critical Solution Mapping Identification of a solution for the customer need Moderately Critical Engineering Planning, designing and execution of engineering work Delivering Physical delivery of goods, rendering services and providing solutions to Required may not be Critical the customers Moderately Required or Not Aftercare Addressing customers’ post-delivery requirements Required Support Services Provision of support services for supply chain activities 31 VALUE CREATION MODEL Group’s Aspiration and Purpose Page 05 Material Dependencies and Resources Business Activities VALUE CHAIN MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES Stakeholders Capitals Monetized Capital Pages 64-69 Vehicle Vehicle Marketing & Shareholders Sales Aftercare Distribution Pool of funds and manufactured assets that is monetised and stated in Financial DIMO’s Balance Sheet. Institutions Warehousing Customer Solution engagement mapping Relationship Capital Pages 64-91 Customers Pages 70-74 The quality of the relationship we maintain Support Customers with customers upon whom Service we rely on for our revenue. Sourcing CAPITAL MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES Relationship Capital Business partners Pages 75-77 Capital acquisition activities The quality of the relationship we maintain with our business partners, Capital trade-off activities local and foreign suppliers KEY Business INPUTS MANAGEMENT Capital retaining activities Partners ACTIVITIES Human Capital Pages 78-82 Competencies, capabilities and experience of our Capital building activities employees and how they innovate, collaborate and align with DIMO’s Values, Employees objectives and strategies. Managing risks at Intellectual Capital Pages 83-87 corporate level Organisational based Managing risks related knowledge assets and the to impacts management “DIMO” brand reputation Society are our intellectual capital. Natural Capital Pages 88-91 All renewable and nonrenewable environmental Government resources and processes that support current and future prosperity of DIMO RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES 32 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Change is progressive Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information Outputs Outcomes Redeployment Pages 92-111 Construction & Electro mechanical, Biomedical and Agriculture Material Handling Marine engineering Engineering Delivery Products Achievement & Services Outcomes of the Group’s that improve Strategic the quality, Outcomes Products and availability & Page 29 Aftercare affordability Outputs services of six business of the stores of segments capitals Create value for CAPITAL MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES shareholders Pages 92-111 Stakeholder inclusiveness Value to Outcomes stakeholders Participate in sustainable development goals to the economy, (SDGs) Outcomes environment and society Superior brand Managing the triple bottom line Waste & reputation By-Products Greenhouse Gas emission Business partner noise, of choice Outputs Solid waste, Outcomes Pages 64-91 Liquid waste shared with stakeholders Responsible Pages 120-125 corporate citizen Managing risks related to value chain management Managing risks related to capital management Pages 132-138 Distribution to stakeholders Enterprise Governance Conformance Mandatory and Voluntary compliance Pages 42-51 Performance Entrepreneurship, strategy formulation and management of value creation Pages 42-51 33 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT GRI 102 42 MATERIAL SIGNIFICANCE OF STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT IN Stakeholders are the key providers of critical capitals to the Group that enable the generation of PRACTICE competitive sustainable value in the short, medium and long term. Feedback from stakeholders Our stakeholder engagement process helps to understand their view point and to develop effective strategies for value creation. involves three important steps as depicted in Their expectations and needs, which emerge from the engagement process, help us refine our the diagram. products and services, and deliver value to them. DIMO’s Sustainability Committee together The stewardship role played by the Directors demands that they act responsibly towards with the senior management closely monitors stakeholders. The stakeholder engagement process identifies material stakeholder issues that the stakeholder engagement process to must be addressed in our journey towards being a better corporate citizen. ensure that it is conducted independently. The illustration below explains how the outcome of the stakeholder engagement enhances our The process is further supplemented by our strategies and value creation process. ISO accredited Quality Management System (QMS) and Environmental Management System (EMS), and our Customer Relationship Management System. Stakeholder Engagement Feeds Strategy Formulation Stakeholder Engagement Process Refine capital management activities Stakeholder Stakeholder identification expectations Identify material impacts Stakeholder Input to engagement strategy formulation Stakeholder Improve value chain engagement Stakeholder issues Feed to risk identification Feedback analysis Stakeholder identification • Those who exhibited only one or none of the identified characteristics are not, as a rule, DIMO’s stakeholders were identified by considered for periodic engagement. However, the Sustainability Committee may decide to the Sustainability Committee following a include any party for periodic engagement (e, f, g and h) comprehensive analysis of data independently The stakeholder identification process is revisited every five years, to determine whether any obtained from various stakeholder groups. new types of stakeholders should be included. Those identified stakeholders are categorised into three groups based on their ability to Stakeholder Identification impact our value creation or to be affected by our value creation. Three sets of stakeholders h are then analysed against each group using the following criteria to identify stakeholders Persons or a Persons or a body that are material to our business: body of persons of persons who who are likely to e d g are affected by • Those who exhibited all three of the influence DIMO’s operations of performance DIMO identified characteristics are regarded as a the most important for engagement (a) c b Persons or a • Those who exhibited two of the identified body of persons characteristics are regarded as the next f who have legal, financial, most important for engagement (b, c and operational d) responsibilities towards DIMO 34 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Change is progressive Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information GRI 102 40, 102 43 Stakeholder Engagement The engagement practically takes place through a number of methods which vary from surveys to independent one-to-one interviews. Those methods and the frequency of the engagement are decided based on the nature and the quality of the existing relationship with the stakeholders. An assessment of the quality of the relationships, the methods we adopt to identify issues of each material stakeholder and the frequency of those engagements are detailed below; Assessing the quality of the relationship This scale represents our internal assessment on the quality of our relationships. No existing relationship Relationship established, more engagement required to improve quality of relationship A value-generating connection has been established but still room for improvement Good-quality, mutually beneficial relationship with some room for improvement Strong relationship of mutual benefit Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholders Engagement Method Frequency Shareholders One-to-one interviews (by independent parties) Once every 3 years Providers of financial capital Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity to review the past year’s Once a year and owners of the Company. performance and engage in discussions with the management Thus their expectations are at Annual Report Once a year the heart of what we do Quarterly Financial Statements Every quarter Company website Online CSE website Online Customers One-to-one interviews Once every 3 years Customers are our principal The Customer Relationship Management process (CRM) enables daily engagement 24 hours, 7 days source of revenue and form with customers and helps us to respond to customer queries and problems faster. part of our non-monetised The Customer Satisfaction Index maintained by each business unit provides an Once a month/quarter capital. Their satisfaction is assessment of satisfaction levels and helps to improve the problem solving capacities vital to our success. of the Company Loyalty customer clubs (TATA Emperor, Mercedes-Benz Club & Jeep club) enable an Continuous opportunity to communicate with loyal customers. Business Partners & Suppliers One-to-one interview (by independent parties) Once in every 3 years Business partners are a critical A high speed 24 x 7 online link enables constant dialogue with principals. Issues such Continuous link in our supply chain and a as product quality, marketing, customer satisfaction, ‘problem solving’ and employee part of our relationship capital. motivation are discussed on this platform. On-site visits from principals and on-site visits to principals’ locations facilitate Continuous engagement. Employees One-to-one interviews (by independent parties) Once every 3 years The key resource for Focus group discussions (by independent parties) Once every 3 years competitive advantage and Employee Council Meetings Once a month sustainable growth Employee Portal of the Company network accessible to every employee. Continuous Annual strategic planning meeting Once a year Company’s ‘Open Door’ policy encourages direct employee – management dialogue Continuous Annual Employee Surveys voluntary and confidential Once a year Individual Performance Reviews – bi-annually Bi annual HR Clinics Continuous Employee reward and recognition Continuous 35 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT GRI 102 40, 102 46, 102 47 Stakeholders Engagement Method Frequency Society One-to-one interviews (by independent parties) Once every 3 years Society includes our local Focus groups discussion (by independent parties) Once every 3 years immediate communities, stakeholders in sustainable Dialogue with religious dignitaries Continuous development and regulatory Written and oral communications initiated by stakeholders Continuous and government agencies. Company website Online One-to-one interview Once every 3 years Feedback analysis Expectations and issues identified during the stakeholder engagement were rated, assigned and prioritised to identify those most material to our stakeholders. When doing so, the likely level of stakeholder priority was assessed against the likelihood of the impact. Those concerns are shared with the Group Management Committee for due assessment. Stakeholder Issues Prioritisation Matrix 7 6 Level of stakeholder priority for their decision making 5 1 Issues indicated in this area are of high significance and impact High 4 both the stakeholders and the organisation. All indicators shown 3 in this area are fully discussed in the Annual Report and/or in the corporate website. 8 9 2 17 14 13 11 16 Issues indicated in this area have a relatively moderate impact on Medium 15 our business. They too were addressed during the reporting period 12 10 and are fully or partially reported in the Annual Report and/or in 19 the corporate website. 18 Low Issues found in this area of the grid have only a minor impact and thus may only be reported in the corporate website. Low Medium High Likelihood of current or potential impact on the Group 1. Economic performance 8. Local community development 14. Product and service labelling 2. Customer health and safety 9. Technical education for youth 15. Water consumption 3. Occupational health and safety 10. Procurement practices for local suppliers 16. Employee relations 4. Compliance 11. Mutually beneficial relationship with 17. Ethical marketing and communication suppliers 5. Emissions, effluents and waste 18. Materials consumption 12. Energy consumption 6. Employee remuneration and benefits 19. Anti-corruption 13. Employee training and education 7. Customer privacy Aspect boundary outside the organisation Aspect boundary within the organisation 36 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 MATERIALITY ANALYSIS BEING THE CHANGE Context Change is progressive Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information GRI 102 44, 102 49 MATERIAL STAKEHOLDER ISSUES AND THEIR STATUS Material matters identified through our stakeholder engagement process have been given due attention of the management and responses are established in the form of strategies or plans. The effectiveness of those responses is closely monitored by the Sustainability Committee with respect to internal sustainability performance objectives, to ensure that we address them adequately and on a timely basis. Our responses and the input from stakeholder engagement may alter the status of those material issues identified in the last financial year. The following table explains the shift in the status of those material matters, where applicable, and our responses, and provides a link to detailed discussions conducted either in the annual report or on our corporate website, and gives the status of the sustainability performance objectives. Status of Material Aspects 2017 vs 2018 Material Aspect Issues Raised Status Possible Reason for Our Response by (stakeholder the Shift in Status Group) 1 Emissions, Society No significant change Our Environment Management System which was upgraded to ISO effluents and ✡ 14001:2015 previous year, constantly works towards minimising Customer waste emission levels and effluents. Continuous improvement in these areas is conducted and these are measured against the sustainability performance objective numbers 14 and 15. For more information refer pages 88 to 91 in the Natural Capital and Environmental Impact section. 2 Technical Society We have invested We increased our investments in technical education and expanded education for ✦ Rs. 10.5 million on the number of opportunities provided to apprentices. Customer youth technical education For more information refer page 126 of the Social Impact Report. Supplier for youth during the year. 3 Customer health Customer No significant change Our ISO 9001 (2015) accredited Quality Management System and safety ✡ ensures quality of products and services. We will continue to strictly comply with health and safety aspects relating to our product portfolio. For more information refer page 70 of the Customer Capital Management Report. 4 Employee Employee Average training Continuous training and development programmes conducted for training and ✦ hours per employee employees improved this aspect. The achievement of Sustainability education increased to 27.5 Performance Objective number 07 bears testimony to this hours improvement. For more information refer page 78 of the Human Capital Management Report. 5 Occupational Employee No significant change The Head of Stakeholder Interaction and Compliance is responsible health and safety ✡ for employee health and safety practices for the entire group. Employee health and safety is covered in the Group’s Occupational Health and Safety Policy. For more information refer page 78 of the Human Capital Management Report. 6 Procurement Local suppliers/ No significant change Local suppliers should abide by the Group’s Supplier Code. Our practices for local Subcontract ✡ success in this endeavour is measured using the sustainability suppliers workers performance objective number 09. Further, subcontractors are governed by the “Subcontractor Work Permit” scheme. Society For more information refer page 75 on Business Partner Relationship Capital. 37 MATERIALITY ANALYSIS GRI 102 44, 102 49 Material Aspect Issues Raised Status Possible Reason for Our Response by (stakeholder the Shift in Status Group) 7 Water Society No significant change Procedures are in place in all the workshops to increase the level of ✡ water recycled/reused. Stringent waste water management systems Customer are in place and the success of these systems is measured by Sustainability Performance Objective number 13. For more information refer page 120 of the Environmental Impact Report. 8 Ethical marketing Customer Due to the importance We ensure strict compliance with regulations and codes concerning communications ✪ of marketing and ethical marketing communication practices. This applies to new communication products and services introduced by the Group. relating to fertiliser For more information refer page 70 of the Customer Capital and agro chemicals Management Report. added to the portfolio during the year, materiality of the issue increased 9 Mutually Suppliers No significant change Constant interactions and sharing of information continues. Reports beneficial ✡ to business partners will address business partners’ expectations. relationships with For more information refer page 75 on Business Partner Relationship business partners Capital. 10 Energy Society No significant change Energy saving measures are implemented across the organisation. consumption ✡ Two major buildings are LEED certified green buildings (Gold Category). For more information refer page 120 of the Environmental Impact Report. 11 Employee Employee No significant change Annual wage survey revealed that DIMO remuneration levels are benefits ✡ competitive compared to others in the industry. ✪ Materiality of issues increased ✦ Materiality of issues decreased ✡ Materiality of issues remains the same ✰ New issue identified 38 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE BEING THE CHANGE Context OBJECTIVES 2017/18 Change is progressive Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information Aspect Term Objective Achievement Remarks 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 Monetised Long/ 01 ROE to be more than Annual Not Not Achieved The AWDR+3% as at year end was 12%. The Capital Short AWDR+3% Achieved Achieved ROE for the period was 4.7% Customer Long 02 To ensure continuity of a customerAchieved Achieved Achieved DIMO’s Quality Management System is centric Quality Management System accredited ISO 9001:2015 with suitable accreditation Short 03 Number of training hours for sales Achieved Achieved Not Training hours per sales personnel increased personnel to increase by 10% from Achieved by 102% in 2017/18. Last year’s training hours previous year per sales personnel increased by 13%. Short 04 To achieve a Weighted Average Achieved Achieved Achieved The Weighted Average Customer satisfaction Customer Satisfaction Index Score of index score was 88% in 2017/18 (90% in more than 85% 2016/17) Short 05 Each branch to have a customer Achieved Achieved Achieved Each branch achieved the required number of interaction event each quarter customer interaction events Employee Short 06 To achieve an employee satisfaction Achieved Achieved Achieved For the year 2017/18, employee satisfaction index score of more than 60% index score was 66.30% (64.56% in 2016/17) Short 07 Average training hours per employee Achieved Achieved Achieved Average training hours per employee was per year to be more than 20 hours 28.59 hours in 2017/18 (21.34 in 2016/17) Long 08 To maintain a ratio of female to male Achieved Achieved Achieved The ratio is 18.30 % in 2017/18 which was employees (excluding workshops 20.25% in the previous year and field sales) of more than 15% Business Short 09 To obtain declarations from at least Achieved Achieved Achieved 40 declarations obtained as at the year end partners 50% of the current major local 31-03-2018. suppliers, that they will abide by the DIMO supplier code Society Short 10 Invest at least 0.05% of turnover on Achieved Achieved Achieved During the year DIMO invested 0.20% community development activities of turnover on community development activities. This was 0.24% in 2016/17 Long/ 11 The number of non-employees who Achieved Achieved Achieved The number of trainees enrolled as a Short are afforded training to be more than percentage to the total number of employees 5% of the number of employees was 24.95 % 2017/18 (27.65% in 2016/17) Short 12 100% compliance with Laws and Achieved Achieved Achieved The Company’s Code of Business Ethics Government regulations require compliance with laws and regulations at all times. There were no non-compliances reported during the year Environment Long 13 To re-cycle and re-use at least 8% of Achieved Achieved Not 8.42% of water used was recycled and reused the water used Achieved during the year (9.3% in 2016/17). Short 14 Waste segregated and handed Achieved Achieved Achieved The Company maintains waste collection over to selected third parties for agreements with 3rd party waste management recycling/reuse to be more than companies who are approved by Central 90% of total solid waste Environmental Authority. Waste managed by the above third parties exceeded the required percentage during the year. Short 15 Carbon Foot Print for every Rs.1.0 Not Achieved Achieved Carbon footprint for every Rs.1 million of million of turnover to reduce by 5% Achieved turnover in 2017/18 was 0.1769 tC02e. The corresponding figure for 2016/17 was 0.1713 tC02e Economic Long/ 16 Monetised value added to increase Not Achieved Achieved The Monetised value added descried by 0.5% Short every year at a rate more than the Achieved (increased 17.8% in 2016/17) rate of inflation +5% 39 CHANGE IS PRUDENT ENTERPRISE GOVERNANCE Our commitment to good governance remains strong. This section examines our responsibilities and practices in planning and implementing our strategic direction. Enterprise Governance includes the two important aspects of conformance and performance, as applied to the management of our value creation activities; including our capitals and impacts and across the value chain. Enterprise Governance 41 Senior Independent Directors Statement 52 Committee Reports Audit Committee Report 53 Remuneration Committee Report 55 Related Party Transaction Review Committee Report 56 Nomination Committee Report 57 Responsibility Statement of Chairman/Managing Director, Group Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer 58 ENTERPRISE GOVERNANCE BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Change is prudent Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information Strong and ethical leadership is the foundation of DIMO’s ability to create value. The role of stewardship bestowed upon the Board of Directors demands that the Board has in place the necessary mechanisms and processes required to deliver the value, outcomes and impacts expected by stakeholders. The model below depicts how this mandate is put into action by the Board. The governing framework depicts the manner in which the Board is structured to ensure successful governance of the Group. Governing activities are broadly categorised into two aspects conformance and performance. The conformance aspect ensures that DIMO is compliant with laws and regulations, transparent in its practices and ethical in its operations. Performance requires that the Board seeks feasible opportunities, formulates strategy, delivers value consistently and manages risk and impacts effectively. These activities are expected to deliver five outputs, as depicted in the diagram below. We believe that the achievement of these outputs will lead the Group towards its desired strategic outcomes. How Governance Directs the Group Towards its Strategic Outcomes Governing Framework Board composition Board committees Management committees Compliance framework Assurance structure Governing Activities Performance Conformance Entrepreneurship Strategy formulation Management of value creation Mandatory compliance Voluntary adherence Management of value chain Management of capitals Management of risk Management of impacts Outputs of Governing Activities Business opportunities are The Group’s direction is Compliance with applicable Cultivation and exhibition Stakeholder interests identified and pursued aligned with strategies laws, regulations and of ethical culture are balanced governance practices Value Created Through Enterprise Governance Create value for Superior brand reputation Business Partner of Choice Value to stakeholders Responsible Corporate Citizen shareholders 41 ENTERPRISE GOVERNANCE GOVERNING FRAMEWORK The Board of Directors bears overall responsibility for good governance, requisite transparency, stewardship and for accountability towards all stakeholders. The governing framework depicts the manner in which the Board of Directors has structured the governing body for better discharge of the responsibilities bestowed upon them. The framework includes Board composition, Board committees and Management committees, facilitated by a regulation framework and an assurance and certification process. Governing Framework Compliance and Structure Assurance Adherence Shareholders Mandatory compliance Assurance on the financial 1. Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 statements 2. Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standard Act No. 15 of Independent Audit 1995 Assurance on non-monetised 3. Other legislative enhancements Board of Directors information affecting the Company Independent review and assurance 4. Listing Rules of Colombo Stock Exchange report 5. Articles of Association Internal audit 6. SEC regulations Review of systems, controls, Voluntary adherence processes and operations 1. Code of Best Practices jointly Independent certifications issued by SEC and CA Sri Lanka Remuneration Nomination Audit RPT Review Committee QMS audit and certification 2. UNGC ten principles Committee Committee Committee 3. Code of Business Ethics of EMS audit and certification DIMO 4. GRI Standards 5. Quality Management System 6. Environmental Management Group Sustainability System Management Committee 7. Internal Control System Committee Board composition The Board consisted of thirteen members from 1st April to 26th July 2017. Mr. A.N. Ranasinghe was appointed to the Board on 27th July 2017 and from this date to 30th September 2017, the Board consisted of fourteen members until Mr. R.C. Weerawardane retired on 30th September 2017. From1st October 2017 to 31st March 2018, the Board consisted of thirteen members. Dashboard: Diversity and Independence of the Board of Directors Diversity of expertise as at 31st March 2018 Finance Expertise Management Expertise Automobile Expertise Engineering Expertise Compliance & Sales & Governance Expertise Marketing Expertise 31% 100% 31% 24% 31% 38% Directors with relevent area of expertise 42 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Change is prudent Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information beneficial to shareholders so as to not Independence warrant any change, and that the dual role From 1/04/2017 From 27/07/2017 From 01/10/2017 of Executive Chairman does not compromise to 26/07/2017 to 30/09/2017 to 31/03/2018 the principles of good corporate governance. 1 1 1 This is further ensured by the presence of the Independent Non-Executive Directors, including the Senior Independent Director. 3 4 4 They ensure that no single individual has unfettered powers of decision making, permitting independent judgement over 9 9 8 good governance and conducting of business in the best interest of stakeholders. Executive Director Non-Executive Directors Independent Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Mr. R. Seevaratnam functions as the Senior The Code of Best practices on Corporate Governance jointly Independent Director. The presence of the Senior Independent Director provides issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka and a workable mechanism to review the The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka in 2017 to which effectiveness of the Board, in view of the we voluntarily comply plays an important role in promoting good executive role played by the Chairman. governance practices that are in line with international best practices Performance evaluation of the Board The Board evaluation process helps improve Board effectiveness and identifies areas Skills, competencies and diversity of the Independence of Non-Executive for improvement. Board performance is Board of Directors Directors appraised by the members of the Board, The Directors possess diverse skills and bring Rule No. 7.10.3 of the listing rules of the annually. The performance of the Chairman, a wide range of expertise and competencies Colombo Stock Exchange requires that an who plays an executive role, is appraised by that facilitate the effective discharge of explanation be provided in the event that the Non-Executive Directors annually. More Board responsibilities. A brief profile of the a Director is considered an Independent information on performance evaluation of members of the Board is given on pages 22 Director after serving the Board continuously the Board is disclosed on page 140 of Annual to 25. The Board enjoys the services of 04 for a period of more than nine years. Mr. R Report of the Board of Directors. qualified accountants who provide financial Seevaratnam and Dr. H Cabral whose tenures acumen and knowledge relating to matters of Directors’ remuneration as Directors have exceeded nine years, finance. The Directors’ remuneration is disclosed on continue to be considered as Independent page 169. Directors. The required explanation is given Board balance and its independence on pages 140 to 143 in the Annual Report of Directors’ shareholding All directors have a duty to act with the Board of Directors. Information pertaining to Director’s independence of mind and in the best interests of the Company. This mandate is Shareholding is presented on page 169 of Chairman in an executive capacity further enhanced by the presence of five Annual Report of the Board of Directors. The Chairman, Mr. A.R. Pandithage, who is Non-Executive Directors, of whom four are designated Chairman/Managing Director, Board Committees Independent Directors. The composition plays an executive role in the Group The presence of Board Committees chaired of the Board and number of Independent and thereby holds the highest executive by Independent Non-Executive Directors Directors meet the criteria relating to Board position. The Board is of the belief that the further strengthens good governance and composition laid down by the listing rules of existing arrangement has been economically serves as an effective oversight mechanism the Colombo Stock Exchange. over the several activities of the Company. 43 ENTERPRISE GOVERNANCE Overview of Board Committees Mandated/Recommended Where to find the composition Committee Oversight areas by; and committee reports Audit Committee Listing Rules of the Risk and Controls Pages 53 54 Colombo Stock Exchange Financial Statements and Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance Internal Audit External Audit Compliance Remuneration Listing Rules of the Recommending the remuneration of Executive Directors. Page 55 Committee Colombo Stock Exchange Approving the remuneration of members of the Group and Code of Best Practice Management Committee on Corporate Governance Nomination Code of Best Practice on Reviewing the structure and composition of the Board and Page 57 Committee. Corporate Governance making recommendations to the Board on all new Board appointments Related Party Listing Rules of the Assisting the Board in reviewing related party transactions Page 56 Transaction Review Colombo Stock Exchange carried out by the Company as per requirements of section Committee 9 of Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange. Management Committees As per the framework, statutes, statutory Assurance structure The Group Management Committee (GMC) documents and regulations are classified Assurance obtained for the Financial is a management committee appointed by under the “mandatory compliance” category Statements and for non-financial information, the Board, entrusted with the execution of and the codes, best practices, management Internal Audit and Independent Certifications the performance and conformance aspects systems and control systems are classified are key sources of assurance and comfort of Enterprise Governance. The GMC consists under the “voluntary adherence” category. available with regard to the integrity and the of Executive Directors and members of the The level of compliance to these mandates due functioning of the Governing framework. senior management team. The composition is discussed under governance activities from These sources of assurance and comfort of the Group Management Committee is page 48 to 51. are depicted in the Governing framework available on pages 26 and 27. appearing on page 42. Code of Best Practices on Corporate The Sustainability Committee, which Governance Independent assurance on the Financial is a management committee consisting The Code of Best Practices on Corporate Statements is provided by an independent of members of the management team Governance jointly issued by the Securities auditor. The independent assurance obtained including Executive Directors, holds primary and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka and as at the year-end is supplemented by an responsibility to oversee the Group’s The Institute of Chartered Accountants of interim audit carried out during the year. activities with regard to the identification Sri Lanka to which we voluntarily comply The internal audit function is headed by and management of economic, social and plays an important role in promoting good the Group Chief Internal Auditor and field environmental impacts, and the achievement governance practices that are in line with work is delegated to a firm of Chartered of sustainability objectives. international best practices. The extent of Accountants identified for the purpose by the compliance with the code is available on Audit Committee. Compliance framework the Group’s corporate website http://www. The compliance and adherence section, Assurance/ certification on the quality dimolanka.com/stewardship/ and forms a depicted on the left of the governing management system, the environmental part of this report. framework, identifies the guidelines and management system, social accountability systems to be followed by the Board, Board management system and on the nonCommittees, Management Committees The extent of compliance with financial information presented in this report and employees to ensure transparency and the code is available on the Group’s corporate website are obtained from an independent licensed accountability, and to provide a strong http://www.dimolanka.com/ assurance provider. platform for performance. stewardship/ 44 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Change is prudent Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information GOVERNING ACTIVITIES Board Meetings held, gap between each meeting, number of Executive Directors, Independent Non-Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors attended. The meetings held are given in the following diagram. ED 9/9 NED 1/1 ED 8/8 INED 2/3 ED 8/9 NED 1/1 NED 1/1 INED 4/4 93 INED 2/3 DAYS 97 18-05-17 DAYS 27 DAYS ED 8/8 14-02-18 ED 9/9 NED 1/1 27-07-17 NED 1/1 INED 3/4 INED 2/3 48 05 DAYS DAYS 09-11-17 ED 8/8 23-05-17 NED 1/1 INED 4/4 ED 8/9 NED 1/1 ED 9/9 INED 3/4 44 NED 1/1 DAYS INED 3/3 57 30-03-18 DAYS 38 22-09-17 DAYS Year 2017/18 30-06-17 ED Executive Director NED Non-Executive Director INED Independent Non-Executive Director Attendance of Directors at Board meetings is one of the indicators of their active participation in decision making. The table below sets out details of the appointment and attendance at Board meetings. Individual Directors Active Participation in Decision Making Board Member Date of appointment to the Board Attendance at meetings First Re-election Position Attendance A.R. Pandithage Jun-77 Please Refer Note* Chairman/Managing Director 8/8 R. Seevaratnam Jan-07 Jun-17 Senior Independent Director 6/8 Dr. H. Cabral Oct-06 Jun-17 Independent Non-Executive Director 6/8 A.M. Pandithage Sep-82 Jun-15 Non-Executive Director 8/8 A.D.B. Talwatte Jun-16 Jun-17 Independent Non-Executive Director 8/8 A.N. Algama Nov-84 Jun-16 Executive Director 8/8 S.C. Algama Nov-84 Jun-17 Executive Director 8/8 A.G. Pandithage Dec-95 Jun-16 CEO /Director 8/8 B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne Apr-06 Jun-17 Director/Chief Financial Officer 8/8 R.C. Weerawardane** Jun-02 Jun-16 Executive Director 3/4 M.V. Bandara Jun-16 Jun-17 Executive Director 8/8 P.K.W. Mahendra Jun-16 Jun-17 Executive Director 8/8 S.R.W.M.C. Ranawana Jun-16 Jun-17 Executive Director 8/8 A.N. Ranasinghe July-17 Please Refer Note*** Independent Non-Executive Director 3/4 * The Managing Director does not retire by rotation, as per articles. ** Ceased to be a Director with effect from 30th September 2017. *** Mr. A. N. Ranasinghe was appointed to the Board with effect from 27th July 2017 and retires in terms of Article 71 of the Articles of Association of the Company and will be available for election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. 45 ENTERPRISE GOVERNANCE Performance Management of value creation stakeholders, they will also have a bearing Entrepreneurship, strategy formulation and The Board identifies four management on the reputation of DIMO. An overview of management of value creation form the activities that create the Group’s desired the management approach, initiatives and performance aspect of governing activities. As values namely; management of value outcomes relating to impact management is depicted in the Group’s value creation model chain, capitals, impacts and risks. Quarterly given in the Impact Management Report from on page 32, the four management activities performance reviews are conducted to pages 112 to 130. that drive value creation are management of monitor the effectiveness of these activities the value chain, capitals, impacts and risks. and to allocate resources. The criticality of Stakeholder engagement each capital to each value creation activity The stewardship role played by the Directors Entrepreneurship is depicted in the illustration given on page demands that they act responsibly towards The Board’s role in recognising, assessing 31. Mapping this connectivity provides the stakeholders so that DIMO becomes a and capitalising on attractive opportunities basis for the effective utilisation of capitals responsible corporate citizen. The stakeholder through innovation, leveraging risk, and and value creation management. engagement process identifies material engaging in effective competitive actions, stakeholder issues that must be addressed in is what ensures the Group’s long term Value chain management activities our journey towards being a better corporate sustenance and success. The management of value chains of the citizen. The manner in which this mandate six business segments in which the Group is brought in to practice is disclosed from During the year under review, amongst operates is identified under the value page 34 to 39 of the Stakeholder Engagement the Board’s key entrepreneurship activities chain management activities. More details Section. were equity investments in two subsidiaries in Sri Lanka and another two subsidiaries of business segments, their value chains, Risk management activities outside the country. More information on performance and risk management are presented from 132–138 of value chain The risk associated with the value creation these investments are presented in financial management report. activities of DIMO in the short, medium and statements note number 4.12 presented on the long term has to be prudently managed. pages 179-183. Capital management activities Risks associated with capitals, business Integrated thinking The capitals provide the key ingredients for segments and impacts are monitored and value creation and thus need to be carefully managed. The Corporate Risk Management Integrated thinking is an approach adopted managed. The material capitals involved in Report presented on pages 132 to 138 by the Board in ensuring successful the value creation process are monetised, provides details of the Group’s risk profile entrepreneurship. For DIMO, integrated relationship, human, intellectual and natural and the manner in which those are managed. thinking means the active consideration of the relationships among the various operating capital. An overview of the capitals and Conformance and functional units and the capitals that we the management approach towards each, Conformance is the bed rock upon which use or affect. It leads to integrated decision and the performance and impacts of the the performance dimension of enterprise making and actions that consider the Company’s activities on material capitals governance is built. It provides the foundation creation of value over the short, medium and are discussed in the “Capitals Management for a robust organisational structure, a long term. Report”, presented from pages 64 to 91. compliant work ethic and for decision Impact management activities making based on responsible corporate Strategy formulation behaviour, which are the pre-requisites for The Board provides business leadership by Value creation activities lead to economic, performance. Conformance requires a high ensuring the formulation and implementation social and environmental impacts. The level of commitment across the organisation of requisite strategies for the achievement of management of such impacts is imperative and all employees are required to respect desired outcomes. The three facet corporate as the manner and the extent to which such conformance in achieving their own strategy formulated by the Board of Directors impacts are managed will determine the level objectives and those of the Company. is presented on page 29. of corporate responsibility demonstrated by DIMO. While these impacts affect our 46 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Change is prudent Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information Driving better performance through conformance Point of reference The main purpose of all conformance activities is to ensure that conformance as envisioned by the Board is practiced and the desired results are achieved. The following table provides the links between value creation management and key conformance aspects that facilitate the successful execution of value creation management. The points of reference refer to the mechanism in place to regulate or achieve the respective aspect of conformance. In order to ascertain the status or effectiveness of the point of reference, please read the subsections named “mandatory compliance” and “voluntary compliance” from page 50 to 51. Conformance Aspects and Points of Reference Management Activity Aspects Related to Key Conformance Aspect Point of Reference Management Activities Capital Management Monetised capital Internal control Audit Committee Activities Internal audit Audit Committee Uncertainty management Risk Management Framework Assurance Audit Committee Independent Auditors Customers Ethical marketing Quality Management System Customer health and safety Quality Management System Customer privacy Quality Management System Employees Employee safety Quality Management System and Social Accountability Management System. UN Global Compact Principles Social Accountability Management System. Employee rights Code of Business Ethics Social Accountability Management System. Equal opportunities UN Global Compact Principles Social Accountability Management System. Reducing gender inequality Sustainability Objectives Social Accountability Management System. Compliance with legislation and regulations Code of Business Ethics Social Accountability relating to employees Management System. Business partners Compliance with principals’ requirements of Quality Management System ethical practices Honouring agreements with principals Quality Management System Intellectual capital Data security and integrity Quality Management System Meeting the requirements of the legislative Code of Business Ethics enactments applicable to the Group Enhance and preserving the reputation of the Code of Best Practice on Corporate Company by following best practices relating Governance jointly issued by SEC and ICASL to good governance and sustainability CSE Listing Rules Articles of Association GRI Standards Natural capital Complying with all requirements of the Environmental Management System Environment Management System Meeting legal and regulatory requirements Environmental Management System regarding the environment UN Global Compact Principles Code of Business Ethics 47 ENTERPRISE GOVERNANCE Management Activity Aspects Related to Key Conformance Aspect Point of Reference Management Activities Impact Management Society Anti-corruption Code of Business Ethics Activities Responsible corporate behaviour UN Global Compact Principles Economy Ensuring that all taxes are paid correctly and Legislative enactments appropriate to the on time Group Environment Complying with all requirements of the Environmental Management System Environment Management System Meeting legal and regulatory requirements Environmental Management System regarding the environment UN Global Compact Principles Code of Business Ethics Value Creation Value Chain of six Meeting regulatory standards with regard to Quality Management System Management business segments product and services Activities. Meeting regulatory standards and business Code of Business Ethics ethics in performing supply chain activities Product responsibility Quality Management System Risk Management Management of Risks at Risk Identification, evaluation and Audit Committee Activities corporate level management Internal Controls Internal and External Audits Mandatory compliance The Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 and the Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards Act No. 15 of 1995 are two key legislative enactments with which the Company is compliant, among many others.. The Company is also compliant with the regulations issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange. Compliance tracker Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 The tables given below provide the required and applicable details, disclosures or cross references to details/disclosures mandated by the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007. Disclosures Required by the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 Annual Report Section Reference Requirement Reference (Page) 168 (1) (a) The nature of the business of the Group and the Company together with any change thereof during the 158 accounting period 168 (1) (b) Signed Financial Statements of the Group and the Company for the accounting period completed 147-205 168 (1) (c) Auditors’ Report on Financial Statements of the Group and the Company 148-151 168 (1) (d) Accounting Policies and any changes therein 147-205 168 (1) (e) Particulars of the entries made in the Interests Register during the accounting period 144 168 (1) (f) Remuneration and other benefits paid to Directors of the Company during the accounting period 169 168 (1) (g) Corporate donations made by the Company during the accounting period 169 168 (1) (h) Information on the Directorate of the Company and its Subsidiaries during and at the end of the 19 accounting period 168 (1) (i) Amounts paid/payable to the External Auditor as audit fees and fees for other services rendered during 169 the accounting period 168 (1) (j) Auditors’ relationship or any interest with the Company and its Subsidiaries 142 168 (1) (k) Acknowledgement of the contents of this Report and Signatures on behalf of the Board (Annual Report 140-143 of the Board of Directors) 48 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Change is prudent Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information Statements of responsibility The Statement of Directors’ Responsibility for Financial Statements as required by the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 and the Responsibility Statement of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer required by Circular number 09 of 2008 issued by Securities and Exchange Commission, are available on page 146. Compliance Tracker Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange The table given below provides the level of compliance with the Section 7.10 of Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange, pertaining to Corporate Governance. Disclosures Required by the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange Compliance Rule No. Subject Applicable Requirement Details Status 7.10.1.(a) Non-Executive At least two or one third of the Directors, Compliant Four out of thirteen Directors were Non-Executive Directors whichever is higher, should be NonDirectors up to 26th July 2017. Five out of fourteen Executive Directors Directors were Non-Executive Directors from 27th July 2017 to 30th September 2017. Five out of thirteen Directors were Non-Executive Directors from 1st October 2017 to 31st March 2018 7.10.2.(a) Independent Two or one-third of Non-Executive Compliant Three out of four Non-Executive Directors were Directors Directors, whichever is higher, should be independent up to 26th July 2017. Four out of five independent Non-Executive Directors were independent from 27th July 2017 to 31st March 2018 7.10.2.(b) Independence of Each Non-Executive Director should Compliant The Non-Executive Directors have submitted the Directors submit a declaration of Independence/ declarations in the prescribed format Non-Independence 7.10.3.(a) Disclosures relating The names of Independent Directors Compliant The names of Independent Directors are disclosed to Directors should be disclosed in the Annual Report in the Board profile presented on page 22 and 25 7.10.3.(b) Independence of The Board shall make a determination Compliant The Board has made such determination and Directors annually as to the Independence or Nonthe basis for determination of “Independence” is Independence of each Non-Executive explained in the Annual Report of the Board of Director Directors. Please refer pages 140 and 143 7.10.3.(c) Disclosures relating A brief resume of each Director should be Compliant A brief profile of each director is available in the to Directors included in the Annual Report including Board profile presented on page 22 and 25 his/her area of expertise 7.10.3.(d) Appointment of Provide a brief resume of any new Compliant A brief profile of the new director appointed is new Directors Director appointed to the Board presented in the Board profile on page 22 and 25 7.10.5 Remuneration A listed company shall have a Compliant Names of the members of the Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Committee are available on page 55 7.10.5.(a) Composition of Shall comprise of Non-Executive Compliant Composition of the Remuneration Committee is the Remuneration Directors, a majority of whom shall be available in the Remuneration Committee report Committee Independent presented on page 55 7.10.5.(b) Functions of the The Remuneration Committee shall Compliant The manner in which the remuneration committee Remuneration recommend the remuneration of the discharged its responsibilities is set out in the Committee Chief Executive Officer and the Executive Remuneration Committee Report presented on page Directors 55 7.10.5.(c) Disclosure in the The Annual Report should set out; Compliant Please refer the Remuneration Committee Report on Annual Report page 55 a) Names of the Directors comprising the relating to the Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee b) Statement of Remuneration policy Compliant Please refer the Remuneration Committee Report on page 55 c) Aggregate remuneration paid to Compliant Please refer the Remuneration Committee Report on Executive and Non-Executive Directors page 55 49 ENTERPRISE GOVERNANCE Compliance Rule No. Subject Applicable Requirement Details Status 7.10.6 Audit Committee A listed company shall have an Audit Compliant Names of the members of the Audit Committee are Committee available on pages 53-54 7.10.6.(a) Composition of Shall comprise of Non-Executive Compliant Composition of the Audit Committee is available in Audit Committee Directors, a majority of whom are the Remuneration Committee report presented on Independent pages 53-54 Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Compliant The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Financial Officer should attend Audit Officer attend Audit Committee meetings by Committee Meetings invitation The Chairman of the Audit Committee or Compliant The Chairman of the Audit Committee is a member one member should be a member of a of The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri professional accounting body Lanka and the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants UK 7.10.6.(b) Functions of Audit Should be as outlined in the Section 7.10 Compliant The terms of reference of the Audit Committee were Committee of the Listing Rules adopted by the Board on 20th June 2007 and last reviewed on 24th May 2016, and cover the areas outlined 7.10.6.(c) Disclosure in the a) Names of the Directors comprising the Compliant Please refer the Audit Committee Report on pages Annual Report Audit Committee 53-54 relating to the Audit b) The Audit Committee shall make a Compliant Please refer the Audit Committee Report on pages Committee determination of the independence of 53-54 the Auditors and disclose the basis for such determination c) The Annual Report shall contain a Compliant Please refer the Audit Committee Report on pages Report of the Audit Committee in the 53-54 prescribed manner Disclosures specified by section 7.4 and There is no evidence of the book value being Voluntary compliance 7.5 of the listing rules of the Colombo substantially different from the market value Voluntary adherence strengthens the Stock Exchange of land and other fixed assets of the Company conformance aspect of Enterprise The Interim Financial Statements have been or its subsidiaries. Governance and allows the Company to submitted to the Colombo Stock Exchange venture beyond mandatory compliance, within forty five (45) days for the first three Disclosures specified by section 9.3.2 of which the Company considers the “base” quarters and with in two (2) months for the the listing rules of the Colombo Stock for conformance. Voluntary adherence last quarter from the end of the relevant Exchange expands conformance practices to different quarter. The Audited Financial Statements Disclosures specified by section 9.3.2 of areas of the business, promoting responsible for the year ended 31st March 2018 and Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange corporate behaviour, strengthening the Audited Balance Sheets at that date are contained in this Annual Report. Please operations, addressing the expectations of have been submitted to the Colombo Stock refer page 56 for the Related Party Transaction various stakeholder groups and eventually Exchange within three months of the Balance Review Committee Report. supporting sustained performance. The table Sheet date. on the next page identifies each mandate with which we voluntarily comply, the aspect Disclosures specified by section 7.6 of of regulation and their status of compliance the listing rules of the Colombo Stock during the year. Exchange All disclosures specified by Section 7.6 of Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange are contained in this Annual Report. 50 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Change is prudent Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information Level of Compliance and Adherence Voluntary Compliance Aspect of Regulation Status The Code of Best Practices on Corporate Best Practices of Corporate Governance relating All requirements of the code and the compliance Governance jointly issued by the Securities to but not limited to the Board, the Directors, level are available on Company’s website at and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka and the Chairman and the financial acumen of the www.dimolanka.com/stewardship/ and forms a The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Board, Board meetings, Board balance, the part of this Enterprise Governance Section. Lanka (The Code) supply of information to the Board, appointment and re-election of Directors, Appraisal of Board performance, information relating to Directors, appraisal of the Chief Executive’s performance, remuneration of Directors and disclosures, Remuneration Committee, Audit Committee, shareholder/investor relations and communications, major and material transactions, financial reporting, internal control, code of business conduct & ethics, disclosures and sustainability reporting are covered in the Company’s response to its adherence. Code of Business Ethics Compliance requirements applicable to all All employees sign declarations to the effect that employees all requirements in the Code will be complied with GRI Standards on Sustainability Reporting To report on sustainability related performance Complied. The GRI content index is available on in a complete generally accepted manner as pages 209 to 214. The Report on the Independent specified by GRI Standards Assurance obtained on Non-Financial Reporting is available from pages 215 to 217 Environment Management System (EMS) Meet the requirements of the Group’s Complied. The Group’s Environmental Environmental Management System accredited Management System is certified with ISO by the ISO 14001:2015 Standard 14001:2015 with certification provided by Det Norske Veritas AS (DNV) Quality Management System (QMS) Meet the requirements of the Group’s Quality Complied. The Group’s QMS is certified with ISO Management System accredited by the ISO 9001: 2015, with certification provided by Det 9001:2015 Standard Norske Veritas AS (DNV) UN Global Compact Ten Principles To comply with the requirements of the Communication on progress is available online at declaration made on the UN Global Compact www.dimolanka.com/sustainability/sustainability Ten Principles covering Human Rights, Labour, performance Environment and Anti Corruption and also to participate in pursuing sustainable development goals Social Accountability Management System. Meet the requirements of the Group’s Social Complied. The Group’s Social Accountability Accountability Management System accredited Management System is Certified with SA by the SA 8000:2014 Standard 8000:2014, with certification provided by SGS Italia S.P.A Internal Control System Maintaining a sound system of internal controls The Board of Directors’ statement on internal to safeguard shareholders’ investment and the controls, as required by section D.1.4 of the Company’s assets. Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance jointly issued by The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka and Securities Exchange Commission, appears on page 145 51 SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR’S STATEMENT The ‘Code of Best Practice on Corporate As the SID, I am consulted by the Chairman Governance 2017’ (The Code) issued on major strategic and governance issues. jointly by the Securities and Exchange Further, I make myself available to any Commission and The Institute of Chartered Director to have any confidential discussion Accountants of Sri Lanka recommends that on the affairs of the Company, should the a Senior Independent Director (SID) should need arise. be appointed in the event of the Chairman and CEO is the same person. At DIMO, the Chairman plays an executive role as Chairman/Managing Director. The presence of a SID provides a workable mechanism to review the role played by the Chairman. While the role of the Chairman R. Seevaratnam entails providing leadership in observing Senior Independent Director best practices of corporate governance, Colombo my role as the SID calls for a review of the 30th May 2018 Board’s effectiveness. The presence of the SID also provides emphasis to transparency on matters relating to governance. DIMO is committed to principles of good governance and always strives to live by the Best Practices of Corporate Governance. The conformance culture of the Company is strongly embraced by the Board of Directors. The Company follows a policy of strict compliance with mandatory requirements while embracing voluntary adherence, in order to enhance stakeholder acceptance and making a positive impact on value creation. 52 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 COMMITTEE REPORTS BEING THE CHANGE Context Report of the Audit Committee Change is prudent Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information TERMS OF REFERENCE FINANCIAL REPORTING The Audit Committee has written terms The Audit Committee reviewed the quarterly of reference, dealing with its authority and annual Financial Statements prior to its and duties, which is carefully designed to publication. discharge the Committee’s purpose and duties and responsibilities of the Committee. The review included: • Appropriateness and changes in KEY AREAS COVERED DURING THE YEAR Accounting Policies. The Audit Committee held five meeting • Significant estimates and judgement made during the financial year. The table given by the management. below gives an indication of key areas • Compliance with relevant Accounting Mr. A.D.B. Talwatte covered during the meeting. Standards and applicable regulatory Chairman Audit Committee requirements. Dear shareholder, Meeting • Issues arising from the Internal Audit and Key areas covered Held on Independent External Audit. I am pleased to present the report of the Audit • The Group’s/Company’s ability to Committee for the year ended 31st March MAY 1 2 3 4 5 18 continue as a going concern. 2018. Through this report I will share with • Statements and Reports include in the you as to how the Audit Committee worked JUL 1 2 3 4 5 25 Annual Report. towards discharging its responsibilities. OCT 1 2 3 5 PURPOSE OF THE COMMITTEE 28 INTERNAL AUDIT The Committee is established to assist the The Internal Audit function is headed by FEB 1 2 3 4 5 the Group Chief Internal Auditor and the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibility 14 for the Company’s’ financial reporting fieldwork and reporting is outsourced to system, compliance with legal and regulatory MAR 1 3 5 Messrs Ernst & Young, a firm of Chartered 13 requirements, internal control mechanism, Accountants. Internal Auditors submitted risk management process, internal audit 1 Risk and Controls their findings to the Audit Committee function and review of Independence and quarterly and their reports are made available 2 Financial Statements External Auditors’ performance, with a to Independent External Auditors. 3 Internal Audit view to safeguarding the interests of the The Audit Committee monitors and reviews: shareholders and all other stakeholders. 4 External Audit • The internal audit plan 5 Compliance • The coverage of the audit plan. MEMBERS AND MEETINGS The Committee as at 31st March comprised of Mr. A.D.B. Talwatte (Chairman), Mr. R. The Chairman of the Board of Directors, Seevaratnam, Dr. H. Cabral, Mr. A.M. Pandithage and Mr. A.N. Ranasinghe. Mr. A.N. Ranasinghe who is an Executive Director, Director/ was appointed to the Committee on 09th November 2017. The Committee’s composition met Group Chief Executive Officer and Director/ the requirements of the rule 7.10.6 of Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange. Chief Financial Officer together with the Executive Directors in charge of businesses Audit Committee attended Audit Committee meetings by Category Number of Directors invitation. A.D.B.Talwatte** Independent Non-Executive 04 R.Seevaratnam** Director Dr.H.Cabral** Non-Executive Director 01 A.M.Pandithage* *Non-Executive Director A.N. Ranasinghe** (Appt. w.e.f. Nov 2017) **Independent Non-Executive Director 0 1 2 3 4 5 Meeting attended Meetings not attended 53 COMMITTEE REPORTS Report of the Audit Committee • The internal audit programmes and results The current auditors, Messrs KPMG, was CONCLUSION of the internal audit process. initially appointed as the external auditors The Audit Committee is satisfied that the • The follow-up action taken on the of the Company, and continue to hold that effectiveness of the organisational structure recommendation of the Internal Auditors. position at present. A partner rotation of the of the Group and of the implementation of • Review performance of the Group Chief auditor took place in the year 2017. Group’s Accounting Policies and operational internal auditor and concur with the controls provide reasonable assurance that The Audit Committee has recommended to annual compensation the affairs of the Group are managed in the Board that Messrs KPMG be re-appointed • The effectiveness of the internal audit accordance with Group policies and that as the Independent External Auditor and function. the Group assets are properly accounted for that the re-appointment be included in the and adequately safeguarded. The Committee agenda of the Annual General Meeting. RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL is also satisfied that the Company and its CONTROLS subsidiaries are able to continue as a going COMPLIANCE The Committee reviewed and assessed the concern. The Audit Committee reviewed the reports internal control environment and areas submitted by the management and the Internal of significant risks. Risks related to the Auditors on compliance with applicable laws management of capitals, value chain and and regulations. The Committee is satisfied impacts are discussed under each section that laws and regulations are duly complied presented on pages 64 – 91, 92 – 111 and with and statutory payments have been made 112 – 131 respectively. Key Risks that exceed on a timely basis. the Group’s risk appetite are discussed in the corporate risk management report presented The orientation programme of new employees A.D.B. Talwatte from pages 132 to 138. includes a training on compliance with the Chairman Audit Committee code of business ethics of the Group. The Committee is satisfied that an effective Colombo system of internal control is in place to provide 30th May 2018 reasonable assurance on safeguarding the WHISTLE BLOWING Company’s assets and reliability of Financial Employees can raise any concerns with the Statements. Effectiveness of the Company’s Chief Human Resources Officer, Group Chief system of internal controls is evaluated Internal Auditor, Chief Executive Officer or through reports provided by the management, the Chairman/Managing Director. Senior Internal Auditors and Independent External Independent Director is available to any Auditors. member of the Board to discuss in confidence any matter concerning the Board. EXTERNAL AUDIT The Committee reviewed the appropriateness The Audit Committee reviewed the of the Company’s whistle blowing policy independence and objectivity of the to ensure the Company’s arrangement for Independent External Auditors, Messrs confidentiality of information and their KPMG, Chartered Accountants. The Audit sources. Committee has met with the External Auditors to review their audit plan and any EVALUATION OF THE COMMITTEE observations made by them. PERFORMANCE The Committee has received a declaration The annual evaluation of the Committee was from the External Auditors, confirming that conducted by the Board during the year and they do not have any relationship or interest the outcome of the evaluation is given on in the Company or its subsidiaries. page 141 in the Annual Report of the Board of Directors. The Committee reviewed the non-audit services and its impact on the independence of the External Auditors. 54 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Report of the Remuneration Committee Change is prudent Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information TERMS OF REFERENCE All Non-Executive Directors receive a fee The Committee operates within agreed terms for serving on the Board and serving on of reference and is committed to ensuring Board committees. They do not receive any that remuneration arrangements align reward performance related incentive payments. with performance. The Company does not have an employee The proposals relating to remuneration of share scheme for members of the Board, Executive Directors and the members of who are considered as Key Management the Group Management Committee were Personnel (KMP). arrived at in consultation with the Chairman/ Managing Director and the Chief Executive KEY AREAS COVERED DURING THE Dr. H. Cabral Officer. No Director is involved in deciding YEAR Chairman Remuneration Committee his own remuneration. The Committee held two meeting during the Dear shareholder, financial year. The table given below gives an REMUNERATION POLICY indication of key areas covered during the I am pleased to present the report of the The remuneration policy is designed to meeting. Remuneration Committee for the year ended reward, motivate and retain the Company’s 31st March 2018. Through this report I will Meeting executive team, with market competitive Key areas covered share with you as to how the Remuneration Held on remuneration and benefits, to support the Committee worked towards discharging its continued success of the business and APR 1 responsibilities. 24 creation of shareholder value. Accordingly, salaries and other benefits are reviewed PURPOSE OF THE COMMITTEE JUN 2 periodically, taking into account the 28 The Committee was established for the performance of the individual and industry purpose of recommending the remuneration Remuneration of Chairman/ standards. of the Chairman/Managing Director, Chief Managing Director, CEO, other 1 Executive Directors and members of Executive Officer (CEO) and the Executive The remuneration packages which are the Senior Management Team Directors. The Committee also approves linked to individual performances are the remuneration of the members of the aligned with the Company’s short-term and 2 Incentives to personnel stated in 1 long-term strategy. The Committee makes above Group Management Committee on the recommendations made by the Chairman/ every endeavour to maintain remuneration Managing Director and the Chief Executive levels that are sufficient to attract and retain DIRECTORS’ EMOLUMENTS Officer. Executive Directors and the members of the The Directors’ emoluments are disclosed in senior management team. Note 4.5 on page 169. MEMBERS AND MEETINGS EVALUATION OF THE COMMITTEE The Committee as at 31st March 2018, comprised of Dr. H. Cabral (Chairman), Mr. R. PERFORMANCE Seevaratnam, Mr. A. D. B. Talwatte and Mr. A. M. Pandithage. The Committee’s composition The annual evaluation of the Committee was met the requirements of the rule 7.10.5 of Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange. carried out by the Board during the year and the outcome of the evaluation is given on Remuneration Committee Category Number of page 141 in the Annual Report of the Board Directors of Directors. Dr.H.Cabral** Independent Non-Executive 03 Director R.Seevaratnam** Non-Executive Director 01 A.D.B.Talwatte** *Non-Executive Director A.M.Pandithage* **Independent Non-Executive Director Dr. H. Cabral 0 1 2 Chairman Remuneration Committee Meeting attended Meetings not attended Colombo 30th May 2018 55 COMMITTEE REPORTS Report of Related Party Transactions Review Committee POLICIES AND PROCEDURES • To recommend the creation of a special The members of the Board of Directors of committee to review and approve the the Company have been identified as Key proposed Related Party Transaction, in the Management Personnel. In accordance with the event of any potential conflict of interest. Related Party Transaction Policy, the declarations • Establishing guidelines to be followed by are obtained from each Key Management senior management in the event Related Personnel of the Company for the purpose of Party Transactions are ongoing. Thereafter, identifying parties related to them. Based on the Committee, on an annual basis, shall the information furnished in these declarations, review and assess ongoing relationships the Company retrieves data on related party and transactions with the related party to transactions from the database of the Company. determine whether they are in compliance Mr. R. Seevaratnam with the Committee’s guidelines and that the Chairman Related Party Transactions TERMS OF REFERENCE Related Party Transaction remains appropriate. Review Committee The Related Party Transactions Review Committee has terms of reference, dealing with RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS DURING Dear shareholder, its authority and duties. The terms of reference THE YEAR I am pleased to present the report of the Related covers aspects relating to matters prescribed The activities and observations of the Committee Party Transactions Review Committee for the in the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock are communicated to the Board. During the year ended 31st March 2018. Through this report Exchange. year there were no nonrecurrent or recurrent I will share with you as to how the Related Party related party transactions that exceeded the Terms of reference of the Committee include the respective thresholds mentioned in the Listing Transactions Review Committee worked towards following: Rules requiring disclosure in the Annual Report. discharging its responsibilities. • Review in advance all proposed Related Party Details of other related party transactions entered Transactions of the Company except those into by the Company during the year is disclosed PURPOSE OF THE COMMITTEE explicitly exempted by the Code in Note 5.1 to the Financial Statements. The Committee assists the Board in reviewing • Determine whether Related Party Transactions all related party transactions carried out by the that are to be entered into by the Company EVALUATION OF THE COMMITTEE Company. The Committee also performs the require the approval of the Board or PERFORMANCE oversight function on behalf of the Board in Shareholders of the Company. The annual evaluation of the Committee was complying with the Listing Rules of the Colombo • Ensure that no Director of the Company shall conducted by the Board during the year and the Stock Exchange and with the Code of Best participate in any discussion of a proposed outcome of the evaluation is given on page 141 Practices on Related Party Transactions issued by Related Party Transaction for which he or she in the Annual Report of the Board of Directors. the Securities and Exchange Commission. is a related party, unless such a Director is requested to do so by the Committee for the DECLARATION express purpose of providing information A declaration by the Board of Directors in the concerning the Related Party Transaction to Annual Report as a negative statement to the the Committee. effect that no related party transaction falling within the ambit of the rule 9.3.2 of Listing Rules MEMBERS AND MEETINGS of the Colombo Stock Exchange was entered The Committee, as at 31st March 2018, comprised of Mr. R. Seevaratnam (Chairman), Dr. into by the Company during the year, is given H. Cabral, Mr. A. M. Pandithage, Mr. A. D. B. Talwatte and Mr. A. N. Ranasinghe. Mr. A. N. in the Annual Report of the Board of Directors Ranasinghe was appointed to the Committee on 09th November 2017. The composition of the on page 141 to 142. All other related party Committee met the requirements of the rule 9.2.2 of Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange. transactions that could be classified as related party transactions in terms of LKAS 24-’Related Related Party Transaction Review Committee Category Number of Party Disclosures’, are given in Note 5.1 to the Directors Financial Statements. Mr.R.Seevaratnam** Independent Non-Executive 04 Dr.H. Cabral** Director A.M.Pandithage* Non-Executive Director 01 A.D.B.Talwatte** *Non-Executive Director R. Seevaratnam A.N. Ranasinghe** **Independent Non-Executive Director Chairman Related Party Transactions (Appt. w.e.f. Nov 2017) 0 1 2 3 4 Review Committee Meeting attended Meetings not attended Colombo 30th May 2018 56 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Report of the Nomination Committee Change is prudent Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information TERMS OF REFERENCE AND KEY EVALUATION OF THE COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES PERFORMANCE The terms of reference of the Nomination The annual evaluation of the Committee was Committee include the following: conducted by the Board during the year and the outcome of the evaluation is given on page 141 • Review the structure, size, composition and in the Annual Report of the Board of Directors. competencies of the Board. • Evaluate the independence of the NonExecutive Directors and effectiveness of the CONCLUSION Board of Directors. The Committee is satisfied that the combined • Review the process for succession planning knowledge and experience of the Board to ensure that the Board has the correct matches the demands facing the Company. Dr. H. Cabral Chairman Nomination Committee balance of individuals to discharge its duties effectively. Dear shareholder, • During the year, the Committee was briefed I am pleased to present the report of the on succession planning issues relating to Nomination Committee for the year ended 31st Executive Directors and Group Corporate March 2018. Through this report I will share Management roles and satisfied itself with you as to how the Nomination Committee that action plans are in place to manage Dr. H. Cabral worked towards discharging its responsibilities. succession. Chairman Nomination Committee The Committee has acted within the parameters Colombo PURPOSE OF THE COMMITTEE set by its terms of reference. 30th May 2018 The Committee is established to review the During the year, the Committee recommended structure and composition of the Board and that one Independent Non-Executive Director make recommendations to the Board on all be appointed to the Board. The details of the new Board appointments. To ensure that the appointments are available in Annual Report of Board possesses the correct mix of expertise the Board of Directors on page 140. for its effective functioning, the Committee assesses the Board composition to ascertain whether the combined knowledge, skills mix and experience of the Board matches the strategic demands facing the Company. MEMBERS AND MEETINGS The Committee, as at 31st March 2018, comprised of Dr. H. Cabral (Chairman), Mr. A. R. Pandithage, Mr. A. M. Pandithage, Mr. R. Seevaratnam, Mr. A. D. B. Talwatte and Mr. A. N. Ranasinghe. Mr. A.N. Ranasinghe was appointed to the Committee on 09th November 2017. Nomination Committee Category Number of Directors Dr.H.Cabral** Independent Non-Executive 03 R.Seevaratnam** Director A.D.B.Talwatte** Non-Executive Director 01 A.M.Pandithage* The Chairman/ Managing 01 A.R.Pandithage Director A.N. Ranasinghe** (Appt. w.e.f. Nov 2017) 0 1 *Non-Executive Director Meeting attended Meetings not attended **Independent Non-Executive Director 57 RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT OF CHAIRMAN/MANAGING DIRECTOR AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER The Consolidated Financial Statements that should be recognised in weighing are prepared in accordance with the the assurances provided by any system of requirements of the followings: internal controls and accounting. • Sri Lanka Accounting Standards issued by The Financial Statements were audited by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Messrs KPMG, Chartered Accountants, and Sri Lanka (SLFRs/LKASs), the Independent External Auditors. • Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, The Audit Committee of the Company meets • Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock periodically with the Internal Auditors Exchange, and and the Independent External Auditors to • Any other applicable statutes. review the manner in which these Auditors are performing their responsibilities, The accounting policies used in preparation and to discuss auditing, internal control of the Consolidated Financial Statements and financial reporting issues. To ensure are appropriate and consistently applied, complete independence, the Independent except unless otherwise stated in the Notes External Auditors and the Internal Auditors accompanying the Financial Statements. have full and free access to the members of There are no departures from the prescribed the Audit Committee to discuss any matter of Accounting Standards in their adoption. substance. Comparative information has been reclassified wherever necessary to comply with the current presentation. The Significant Accounting Policies and estimates that involved a high degree of judgement and complexity were discussed with the Audit Committee. A.R. Pandithage The Board of Directors and the Management Chairman/Managing Director of the Company accept responsibility for the integrity and objectivity of these Financial Statements. The estimates and judgments relating to the Financial Statements were made in a prudent and reasonable basis, in order that the Financial Statements reflect in a true and fair manner, the form and substance A.G. Pandithage of transactions, and reasonably present the Director/Group Chief Executive Officer Company’s state of affairs. To ensure this, the Company has taken reasonable and sufficient care in installing a system of internal control and accounting records, for safeguarding assets, and for preventing and detecting frauds as well as other irregularities, which is reviewed, B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne evaluated and updated on an ongoing basis. Director/Chief Financial Officer The Internal Auditors from Messrs Ernst Colombo & Young have conducted periodic audits 30th May 2018 to provide reasonable assurance that the established policies and procedures of the Company were consistently followed. However, there are inherent limitations 58 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 CHANGE IS POSITIVE VALUE CREATION Value creation is ultimately the primary purpose of our operations and thus, it is always a very important section of our report. We start by analysing the capitals that provide inputs. We then evaluate the business segment performance and the economic, social and environmental impacts of our value creation activities, outlining the value we have created for our stakeholders. We end the section with a description of our Risk Management framework and policies. Management of Capitals 61 Management of Value Chain 93 Management of Impacts 113 Management of Risk 133 MANAGEMENT OF CAPITALS This section looks closely at DIMO’s capitals analysing their quality and availability and discussing what we have done to build and transform them in order to create sustainable value. Introduction to Capital Management 61 Capital Management at a Glance 62 Monetised Capital 64 Relationship Capital Customers 70 Relationship Capital Business Partners 75 Human Capital 78 Intellectual Capital 83 Natural Capital 88 INTRODUCTION TO CAPITAL BEING THE CHANGE Context MANAGEMENT Strategy Enterprise Governance Change is positive Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information MANAGEMENT OF CAPITALS efficient and continuous delivery of rising The relationship we maintain with key Capitals are the stores of value that provide value. stakeholders is a key determinant in securing the key ingredients for value creation. The capitals for the Group in the medium to long There are four activities that lie at the heart term. We ensure that these relationships quality, availability and affordability of these of Group’s capital management; capital come to no harm through the continuous capitals have a significant impact on DIMO’s acquisition, capital trade-offs, capital engagement with critical stakeholders, ability to create value in the short, medium building and capital retention. The diagram impact management process and the Group’s and long term. Their careful management is presented below provides an overview risk management process. a prerequisite for the Group’s success and of each capital management activity. The sustenance. management of those activities, and other The Group’s stores of capitals include management activities relating to value monetised, relationship, human, intellectual creation; value chain management, impact and natural capital. We focus on the efficient management and risk management, are the and productive management of our capitals key elements that drive continuous delivery and processes, for therein lies the key to the of stakeholder value. Aspects of Capital Management 1. Management of 1. Resource allocation critical stakeholders Capital Acquisition Capital Trade-off 2. Budgeting Activities Activities 2. Corporate branding 3. Feasibility analysis 1. Training and 1. Internal controls development 2. Grievance handling 2. System process 3. Delivery of development expectations Capital Retaining Capital Building 3. Delivering of 4. Compliance and Activities Activities expectations ethical business 4. Professional conduct consultancy 5. Risk management 5. Engagement with stakeholders 61 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT AT A GLANCE Capital Capital inputs Key Capital Management Activities As at 1st April 2017 • Maintaining finance facilities with 9 banks. Unutilised • Equity Rs 10,165 mn banking facilities as at 31st March 2018 is Rs. 4,060 mn Monetised Capital • Long term borrowings Rs. 590 mn • Capital expenditure for the year amounted to Rs.450 mn • Cash and cash equivalents Rs. 282 mn • Equity investment in other entities during the year was (P 6469) • Property plant and equipment Rs 8,299 mn Rs. 442 mn • Net asset per share Rs. 1,145 • Inventory Rs. 8,942 mn Relationship Capital Customer composition • Customer engagements via 219 customer surveys. • Individual customers 72% • Reaching customers via 30 branches, 10 display points • Government organisations 7% and 17 customer contact points Customers • Small & large private organisations 18% • The 24/7 available call centre (P 70 – 74) • Reaching 7,739 customers via signature customer Business partner composition engagement programmes • 90 foreign business partner relationships • Over 45,000 average monthly Facebook engagements • 7 business partners featured in fortune 500 list • Independent surveys evaluating business partner • 22 business partners with more than 20 years expectations once in every three years Business Partners relationships (P 75 77) • 1,850 employees as at the year-end including • SA 8000:2014 accredited labour practices 119 employees of subsidiaries acquired during • 49,486 training hours through 289 training programmes the year • 17 high potentials undergoing executive leadership Human Capital • 717 employees with academic and professional training programmes in leading international business (P 7882) qualifications schools. • 119 employees identified as high potentials in the • 10 HR clinics that engage employees face to face leadership pipeline • 293 new employees hired • 183 females employees that brings in diversity • Annual employee engagement survey and annual employee satisfaction survey • 706 employees with more than 5 years of • 12 “know how” knowledge sharing sessions accumulated knowledge • 1,370 visits to online knowledge sharing platform by • ISO 9001:2015 accredited quality management employees system, featuring excellent and consistent • Employee retention strategies Intellectual Capital processes • Engagement with stakeholders. (P 8387) • Over 79 years of accrued brand reputation • Corporate communication function to preserve DIMO brand. • A dedicated unit to conduct system and process improvements • Water usage 104,795 M3 • ISO 14001:2015 accredited environmental management • Energy consumption 76,519 GJ system Natural Capital • Total land owned 84A 2R 13.31P • State-of-the-art water treatment and recycling plants (P 88 – 91) • The rain water harvesting system • An accredited entity by the Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy Authority to conduct energy audits 62 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Change is positive Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information Output of Management Activities Outcomes Capital trade-offs • The debt to equity ratio as at 31st March • Earnings per share Rs. 62 • Rs. 318 mn monetised capital investment on 2018 was 0.05 • 16% increase in net asset per share customer engagement initiatives (MC to RC) • Asset turnover ratio reduced to 1.52 times • Market value per share Rs. 464.9 • Rs. 3,271 mn monetised capital shared with from 1.95 times previous year. • Dividend per share Rs. 20 human capital (MC to HC) • 16.3% gross profit ratio. • Return on equity ratio 4.71% • Rs. 66 mn monetised capital investment • Net cash generated from operating activities on nurturing business partner relationship Rs.463 mn capital (MC to RC) • Rs. 10.5 mn monetised capital investment on natural capital preservation. (MC to NC) • 5,587 number of repeat purchases • Customers satisfaction index 88% • Customer purchases generated Rs 43,686 • 87% of total customer complaints received • Recognised as the best spare parts mn revenue (RC to MC) being solved within three working days retail network development 2017 by • 143 employees were trained by our business • 1.2 million website visits TATA Motors Limited partners on latest technologies and products • 1,148 members in loyalty programmes • Recognised for the highest growth in (RC to IC) market share 2017 – MHCV Trucks • “Mercedes Benz” wins silver award in international brand of the Year by SLIM Brand Excellence Awards 2017 • Employee engagement score increasing • Employee satisfaction index 66.3% • The revenue generated per employee is Rs. from 3.88 to 4.00 • A Great Place to Work for five 23.6 mn (HC to MC) • 130 employees were promoted consecutive years • 1287 employees were trained on customer • Rs. 3,254 mn monetised value shared with • Winner of Sri Lanka’s Best Employer service skills (HC to RC) employees Brand Awards 2017 by World HRD • Employee retention efforts safeguard the • Over 44,000 likes acquired by the career Congress Group’s knowledge capital (HC to IC) Facebook page during the year • 3.7% of total value distributed among • 696 training hours spent on environmental employees in provinces that report a preservation (HC to NC) higher poverty headcount index • 7 employees were recognised and rewarded • National Award for Quality and • Improved systems and process, knowledge for innovative ideas presented and Productivity TATA commercial assets and brand reputation enhances implemented by them service workshop Siyambalape and monetised value generation in medium to • Capitalisation of tacit knowledge passenger workshop Ratmalana longer term (IC to MC) • Improved efficiency though systems and • Recognition received for HR practices, • The Group’s 360 degree CRM process processes financial, integrated and sustainability enhances customer relationships (IC to RC) • Enhanced brand awareness reporting • Online performance evaluation system • Contribution made by DIMO brand underpins human resource management for value creation process (IC to HC) • 2.41 M3 water consumption to generate 1 • Preserving natural capital • Efficient usage of natural capital provide cost mn turnover • Acting responsibly towards the benefits to the Group’s profit and loss (NC • 1.76 GJ energy consumption to generate environment to MC) one mn turnover • Enhanced brand reputation due to • 8% of water consumption are recycled responsible behaviour 63 MONETISED CAPITAL INTRODUCTION offs with other capitals. As such, it is often monetised capital efficiently leads to lower This review covering monetised capital of the used to acquire other capitals and is affected cost of capital, improved liquidity, efficient Group for the year ended 31st March 2018 by trade-off with other capitals. Monetised utilisation of monetised assets, enhanced takes into consideration companies that have capital is also one of the most measurable profitability and many other positive impacts. been consolidated in the financial statements capitals within a business and is often given Among the measures we employ to optimise of Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC. prominence in performance evaluation. value creation are optimum leverage, efficient Group companies, including the entities in Monetised capital has a significant influence treasury management, prudent management which equity interests were acquired during on our ability to acquire other forms of capital. of working capital, efficient allocation of the year, are indicated in the Group Structure The quality and availability of key enablers financial resources, gainful capital trade-offs, on page 19. of value creation such as property, plant and managing utilisation of monetised assets and equipment, and inventory are monetised evaluation of monetised performance. MATERIAL SIGNIFICANCE OF capitals that influence the competitiveness The financial statements appearing from MONETISED CAPITAL of the value proposition on offer. Securing page 152 to 205 together with the monetised Monetised Capital represents those resources and carefully nurturing monetised capital is value added statement on page 117 provide which are stated in monetary terms in the therefore of paramount importance for the information on the role of monetised capital Financial Statements. It includes financial sustenance and growth of the business. in value creation and consequently, the ways capital, manufactured capital and monetised in which the capital has been shaped as a natural capital. Monetised capital is the HOW WE USE MONETISED CAPITAL result. medium through which we transact with TO CREATE VALUE many of our stakeholders. It is a key form of How we manage the sourcing and usage of capital that provides inputs for value creation monetised capital is key to maximising its and is often the primary medium for tradeimpact on value creation. Sourcing and using How Management of Monetised Capital Helps Achieving Strategic Outcomes Monetised Capital Inputs Equity Borrowings Working Capital Non-Current Assets Efficient systems, Mandatory and controls and processes Voluntary Compliances Management Activities to Ensure Availability, Affordability and the Quality of the Monetised Capital Sourcing of funds Financial resource allocation Management of monetised Monitoring of monetised Liquidity management and utilisation assets performance Outputs of Management Activities Cost of capital Liquidity Profitability Compliance Value Created Through Customer Relationships Improved brand reputation Economic value creation and distribution Value to Shareholders 64 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Change is positive Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES Interest on overdrafts are reviewed Sourcing of funds periodically by the Group’s centralised treasury function and rates charged on shortEquity term import loans are determined based on Retained earnings and other comprehensive income driven by revaluation surplus of land money market rates. boosted total equity from 10.2 billion to 12.1 billion (including non controlling interest) during the year. Total equity included Rs.304 million (2016/17 – 0.00) of noncontrolling interest. Details of borrowings appear on Note 4.22 to Equity attributable to equity holders of the Company at the year end was Rs. 11.8 billion the Financial Statements. (2016/17 – Rs. 10.2 billion) Financial resource allocation and Other comprehensive income included a deferred tax charge of Rs. 1,572 million on account utilisation of income tax on profit on sale of land, as a consequence of land included under property, Financial Leverage and Asset Turnover Ratio plant and equipment becoming liable for income tax in line with the recently enacted Inland are two key determinants of ROE. Therefore, Revenue Act No. 24 of 2017. optimum gearing and efficient allocation of funds for investment in assets, and the Changes in Equity (Million) productive management of monetised assets 14,000 2,780 play a key role in optimising shareholder value. 13,000 1 27 4 12,080 0.4 12,000 Net Profit M (1,571) (177) in ncial lever Reductio 550 in ina arg a 11,000 300 1.28% n F 10,165 ge 1.48% Increased 10,000 2.43% (2016/17) Foreign currency transalation reserve 2.24% Remeasurement of defined benefit Revaluation made during the year Fair Value of AFS Financial Assets Deferred Tax effect on cumlative Share of non-contraolling interest 9,000 (2016/17) Acquisition of subsidiary with Dividends to equity owners As at 31st March 2018 As at 01st April 2017 8,000 revaluation reserve obligation,net of tax (Profit and OCI) Turnov Profit for the year set non-controlling Interests er 7,000 As duction in tio 1.52% Ra Re 6,000 1.95% (2016/17) Long term borrowings (Rs.7.475 – 2016/17). Short term borrowings Long term borrowings as at the year end are sourced mainly to fund working capital. amounted to Rs. 595 million (Rs.910 mn – 2016/17) out of which Rs. 282 million Composition of Borrowings (Rs.319 mn – 2016/17) was classified as Debt to Equity % current liabilities, being the repayment due 100 The Debt to Equity Ratio, which is calculated during the financial year 2018/19. A long as a percentage of long term debt to equity, term loan is being negotiated to replenish the 80 stood at 5.05% as at 31st March 2018 (8.95 cash outflow on account of the acquisition of % – 2016/17). This reduction was due in part interests in subsidiaries and the joint venture. 60 to an increase of shareholder funds from The interest rates applicable to long term Rs.10,165 million in the previous year to loans ranged from 7.75 % per annum (7.75% 40 Rs.11,776 million as at the end of the year – 2016/17) to 9% per annum (9% – 2016/17). under review, and a 34.6% decrease (30.3% AWPLR as at 31st March 2018 was 11.55%. 20 in 2016/17) in long term borrowings. Short term borrowings 0 Short term borrowings which consist of short 2016/17 2017/18 term bank loans including import loans, and Long Term Borrowings Short Term Borrowings bank overdraft, amounted to Rs.8,594 million 65 MONETISED CAPITAL The Company acquired two Debt to equity ratio Asset Utilisation (Times) stakes of 51% each in Plant Seed % Times 25 6 (Pvt) Ltd. and PlantChem (Pvt) 23.15 5.3 Ltd. on 23rd February 2018 from 20 4.7 the existing shareholders 17.29 4 3.83 3.51 15 13.06 3.1 10 8.95 Property, Plant and Equipment 2 2016/17 2017/18 5.05 3% 4% 5 6% 29% 2% 55% 2% 0 0 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 6% 54% 30% 2% Asset Turnover Ratio management activity in managing monetised 2% The increase in total assets, driven mainly by capital. Freehold Land 4% 1% revaluation of land and the lower turnover Buildings and Premises compared to the previous year, caused the Property, plant and equipment Buildings on Leasehold Land The annual budgets include the capital Plant and Machinery asset turnover ratio to reduce to 1.52 times Tools and Implements from 1.95 times previous year. expenditure plan of each business unit. Motor Vehicles Acquisition of property, plant and equipment Computer Hardware and Software Electrical Fixtures, Fittings and Office Equipment is subject to approval guidelines where, Capital structure depending on the amount to be spent, the Rs:Mn Rs:Mn Group Management Committee or the Board 2,000 12,000 of Directors must approve the expenditure. Equity investments The Company invested Rs.38.1 million 1,600 9,600 Investment in property, plant and equipment in DIMO Lanka Company Ltd. (DLCL), (PP&E) at written down value as at the Myanmar, on 31st August 2017 for a 100% 1,200 7,200 year-end was Rs.11,452 million (Rs.8,299 stake. DLCL invested Rs.21.2 million in million 2016/17). Capital expenditure for United DIMO Lanka Company Ltd. (UDLCL), 800 4,800 the year amounted to Rs.450 million. This Myanmar, on 27th November 2017 for a 70% included investments in the construction stake. DLCL will make further investments in 400 2,400 of a workshop hangar at the Siyambalape business areas where DIMO holds expertise, workshop, acquisition of machinery for the subject to permissibility by its articles. 0 0 fertiliser operation and investments made in UDLCL presently operates a motor vehicle 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 expansions of vehicles after sales operations. workshop in Yangon and its performance to Long-term Borrowings Shareholders' Equity In addition, acquisitions of PP&E through date is in line with initial plans. business combinations, accounted at fair value on the acquisition date, amounted to The Company acquired Rs.58 million in Management of monetised assets Rs. 297 million. DIMO Coastline (Pvt) Ltd. (DCPL), Republic Efficient and prudent management of of Maldives, on 22nd February 2018 for a Freehold land was revalued during the year, 40% stake. This investment appears in the monetised assets such as property, plant which resulted in a surplus of Rs.2,781million consolidated financial statements as an equity and equipment, intangible assets, inventory, shown under other comprehensive income. accounted investee. DCPL will engage in the receivables and cash in hand and at bank, is imperative in maximising profitability and business of marine and general engineering liquidity. The management of monetised in the Maldives. assets is therefore considered a key The Company acquired two stakes of 51% each in Plant Seed (Pvt) Ltd. and PlantChem 66 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Change is positive Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information (Pvt) Ltd. on 23rd February 2018 from from the sale of goods accounted for 89% of the existing shareholders. Goodwill on Working capital the turnover. acquisition of the stake in Plant Seed (Pvt) Ltd. The achievement of sales targets tied to amounted to Rs.103 million. The acquisition performance incentives is a key tool we of the stake in PlantChem (Pvt) Ltd resulted use in driving turnover. The sales efforts are in a bargain purchase amounting to Rs. 39 2016/17 2017/18 complemented by appropriate marketing million, which was recognised as other 11% strategies. income in the statement of profit or loss. 32% 60% Profitability Inventory 29% 16% 52% The Gross Profit Ratio taken as a percentage Order quantities of vehicles are based on between gross profit and net revenue was future forecasts and orders are placed well in 16.3% (16.7% 2016/17). In Rupee terms advance to allow adequate time to include Inventories the gross profit declined by Rs. 307 million them in the production schedules of the Trade payables this year, from 7,398 million to 7,091. Profit manufacturer. Order quantities of spare Receivables after tax decreased to 554 million from 657 parts and items that come under the purview million previous year. Lower gross profit and of the marketing and distribution segment the increase in finance costs were the main are determined with the assistance of our Monitoring of monetised performance contributors to this 15.6% reduction. Earnings information management system, which takes Monitoring of monetised performance before interest and tax (EBIT) decreased to into consideration the actual movement, enables effective management of monetised Rs. 1,637 million from Rs. 1,692 million forecasts, lead time, minimum order quantity value creation, including operating efficiency previous year. and other relevant information. and effective utilisation of assets. Earnings The value of inventory as at the year end, after deducting the provision for slow moving Turnover Rs:'000 inventory, amounted to Rs. 9,561 million The Group gross turnover for the year 2,500 (Rs.8,942 million 2016/17). This included decreased by 1.8% from Rs.44,493 million to 2,000 an amount of Rs. 1,822 million (Rs.1,326 Rs. 43,686 million. The quarterly distribution million 2016/17) on account of goods in of the annual turnover is given below. 1,500 transit, where goods have not been physically received. The provision for slow moving 1,000 inventories as at the year end reduced to Group Turnover Rs.350 million from Rs.406 million last year. Rs:Mn 500 50,000 59% of inventory belongs to the vehicle sales segment, followed by 20% carried by 0 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 40,000 agriculture segment. EBITDA EBIT Receivables 30,000 Profit before tax Carrying value of trade receivables net of provision for impairment was Rs. 5,998 20,000 Administrative expenses million (Rs.4,277 million 2016/17). The Administrative expenses decreased by provision for impairment of trade receivables 10,000 1.5% from Rs. 4,849 to Rs. 4,776 million. as at year end was Rs.464 million (Rs.545 Budgetary control is a key tool used in million 2016/17). The impairment policy 0 managing expenses. 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 for trade receivables is given on note 4.16 on page 190. Trade receivables after impairment Finance costs outstanding for more than 365 days after Finance costs increased by 24% to Rs. 1,058 impairment was Rs.65.8 (Rs.32.2 million The vehicle sales segment was the main million compared to Rs. 856 the previous 2016/17). contributor to the decrease in turnover. year. Higher borrowing rates during the Information on segmental turnover is first half of the year in comparison with the available in note 4.2 on page 166. Turnover corresponding period the previous year, and 67 MONETISED CAPITAL the higher level of borrowings during the are key aspects in managing the flow of Net cash generated during the year, caused the increase in borrowing cost. funds. The statement of cash flow provides The total borrowings at the year end (longyear from operating activities vital information relating to management term borrowings and short-term borrowings) amounted to Rs.463 million (Net activities of the funds flow. increased to Rs.9,189 million from Rs.8,382 cash used of Rs.655 million million at the commencement of the year. Cash flow statement 2016/17) Net cash generated during the year from operating activities amounted to Rs.463 Movement in AWPLR million (Net cash used of Rs.655 million deferred tax is given in Note 4.24 to the 2016/17). The investing activities resulted in a % Financial Statements. net cash outflow of Rs. 1,114 million (Rs.685 14 Estimates and Judgements million 2016/17). To compensate for this 11.79 11.55 12 Estimates and judgments have been used significant outflow, an inflow by way of 10 in preparing the financial statements. proceeds from a long term loan is expected to 9.19 Impairment of non-financial assets, current take place during the first half of the financial 8 tax and deferred tax assets, useful lifetime year 2018/19. Financing activities resulted in 6 of PPE, provision for impairment of trade an outflow of Rs.487 million (Rs.848 million receivables, employee benefits, providing 2016/17) during the year. Overall, the year’s 4 of contingent liabilities and acquisition of activities cause a net decrease in cash and 2 subsidiaries are the main areas in which cash equivalents, amounting to Rs.1,138 estimates and judgements have been used. million (Rs.2,187 million 2016/17). 0 1/4/16 1/4/17 31/3/18 Liquidity Management Treasury management Managing the flow of funds is imperative The Group operates a central treasury Increase in finance cost and decrease in net to the efficient management of monetised function, which controls decisions in respect profit resulted in a reduction in interest cover capital to ensure efficient utilisation of of cash management, utilisation of borrowing from 2.22 times to 1.71 times. resources, liquidity and solvency. Therefore, facilities, banking relationships and foreign regulating and managing the outflow of currency exposure management. This enables Income tax funds for investing activities, working capital effective cross utilisation of funds among The Group income tax expenses decreased and debt servicing, and the generation of business units. from Rs.387 million to Rs.193 million with funds through profitable operations, working the reduction of net profit before tax. The capital cycle management and borrowings, effective tax rate (including the effect of the deferred tax expense) decreased to 26% from a rate of 37% previous year. The rate of Movement in Fund flows income tax applicable to the Company and subsidiaries was ranged from 12% to 28%. Rs. '000 The reconciliation between accounting profit 1,500 Changes in Working Capital and taxable income is available in Note 4.6 to the Financial Statements. Interest, Income tax and Net Decrease in Cash and Investment Activities Financing Activities 1,000 The new Inland Revenue Act No. 24 of 2017 Employee benefits paid Cash equivalents 500 that came into effect from 01st April 2018 requires that income tax be paid on profit on 0 sale of land, which was not subject to income Profit Before Taxation (500) tax under the previous act. Accordingly, Adjustments based on the revaluation of land, a deferred (1,000) tax liability amounting to Rs.1,572 million was recognised under other comprehensive (1,500) income. A summarised computation of 68 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Change is positive Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information 2016/17. The dividend cover applicable to The Board of Directors approved an interim dividend of Rs. 20 the financial year was 3.10 times (3.08 times per share (interim dividend of Rs.24 per share in 2016/17) for the in 2016/17). year ended 31st March 2018 The Company had access to the necessary funds to finance the payment of the interim dividend. Solvency borrowings permit premature settlement As per the section 56 of the Companies Act without a cost. This arrangement allows FINANCIAL PRIORITIES No. 07 of 2007, the Company carried out the Group to exercise flexibility during any Strategies will be required to spur a a solvency test prior to the payment of the movement of interest rates. turnaround of gross profit margins which interim dividend and obtained a solvency have been under pressure in the recent past. More details on financial risk management certificate from the Independent Auditors This will be one of the key strategic objectives covering credit risk, liquidity risk and stating that the Company has the ability for all business units. The intensity of expense market risks such as currency risk, interest to pay its debts as they become due in the management efforts that prevailed during rate risk, and equity price risk together with normal course of business, and that the the year will continue to the next year. The a sensitivity analysis where appropriate, is Company meets the required solvency levels investment plans for the year indicate that given in note 4.13.2 from page 186 to 187. prior to payment of the interim dividend. more funds will be required for investment. More details of risks relating to monetised Concerted efforts will be made to improve RISK MANAGEMENT capital and their potential impact can be asset utilisation and make working capital The Board of Directors has overall found on page 132 in the Risk Management management more efficient. responsibility for the establishment and report. oversight of the Group’s risk management. The Group’s overall risk management RETURNS programme recognises the unpredictability Return on Equity (ROE) of the financial market and the potential A higher equity and a lower net profit impacts of the fiscal policy of the government, resulted in lower ROE of 4.71% compared and seeks to minimise adverse effects on the to 6.46% previous year. The net profit margin Group’s financial performance. ratio, asset turnover, and financial leverage The US Dollar and the Euro are the principal were 1.3% (1.5% in 2016/17), 1.5 times (1.9 currencies in which most of the Group’s times in 2016/17) and 0.05 times (0.09 times imports are denominated. Majority of in 2016/17) respectively. receivables from foreign principals, though Earnings per Share relatively smaller, are also denominated in the Earnings per share (EPS) for the year under same currencies. Foreign exchange exposure review was Rs.62 compared to Rs.73.9 the is hedged through forward contracts, where previous year. The computation of EPS is it is deemed necessary. Hedging of the given in Note 4.2 to the Financial Statements. foreign currency exposure is also available There were no changes in the number of to the extent that trade receivables in foreign shares in issue during the year. currency and foreign currency bank account balances cover the exposure on foreign Dividends currency payables. A sensitivity analysis The Board of Directors approved an interim of profitability to the fluctuations of the dividend of Rs. 20 per share (interim dividend exchange rates is available in note 4.13.2 to of Rs.24 per share in 2016/17) for the year financial statements. ended 31st March 2018, which was paid on 29th March 2018. The gross dividend Borrowings are obtained through a amounted to Rs. 178 million (Rs. 213 combination of fixed and floating interest million2016/17). The dividend payout ratio rates, depending on the attractiveness of for 2017/18 is 32.2% compared to 32.4% in each option at the time of borrowing. Most 69 RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL CUSTOMERS REDEFINING SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS THROUGH LONG-TERM RELATIONSHIPS THE MATERIAL SIGNIFICANCE OF CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS TO A.R. Pandithage Chairman & Managing Director DIMO DIMO’s value chain pivots on the ultimate delivery of value to our customers, and we The bond that we share with our customers has been recognize that the quality of today’s customer akin to a marriage, a lifelong commitment relationships may significantly influence our ability to sustain the generation of monetised Customer profile Customer relationship capital profile value in the future. Our efforts to grow customer value hinge upon our investments towards by type of customers building mutually beneficial, rewarding and 1% transformative long term relationships. 2% The monetised value generated by customer 18% transactions during the year under review was valued at Rs. 43.7 billion. 7% USING OUR CUSTOMER 72% RELATIONSHIPS TO CREATE VALUE Building strong customer relationships entails proactive strategies to create value. At DIMO, Individual Customers we practice a range of management activities Government Organisations Small & Large Private Organisations that are designed to ensure positive customer Channel Partners experiences, enhanced customer trust and Leasing Companies loyalty, and responsible behaviour. How Customer Relationships Helps Achieving Group’s Strategic Objectives Customer Relationship Capital Inputs Existing customer Strategic customer base Customer insights Mandatory and voluntary portfolio compliance Management Activities to Ensure Availability, Affordability and the Quality of the Customer Relationship Capital Understanding our Building an Investing in Customer Addressing Customer centric Capital trade-off customers Innovation oriented multiple customer experience customer aftersales business values customer value contact channels management issues proposition Outputs of Management Activities Meeting customer Positive customer Enhanced customer trust Responsible behaviour expectations experience and loyalty Value Created through Customer Relationships Improved brand reputation Increased financial performance Improved customer satisfaction 70 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Change is positive Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information The Group’s other three value creation understand customer needs better. DIMO’s activities vis-à-vis value chain management, customer contact channels include our Call centre voice interaction impact management and risk management, physical presence islandwide, digital also enhance customer relationships in presence via the corporate website and Incoming 300 indirect ways. social media, and audio presence through Outgoing 1,210 Daily the call centre. The desired outputs of these activities result in a positive impact on DIMO’s overall As at 31 March, the Group operated 30 strategic outcomes, as identified in the branches, 10 display points and 17 customer Incoming diagram on the previous page. The key contact points. A mobile sales team further 9,000 Yearly performance indicators therein include increases our reach. On the digital front, Out going the customer satisfaction index, number the dynamic DIMO website drew in 2,283 1,210 of repeat purchases and revenue generated product inquiries via the comprehensive, Incoming 108,000 for each one rupee investment on customer continuously updated products page. The Out going 435,600 relationship building. (Refer customer Group maintains five active Facebook pages, Annually relationship capital dashboard) which saw over 45, 000 average monthly engagements. The DIMO call centre is MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES accessible 24/7 for complaints and feedback; Understanding Customers during the year 108,000 and 435,600 calls Number of website visits during the year Meeting customer expectations hinges on respectively, were received and reverted. ’000 our ability to identify their changing needs Addressing customers’ post sales issues 1,600 and wants in a timely manner. DIMO Customers must have the comfort of 1,400 uses surveys, market research studies and reliability to maintain a healthy relationship 1,200 meetings to understand evolving needs and based on trust. An important aspect of thereby retain good customer relationships. 1,000 reliability is an effective system to address During the year under review, we conducted 800 post-sales issues. DIMO has in place a well219 surveys and 149,695 dialogues with established aftersales business segment, with 600 customers. The findings of these exercises are international standard technologies. We hold 400 fed into management activities to enhance a number of franchises in Sri Lanka for a the customer experience. 200 range of spare parts, that are made available through a well spread dealer network. (Refer 0 Building an innovation oriented customer 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 value proposition page 98 to 100 for the detailed discussion on Number of visits ’000 The value proposition we offer customers after services segment). comprises of components that position DIMO Managing customer experiences high among competitors and encourage Delivering a memorable customer customers to transact with us. DIMO’s The composition of the experience enables DIMO to exceed total Facebook likes unique customer value proposition is built on customer expectations and nurture customer differentiation throughout the value chain in relationships. During the year, we invested in terms technological excellence, innovation, customer engagement initiatives and loyalty 11% aftercare, customer relationship management, 1% programmes that enabled us to reach 7,739 market presence and responsible behaviour. 19% customers. Signature events during the year This differentiation strategy, together with the included Mercedes-Benz Pageant, Mercedescollaboration strategy, provides an excellent Benz Golf Tournament, TATA Genuine Oil value proposition to customers. 35% Launch, G –Class launch and Jeep Renegade 16% 18% Investing in multiple customer contact Launch. channels DIMO Mercedes-Benz Sri Lanka Accessibility is an important aspect of Careers at DIMO Mercedes AMG Sri Lanka fostering customer relationships, as closer Jeep Sri Lanka Tata Motors Sri Lanka proximity enhances the opportunity to 71 RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL CUSTOMERS CUSTOMER INTERACTION POINTS Western Province North Western Province Head Office 011-2449797 3S Kurunegala 037-4697801 3S DIMO Mart 011-4360014 S FMC operations 077-9271551 SER MB Center 011-4448989 3S Puttalam 032-4930526 3S Medical Engineering & Power 011-4607100 3S Nikaweratiya 037-4944378 S Engineering Solutions Chilaw 032-4501367 S Total Marine Solutions 011-4602000 3S Kuliyapitiya 037-4501009 S Siyambalape Complex 011-2400670 SER Wennappuwa 031-2254866 S The Mercedes-Club of Sri Lanka, Jeep Club of DIMO Logistics Centre 033-4934753 3S DIMO Kurunegala Regional Centre 037-4697800 3S Sri Lanka, and the TATA Emperor Customers TATA Passenger Car Workshop 011-4645487/88 SER DIMO Tyre Mart 011-4501035 3S Northern Province and Driver’s club are some of the prevailing Gampaha 033-4641034 S Jaffna 021-4923672 3S customer loyalty programmes, which Yakkala 033-4641004 S Vavuniya 024-4925009 S recorded 1,148 members as at year end. Piliyandala 011-4376943 S Mannar 023-4920459 S Horana 034-4947836 S A dedicated division to manage Kurana 031-4641026 S Eastern Province customer relationships Agri Machinery sales 011-2449797 S Trincomalee 026-4641020 3S We consider it vital to listen and respond to Bosch Service Centre 076-9120321 SER Batticaloa 065-4927345 S even the faintest wishes of customers to build Komatsu & KSB Sales 011-2449797 S Ampara 063-4923406 S relationships of trust. The dedicated Customer Mathugama 034-4941129 S Relationship Management team acts as the Padukka 011-4645754 S Central Province first point of contact and during the year TATA Showroom 011-2449711 S Kandy Branch Katugastota 081-4940829 S under review, received 776 (567 in 2016/17) TATA Spare Parts Bosch Power Tools 011-4602100 S Kandy Branch Workshop Balagolla 081-4950445 SER customer complaints of which 678 (495 in Construction Spare Parts Sale center 011-4645384/5 S Dambulla 066-4928283 S 2016/17) were resolved within three days. DIMO Lighting 011-4501270 S Negombo TATA Passenger Car Show Room 077-1724997 S Sabaragamuwa Province Other more complicated complaints took DIMO Agri Businesses 011-4504420 S Ratnapura 045-4928620 3S longer to respond to, but were eventually Embilipitiya 047-4931050 S resolved. The diagram below explains the Southern Province Kegalle 035-4641007 S comprehensive work undertaken by the Matara 041-4929378-9 3S CRM team to ensure a positive customer Uva Province NaSevana Technical Institute 047-4641022 SER experience. Ambalangoda 091-4941158 S Monaragala 055-4641012 S Tissamaharama 047-4932442 3S Mahiyanganaya 055-4641022 S Ambalantota 047-4934019 S Welimada 057-4200100 S Galle 091-4501004 S North Central Province Monthly Customer Complaints Nos Anuradhapura 025-2223025 3S 100 Padaviya 025-4928867 S Polonnaruwa 027-4641008 S Anuradhapura TATA Workshop025-2223025 SER 80 Accident Repair 60 Customer centric, business values that in place a ISO 9001:2015 accredited quality ensures responsible customer care management system. Our marketing practices 40 We assure our customers’ integrity across the conform to the highest standards of ethics and value chain by focusing on ethical marketing, are based on transparency, honesty and full 20 responsible product labelling, and product disclosure. Customer privacy is paramount safety. The products and engineering solutions and we maintain utmost confidentiality of 0 we offer conform to the highest levels of customer information. We place emphasis Apr-17 May-17 Jun-17 Jul-17 Aug-17 Sep-17 Oct-17 Nov-17 Dec-17 Jan-18 Feb-18 Mar-18 safety and are designed to ensure minimum on labelling and catalogue referencing, and Complaints Solved within three working days impact on the environment. The group has ensure statutory requirements are met in 72 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Change is positive Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information respect of providing diagrams and pictographs, expiry dates and standardisation code numbers where relevant. Capital trade-offs and resource allocation Building customer relationships requires significant investment of the other capitals and such investments are considered during the Group’s annual budgeting process. DIMO’s human capital strategy focuses on building customer-centric teams; we ensure that any employee Northern that has direct interaction with customers is well trained on the skills required to provide a memorable customer experience. 1287 employees were trained in this area during the year. Year Sales staff Service Staff Number of No of training Number of No of training North Central persons trained Hours persons trained Hours 2017/18 1,287 11,197 4,642 38,289 2016/17 655 5,531 2,521 31,287 2015/16 703 6,284 2,592 20,451 North Western Eastern 2014/15 1,224 7,297 2,432 16,739 2013/14 638 3,873 1,900 16,146 Central Rs.318 million (322 million 2016/17) was invested in customer interaction and relationship management during the year. Accordingly, revenue worth Rs.139 (Rs.135 2016/17) has been Western Uva earned per every one rupee of customer interaction and relationship management expenses. Sabaragamuwa The relationship we maintain with business partners in various segments helps to shape the customer value proposition; it enables DIMO to offer the latest technologies and highest quality standards. During the year, the Group maintained 90 foreign business partner relationships. Southern Head office Branches Customer Relationship Management Display Points Customer Contact Point 3S Sales, Service & Spare Parts Customer Relations Customer Insights S Sales and Analysis SER Service Experience 1. Daily data analysis generated from the call centre 1. Co-ordination with customer regarding customer complaints 2. Bulk SMS CRM 3. Customer data base cleansing 4. Compiling of daily, weekly and 2. Validation of the customer data monthly reports base 3. Co-ordination of customer Call Centre centric events 1. Customer sales inquiry handling 4. MB Credit card programme 2. Follow up on all customer inquiries 5. Branch visits and educating the 3. Conducting surveys staff on complaint handling and 4. CSI & SSI management 5. Campaigns 6. General inquiries 6. Documentation of customer 7. Road-Side-Assistance call complaints and feedback handling & follow up 73 RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL CUSTOMERS The brand reputation of “DIMO”, which is a component of intellectual capital, provides the platform upon which customer relationships are built. It includes the reputation built over 79 years of service excellence. MANAGING THE RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES Material risks Area of Risk Mitigation Activities Products or services with health and safety The Group’s QMS is ISO 9001:2015 related defects that may escape DIMO’s QMS accredited. During the year zero incidents and arrive in the market. were reported regarding health and safety defects of the products and services offered by the Group. Possible damage to customer relationships due CRM team is well equipped to handle to unsolved customer complaints. customer complaints on time. The manner in which the team approaches customer complaints are elaborated in the “CRM” diagram presented on page 73. Material opportunities detected Opportunity Detected How DIMO nurtures the opportunity Technological advancements enabled Technology is overtaking the business cost efficient and customised customer environment and information flows faster relationship management tools (social media, than ever. Social media has enabled the big data analysis) circulation of information at a relatively lower cost. DIMO talks to its customers on five active Facebook pages, which have acquired over 1.5 million likes. 74 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL BUSINESS PARTNERS BEING THE CHANGE Context GLOBAL PARTNERSHIPS DELIVERING INTERNATIONAL Strategy Enterprise Governance QUALITY TO LOCAL CUSTOMERS Change is positive Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information THE MATERIAL SIGNIFICANCE OF expedient relationships with business HOW WE’RE USING OUR BUSINESS BUSINESS PARTNER RELATIONSHIPS partners. (A segment-wise brand portfolio PARTNERSHIPS TO CREATE VALUE TO DIMO and key principals list are given in the Value Our relationships with business partners are DIMO serves as representatives in Sri Lanka Chain Management Report from page 92 to built on the tenets of meeting expectations, for a portfolio of globally recognised brands, 111). improved trust and responsible behaviour. which form the bedrock of the attractive value We ensure sustainable relationships with DIMO considers it strategically important to proposition we offer our customers. DIMO’s our business partners through four key build positive collaboration with Business value creation process thus begins with the management activities that lead to the desired Partners, given the correlation between our initial input of our business partners, making outcomes, as seen in the diagram. ability to create a value and the relationships them a critical component of the value chain. we maintain with our partners. This has been These activities represent the direct The value we ultimately deliver pivots on our embedded into our corporate strategy, as interventions that nurture the business business partners providing us a proposition seen in the Strategy Illustration on page 29. partner relationships; concurrently, the that meets the right expectations of quality, Group’s value creation activities of value availability, timeliness and competitiveness. The input acquired from foreign principals chain management, impact management and is carefully nurtured by the DIMO tribe, in The strength of our business partner risk management also indirectly influence partnership with the DIMO local partner relationships is a source of competitive business partner capital and help us network. The strong, like minded alliances advantage and therefore, our sustenance endeavour towards the targeted outputs. that DIMO has built with its local partners, is ensured in part by building mutually enable us to capitalise on the initial inputs. The achievements of our stated objectives beneficial and consistent relationships with leads to high quality relationships. them. We proactively improve the quality Furthermore, they positively influence the of our interactions in order to maintain Group’s ability to achieve its overall strategic How Business Partner Capital help Achieving Strategic Outcomes Relationships with Business Partners Inputs Existing business partner portfolio Strategic business partner base Longevity of business partner relationships Management Activities to Ensure Availability, Affordability and the Quality of the Business Partner Relationship Capital Evaluation of Engagement Independent Conflict resolution Capital trade-off and strategic fit with business surveys to evaluate resource allocation partners and the level of assessing their expectations met expectations Outputs of Management Activities Meeting business partner expectations Increased Sourcing Efficiency Increased access to international technology Value Created Through Customer Relationships Improved business partner satisfaction Superior brand reputation Improved customer value proposition 75 RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL BUSINESS PARTNERS Sweden France Belgium Germany India Canada North Korea USA Japan UK South Korea Italy Switzerland UAE Singapore Malaysia Vietnam Taiwan China outcomes, as depicted in diagram below. The Building business partner relationships requires significant many accolades our business partners have investments of other capitals and the Group’s Annual budgeting bestowed upon us provide testimony to this. (Refer the dashboard below) process evaluates and decides the level of such investments... MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES chain. Among the many aspects are ones that Our commitment to health and safety extends Evaluation of strategic fit prescribe our expectation of ethical standards to the operations of those who partner with DIMO is very selective about those with whom and the level of technology integrated into us; we carry out priority evaluations on a we partner. They must fundamentally have systems. The strategic fit is closely evaluated periodic basis to monitor the requisite health core values that complement our own and at the initiation of a relationship and annual and safety standards at workplaces of submust have a similar approach to conducting evaluations are carried out thereafter to contractors. their businesses. We have found that such a ensure that the fit is maintained. meeting of minds enables provides the best Managing business partner expectations We take extra measures to ensure that our We build relationships of trust with platform upon which a sustainable productive local supplier network maintains standards business partners by clearly identifying their relationship may be built. The aspects make that complement the standards maintained expectations, resolving conflicts, delivering up the strategic fit we expect of our business by our international business partners. As of expectations and maintaining transparency. partners are integrated into DIMO’s supplier 31st March 2018, 40 major local suppliers code; all partners are required to reaffirm At the very initiation of the relationship, had committed to upholding the DIMO their commitment to these values and the key expectations are discussed, thereby supplier code. disseminate those through their own supply setting the ground rules for a successful 76 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Change is positive Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information Capital trade-offs and resource allocation DIMO is very selective about Building business partner relationships requires significant investments of other capitals and those with whom we partner. the Group’s Annual budgeting process evaluates and decides the level of such investments. They must fundamentally have During the year under review Rs. 66 million of monetised capital was invested to conduct core values that complement engagement sessions with international business partners. our own and must have a similar approach to conducting their businesses. We have found that MANAGING THE RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES such a meeting of minds enables Material risks provides the best platform upon Area of Risk Mitigation Activities Volatility in government policies affects Each business segment analyses risks that arise which a sustainable productive the Group’s ability to achieve its expected from government regulations. Those risks are relationship may be built performance. This will negatively affect the managed by introducing counter measures volume of inputs purchased from business such as marketing tools, financing options partners. through strategic alliances and much more. relationship. Each year, a survey is carried This enables each business segment to achieve their expected performance. (Refer page 92 to out on how well these expectations have 111 for segment information) been met and whether business partners have any grievances to air. The survey outcomes Material opportunities detected are given priority at Board Level and action Opportunity Detected How DIMO nurture the opportunity is taken to resolve any grievances speedily. Our partner network includes a number of We have arrangements with our business Once in three years, we also commission an leading technological brands in the world. partners to train DIMO employees on the latest independent third party survey to ascertain Having close relationships with them provides products and technology they offer. We thereby the extent to which the Group has fulfilled us the opportunity to capitalise on advanced ensure that intimate technological knowledge business partner expectations. technology. is transferred to the Company. During the year under review 143 employees were trained by The accolades we have received from our our business partners. strategic business partners stand testimony to Our business partners engage in businesses that Diversification is one of the three aspects the Group’s ability to meet business partner represent a vast scope of industries. Having identified in the Group’s corporate strategy. expectations. Among those accolades were quality relationships with them provides the The diversification strategy identifies areas to recognition awarded by TATA Motors Limited Group easy access to such markets. which the Group can diversify considering for Highest Growth in Market Share 2017 the synergies that can be drawn from existing – MHCV Trucks, Best Spare Parts Retail business segments. In doing so, the support and consultation that may be extracted from Network Development 2017 and Best international business partners who already Initiative in Customer Engagement 2017 – operate in such markets are considered to be a Category A (Refer page 87 for more details material plus point. on Group’s awards and accolades) Adhering to internationally recognised business practices The quality of relationships maintained with business partners is in sync with the standards maintained throughout the Group’s value chain, and are governed by DIMO’s Quality Management System, environmental management system and social management system which are ISO 9001:2015, ISO 14001:2015 and SA 8000 certified respectively. 77 HUMAN CAPITAL BUILDING A CONSTITUENCY OF POWERFULLY ENGAGED EMPLOYEES THE MATERIAL SIGNIFICANCE OF Employees are also unique in that they are the only part of our HUMAN CAPITAL TO DIMO Employees are a highly cherished stakeholder business which has the potential to grow itself; the Group thus has the group, being the providers of the critical opportunity to increase its value creation capacity by investing in the attributes that determine DIMO’s direction training and development of their abilities and enable us to perform effectively in our chosen markets. These attributes are level USING OUR HUMAN CAPITAL TO CREATE VALUE of alignment, value creation capacity and DIMO’s human capital management process is driven by “ACE”: aligning employee’s direction employee engagement, and they form a with Group’s overall strategy, developing their value creation capacity and improving their positive relationship with the Group’s ability engagement with the Group. to create value. Nine management activities are in place to address these areas as depicted in the diagram Employees are also unique in that they are below. While these activities directly nurture human capital, the other three activities identified the only part of our business which has the in the business model (page 32) value chain management, impact management and risk potential to grow itself; the Group thus has management – indirectly contribute to the growth of human capital. the opportunity to increase its value creation We believe that improving “ACE” will enable the Group to ensure that employees are satisfied, capacity by investing in the training and that their performance keeps improving and their knowledge base is capitalised on, while development of their abilities. Collaboration ultimately leading to a positive impact on their livelihoods. Achieving these outcomes with employees is part of DIMO’s corporate underpins the Group’s ability to achieve its overall strategic outcomes. strategy. Collaboration with employees drives the Group’s differentiation strategy, as depicted in the strategy statement on page Employee representation Employees by their service period 29. The statement also notes the magnitude based on their age (as at year-end) (as at year-end) to which the Group’s ability to create value is dependent on human capital. 24% 8% The stock of our employee capital Number of employees by gender excluding 13% 7% 59% companies acquired during the year 3% 4% Gender 2017/18 2016/17 39% 2% 40% Female 167 168 1% Male 1,564 1,557 <20 0-5 21-25 Total number of 21-30 6-10 26-30 employees 1,731 1,725 31-40 11-15 31-35 41-50 16-20 More than 35 51< Number of employees by gender in Number of employees by category (as at year-end) companies acquired during the year Board of Directors 9 Gender 2017/18 Female 16 Senior Management 74 Male 103 Middle Management 320 Total number of employees 119 Executive 600 Clerical/Supervisory 423 Manual 356 Contract 68 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 Number of employees 78 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Change is positive Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information How Human Capital Contributes to Achieve the Group’s Overall Strategic Outcomes Human Capital Inputs Human capital Employee engagement Skills, competencies and Employee health and safety Mandatory and composition and diversity knowledge of our employees voluntary compliance Management Activities to Ensure Availability, Affordability and the Quality of the Human Capital Employer branding Performance Talent management Leadership Multi-layered Management Implementation of and talent management system development rewarding strategy of employee DIMO Health & attraction expectations Safety Policy Outputs of Management Activities Attraction and acquisition of Improved employee Reduced regrettable Innovation Zero non compliance right employees at the right time engagement turnover Value Created through DIMO tribe Improved employee satisfaction Increased employee engagement Improved intellectual capital Increased livelihood MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES Within our HR Structure, a dedicated unit express their thoughts on ‘why DIMO is a manages employer branding and candidate great place to work’ in terms of their job Employer branding and talent attraction management. The unit has implemented satisfaction and how comfortable they are Good talent is attracted to good employers; several programmes and platforms that ensure with the organizational culture. that’s why it is important that we brand the DIMO’s employer brand is well established • Social media management: during Company positively as a model employer and the Group attracts the right talent. Such the year under review our career page and an employer of first choice. By attracting signature programmes include; acquired over 44,000 likes reaching the the right talent at the right time, the Group total number of likes to 269,433 as at becomes equipped with employees who • Recommend a friend programme march 2018. have adequate capacity to drive its strategies. (employee referral system) • Campus hiring events (career fairs): Talent management Our Employee Value Proposition (EVP) year of 2017/18 we featured ourselves We regularly assess the attributes we require “Making Work Enjoyable and Rewarding”, at several career fairs through which we of employees for the sustenance of the Group lies at the heart of our reputation. We live interviewed over 250 undergraduates in the short, medium and long term, and we this proposition in practice and have been • Future talent internship program: the ensure that those attributes are available to recognized by Great Place to Work Institute percentage of trainees/interns hired has us either through external recruitment or as one of the best places to work in Sri Lanka increased from 2.78% to 18.09% in the internal development. for five consecutive years. past six years • “I love my job” initiative: through this The Group’s annual performance evaluation campaign, we encourage our tribe to process identifies each employee’s training gaps. Each supervisor, with the support of the HR Division, assesses these training gaps to decide on suitable development methods. 79 HUMAN CAPITAL Training hours per employee 17 employees were awarded “Executive parties to conduct salary reviews against Leadership Training Programmes” in world’s industry standards. Such reviews have Hour 30 leading business schools. revealed that DIMO wage levels are at competitive levels within the industry. We Performance management acknowledge and reward employees who go 24 Performance evaluation enables us to track the extra mile and contribute directly towards and monitor the performance of individual value creation. Once an employee meets a 18 employees by establishing measurements set of criteria, he is nominated by the head to ensure the alignment of the Company’s of their business unit and rewarded at the 12 goals with individual employee’s objectives. monthly meetings of the Employee Council. By doing so, we not only improve their 6 operational efficiency but also enhance The pinnacle for a member of the DIMO learning and development and employee tribe is being honoured as ‘Employee of the 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 engagement. Year’. This annual award is presented on Male Female ‘DIMO Night of the Incredibles’. Awards Average DIMO’s performance management process also recognise the best performances in is driven by an online performance appraisal sales, technical and support services. The system. Appraisals take place mid-year and at ‘Employee of the Year’ is selected out of the Employee training is the main approach to the year end, and include the measurement three category winners and is awarded a develop internal talent. Such training may of the achievement of objectives, a TATA Nano vehicle. The Group Management take place locally and or overseas, and is competency review and an assessment of selfCommittee selects the winners based on a set conducted by internal or external resource development. The feedback received at this of pre-determined criteria. persons and by our foreign principals. A review is used to map career growth, identify supervisor conducts the follow-up evaluation training gaps and manage rewards. During Below graph identifies the number of which measures the effectiveness of each year under review 130 number of employees employees recognised by our signature training programme. During the year under (2016/17 – 129) were promoted based on the recognition initiatives. review, employees received 49,486 (36,818 results of this evaluation process. in 2016/17) training hours, through 289 programmes, including internal, external Multi-layered rewarding strategy DIMO’s reward management strategy is not Composition of total employee rewards and foreign, all of which were funded by the Company (346 programmes were held in limited to the financial benefits but expands 2016/17). in to more qualitative aspects such as work 1% environment, development opportunities and 12% Leadership development recognition. We believe this multi-layered 17% We identify potential leaders and successors rewarding strategy will keep employees of existing leaders and train them to take on continuously motivated and thereby enhance 9% more responsible and complex positions in their value creation capacity and their level 61% future. of alignment to Group’s Strategy. High potential employees who outperform Company policy recommends competitive peers continuously in terms of performance remuneration and we engage independent Monthly rewards Retired employees and potential are identified, based on 3 years Night of the Incredibles Employee of the year 25 Years of service performance ratings obtained at the annual performance review. These employees demonstrate the ability to influence higher performance and possess the ability to align Management of employee expectation others with the Group’s direction. ‘Employee Voice’ is vital in managing employee expectations and as such, we During the year under review 119 relentlessly encourage employees to speak employees (2016/17 – 119) were identified their minds. We want every one of our tribe as high potential individuals. Out of them 80 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Change is positive Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information members to feel empowered and share their opinions freely so that they are more aligned and Employee training is the main engaged. approach to develop internal The process of expectation management involves two way communication between the talent. Such training may take management and members of our tribe and it must be managed with understanding and care. Among the key aspects involved in this process are grievance handling, transparency, clear place locally and or overseas, communication and the management of employee expectations. The table below identifies and is conducted by internal or approaches through which we reach out to our employees. external resource persons and by our foreign principals Approaches for identifying and managing employee expectations HR initiative Description Employee Council The Council consists of representatives of all business units, heads of business units and the Group Management Committee (GMC). The Council meets once a month to discuss employee concerns and ways in which business may be improved through better employee relationships. Minutes of these meetings are hosted on the Company intranet and can be accessed by all employees. HR Clinics Representatives of the HR Division including the Chief HR Officer, who is also a member of the Group Management Committee (GMC), frequently visit company sites with prior notice, to discuss and resolve employee grievances. These are one-on-one meetings with the purpose of gauging employee pulse while addressing employee issues related to work environment and their job. During the year under review 10 HR clinics (15-2016/17) were conducted. Periodical visits The Group Management Committee (GMC) visits every branch once a year where they spend time with the branch by the Group team in order to understand their grievances and expectations. This helps tribe members to feel comfortable and has Management encouraged them to speak up about their concerns. The GMC also shares future plans for the branches and their Committee expectations from employees. Annual employee Surveys identify the extent to which employees feel valued, involved and satisfied in their everyday work. The survey engagement asks questions related to the nature of work, career development, working environment, level of alignment to the and employee Group’s overall strategy, welfare facilities, interpersonal relations, remuneration and other rewards. The findings of the satisfaction survey survey are communicated to senior management and relevant action plans are created to address areas of concern. (ESS) For the financial year, the engagement survey result was 4.00 (3.88 2016/17) while the Employee Satisfaction Index recorded to be 66.30% (64.56% 2016/17). Manager The survey is designed to understand how our supervisors drive our tribe members towards DIMO’s vision, how well Effectiveness Survey our strategies are being communicated and to what extent they are inspired by their subordinates. The survey covers areas such as values, behaviour, leadership, communication, support provided, etc. The outcomes are then shared with the Board of Directors. Whistle Blowing The Whistle Blowing policy and practice has been established to maintain confidentiality, fairness and impartiality. Most importantly, all complaints will be investigated immediately after receiving. Complaints may be investigated either through internal or external parties, depending on need to establish good governance and fairness in the organization in each case. Concerns can be raised directly with the Chairman, Group CEO, Chief Internal Auditor and Chief Human Resource Officer, whose contact details are provided in the policy. Management of employee experience We go the extra mile to provide our We care what employees’ think about their interactions with the Group. A positive perception employees a unique and positive experience will increase employee value creation capacity, align them more to Group’s strategy and by organising events which provide them the improve their engagement while enhancing the Group’s employer brand. platform to connect and promote a sense of belonging. Some signature programmes Employees have a positive perception when they have positive experiences during their include the 25 Years’ Service Award, Night of day to day interactions with the Group. Our rewarding strategy, management of employee the Incredibles, Annual Dinner Dance, Vesak expectations and other management activities as discussed in this section, contribute towards Lantern Competition and Christmas Party, creating a positive daily experience. among others. 81 HUMAN CAPITAL Health and Safety Statistics Injuries/Diseases/ 2017-18 2016-17 2015/16 Fatalities/Lost day/ Total No. Rate (%) Total No. Rate (%) Total No. Rate (%) Absenteeism Injuries 13 0.00043 17 0.00052 21 0.00062 Occupational Disease Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Lost Working Days 178 0.0058 68 0.0021 92 0.0027 Implementation of DIMO health & safety Work Related Fatalities Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil policy At DIMO, health & safety is the foremost Number of Injuries that Caused More Than Three Lost Working Days priority. It is comprehensively addressed 30 in the Group’s Risk management section presented from page 132 to 138. 24 We have in place an occupational health 18 & safety policy which spells out our 12 responsibility to ensure a safe workplace for all our employees, external contractors and 6 visitors. At business unit level, at least one representative at each site is provided first aid 0 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 training. Under the terms of our Quality Management MANAGING THE RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES System (QMS), in the event of any injury, Material risks immediate action must be taken to prevent Area of Risk Risk mitigation and correct similar incidents. All incidents Employee Health The risk is elaborated in Group’s Risk Management Section presented from and injuries are reported immediately to the and Safety page 132 to 138. HR division. The table below details our track Regrettable The loss of high potential employees (as explained on page 80 under the record on health and safety at work. Employee Turnover leadership management) to a competitor is considered a greater loss for the Company as they take with them invaluable knowledge and confidential Capital trade-off information on the Group’s unique processes and customers. Therefore the Nurturing human capital to its fullest value Group’s human resource management activities are geared to ensure that creation potential requires significant our employees are engaged, trained, rewarded and recognised effectively. investments of other capitals. As such, the (Refer page 78 to 82 for more information on Human Capital Management year under review saw Rs. 69 million worth of Activities). This ensures that we meet the expectations of high potential monetised capital (2016/17 – Rs.50 million) employees, and their job satisfaction is enhanced. spent on employee training and development. Unacceptable The Group’s corporate values as presented on page 05 of this report This investment is expected to contribute to employee promote ethical behaviour. New employees are educated on the behaviour importance of such values during their orientation. Each and every the Group’s monetised value creation ability negatively affecting employee is expected to adhere to the Group’s code of business ethics over the medium to long term. Group’s overall which is available on Group’s intranet. Any unacceptable behaviour The relationships we maintain with business brand reputation detected is communicated and discussed at monthly employee council meetings. During the year, there were no such material incidents reported. partners provide us the opportunity to train our employees on their latest technology Key opportunities and products. During the year 143 number of employees were trained by our business Area of concern Opportunity capitalisation partners. Talent attraction. The Recognition received for the Group’s best practices underpins the Employee Value Proposition. Winning ‘Best Corporate Citizen”, “Great Place to work”, “HRM Awards”, Sustainability Reporting Awards, Annual Report Awards and many more (refer the page 87 of intellectual capital for accolades and recognition) brings us an enhanced brand equity and awareness, which allow us to attract and retain the best talent. 82 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL BEING THE CHANGE Context IS THE INVISIBLE STRENGTH THAT SETS DIMO APART Strategy Enterprise Governance Change is positive Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information THE MATERIAL SIGNIFICANCE OF HUMAN CAPITAL TO DIMO USING INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL TO 79 years of service excellence have enabled DIMO to build a store of intellectual capital, CREATE VALUE which manifests itself in three intangibles assets our knowledge base, process capital and As depicted in below diagram, capitalisation brand reputation. of tacit knowledge, enhanced innovation capabilities, improved efficiency, meeting The knowledge base is dependent upon the level of expertise and experience our employees stakeholder expectations and responsible accumulate during their service period at DIMO. It is owned by our employees and is difficult corporate behaviour are the key outputs to document and therefore, invaluable. Process capital is made up of the excellence in that the Group intends to meet in order to procedures and systems thorough which we create value, and the culture that shapes the way enable the value creation through Intellectual we create value. Our brand reputation is a reflection of our values and our differentiation Capital. strategy comprising of technological excellence, aftercare, effective customer relationship management, market presence and a strong sense of responsibility. Seven management activities are in place to ensure those outputs are met, as the These invisible forces form added value that enhances the value proposition offered by the achievement of the desired outputs will Group. In essence, they cannot be replicated by our competitors and therefore form a valuable strengthen the Group’s overall business competitive advantage. performance and enable the achievement of strategic outcomes. Intellectual Capital Composition We have received many accolades and Knowledge Base obtained many accreditations that provides Organisational Based Intangibles the testimony to the value we have created Process Capital Intellectual Capital through Intellectual capital (refer page 87 for the accolades received by the Group). Brand Reputation How Intellectual Capital helps in Achieving Strategic Outcomes Intellectual Capital Inputs Knowledge base Process capital Brand reputation Management Activities to Ensure Availability, Affordability and the Quality of the Intellectual Capital Physical and & “Idea Man” Employee retention Business ISO 9001:2015 Engagement with Capital trade-offs virtual knowledge an initiative to strategies Processes and accredited quality stakeholders and resource sharing sessions recognise and information systems management system & corporate allocation reward innovative development communication ideas of employees Outputs of Management Activities Capitalisation of tacit Enhanced innovation Improved efficiency Meeting stakeholder Responsible corporate knowledge capabilities expectations behaviour Value Created Through Intellectual Capital Enhanced brand reputation Increased Stakeholder satisfaction Improved business performance 83 INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES We believe that knowledge gained is only as valuable as its Physical and virtual knowledge sharing effect and influence on the work we do and therefore we employ sessions We believe that knowledge gained is only knowledge sharing sessions, e-library and extensive training tools as valuable as its effect and influence on to disseminate and document the knowledge gathered the work we do and therefore we employ knowledge sharing sessions, e-library and extensive training tools to disseminate and Employee turnover is the KPI we use to Business Processes and Information document the knowledge gathered. During measure the success of the employee Systems Development the year, 12 knowledge sharing sessions, retention strategy. Over the last five years, The Group addressed process improvements named “Know House”, were conducted in the Group’s employee turnover reduced by with the establishment of a central division order to share knowledge through training 4.31%. Detailed analysis of talent retention comprising business analysts and information and experience. is available on page 79. technology experts. This led to a more integrated approach towards improving and automating systems and processes, and Employee turnover ratio helped reduce inefficiencies in a number of % processes leading to an increase in the value 20 of Group’s process capital. The table on the next page presents an 18 account of processes developments during the year. 16 Our learning management system is an online knowledge sharing platform which 14 reported 1,370 number of visits during the year. “Yammer” an enterprise social 12 networking platform was launched during the latter part of the year to be used as a live 10 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 forum for discussions and knowledge sharing. “Idea Man” an initiative to recognise and reward innovative ideas of employees The quality of process capital can be improved through innovation and in this respect, we encourage innovative ideas Employee Retention Strategies through the “Idea Man” initiative. The virtual Tacit knowledge involves the risk that it platform allows employees to communicate departs the organisation when an employee their innovative ideas to the management; with such knowledge leaves. It’s important the ideas are analysed for their potential to therefore to identify the stores of tacit enhance revenue, productivity and brand knowledge possessed by each employee and reputation, and to reduce costs. Ideas that to ensure that the most important employees have a significant positive impact on the are retained in the Company. DIMO’s HR Group’s ability to create value are recognised policy enabled high levels of employee at the Group’s Annual Employee Gathering. engagement and several programmes are in During the year under review, 7 employees place to ensure talent retention. were awarded for the excellence in ideas presented. 84 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Change is positive Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information Process developments during the year The process Improved Affected Area of the Improvements Investment Business model (Rs million) “XENTRY” a portal that Value Chain Management Central availability of diagnosis data, labour and parts information of a 6.1 supports the diagnosis process – Aftersales Business vehicle repair job. of vehicles undertaken Segment Mobile enabled check list, reduced manual paper work. for services and a service package pricing system Availability of accurate and high-quality pricing information on time. Automation of Capital Capital Management Improved availability and accessibility of information 1.5 Expenditure Workflow – Monetised Capital Reduced time taken for approvals. Automation of IT Help Desk Value Chain Management Automated dashboards save time of preparing information such as time 0.5 & IT Asset Register. – Support Services exceeded jobs and customer feedback recording and analysing. Automation of tool Value Chain Management Better utilization and management of tools. Internal Management System – Heavy – Aftersales Business Development. Proper tracking of calibration of tools and managing disposals reduced Machinery Repairs Segment capital expenditure on the unnecessary purchase of new tools. Automation of transport cost Value Chain Management Improved efficiency in report generation. Internal calculation process DIMO – Delivery Development. Availability of payment and transaction history improves decision Logistics Centre making, transparency, & awareness Automation of Talent Capital Management Availability of single platform for Company-wide recruitments, Internal Acquisition Management – Human Capital branding activities, and vacancies. Development. System Availability of real-time statistics, 24/7, enabling better decision making. Improved data accuracy through structured data-entering mechanisms. Automation of Training Capital Management Provide information on employee training and related areas including Internal Management System – Human Capital training cost, time investments, trainer & vendor analyses, real-time Development. training requirement completion analysis and monitoring mechanisms to the senior management. The Quality Management System we have accumulated. (Refer pages 34 to 35 for the details on stakeholder engagement). A The Group’s quality management system, dedicated team is in place to build and protect DIMO’s corporate image; their mandate is to which is ISO 9001:2015 accredited, is ensure any risk related to corporate image is identified and treated on time. designed to achieve perfection in the processes and systems employed. Such perfection has been capitalised and embedded in our process capital. The Group’s slogan “Expect Ashish Mishra Managing Director, Interbrand India Perfection” provides testimony to the brand reputation we have built by excelling in perfection for over 79 years. “DIMO is undoubtedly one of Sri Lanka’s most respected and leading brands. The amount of trust that the brand Engagement with stakeholders and corporate communication enjoys amongst its customers, and the amount of pride it We periodically engage with our material generates amongst its employees is almost unparalleled. stakeholders to identify what matters to them It has been our privilege to be associated with one of the most. This allows us to ensure that we the leading lights of Sri Lanka’s industry, and help them address such needs and wants on time and adequately. By doing so, we project ourselves strengthen their brand as a responsible corporate citizen while protecting and nurturing the brand reputation 85 INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL Capital trade-offs and resource allocation Intellectual capital is non monetised; it is stored in the in the unspoken norms and culture of the organisation. While it does not have the visibility of other capitals, it does require investments of other capitals to ensure that it contributes towards competitive advantage. During the year, the Group invested Rs. 29 million to upgrade the technology used in systems and processes, which we believe contributed towards increased operational and management efficiency. The relationship maintained with business partners enables the Group to educate its employees on the advanced technological products developed by the principals. During the year 143 employees were trained, generating considerable value to the Group’s knowledge base. MANAGING RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES Material risks identified Area of Risk Mitigation activities An employee with a pool of accumulated The Group’s employee retention policy is knowledge leaving the organisation and joining explained on pages 78 to 82 a competitor. Negative Impact to the Group’s brand Conformance is discussed in detail in the reputation due to non-compliance with rules Enterprise Governance report from pages 40 and regulations. to 52. Material opportunities detected Opportunity How DIMO nurture the opportunity The growth in technology has enabled cost The Group recently launched an internal efficient knowledge sharing practices. social network which provides our employees the platform to share knowledge and host discussions live. 86 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Change is positive Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information AWARDS AND ACCOLADES RECEIVED Award Place Received in Awarding Institute Sri Lanka Association for the Advancement of Quality and National Award for Quality and Productivity Gold Jun/2017 Productivity Top 25 Companies to Work for in Sri Lanka Top 25 Jun/2017 Great Place to Work Institute – Sri Lanka Best Place to Work for in Sri Lanka Gold Jun/2017 Great Place to Work Institute – Sri Lanka Best in Large Sized Enterprise category Silver Award Jun/2017 Great Place to Work Institute – Sri Lanka Excellence in People Initiatives – Training and Winner Jun/2017 Great Place to Work Institute – Sri Lanka Development Cube Award Best Wellness Program Winner Jun/2017 Great Place to Work Institute – Sri Lanka Laureate Status for Being a Great Place to Work Winner Jun/2017 Great Place to Work Institute – Sri Lanka for Five Consecutive Years CMA Excellence in Integrated Reporting Awards Gold Jul/2017 Institute of Certified Management Accountants of Sri Lanka 2017 Overall Winner CMA Excellence in Integrated Reporting Awards Gold Jul/2017 Institute of Certified Management Accountants of Sri Lanka 2017 Most Concise Report Ten Best CMA Excellence in Integrated Reporting Awards Integrated Jul/2017 Institute of Certified Management Accountants of Sri Lanka 2017 Ten Best Integrated Reports Reports CMA Excellence in Integrated Reporting Awards Winner Jul/2017 Institute of Certified Management Accountants of Sri Lanka 2017 Industry & Commerce Sri Lanka Best Employer Brand Awards 2017 Winner Jul/2017 World HRD Congress Best Employer Brand Award Sri Lanka Best Employer Brand Awards 2017 Winner Jul/2017 World HRD Congress Award for Talent Management Presidential Environmental Awards Organized by the Central Presidential Environmental Award Merit Award Oct/2017 Environmental Authority International Brand of the Year SLIM Brand Silver Award Nov/2017 Sri Lanka Institute of Marketing Excellence Awards 2017 -Mercedes Benz Overall Excellence in Annual Financial Reporting 2nd Runners Up Dec/2017 The Institute of Chartered Accountant of Sri Lanka Integrated Reporting Award Gold Dec/2017 The Institute of Chartered Accountant of Sri Lanka Integrated ReportingSpecial Award : Capital Bronze Dec/2017 The Institute of Chartered Accountant of Sri Lanka Report Diversified Holdings (Groups up to 10 Gold Dec/2017 The Institute of Chartered Accountant of Sri Lanka Subsidiaries) Management Commentary Award Silver Dec/2017 The Institute of Chartered Accountant of Sri Lanka ACCA Sustainability Reporting Overall Winner Feb/2018 The Association of Chartered Certified Accountants ACCA Sustainability Reporting Retail and Winner Feb/2018 The Association of Chartered Certified Accountants Trading Category Highest Growth in Market Share 2017 – MHCV Winner Feb/2018 TATA Motors Limited. Trucks Best Spare Parts retail Network Development Winner Feb/2018 TATA Motors Limited. 2017 Best Initiative in Customer Engagement 2017 – Winner Feb/2018 TATA Motors Limited. Category A 87 NATURAL CAPITAL HOW DO WE PROTECT AND ENHANCE NATURAL CAPITAL FOR THE FUTURE? MATERIAL SIGNIFICANCE OF NATURAL CAPITAL TO DIMO We have employed prudent business and The definitive quality of natural capital is its scarcity; it is a shared resource where ownership is service processes that ensure environmentally shared with the public (other than for lands owned by the Group). By nature, the availability, responsible and socially equitable quality and affordability of the capital cannot be substantially controlled by DIMO. consumption of Natural Capital across the entire value chain. Such processes take The fortunes of our investments into the agricultural sector, encompassing fertilisers, agro place within our Environmental Management chemicals and seeds operations, are heavily linked to environmental factors. Consequently, System, which is ISO 14001:2015 accredited, the Group’s dependency on Natural Capital has amplified, as our ability to create value is and our environmental policy. now affected by the quality and availability of natural capital. (Refer page 107 for details on agriculture business segment) MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES Having recognised the greater importance of natural capital to the Group’s operations, the DIMO Environmental Policy management has henceforth named Natural capital as a capital input in the Value creation DIMO’s Environmental Policy sets forth our Model. commitment to create value by building, managing and nourishing natural capital. The HOW WE’RE USING OUR NATURAL CAPITAL RESOURCES TO CREATE VALUE policy communicates our corporate thinking to The natural capital inputs into our operations include water and land, which are extracted our stakeholders and reinforces our commitment directly from the environment, while energy and some key material inputs are extracted towards the Sustainable Development Goals. from non-renewable natural resources. The scarcity of these resources necessitates us to be responsible and accountable for their efficient and effective use, and their preservation for future generations. How Management of Natural Capital Helps in Achieving Strategic Outcomes Natural Capital Inputs Water Energy which has been Material extracted Land Ecosystem health Mandatory and produced using scared from non-renewable voluntary compliance natural resources Sources Management Activities to Ensure Availability, Affordability and the Quality of Natural Capital DIMO “Environmental Policy” ISO 14001 (2015) Accredited Environment Management System Efficient and responsible consumption of inputs. Environmental management system monitoring Capital trade-offs Water – recycle and reuse Energy – responsible consumption Material – Efficient usage Sustainable use of Land Outputs of Governing Activities Environmentally responsible and socially Internalised environmentally conscious Zero non-compliances equitable consumption of natural capital corporate culture Value Created Through Enterprise Governance Value Created to society Value Created to the Group Enhanced availability Improved monetised Improved brand reputation of inputs performance 88 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Change is positive Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information Environmental Management System Efficient and responsible consumption of washing. During the year 334M3 (535M3 in (EMS) inputs FY 2016/17) of rain water was collected and The Environmental Management System (EMS) Water – recycle and reuse utilised for operations. has evolved from the Environmental Policy Wherever possible, DIMO strives to use lower and is accredited by the latest version of ISO volumes of water or recycled water to minimise Water M3 used to generate 14001:2015.The EMS is the primary point of our use of the resource. During the year, the one million turnover reference for the conformance aspects related Group utilised 2.41 M3 (2.40 M3 2016/17) Water M3 to natural capital management (Refer page 40 of water to generate Rs. one million turnover. 5.0 on Enterprise Governance Report for the “Point Over the last five years, we have noted a 45% of Reference table”). It ensures the responsible reduction in this area. During the year, the 4.2 consumption of resources, impact minimisation, Group consumed 104,795 M3 (112,875 M3 and regulatory compliance throughout the 2016/17 ) of water for its operations. 3.4 lifecycle of the value chain. All of DIMO’s main workshops now operate The EMS is monitored and implemented by state-of-the-art water treatment and recycling 2.6 the Group’s Sustainability Committee, while plants and the Group thus recycled about 8% of the Stakeholder Interactions and Compliance the total water used for our activities during the 1.8 team facilitates its implementation and year. 26% of the ground water consumed (23% data collection, data analysis, independent in FY 2016/17) was recycled and reused. 1.0 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 assurance and physical inspection. The rain water harvesting system located at DIMO Logistics Centre – Weliweriya, collects rainwater which is then filtered through a The table below identifies the main sources carbon and sand process, before being used of water used in operations and provides the for operational activities including vehicle statistics for water re-used. Total volume of water withdrawn Water Usage (M3) Reused Water (M3) Reused Percentage (%) Description 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 Municipal Water 69,959 71,174 70,789 2,902 3,049 1,871 4.1 4.3 2.6 Ground water 34,502 41,166 33,151 5,920 7,046 5,878 17 17 18 Rain Water Harvesting 334 535 109 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A Total 104,795 112,875 104,049 8,822 10,095 7,749 8.4 N/A N/A Responsible consumption of energy built area, consumes 25% less energy than a culture of ‘switching it off’ when not in sourced from non-renewable natural a traditional building. use. All future buildings will be planned to resources. exploit natural light. • DIMO is accredited by the Sri Lanka We make a great effort to manage our use of Sustainable Energy Authority to conduct 1.76 GJ (2016/17 – 1.67 GJ) of energy was energy from non-renewable scarce sources, energy audits; and during the year, an inused to generate one million turnover during such as electricity, diesel, petrol, and LP gas. house energy audit was carried out at our the year. The Group has noted a 30% reduction While our consumption of these resources is Siyambalape site. in this area over the last five years. The total proportional to throughput levels and turnover, energy consumption in the form of diesel, we take many initiatives to ensure energy is • On an ongoing basis, we also take measures petrol, LP gas and electricity was 76,519 GJ consumed efficiently throughout the value such as maintaining air conditioning at 24o (2016/17 – 74,652GJ) during the year. The table chain. Such activities include the following: C; programming all computers to revert to below identifies the level of energy used under standby mode within a five-minute idling • The Bosch Diesel Centre and DIMO 800 are each type, their intensity ratios and year to year period; replacing incandescent lighting with LEED Gold certified Green Buildings. DIMO variances. CFL and LED technology, and inculcating 800 which spans16, 000 square meters of 89 NATURAL CAPITAL Wherever possible, DIMO strives to use lower volumes of water Turnover and Kgs of A4 papers used per Rs 1Mn turnover or recycled water to minimise our use of the resource... Mn Kg Pks 50,000 0.30 Total Energy Consumption 40,000 0.24 Energy Intensity Consumption Ratio from Full-time 30,000 0.18 Description Units Employees % Change 20,000 0.12 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 from P/Y Diesel for Vehicles GJ 28,338 29,333 -3.39 15.31 17.00 10,000 0.06 Diesel for Generators GJ 1,344 1,042 28.98 0.726 0.60 0 0.00 Petrol for Vehicles GJ 33,508 29,875 12.16 18.11 17.32 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 LP Gas GJ 530 521 1.72 0.286 0.30 Revenue (Mn) A4 packets/Revenue (mn) Electricity GJ 12,792 13,882 -7.85 7.838 8.05 Total GJ 76,512 74,653 2.49 41.36 43.27 Sustainable use of lands (Note –units of energy consumed consist 315Gj of energy consumed by newly acquired subsidiaries During the year, DIMO expanded operations during the year, calculated on proportionate basis) to new geographical locations and thereby Efficient Usage of Materials extracted recorded a significant growth in the land Energy (GJ) used to generate from Scarce Natural Resources. area used. The new land areas include water one million turnover The group’s material consumption volumes sources and are home to trees and animals Energy GJ correlate positively with workshop throughput. that help promote biodiversity. We must 3 However, many of the materials are therefore use the lands responsibly to ensure manufactured using scarce natural resources their sustainability and future prosperity. which require us to be responsible in their The waste management system, which is 2 usage. Key materials used in our workshop discussed from page 121 to 122, ensures that activities such as kerosene, lubricants, floor the habitat of those lands faces minimal harm carpets, cotton waste, paint and lacquer and any sources of ground water are protected. 1 recorded a significant increment in usage None of our operational sites, whether owned, compared to last year. The 9 % increment in leased or managed, are adjacent to protected revenue generated by our aftercare segment areas and areas of high biodiversity value. contributed to this increase. (Refer page 98 for 0 The Group’s land portfolio is detailed on page 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 the performance details of aftercare segment) 176 of Notes to the financial statements. The geographical overview of the lands owned by the group is presented below. Materials used by weight or volume Materials used by Unit of Renewable or Year to Year Composition of Land owned by the 2017/18 2016/17 Group based on province weight or volume measurement Non-Renewable Variance Kerosene Ltr Non Renewable 50,339 37,738 33% Lubricants Ltr Non Renewable 295,356 215,279 37% 34% Floor carpets Nos Non Renewable 75,034 60,000 25% 41% Cotton waste Kg Non Renewable 34,201 41,879 -18 % Paint Ltr Non Renewable 4,484 3,884 15% Lacquer Ltr Non Renewable 603 467 29% Thinner Ltr Non Renewable 14,917 13,921 7% 2% 23% Putty Kg Non Renewable 1,949 2,110 -8 %! Central Province Filler Ltr Non Renewable 1,057 1,328 -20% North Western Province A4 Pkts Renewable 7,768 8,215 -5% Northern Province Western 90 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Change is positive Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information Eco-system health Monitoring of environmental Capital Trade offs A Healthy eco-System has a positive effect management system Maintaining an effective Environmental on the performance of the Agricultural DIMO monitors the effectiveness of the Management System requires investments sector, which involves substantial natural Group’s Environmental Management System of other capitals. The adequacy of these capital inputs. We are committed to the (EMS) through two bi-annual internal audit investments are reviewed by the Group promotion of ecosystem health by taking rounds, followed by management reviews. Management Committee (GMC) during their multiple measures to minimise the adverse The periodic reviews carried out against reviews. During the year under review Rs. effects of our operations on the environment mandatory compliance requirements ensure 830, 8567 of monetised capital was invested (Refer page 121 to 122 for the information that no deviations take place within the in internal audits to assure the proper on Group’s discharge management). Group. Internal audits are performed by a functioning of the Group’s Environmental Furthermore, our voluntary investments trained cross-functional team representing Management System. 286 number of towards environmental conservation also all the divisions of DIMO. The effectiveness voluntary human hours were invested by promote ecosystem health (Refer page 1225 of the environment management system our employees to conduct these audits. Rs. for information on voluntary investment on is evaluated and verified by an external 17.1 million of monetised capital has been environmental conservation projects). accreditation body annually. invested to build water recycling plants and rain water harvesting plants in the last 5 years. During the year, no fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and/or regulations were reported. RISKS THAT THREATEN AND OPPORTUNITIES THAT STRENGTHEN NATURAL CAPITAL Area of Risk Risk Mitigation Opportunities arising from risk areas The constant changes in the climate have All our business locations are equipped with The likelihood of sudden power cuts due to resulted in unexpected natural disasters which generators to supply electricity when needed. natural disasters is high in Sri Lanka. This requires affect the supply of energy and water for The group utilises water from multiple sources energy backups to continue daily routines. We operations. such as municipal water supply, rain water have identified an opportunity to collaborate with harvesting systems, ground water wells and our business partners to offer high tech generators water recycling plants, thereby reducing the to the Sri Lankan Market. More details on this risk of dependence on a single water source. business segment are reported from page 92 to More details of water consumption from each 111 of Value chain management section. of these sources are discussed on page. The volatility in energy prices has a negative The Group’s energy consumption related The volatility of energy prices has created a impact on the Group’s bottom-line. positively to its operations. However, we demand for renewable energy sources and also have multiple ways to ensure energy is energy efficient products. The Group is able to consumed efficiently. Refer page 89 for more capitalise on this opportunity by offering electric information on activities in place to ensure vehicles and energy efficient tools to the Sri efficient usage of energy. Lankan market. Refer page 119 for more details on these businesses. Further the Group is in the process of analysing the feasibility of future expansions into renewable energy egeneration. This will enable the Group to contribute to the local electricity supply via a non-renewable source. 91 MANAGEMENT OF VALUE CHAIN This section describes our industry segments and how they have performed in the year under review. In this section we also discuss the value chain, the impacts, the capital inputs, risks, opportunities and other aspects with regard to each business segment. Economic Environment 93 Vehicle Sales 94 Vehicles After Services 98 Marketing and Distribution 101 Construction and Material Handling Projects 104 Agriculture 107 Electro-Mechanical, Bio-Medical and Marine Engineering 109 ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Change is positive Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information Indicator Effect to DIMO Measure GDP growth rate A higher GDP growth rate improves business sentiment, The Sri Lankan economy recorded a growth of 3.1% in while positively impacting the performance of the Group real terms for the year 2017, compared to the growth of as DIMO’s product portfolio comprises a large offering of 4.5% in 2016. capital equipment. Interest rates Interest rates impact on DIMO in two ways. Lower The Average Weighted Prime Lending Rate (AWPR) borrowings cost can act as a catalyst to fuel demand for decreased from 11.79% at the beginning of the year to motor vehicles and other capital equipment that we sell. 11.55% as at 31st March 2018. Secondly it has a direct bearing on the Group’s cost of funding. Inflation rate By boosting households’ “disposable income” lower The overall rate of Inflation, as measured by the National inflation will almost definitely encourage higher spending, Consumer Price Index (NCPI) on a year on year basis was and raise the headline growth rate higher than it otherwise 2.2% as at the end of March 2018 (8.6%% in 2017) and would have been. the Annual average inflation rate was 5% (5.6% in 2016) Low inflation may also mean it’s less likely that the Central Bank will raise its policy rates Depreciation of the LKR The depreciation of the Rupee against the USD and Euro The Rupee depreciated against the US Dollar to Rs. has a material impact on Group transactions denominated 155.97 as at 31st March 2018 compared to Rs. 151.99 in these currencies. in the previous year. The Euro was Rs 192.22 as at 31st March 2018 compared to Rs. 162.36 in the previous year. New motor vehicle Number of new motor vehicles registered is an indicator Registration of vehicles, excluding two and three registrations of the market size for motor vehicles wheelers, reduced to 4.6% from 96,051 to 91,632 units during the year 2017. Transportation sector Growth in transportation sector has a direct impact on the The Transportation Sector grew by 2.5% in 2017, albeit at growth vehicles after services business. a slower rate, compared to 4% growth in 2016. Construction sector The growth in this sector is an indicator of the of the The construction sector, slowed down to record a growth growth market potential for Construction & Material Handling of 3.1% compared to an expansion of 8.3% in 2016. related businesses The growth in construction activities was supported by the infrastructure projects, and large scale residential and mixed development projects. Health sector capital The Government and the private sector are customers of Health sector capital expenditure increased to Rs. 35.5 expenditure the Bio-Medical Engineering business. Capital expenditure billion in 2017 from Rs.30.7 billion in 2016. of the Government in the health sector and the private sector investments are key indicators for the demand in Bio-medical Equipment. Industrial sector growth Industrial sector is a key target segment for DIMO. The value added of Industry activities grew by 3.9% in 2017, compared to 5.8% growth in 2016. Water and energy Government investment in water and energy has an Total electricity generation increased by 3.7 per cent to impact on the fortunes of the Power Engineering and Fluid 14,671 GWh in 2017, from 14,149 GWh in the preceding Management businesses. year. During 2017, the National Water Supply and Drainage Board (NWS&DB) provided 126,701 new water supply connections, raising the total number of connections to 2.2 million by end 2017, reporting a growth of 6.1 %over the previous year. Agricultural sector This is a new sector that DIMO entered into Severe drought conditions that prevailed particularly in the growth major cultivation areas hindered the growth in agriculture activities resulting in a contraction of this sector by 0.8% in 2017 compared to 3.8% contraction in 2016. 93 THE VALUE CHAIN MANAGEMENT REPORT VEHICLE SALES Vehicle Sales is a key business segment of DIMO, offering best in class PERFORMANCE SNAPSHOT vehicles to the Sri Lankan market. The segment’s automobile portfolio includes brand new passenger vehicles, four wheel drive vehicles, Revenue Contribution to the Group’s (Rs. million.) Revenue commercial vehicles, special purpose vehicles and pre-owned vehicles. The diversity of the portfolio serves as a key differentiator for DIMO within the country’s automobile industry. We have built relationships with best in class vehicle manufacturers to import a 26,497 In 2016/17 29,570 60.7% In 2016/17 66.5% range of passenger and commercial vehicles to Sri Lanka. Segment result Contribution to the Group’s We fill the gap between Sri Lankan automobile requirements and (Rs. million.) overall segment result 42.5% the international brands we represent through a carefully built value chain. As depicted below, the value chain adds value to our customers at each level. The value created by the vehicle sales segment is further enhanced by our focussed customer care and reliable and convenient 1,365 In 2016/17 1,748 In 2016/17 Rs. 53.9 % after sales services. Carbon footprint Carbon emission (tCO2e) (tCO2e) to generate Rs. 1 Mn revenue BUSINESS OUTLOOK The upward trend in interest rates, fluctuations in exchange rates, the Loan to Value ratio applicable to vehicle financing and prevailing high tariffs on vehicles may impact the demand for commercial vehicles 2,021 In 2016/17 2,461 0.08 In 2016/17 Rs. 0.09 and passenger cars in the short term. The segment is well equipped Water footprint Water footprint to transform to meet the target of the government where all vehicles (M3) (M3) to generate 1 Mn revenue in the country should be powered by non-fossil fuel sources by 2040. 24,006 In 2016/17 22,569 0.91 In 2016/17 0.76 Industry Specific Indicators Energy consumption Energy consumption Economic Indicator Impact to the Segment (GJ) (GJ) to generate 1 Mn revenue Registration of vehicles, excluding two and three wheelers, reduced by 4.6% Indicates a reduction in market size 19,885 In 2016/17 22,445 0.76 In 2016/17 0.75 Transportation sector grew by Indicates an increment in demand 2.5%. for vehicles after services. Number of Job opportunities Customer Satisfaction Index 299 In 2016/17 349 90% In 2016/17 87% 94 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Change is positive Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information SEGMENT VALUE CHAIN AND LIFECYCLE IMPACT ANALYSIS The diversity of the portfolio serves as a key differentiator for DIMO within the country’s Value chain Impact assessment automobile industry. We have built relationships with best in class vehicle manufacturers to import Efficient order Contribution to a range of passenger and commercial vehicles to construction that government income via ensures the availability Sri Lanka of a range of choices tariff (Page 117) Key Risks Key Risk Mitigation Activity The vulnerability of the Strategic alliances with financial automobile market to interest institutions to offer affordable Pre-delivery inspection Product Stewardship rates and tariff financing options for superior quality (Page 127) Competition from grey imports A value chain that differentiates the segment products those from its competitors Availability through Key Opportunities Carbon Emission well organised vehicle stock management (Page 122) Key Opportunity Risk Capitalisation Strategy Global attention to green Collaboration with business products partners to introduce fuel efficient and environmentally friendly vehicles to the Sri Lankan market. Communication and Increased demand for high Collaborate with business value proposition Ethical Marketing technology vehicles partners to introduce new vehicle enhances awareness (Page 127) models with advanced technology Contribution To Sustainable Development Contribution to economic Aspect Contribution Key SDGs development through Affordable commercial vehicles that promote Transfer of ownership affordable products that promote entrepreneurship entrepreneurship (Page 128) Job creation and economic activities outside Western Province Affordable passenger vehicles that improves livelihood. Sense of assurance Carbon emissions, through fulfilment of effluents and waste in warranty obligations workshops (Page 122) 95 THE VALUE CHAIN MANAGEMENT REPORT VEHICLE SALES KEY CAPITAL INPUTS TO THE SEGMENT SEGMENT PERFORMANCE Higher Participation in Economic Human Capital Relationship Capital Activity Outside the most Populated Business Partners Provinces The number of employees for the year end Out of all the segments Vehicle Sales segment is 299 (2016/17 – 349). The manner in Brand Portfolio recorded the highest turnover outside the which they were engaged in the segment’s Long lasting relationships with best in Western Province, which indicates a higher operations is presented below. class principals provide world class participation in economic activity outside vehicles backed by superior technology the most populated provinces, thereby Employee Profile and a secure supply chain. (For more contributing to community development. details refer business partner Capital 23% 6% Management Report from page 75 to 77) Geographical Distribution of 15% Revenue Generation (%) 4% 1% 9% 6% 51% 6% Manager Senior managers 4% 61% Professional Support staff 7% Sales Technical Key Business Partner Longevity of 7% Relationships relationships 2% (Years) 7% Relationship Capital-Customers Central North Western Daimler AG 79 Eastern Sabaragamuwa Individual customers represent 75% of the TATA Motors Ltd 57 North Southern segment’s customers from high, middle North Central Western FCA International and lower income levels. Refer Customer Operations LLC 14 Capital Management Report from page Employee Productivity 70 to 74 for more information on our Net revenue per employee is the indication customer capital. of employee productivity of the segment. We Monetised Capital notice a significant increment in employee Customer Profile productivity over the last five years. The highest amount of monetised capital Investment of monetised capital on training 19% is invested is in the Vehicle Sales Segment. and development is a key contributor to this 75% 6% improvement. Area of monetised 2017/18 2016/17 capital Investment Rs. Mn Rs. Mn Net Profit Per employee Total segment assets as at 31st March 6,810 6,268 Rs. mn Private Institutions 100 Government Organisations Managing Individuals relationships with 80 customers 147 146 Shared with 60 employees 623 543 Managing 40 relationships with business partners. 8 5 20 0 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 96 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Change is positive Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information Out of all the segments Vehicle Sales segment recorded the highest turnover outside the Western Province, which indicates a higher participation in economic activity outside the most populated provinces Industry Performance – Vehicles Carbon Footprint and Intensity Registered Number of vehicles registered in Sri Lanka Carbon Emissions and Carbon Footprint ’000 (tCO2e) to generate one million turnover CO2e CO2e/Rs. Mn 50 2,500 0.15 40 2,000 0.12 30 1,500 0.09 20 1,000 0.06 10 500 0.03 0 0 0.00 Motor Buses Dual Goods Land 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Cars (a) Purpose Transport Carbon Emission Vehicles (b) Vehicles (c) Vehicles (d) Carbon Emission (tCO2e) per 1 Mn turnover 2017/18 2016/17 Segment Performance – Vehicle Sales Segment Turnover and Results for Five Years Vehicles Sales of the Segment Segment Turnover and Number of Vehicles Sold Results over five years Rs Mn Mn 12,000 35,000 2,000 10,000 28,000 1,600 8,000 21,000 1,200 6,000 14,000 800 4,000 2,000 7,000 400 0 0 0 Motor Buses Dual Goods Land 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Cars (a) Purpose Transport Turnover Vehicles (b) Vehicles (c) Vehicles (d) Result 2017/18 2016/17 97 THE VALUE CHAIN MANAGEMENT REPORT VEHICLE AFTER SERVICES The segment provides franchise spare parts and services for the PERFORMANCE SNAPSHOT aftercare markets of passenger vehicles and commercial vehicles. The parts business includes a range of spare parts, vehicle accessories Revenue Contribution to the Group’s (Rs. million.) Revenue and components for vehicles for which we hold the franchise in Sri Lanka. In addition to parts, service revenues from our state-of-the-art Mercedes Benz Centre, island wide network of DIMO workshops and the LEED Gold certified BOSCH Diesel Centre and Car Service Centre 3,883 In 2016/17 3,502 8.9% In 2016/17 8.0 %) are also included in the vehicles – after services segment. Segment result Contribution to the Group’s We fill the gaps in the spare parts requirements of the international (Rs. million.) overall segment result 22.5% brands we represent through a carefully designed and executed value chain designed to add value to our customers at each level, as depicted in the diagram on the next page. The spare parts are made available to customers through our branches and island-wide distributor network. 724 In 2016/17 723 In 2016/17 22.3 % Our workshops provide aftercare using state-of the art technology, Carbon footprint Carbon emission equipment and tools. The trained and skilled workforce, original spare (tCO2e) (tCO2e) to generate Rs. 1 Mn revenue parts, advanced diagnostic equipment, tools, and on-line connectivity to manufacturers’ guides provide an attractive value proposition to our customers, who seek reliable after care services. 2,129 In 2016/17 2,180 0.55 In 2016/17 0.62 BUSINESS OUTLOOK Water footprint Water footprint The new vehicle emission regulations have resulted in an increased (M3) (M3) to generate Rs. 1 Mn revenue 49,187 12.67 demand for diesel fuel injection parts. As a result, there has been an enhanced demand for genuine vehicle parts. New and ongoing infrastructure developments such as road In 2016/17 43,867 In 2016/17 12.53 construction will result in an increase in the running mileage of vehicles. This is expected to increase the number of repairs made by Energy consumption Energy consumption (GJ) (GJ) to generate 1 Mn revenue vehicle owners, leading to an impact on the automobile spare parts business as well. We believe the investments we have made in the segment will 20,103 In 2016/17 18,509 5.18 In 2016/17 5.28 continue to fuel the growth of the segment. Adequate training to improve technical skills of employees and continuous investments Number of Job opportunities Customer Satisfaction Index in technology will keep the Aftercare Service segment differentiated from other market participants. 624 In 2016/17 599 88% In 2016/17 88 % 98 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Change is positive Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information SPARE PARTS VALUE CHAIN AND LIFECYCLE IMPACT ANALYSIS We fill the gaps in the spare parts requirements of the international brands we represent through Value chain Impact assessment a carefully designed and executed value chain Efficient order designed to add value to our customers at construction that Contribution to each level, as depicted beside. The spare parts involves identifying government income via the equilibrium order tariff (P 117) are made available to customers through our quantity for import branches and island-wide distributor network Key Risks Parts stock Key Risk Mitigation Activity management that ensures availability Substitute service stations that DIMO workshops are conduct low cost services for differentiated by employing high vehicles levels of technology in operations, by being responsible and offering extensive customer care. Parts distribution via Competition from grey imports Our marketing and DIMO branches and a Carbon emission, effluents communication strategy wide dealer network and waste (P 122) continuously educates customers on the benefits of purchasing genuine spare parts from DIMO. Attracting skilled labour DIMO Automobile Training School contributes towards building skilled automobile A sense of assurance technicians in Sri Lanka by fulfilling warranty obligations Key Opportunities WORKSHOPS VALUE CHAIN AND LIFECYCLE IMPACT ANALYSIS Key Opportunity Risk Capitalisation Strategy Value chain Impact assessment Synergies with vehicles Sales The segment utilises the Vehicle Segment (P 94-97) Sales Customer Base to promote its products and services. Accurate diagnosis that provides fast solutions Contribution To Sustainable Development Aspect Contribution Key SDGs Carbon emissions, Job creation and economic activities outside the Rectification via state effluents and hazardous Western Province of the art technology waste of workshops waste (P 122) Encourage innovation through advanced technology A sense of assurance by fulfilling warranty obligations 99 THE VALUE CHAIN MANAGEMENT REPORT VEHICLE AFTER SERVICES KEY CAPITAL INPUTS TO THE SEGMENT Carbon Footprint and Intensity Human Capital Key Business Partner Longevity of Carbon Emissions and Carbon Footprint Relationships relationships The number of employees as at year end ( tCO2e) to generate one million turnover (Years) CO2e CO2e/Rs. Mn is 624. (2016/17 – 599). The manner in 2,500 0.80 Daimler AG 79 which they were engaged in the segment’s operations is presented below. TATA Motors Ltd 57 2,000 0.64 FCA International Employee profile Operations LLC 14 1,500 0.48 1,000 0.32 6% Monetised Capital 1% 500 0.16 13% This section identifies monetised capital 1% trade-offs to nurture the other capitals that 0 0.00 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 70% 9% have been invested in the segment. Carbon Emission Carbon Emission(tCO2e) to generate 1Mn turnover Manager Senior managers Area of monetised 2017/18 2016/17 Professional Support staff capital Investment Rs. Mn Rs. Mn Sales Technical Higher Participation in Economic Activity Total segment assets Outside the most Populated Provinces Customer Relationship Capital as at 31st March 2,292 1,719 Out of all the segments vehicles after service Managing segment made the second highest turnover The customer portfolio of the segment has relationships with in areas outside the Western Province, which two major customer types, individuals and customers 23 34 indicates a higher participation in economic government organisations. Shared with activity outside the most populated employees 718 751 provinces thereby contributing to community Customer Profile Managing development. 1% relationships with 21% business partners. 3 2 Geographical Distribution of Revenue Generation (%) 69% 9% SEGMENT PERFORMANCE Segment Turnover and Results 7% 4% Segment Turnover and 3% Private Institutions Government Organisations Results over five years 82% 4% Rs Mn Mn Individuals Leasing Companies 4,500 800 3,600 640 Business Partner Relationship North Central Capital 2,700 480 North Western Southern Brand Portfolio Western 1,800 320 Other Provinces 900 160 0 0 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Turnover Result 100 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Change is positive Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION The segment operates across several industries and caters to a wide PERFORMANCE SNAPSHOT range of products and equipment. These include the sale of nonfranchise vehicle spare parts, accessories, components, tyres, power Revenue Contribution to the Group’s (Rs. million.) Revenue tools, lamps and lighting fittings. The segment employs a comprehensive dealer network to reach the entire nation. The range of world class brands represented by the 4,716 In 2016/17 4,314 10.8% In 2016/17 9.7 % segment enables it to offer products of technological excellence. The carefully developed cost conscious value chain allows the customer Segment result Contribution to the Group’s to enjoy a unique value proposition. (Rs. million.) overall segment result BUSINESS OUTLOOK As stated last year, the segment made a significant improvement as a 407 In 2016/17 167 12.7% In 2016/17 5.1 % result of numerous efforts made towards growth. With improvements in the construction sector and the rising trend in the demand for smart Carbon footprint Carbon emission solutions, we believe the segment has further potential to succeed (tCO2e) (tCO2e) to generate Rs.1 Mn revenue 1,064 0. 23 in years to come. In readiness, we will continue to nurture our employees and other important capitals which are the key ingredients for the achievement of our desired outcomes. In 2016/17 1,361 In 2016/17 0.32 Key Risks Water footprint Water footprint Key Risk Mitigation Activity (M3) (M3) to generate Rs.1 Mn revenue Increase in substitute products Differentiation of product portfolio by sourcing them from world renowned brands that guarantee excellence in technology and 3,291 In 2016/17 8,572 0.70 In 2016/17 1.99 quality. The availability of reliable aftercare underpins customer attraction to DIMO. Energy consumption Energy consumption (GJ) (GJ) to generate 1 Mn revenue 11,709 2.48 Key Opportunities Key Opportunity Risk Capitalisation Strategy In 2016/17 13,483 In 2016/17 3.13 Established Branch Network and The established distribution business partner relationships network allows the segment to Number of Job opportunities Customer Satisfaction Index provide easy access to new introduce new products to the markets market, faster. Contribution to Sustainable Development 212 In 2016/17 222 74% In 2016/17 90% Contribution Key SDGs Affordable Commercial Vehicles that promote entrepreneurship 101 THE VALUE CHAIN MANAGEMENT REPORT MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION KEY CAPITAL INPUTS TO THE SEGMENT Human Capital Monetised Capital Number of employees as at year end is 212. (2016/17 – 222). The This section identifies the monetised capital trade-offs to nurture manner in which they were engaged in the segment operations is the other capitals that have been invested in the segment. presented below. Area of monetised capital 2017/18 2016/17 Employee profile Investment Rs. Mn Rs. Mn Total segment assets as at 31st March 3,389 2,318 5% 25% Managing relationships with customers 51 61 4% 19% Shared with employees 359 377 Managing relationships with business 5% partners. 7 4 43% Manager Senior managers Professional Support staff Sales Technical SEGMENT VALUE CHAIN AND LIFECYCLE IMPACT ANALYSIS Business Partner Relationship Capital Value chain Impact assessment Efficient order Brand Portfolio construction that Contribution to Long lasting relationships with best in class principals provide involves identifying government income via the equilibrium order tariff (P 117) renowned brand names backed by superior technology and a quantity for import secure supply chain. Efficient stock management that ensures the availability Distribution via DIMO Key Business Partner Relationships Number of years branches and a wide Carbon emission, effluents dealer network and waste (P 122) Robert Bosch GmbH 64 Years Siemens 58 Years Michelin 25 Years Osram GmbH 24 Years Rane Brake Lining Ltd 24 Years A sense of assurance by fulfilling warranty MRF 17 Years obligations 102 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Change is positive Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information As stated last year, the segment made a significant improvement as a result of numerous efforts made towards growth. With improvements in the construction sector and the rising trend in the demand for smart solutions, we believe the segment has further potential to succeed in years to come SEGMENT PERFORMANCE Carbon Footprint and Intensity Employee Productivity Net revenue per employee is the indication Carbon Emissions and Carbon Footprint of employee productivity of the segment. ( tCO2e) to generate one million turnover tCO2e tCO2e/Rs. Mn 1,400 0.45 Net Profit Per employee 1,200 Rs. mn 0.36 25 1,000 0.27 20 800 600 0.18 15 400 0.09 10 200 0 0.00 5 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Carbon Emission Carbon Emission (tCO2e) per 1 Mn turnover 0 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Per employee revenue Segment Turnover and Results Segment reported a 144 % of growth in its results compared to last year. (-36% 2016/17) Segment Turnover and Results over five years Rs. million Rs. million 5,000 500 4,000 400 3,000 300 2,000 200 1,000 100 0 0 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Turnover Result 103 THE VALUE CHAIN MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSTRUCTION AND MATERIAL HANDLING EQUIPMENT The segment engages in the sale and aftercare of earth moving PERFORMANCE SNAPSHOT machinery, road construction machinery and fork-lifts; it also provides products and solutions in fluid management and material handling as Revenue Contribution to the Group’s (Rs. million.) Revenue well as a range of after-market services including full maintenance contracts. The product inputs come from global leaders in construction and mining equipment and in material handling such as Komatsu, Bomag, Schaeffer, Schwing Stetter and Manitou. 2,671 In 2016/17 2,581 6.1% In 2016/17 5.8% The key value driver used to differentiate our offering in this segment Segment result Contribution to the Group’s is the technological excellence of the best in class manufacturers in (Rs. million.) overall segment result 10.4% the world, backed by the commitment of DIMO’s engineering support team to provide trouble free use. The DIMO engineering and design team’s support allows customers to choose the most suitable solution, thereby gaining peace of mind to focus on their core business. This is 335 In 2016/17 206 In 2016/17 6.3% the value proposition on offer. Carbon footprint Carbon emission The value chain presented above illustrates how DIMO adds value to (tCO2e) (tCO2e) to generate Rs.1 Mn revenue 486 0.18 customers at each level, filling the gap between international brands and Sri Lankan demand for construction and material handling equipment. In 2016/17 428 In 2016/17 0.17 BUSINESS OUTLOOK Water footprint Water footprint The growth strategy of Sri Lanka is based on developing the country (M3) (M3) to generate Rs.1 Mn revenue 6,603 2.47 to transform itself into a hub in the region, with a knowledge based, highly competitive social market economy. To this end, numerous key initiatives, including the Port City development project, the Megapolis In 2016/17 11,566 In 2016/17 4.48 project, and the Economic Corridor projects, are being carried out. With these, we see high potential for growth in this sector. We believe Energy consumption Energy consumption that the segment is equipped with the required capitals and resources (GJ) (GJ) to generate Rs. 1 Mn revenue 11,709 4.38 to grab these opportunities and to improve its growing revenue contribution to the Group. In 2016/17 13,483 In 2016/17 5.22 Number of Job opportunities Customer Satisfaction Index 95 In 2016/17 97 92% In 2016/17 88% 104 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Change is positive Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information Key Risks SEGMENT VALUE CHAIN AND LIFECYCLE IMPACT ANALYSIS Key Risk Mitigation Activity Value chain Impact assessment Import of cheap substitutes Differentiation of product portfolio through state of the art Efficient order technology obtained through construction that Contribution to collaborating with business ensures the availability government income via partners and providing reliable of a range of choices tariff (P 117) aftercare. with high quality Key Opportunities Key Opportunity Opportunity Capitalisation Strategy Pre delivery inspection Product Stewardship for superior quality (P 127) The Group’s diversified customer The 360 degree CRM function portfolio includes institutions gives opportunities for cross involved in key development segment prospecting of business projects in Sri Lanka. Availability through well Contribution to Sustainable Development organised equipment and machinery stock Carbon Emission (P 122) management Contribution Key SDGs State of the art technology for the construction industry facilitates building resilient infrastructure, which will eventually lead to economic prosperity. Communication of the value proposition Ethical Marketing (P 127) KEY CAPITAL INPUTS TO THE SEGMENT enhances awareness Human Capital The number of employees as at year end was 95. (2016/17 – 97). The manner in Transfer of ownership Contribution to the which they were engaged in the segment’s and maintenance economic development contracts that ensure through state of the art operations is presented below. continued operations machinery (P 128) Employee profile 47% 7% Sense of assurance Carbon emission, effluent 14% through fulfilment of and waste in workshops. warranty obligation (P 122) 6% 18% 7% Manager Senior managers Professional Support staff Sales Technical 105 THE VALUE CHAIN MANAGEMENT REPORT CONSTRUCTION AND MATERIAL HANDLING EQUIPMENT Key Capital Inputs to the Segment contd... Business Partner Relationship Segment Turnover and Results Capital The segment results recorded a growth of Customer Relationship Capital 62%. Below presented is an account of the Brand Portfolio segment’s revenue and the results for five Long lasting relationships with best in Private institutions represent 76% of the years. class principals provide best in class spare segment’s customers. Presented below is parts backed by superior technology and Segment Turnover and an account of the total customer profile of a secure supply chain. (For more details Results over five years the segment. Rs. million Rs. million refer business partner Capital Management 3,000 400 Customer profile Report from page 75 to 77) 2,400 320 16% 1,800 240 8% 1,200 160 76% 600 80 Private Institutions Government Organisations 0 0 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Individuals Turnover Result Key Business Partner Number of Relationships years Monetised Capital Carbon Footprint and Intensity Komatsu Ltd. 49 Years Provided below is an account of Bomag GmbH 39 Years Carbon Emissions and Carbon Footprint ( tCO2e) to generate one million turnover monetised capital traded off to nurture the Sch'a'fer Systems tCO2e tCO2e/Rs. Mn other non-monetised capitals invested in International Pte.Ltd. 16 Years 500 0.30 the segment MHEDemag (S) Pte Ltd 15 Years 400 0.24 Area of monetised 2017/18 2016/17 capital Investment Rs. Mn Rs. Mn SEGMENT PERFORMANCE 300 0.18 Total segment assets Employee Productivity as at 31st March 1,578 1,420 Net revenue per employee is the indication 200 0.12 Managing of the segment’s employee productivity. relationships with 100 0.06 Net Profit per employee customers 7 10 Shared with Rs. mn 0 0.00 30 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 employees 185 218 Carbon Emission Managing Carbon emission (tCO2e) per 1Mn turnover 24 relationships with business partners. 5 6 18 12 6 0 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Per employee revenue 106 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Change is positive Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information AGRICULTURE The expansion of our agriculture-related business during the year PERFORMANCE SNAPSHOT warranted the recognition of a separate “agriculture” segment. The segment offers a range of agri machinery, agri machinery after services Revenue Contribution to the Group’s (Rs. million.) Revenue and fertilisers to the market. The acquisition of a 51% equity stake in PlantChem (Pvt) Ltd. and Plant Seeds (Pvt) Ltd. towards the end of the financial year added seeds, agrochemicals and speciality fertilisers to the segment’s portfolio. 3,316 In 2016/17 1,805 7.7% In 2016/17 4.4% The segment value chain includes two approaches. Agri machinery Segment result Contribution to the Group’s sales are conducted through the islandwide dealer network developed (Rs. million.) overall segment result 3.8% by the segment over the years. Fertiliser and other specialised agriproducts are mixed and packed locally. BUSINESS OUTLOOK 121 In 2016/17 201 In 2016/17 6.2% The recent re-introduction of the fertiliser subsidy scheme, imposing quota limitations on importers, is expected to impose a temporary Carbon footprint Carbon emission set-back in the fertiliser business. Expected and possible return of the (tCO2e) (tCO2e) to generate Rs. 1 Mn revenue natural weather cycle is set to boost the agriculture sector and thereby increase the demand for agri machinery. The segment is equipped with the resources and expertise required to face these challenges and to 667 In 2016/17 287 0.20 In 2016/17 0.15 capitalise on all feasible opportunities that arise in the industry. Water footprint Water footprint (M3) (M3) to generate Rs. 1 Mn revenue Key Risks Key Risk High government intervention in Mitigation Activity Increase the agri product portfolio 4,791 In 2016/17 184 1.42 In 2016/17 0.09 the agricultural sector. that entails products which are not usually subjected to Energy consumption Energy consumption government interventions. (GJ) (GJ) to generate 1 Mn revenue 7,824 2.31 Unexpected weather conditions Effective marketing strategies to indirectly affect demand for agri create additional demand. machinery. In 2016/17 3,950 In 2016/17 2.00 Key Opportunities Number of Job opportunities Customer Satisfaction Index Key Opportunity Opportunity Capitalisation 220 15% Strategy Global attention to structured The segment has initiated an farming agri research centre on a twenty In 2016/17 54 In 2016/17 36% eight acre land in Dambulla that will test and promote structured farming techniques in Sri Lanka. 107 THE VALUE CHAIN MANAGEMENT REPORT AGRICULTURE CONTRIBUTION TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AGRI MACHINERY VALUE CHAIN AND LIFECYCLE IMPACT ANALYSIS Contribution Key SDGs Contribution to Sri Lanka’s agriculture production Value chain Impact assessment Efficient order construction that Contribution to Improve livelihoods of local farmers involves identifying government income via the equilibrium order tariff (P 117) quantity for import KEY CAPITAL INPUTS TO THE SEGMENT Machinery stock Business Partner Relationship Capital management that ensures the availability Brand Portfolio Carbon emission, effluents and waste (P 122) Distribution via DIMO branches and a wide dealer network with a Key Business Partner Relationships Number of years broad market presence Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd 28 Years Claas Agricultural Machinery pvt Ltd 15 Years A sense of assurance Contribution to the by fulfilling warranty development of Sri Lankan Monetised Capital obligations agriculture sector (P 119) Provided below is an account of the monetised capital traded off to nurture the other non-monetised capitals invested in the segment. AGRI FERTILISER AND CHEMICAL VALUE CHAIN AND LIFECYCLE IMPACT ANALYSIS Area of monetised capital Investment 2017/18 2016/17 Rs. Mn Rs. Mn Value chain Impact assessment Total segment assets as at 31st March 3,452 1,176 Import raw material of Contribution to Managing relationships with customers 50 11 high quality government income via Shared with employees 72 153 tariff (P 117) Managing relationships with business partners 5 6 Blending, mixing and Carbon emission, effluents SEGMENT PERFORMANCE repacking according to the perfect formula and waste (P 122) Segment turnover and results over five years Rs. million Rs. million 3,500 350 Knowledge and awareness through Ethical Marketing (P 127) communication 2,800 280 2,100 210 Distribution via DIMO branches and a island 1,400 140 wide dealer network with a broad market presence 700 70 Educating customers Product stewardship 0 0 of responsible use of 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 agricultural inputs (P 127) Turnover Result 108 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Change is positive Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information ELECTRO-MECHANICAL, BIO-MEDICAL AND MARINE ENGINEERING This business segment delivers reliable and tailored technological PERFORMANCE SNAPSHOT solutions of high quality to meet the needs of individual clients. The segment offers a wide range of business solutions, which Revenue Contribution to the Group’s (Rs. million.) Revenue includes building automation systems, fire detection, protection and suppression systems, CCTV and access control systems, public address systems, power systems for marine propulsion and rail traction, industrial refrigeration, fluid management, bio-medical equipment, 2,603 In 2016/17 2,721 6.0% In 2016/17 6.1% and solutions in medium and high voltage power engineering. Segment result Contribution to the Group’s DIMO’s solutions are based on offerings from world leaders combined (Rs. million.) overall segment result 8.1% with our engineering capabilities. The qualified and trained DIMO engineering team is well equipped to deliver world class engineering solutions in Sri Lanka and to provide the necessary after care. The value chain presented above shows the manner in which the segment 261 In 2016/17 200 In 2016/17 6.2% adds value to its customers. Carbon Footprint Carbon emission (tCO2e) (tCO2e) to generate Rs. 1 Mn revenue BUSINESS OUTLOOK Large scale infrastructure development projects, the growth in the hotel and tourism sector and expansion of the health care industry in both the public and private sectors will provide an impetus for growth. 233 In 2016/17 412 0.17 In 2016/17 0.15 The segment is equipped with skilled professionals and exceptional Water Footprint Water Footprint relationship capital to face any upcoming challenge and to capitalise (M3) (M3) to generate Rs. 1 Mn revenue on attractive opportunities in the industry Key Risks 4,978 In 2016/17 144,477 1.91 In 2016/17 5.32 Key Risk Mitigation Activity High customer bargaining power The segment ensures its value Energy consumption Energy consumption (GJ) (GJ) to generate 1 Mn revenue proposition is invaluable 5,036 1.94 by offering state of the art technology, engineering expertise and annual maintenance In 2016/17 4,960 In 2016/17 1.82 contracts. Number of Job opportunities Customer Satisfaction Index 180 In 2016/17 178 94% In 2016/17 97% 109 THE VALUE CHAIN MANAGEMENT REPORT ELECTRO-MECHANICAL, BIO-MEDICAL AND MARINE ENGINEERING Key Opportunities SEGMENT VALUE CHAIN AND LIFECYCLE IMPACT ANALYSIS Key Opportunity Opportunity Capitalisation Value chain Impact assessment Strategy Global demand for advanced The segment maintains good technological engineering relationships with global players solutions that promote energy in the industry. It enables Proposal and order securing Ethical Marketing (P 127) efficiency and productivity the segment to introduce the latest technology to Sri Lanka, especially in bio-medical engineering products. Planning and designing Contribution To Sustainable Development Product Stewardship that entails advanced engineering expertise (P 127) Contribution Key SDGs Making healthcare with latest technology available to Sri Lankans Promote clear water and sanitation Import machinery and Contribution to equipment of high government income via quality tariff (P 117) KEY CAPITAL INPUTS TO THE SEGMENT Contribution to economic Human Capital Installation and commissioning to development through state perfection of the art machinery and The number of employees as at year end is 180. (2016/17 – equipment (P 119) 178). The manner in which they were engaged in the segment’s operations is presented below. Employee Profile Sense of assurance through warranty Carbon Emission (P 122) 6% obligations 32% 19% 6% 28% 9% Convenient Manager Senior managers maintenance contracts Professional Support staff for fault diagnosis and Sales Technical rectification 110 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Change is positive Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information Key Capital Inputs to the Segment Employee Productivity Key Business Partner Number contd... Relationships of years Net revenue per employee is the indication of employee productivity of the segment. EMAGCranes & Customer Relationship Capital Components. 59 Years Net Profit Per employee KHD Humboldtwedag AG 58 Years Private institutions and government Rs. mn Siemens 58 Years 17 institutions represent the majority of the KSB AG 56 Years segment’s customer profile. 15 Carl Zeiss Meditec 33 Years Customer profile Rolls Royce Power System 13 11% AG 31 Years 11 9 21% Monetised Capital 68% 7 Given below is an account of monetised capital traded off to nurture the other non5 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 monetised capitals invested in the segment Private Institutions Per employee revenue Government Organisations Individuals Area of monetised 2017/18 2016/17 capital Investment Rs. Mn Rs. Mn Carbon Footprint and Intensity Total segment assets as at 31st March 2,628 1,914 Carbon Emissions and Carbon Footprint Business Partner Relationship (tCO2e) to generate one million turnover Managing relationships tCO2e tCO2e/Rs. Mn Capital with customers 20 14 500 0.30 Brand Portfolio Shared with employees 399 396 400 0.24 Long lasting relationships with best in class Managing relationships principals provide best in class equipment with business partners. 9 6 300 0.18 backed by superior technology and a secure supply chain. (For more details SEGMENT PERFORMANCE 200 0.12 refer Principal Capital Management Report Segment Turnover and Results from page 75 to 77) The segment results recorded a growth of 100 0.06 30%. Below presented is an account of segment revenue and the results for five years. 0 0.00 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Segment turnover and Carbon Emission results over five years Carbon Emission (tCO2e) per 1Mn turnover Rs. million Rs. million 3,000 300 2,400 240 1,800 180 1,200 120 600 60 0 0 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Turnover Result 111 MANAGEMENT OF IMPACTS This section gives an assessment of our triple bottom line, providing information about what we’re doing to measure and manage our social, economic and environmental impacts across the value chain. Introduction to Impact Management 113 Group’s Contribution to Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 114 Economic Impact 116 Environmental Impact 120 Social Impact 126 112 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 INTRODUCTION TO IMPACT BEING THE CHANGE Context MANAGEMENT Strategy Enterprise Governance Change is positive Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information PURPOSE TO ACTION CREDIBILITY IN REPORTING DIMO is committed to being a partner in The Board’s stewardship role necessitates that we are transparent in all we do. This requires that sustainable development. This is reflected we report on all the material impacts we make through our value creation activities, and the in our mission statement “Create Value manner in which we have managed them throughout the value creation process. Responsibly”. To us, responsible behaviour is We have followed the GRI Standards published by Global Sustainability Standard Board (GSSB) a part of our differentiation strategy and not a for sustainability reporting. The Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Standard published by mere “license to operate”. World Resources Institute (WRI) and World Business Council for Sustainable Development The Board of Directors has delegated (WBCSD) have been used to measure and report on the Group’s carbon footprint. this important mandate to the Group’s An independent assurance on non-financial reporting is provided by DNV-GL to further Sustainability Committee, which is the enhance the credibility of our non-financial information. The assurance report is available policy making body on matters relating to from page 215 to 217 of this report. sustainability, as depicted in the governance framework presented on page 42. The committee seeks responsible behaviour by addressing material stakeholder Creating value through economic, environmental issues, managing business impacts on the and social performance economy, environment and society, and by participating in voluntary initiatives that Aspiration “create value responsibly” promote sustainable development. As with many other business enterprises, our value creation activities bring about economic, societal and environmental Stakeholder Managing business Participate in voluntary engagement and initiatives that impacts. The challenge for us therefore is to addressing their impact promote sustainable minimise the adverse impacts and maximise material issues (P 112-P 131) development the positive ones. (P 34) (P 114-115) We have a collective responsibility to participate in initiatives that promote sustainable development outside the Economic Environmental Social boundaries of our business. These are performance performance performance initiatives and projects that are not directly related to our business. Our participation Monetised Efficient Responsible in these initiatives is on a voluntary basis, consumption labour practices value creation & depending on affordability. To bring this into distribution action, we engage in projects in collaboration Responsible Product with our employees and external institutions. discharge stewardship Employment Our thoughts and action towards opportunities sustainability complements the Sustainable Product Ethical business stewardship conduct Development Goals (SDGs) introduced by Economic the United Nations in 2015. Our efforts in development through products Sub contractor Compliance the sustainable development journey ensure and services work that we project DIMO as a responsible corporate citizen, thereby strengthening our superior brand equity. Being a Participate in responsible Sustainable Superior Brand corporate citizen Development Reputation Goals (SDG) 113 OUR CONTRIBUTION TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs) Goal Our contribution Page Reference 1 – No Poverty 3.7% of value distributed to employees are distributed in provinces with high poverty headcount index Page 118 During the year we sold 2,086 DIMO Batta vehicles which is a well-known affordable small commercial Page 119 vehicle that has been a means to producing many entrepreneurs. 2 – Zero Hunger We have invested Rs. 68 million in a 29 acres land in Dambulla to carry out Agriculture research work related to agriculture inputs, seed production and high tech agriculture demonstration that will eventually help to have better crops. 3 – Good health By bringing world renowned medical technology to Sri Lanka and ensuring their continuous availability Page 119 and well-being through our competent engineering team, we play a vital role in towards a healthier population. 4 – Quality education The DIMO Automobile Training School has been providing opportunities for Sri Lankan youth on technical Page 128 training free of charge for more than 25 years. Over 500 students have graduated from these training schools. A voluntary donation of school books, bags etc. was conducted for the 7th consecutive year covering Page 130 more than 140 students. 5 – Gender equality Our sustainability performance objectives require us to maintain ratio of female to male employees Page 39 (excluding workshops and field sales) of more than 15%. As at 31st March 2018 this ratio was calculated to be 18.3% 6 – Clean water and Our fluid management solutions that provide drinkable water contribute to improve the availability of Page 119 sanitation clean water to Sri Lankans. DIMO ” ” a voluntary initiative provided safe drinking water to more than 1000 villagers in Page 130 Nagasthanna in Polonnaruwa. 7 – Affordable and DIMO is a Certified Energy Auditor as certified by the Sustainable Energy Authority of Sri Lanka. The Page 89 clean energy Company carries out energy audits for clients, which will eventually lead to more efficient use of power. During the year, we secured a tender for a one megawatt solar power plant to supply power to the CEB under a power purchase agreement. This is considered as our first step in contributing to the renewable energy supply in Sri Lanka. 8 – Decent work and Our Social Accountability Management System (SAMS) based on SA 8000 standard ensures that all Page 127 economic growth employees including indirect employees are treated in a responsible manner. 114 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Change is positive Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information Goal Our contribution Page Reference 9 – Industrial By providing machinery with state-of-the-art technology to the construction industry and providing Page 119 innovation and aftercare to ensure their availability, we facilitate building of sustainable and resilient infrastructural Infrastructure systems. We have fostered innovation by sponsoring a team of undergraduates to participate in Europe’s most Page 129 established educational motor-sport competition. This project helped to enhance the innovation capabilities of our engineering undergraduates. 10 – Reduce The Group’s revenue generation is not limited to one geographical area but spread across the island. Page 96 and 100 inequality Engaging in economic activities outside the western province allows us to contribute to reduce the inequality among provinces inside the island. 11 – Sustainable Our Power Engineering and Building Technologies businesses provide many solutions that helps to build Page 119 cities and smart and sustainable cities. We deliver solutions from Siemens AG, who is a world leader in creating communities smart buildings and smart cities. 12 – Responsible Our Environment Management System (EMS) is ISO 14001:2015 accredited. The EMS ensures we are Page 89 consumption and responsible in our consumption of water, energy, material and lands. production All of DIMO’s main workshops operate state-of-the-art water treatment and recycling plants and the Page 89 Group thus recycled about 8% of the total water used for our activities during the year. The Bosch Diesel Centre and DIMO 800 are LEED Gold certified Green Buildings. DIMO 800 which Page 89 spans16, 000 square meters of built area, consumes 25% less energy than a traditional building 13 – Climate action The Group recorded a 3.08% reduction in its Carbon footprint emission during the year. Page 122 Promoting LED based lighting solutions and delivering them to help conserve energy. This contribute Page 89 towards improving energy efficiency and reducing burning of fossil fuels. “Connect with Nature”, is an initiative conducted as a part of DIMO 5 year Carbon Management Plan. A Page 124 100 foot long green wall consisting of more than 1000 plants has built and the aesthetically pleasing wall serves as a mini carbon sink absorbing carbon emissions. This initiative is part of the Group’s five year carbon management plan. 14 – Life below “Life to Reef” a voluntary initiative conducted with the purpose of protecting and enhancing the Page 125 water biodiversity of Rumassala ecosystem, by restoring the destroyed Bonavista coral reef. Turtle Conservation Project is a voluntary initiative conducted for conservation of turtles, who are vital to Page 125 maintaining the balance of the ecosystem, but facing the threat of extinction. 15 – Life on land Participation in “Project Life” Forest Restoration and Bio Diversity Credit Accrual Programme carried out Page 125 in a degraded one hectare forest land in Kanneliya Forest Reserve. “Project Earth” Environmental awareness sessions carried out among school children for the third consecutive year. 16 – Peace justice and The Group’s enterprise governance process ensure that we comply with rules and regulations and P 41 58 strong institutions are ethical in operations. The Governance framework includes number of mandatory and voluntary compliances that drives the Board’s mandate of good governance. 115 ECONOMIC IMPACT BEING A CATALYST OF ECONOMIC WELL-BEING THE NEED TO HAVE A POSITIVE ECONOMIC IMPACT IN ALL THAT WE DO HOW WE WORK TOWARDS The entirety of our chain of value creation entails the flow of monetised capital and the DELIVERING MEANINGFUL consumption of goods and services. Each component of value creation thus affects the wellECONOMIC VALUE being of the economy. As a Company whose mission asserts that we do business responsibly, Monetised Value Creation and we are meticulous in approaching our business in ways that will have a positive economic Distribution impact. Monetised value creation and distribution reflects how the Group created monetised HOW WE’RE MANAGING OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT value through its value creation process and Our material economic impacts arise in three main areas: monetised value creation and shared it with stakeholders. distribution; providing employment opportunities across the nation; contribution to economic development through products and services, as the diagram below shows. The total monetised value created by DIMO during 2017/18 is Rs.18.1 billion. Our During the year under review the Group created Rs. 18.1 billion worth of monetised value contribution to local economic activity (2016/17 Rs. 18.2 billion), of which Rs. 3.3 billion (2016/17 Rs. 3.3 billion) was distributed through goods and services purchased among employees, shareholders, lenders, government and the community. The Group provides locally amounted to Rs.7.3 billion. Given the employment to 1850 persons (including employees of the ventures invested / acquired during nature of our business, it must also be noted the year), of whom, 19.8% are employed outside of the western province. Our product that we contributed Rs. 18.4 billion towards portfolio, including engineering and agricultural products, contributed to the development of the global economy, in terms of the costs of many industries in Sri Lanka by promoting efficiency and innovations. imported materials and services. It is our belief that our economic impact will generate positive outcomes for ourselves as well The value created for the local economy as to the nation’s economy, thereby driving us towards the achievement of our overall strategic was distributed among the Group’s owners, outcomes. employees, the government, lenders and directly to the community, while 5% of the value created was retained within the business for future investment. This amounted to Rs.910 million (2016/17 Rs.1000 million). How Management of Economic Impact Helps in Achieving Strategic Outcomes Areas that Create Positive Economic Impact Economic Value Generated Monetized value creation and distribution Positive impact on community livelihood Providing employment opportunities all over the nation Contribution to economic development through products Value Created Increased shareholder wealth and services to the Economy 1. Lighting solutions that conserve energy 2. Contribution to the betterment of the healthcare sector Contribution to the development 3. Uplift entrepreneurship via affordable commercial of community infrastructure vehicles 4. Fluid management systems that provide drinkable water Protect social licence to operate 5. Boosting construction industry with state of the art machinery Value Created Increased brand reputation 6. Power engineering and building technologies that helps to the Group to build smart and sustainable cities Being a compliant and responsible 7. Agriculture products that boost domestic agriculture corporate citizen production 116 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Change is positive Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information EXTRACTS OF MONETISED VALUE CREATED AND DISTRIBUTED Monetised Value created Monetised Value Distributed and Retained REVENUE GOVERNMENT COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS 43.7 TAXES AND TARIFFS COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT PRESERVATION Rs. In 2016/17 Bn Rs.44.5 Bn Rs. 12.5 In 2016/17 Bn (69%) Rs.12.4 Bn (68%) Rs. 117 In 2016/17 Mn (1%) Rs.122 Mn (1%) COST OF MATERIAL AND VALUE RETAINED LENDERS SERVICES BROUGHT IN PROFIT RETAINED INTEREST Rs. 25.8 In 2016/17 Bn. Rs.26.5 Bn Rs. 909.8 Mn (5%) Rs.1,058 In 2016/17 Mn (5.8%) Rs.856 Mn (5%) In 2016/17 Rs.1,000 Mn (8%) EMPLOYEES OWNERS VALUE CREATED SALARIES AND SOCIAL SECURITY DIVIDEND OBLIGATIONS Rs. 18.1 In 2016/17 Bn Rs.18.2 Bn Rs. 3.3 In 2016/17 Bn (18%) Rs.3.3 Bn (18%) Rs. 178 In 2016/17 Mn (1%) Rs.453 Mn (2%) Direct community investment Shareholder wealth creation Providing employment opportunities A part of monetised value created is The effectiveness and success of our value across the country directed towards community investments as creation processes considered together with Monetised capital is also invested in a reflection of our collective responsibility other share market conditions, increases enhancing our island wide branch network, towards sustainable development. During the value of our shareholders’ investments thereby generating local employment and the year, community investments amounted in DIMO, rewarding them through capital improving and advancing livelihoods of to Rs.107.5 million, in areas that included gains. The following graph illustrates how an the local community. By creating increased technical education for apprentices and investment of Rs.1,000/in DIMO shares in employment opportunities in many regions the development of social and physical 2008 has increased over the years. of the country, DIMO continues to play a role infrastructure of the community. Such in economic growth and development across investments focused on improving youth Value of Rs.1,000 invested in the country. employability and developing livelihoods of DIMO in 2008 Rs. Direct employment was provided to the local community. More information on 18,000 1,850 persons (including employees of these investments is available in the Social 16,000 the newly acquired subsidiaries) (1,725 in Impact Report from page 126 to 131. 14,000 2016/17), and indirect employment to 365 A further Rs.10.5 million was invested 12,000 persons at the end of March 2018 (599 in towards environmental preservation (More 10,000 2016/17). Direct and indirect employment information on these investments is available 8,000 opportunities have been generated by the in the Environmental Impact Report from companies which were acquired during the 6,000 page 120 to 125). financial year. 4,000 2,000 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 117 ECONOMIC IMPACT Of the total value distributed to employees, 3.7% (3.9% in 2015/16) was directed towards provinces that report a higher poverty headcount index than the country’s average poverty head count index of 4.1%. This strategic decision illustrates our commitment to reducing poverty levels in the local community. The following table identifies the number of jobs we have generated and the amount of Monetised Capital we have invested in fixed assets, including in areas outside of the Colombo and Gampaha Districts. Number of Jobs Generated and Amount of Monetised Capital Invested in Fixed Assets in Areas Outside Colombo and Gampaha Districts Colombo and Northern /East Rest of the country Outside the country Total Description Gampaha Districts Province 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 Employment opportunities Not 268 323 10 7 15 50 19 312 380 provided (new recruitment) applicable Not Employee as at 31st March 1,464 1,417 114 61 253 247 19 1,850 1,725 applicable Investments in buildings, plant Not 244 177 10 4 23 154 277 335 and equipment Rs. million applicable We have increased our contribution towards MANAGING THE RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES indirect employment by using locally supplied Key Risk goods and services. Furthermore, we enforce high standards of quality and ethics in our Area Risk mitigation local procurement practices, thereby driving The government continuously changes Constant monitoring of domestic and global improved sustainability in the businesses of import tariff policies to discourage imports economic environment to determine potential our local suppliers (Please refer page 75 in with the aim of reducing the trade deficit. adverse impacts arising from these areas. Constant This often affects the prices of products and engagements with regulatory authorities and trade the Business Partner Capital Management services we offer. Sri Lanka’s trade deficit chambers / bodies, so as to be up-to-date with new Report for our local procurement practices). for the calendar year 2017 was USD 9,619 regulations. million (2016 – USD 8,873 million). Contribution to economic development The Group uses its strategic alliances with through products and services financial institutions to make available more DIMO’s product and service portfolio affordable funding methods for our products. Our represents six business segments namely; relationships with foreign business partners enable us to introduce more affordable options to our vehicle sales, vehicle after services, customers. marketing and distribution, construction and material handling equipment, electroKey opportunities mechanical, bio medical and marine Area Opportunity capitalisation engineering and agriculture. The products Ne Foreign Exchange Act came in to Capitalising this opportunity, the Company offered by each segment are sourced from effect from November 2017, relaxed immediately invested in two subsidiaries, and one world renowned principals and employ the several aspects related to foreign exchange joint venture in Myanmar and Maldives. These latest technologies. Such products enable us transactions. ventures are expected to create future foreign to contribute to the development of many currency remittances in the form of returns. (More local industries by promoting efficiency and information on foreign investments are disclosed innovation. More information on Group’s in note numbers 4.12.1 and 4.12.5 of notes to the financial statements on page 179 and 182-183. business profile is presented from page 92 to 111 of value chain management section. 118 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Change is positive Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information Agriculture Products including fertilisers, agro chemicals Power Engineering and Building technologies and seeds operations. Building technologies could automate many functions of The main contributors to the Sri Lankan agriculture a building, street or a city. Technologies relating to power sector are Households and Non-Profit Institutions engineering, such as SCADA systems, help in the efficient Serving Households (80.1 % contribution to the GDP transmission of power, reducing waste. Similarly, building of agricultural sector). We believe that our efforts in the technologies can automate many aspects of a building agricultural sector will contribute towards improved such as power, airconditioning, lighting systems, security agricultural production and thereby improve the livelihood systems etc. We deliver solutions from world renowned of Sri Lankan households. brands such as Siemens AG and this helps to build smart and sustainable cities. Providing lighting solutions to Fluid management Systems clients, using LED lamps 9.6% 6.9% A key component in this business is Promoting LED based lighting providing engineering solutions for solutions and delivering them water management. The National Contribution of each will help to conserve energy Water Supplies and Drainage industry sector to Sri and thereby contribute to the 56.8% Lanka Gross 26.8% Board is one of our key clients. By improvement of energy efficiency Domestic providing engineering solutions Production in 2017 and the reduction of fossil fuels to provide portable water, we burnt. participate in the promotion of clear water and sanitation available to the Sri Lankan Community. Taxes less subsidies Industry sector Agriculture sector Service sector State of the art medical equipment Affordable Commercial Vehicles and maintenance services Supply and maintain sophisticated DIMO’ Commercial vehicle We bring cutting edge medical machinery related to the construction range, especially DIMO Batta technology from global leaders industry, including road construction which is commonly known for its to Sri Lanka, and ensure their affordability, has produced many continuous availability through By providing machinery with state of entrepreneurs and uplifted many our competent engineering team. the art technology to the construction livelihoods. The range has provided We thus play a role in making industry and providing aftercare to many people an opportunity to earn healthcare with latest technology ensure their availability for use, we an income and find a way out of available to Sri Lankans. By doing facilitate building resilient infrastructure the low income trap. Therefore, this so, we play our role in improving that will eventually lead to economic product range has the potential to good health and well-being. prosperity. reduce poverty and inequalities. 119 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT MEETING THE CHALLENGES OF MINIMIZING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS THE SIGNIFICANCE OF REDUCING At DIMO, our responsibility towards the well-being of the OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT It is universally accepted that business environment is entrenched in our corporate values (Refer page 05 enterprises in general impact the for corporate values) and in our corporate strategy (Refer page 29 environment, and it is the responsibility for corporate strategy) of individual companies to conduct their activities in ways that cause minimum towards preserving the natural environment. DIMO environmental policy, ISO accredited harm to the environment. At DIMO, our This collective efforts could prevent long-term Environmental Management System responsibility towards the well-being of the negative consequences on the availability of (EMS) and a dedicated division guided by environment is entrenched in our corporate natural resources. Sustainability Committee (Refer page 88 of values (Refer page 05 for corporate values) natural capital management section for more and in our corporate strategy (Refer page 29 HOW WE’RE MANAGING OUR details on DIMO environmental management for corporate strategy). ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS system and environmental policy) DIMO is committed to conducting itself as At DIMO, environmental impact From an external perspective, we use our a responsible corporate citizen (Refer page management is twofold – internal initiatives stakeholder engagement process to identify 29 for strategy statement) and in doing so, to minimise impacts and external initiatives environmental conservation initiatives we focus on minimising adverse impacts to promote conservation. These two pillars outside of our businesses. Of these, we and maximising the positive impacts across enable us to make our contribution to ensure invest voluntarily in selected initiatives all our activities. We have identified natural the sustainability of natural capital inputs. that reflect our economic reality and help resources as a capital input to our value An objective analysis of our internal us demonstrate our responsibility towards creation chain too (as depicted in the value operations helped identity five aspects environmental conservation. creation model on pages 32 to 33). Natural related to our operations that may potentially resources are scarce, and often dwindling impact the environmental (as depicted in and therefore their sustainability is of prime the above diagram). We manage the impact importance. By minimising our impact on generated by these five factors through the environment, we make our contribution How Management of Environmental Impact Contribute to Achieving Strategic Objectives Aspects of Value Systems Available Voluntary Initiatives on Creation that Could to Manage Environmental Conservation Generate Material Environmental Increased Superior availability Social Environmental Impact brand of Natural licence to Impact equity Capital operate Environmental Expectations awareness of the Discharges for school community DIMO Environmental children Policy Value Created to the Group Value Created to the Society Coral and Defining the ocean animal scope for Emissions ISO 14001:2015 voluntary Accredited protection. investments Product stewardship Environmental Management System Positive Contribution to Subcontractors work impact on the protection community of ecosystem Forest Compliance with A dedicated division for livelihood health restoration and Economic statutory and regulatory stakeholder relations bio diversity reality requirement and compliance 120 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Change is positive Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information Management of discharges Our strategy for managing hazardous and non-hazardous solid waste and water disposal is Total waste disposal by method grounded in the concept that the Company should re-use, re-cycle and replenish wherever possible. This effort is supported by all business units. Following diagram depicts DIMO’s 2016/17 2017/18 waste management hierarchy. 47% 44% DIMO waster management hierarchy 36% 39% A4 paper/cotton waste/waste Minimisation and reuse 17% 17% oil/food waste Reused Cardboard, polythene, plastic/oil Recycle Recycled filters/metal scrap/glass/tyres Incinerated Contaminated paper, polythene, Incineration cotton waste/paint tins/sludge Garden waste Hazardous solid waste management Composting Hazardous solid waste can significantly Waste impact the sustainability of natural resources, under Windscreen/paint booth filters/food review contaminated polythene and managing such waste is of critical importance. DIMO employees are regularly trained on safe practices and the proper handling of hazardous material. Non-hazardous solid waste management Chemical Spillage Kits have been made A waste segregation system enables the Group to dispose non-hazardous solid waste available for employees for use in the responsibly. Such waste are either reused, recycled or incinerated. Our premises have in place event of spillage. If such a situation were to a segregation system for non-hazardous solid waste, where colour coded bins are maintained arise, Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) for organic material, paper, polythene and plastic. The waste generated therein is reused or set out the protocol for managing such an recycled. eventuality. We are pleased to report that Foodwaste is handed over to a third party for use as animal feed. The Central Environment there were no incidents reported in relation Authority has also approved third party recyclers to collect paper, plastic and polythene for to hazardous chemical spillages during the recycling. year. In the case of electronic waste, we are in partnership with a recycler for the The table below provides a summary of non-hazardous solid waste generated by the Group safe disposal of e-waste. In a bid to improve during the year. The increment in vehicle throughput by 25% has caused the increment our handling of hazardous waste, we have in Cardboard boxes disposed by 20% compared to the last year. Organic waste disposal commissioned an accredited third party decreased by 9 % as a result of awareness campaigns conducted on responsible consumption. to provide a suitable waste management Non-Hazardous Solid Waste Disposal solution. Disposal Year to year Sludge, waste oil and metal scrap recorded Type of waste Unit 2017/18 2016/17 method Variance higher disposal rates compared to last year, Food/Organic Waste kg Reuse 45,982 50,645 -9.21% due to the observed increment in vehicle Contaminated paper kg Incinerate 6,759 8,993 -24.84% throughput. We recorded reductions on the Cardboard boxes kg Recycle 38,473 32,177 19.57% disposal of cotton waste, paint tins, plastic Pallet Racks kg Reuse 126,876 186,415 -31.94% and polythene by promoting their efficient usage. 121 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Hazardous waste by type and their disposal method Water Discharge by method Ultimate Year to year Type of waste Unit disposal 2017/18 2016/17 Variance method 2016/17 2017/18 Sludge kg Incinerate 138,831 120,330 15% Waste Oil L Reuse 111,885 90,771 23% 35% 30% Metal Scrap kg Recycle 25,394 22,665 12% 47% 55% Cotton waste kg Incinerate 32,782 42,338 -23% 18% 15% Paint tins kg Incinerate 1,202 1,453 -17% Plastic kg Recycle 1,467 2,077 -29% Recycled and reused Polythene kg Recycle 6,035 4,958 22% Recycled and discharged to municipal drainage Treated and discharged Waste water treatment We have in place stringent waste management processes that eliminate the risk of discharging untreated water into any public area or sewage system. Waste water generated from our Managing emissions and climate changes workshops is treated and monitored to ascertain pH levels on a daily basis, thus ensuring The modern world’s greatest environmental compliance with legal limits. challenge is climate change; DIMO considers global warming a grave threat and is Random samples of recycled water are collected by a third party, approved by the Central committed to playing its part in creating a Environment Authority, to monitor pH value and Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD). During cleaner, greener planet. In this spirit, we shall; the year, we discharged 11,923 M3 of water after recycling or treating for PH value (2016/17 – 10,455 M3). This recorded a 14% increment compared to last year. DIMO’s biochemical • Ensure that emissions caused by our oxygen demand, total suspended solids and oil/grease content were all found to be well below business activities fall within the the tolerance levels demanded by the Central Environment Authority. regulatory frameworks and limits. • Minimise the harmful impacts of our During the year under review 3,259 M3 (2016/17 – 2,774 M3) of water has been discharged business activities that could contribute to to municipal drainage upon recycling while 8,822 M3 (2016/17 – 10,995M3) of water was climate change. discharged after being treated to maintain the desired PH value. • Renew our commitment to managing Water Discharge by Method the Greenhouse Gases (GHG) we emit. In light of this, we have been monitoring 2017/18 2016/2017 2015/2016 Waste Discharge by method our carbon footprint over several years, (M3) M3) M3) using the WBCSD/WRI Greenhouse Gas Recycled and reused 8,822 10,095 7,749 Protocol’s Corporate Standard (revised Recycled and discharged to municipal drainage 3,259 2,774 3,676 edition). Treated and discharged 6,617 5,482 8,270 Carbon footprint 2017/18 2016/17 Emission intensity ratio ( tCO2e per Rs. 1 mn of % change 2015/16 2014/15 Emission tCO2e tCO2e Group net turnover) from p/y tCO2e emission tCO2e emission 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Scope 1 4,931.34 4,969.88 -0.78% 4,423.15 4,243.10 0.1135 0.1123 0.1172 0.1512 Scope 2 2,393.47 2,595.86 -7.80% 2,444.27 2,080.90 0.0551 0.0586 0.0648 0.0741 Scope 3 353.87 357.34 -0.97% 356.14 446.7 0.0081 0.0081 0.0094 0.0159 (Limited) Total 7,678.68 7,923.08 -3.08% 7,223.56 6,770.70 0.1768 0.1790 0.1914 0.2412 Note Carbon footprint for the year 2017/18 comprise following; a) 87.81 tco2e (Scope 1 80.53 tco2e, Scope 2 7.28 tco2e) generated by two subsidiaries of Group’s Myanmar operations which commenced business in August 2017and December 2017 respectively.. b) 15.26 tco2e (Scope 1 – 14.77 tco2e, Scope 2 – 0.49 tco2e) generated for one month by PlantChem (Pvt) Ltd and Plant Seed (Pvt) Ltd which were the companies acquired by the Group in February 2018 . 122 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Change is positive Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information The Group’s carbon foot print saw a 3.08% Carbon Footprint vs reduction compared to last year. The GHG Group Revenue Over Last 10 Years emission for one million turnover decreased LKR million tCO2 e by 1.22%, from 0.1790 tco2e to 0.1768 50,000 10,000 tco2e. This is as a result of continuous 40,000 8,000 awareness conducted throughout the year. The graph presented beside compares the 30,000 6,000 movement in Group’s GHG emission with the Group’s revenue for ten years. 20,000 4,000 The Group’s sustainability committee is 10,000 2,000 evaluating the effectiveness of controls over the carbon emission in newly acquired 0 0 subsidiaries and will execute appropriate 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 mechanisms to strengthen the emission control process in the coming year. Turnover Carbon footprint A Case Study Carbon Footprint Curve of DIMO Performance relating our carbon footprint is currently measured as a ratio between tons of Carbon Dioxide Emissions (tCO2e) per Rs.1.0 million of turnover. This ratio for the current year is compared with its corresponding figure for the previous year to see whether there is an increase or a reduction in the carbon footprint ratio. In doing so, we assumed a directly proportionate linear relationship between turnover and the resultant carbon footprint. In order to look at our carbon footprint more aggressively and critically we are now looking at a scenario where we do not assume a linear relationship but a nonlinear positive relationship between the two variables. Upon mapping of data relating to turnover and the total carbon foot print for the last five years we were able to construct the following curve of best fit, which corresponds to the equation y = 3353.7ln(x) – 27,842. Point A to B in the following graph depicts the Turnover vs carbon footprint curve based on actual data for y = 3353.7ln(x) 27842 the last five years with point B 10,000 C to C depicting the extension of 9,000 B 8,000 the curve when actual turnover 7,000 7,679 tCO2 e in the future exceed current A Co2 emmission 6,000 turnover. Therefore, our focus 5,000 will be to limit our future carbon 4,000 3,000 foot print to a spot below the 2,000 curve. The carbon footprint 1,000 for year 2017/18 which is 7,679 0 20,000 25,000 30,000 35,000 40,000 45,000 50,000 55,000 60,000 tCO2e, is marked on the graph. Turnover (Mn) 123 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Managing atmospheric emissions Noise management DIMO monitors its atmospheric emissions closely, while an independent third party approved Noise Emissions are strictly monitored across by the Central Environmental Authority (CEA) measures our emissions annually. Such emissions all DIMO sites to ensure the comfort and have been maintained within limits permitted by the CEA. safety of any person in their vicinity. While complying with all regulations relating to Several measures are in place at workshops to control emissions. These include exhaust gas noise emission, we have also taken steps and dust extractors which effectively deal with emissions emanating from engine testing, and to maintain noise emissions well below the the cleaning of air filters and brake assemblies; and filtration systems in paint booths that statutory expectations. Noise emissions are prevent the release of toxic fumes and particles into the atmosphere. measured by an independent third party None of DIMO’s activities result in Ozone depleting emissions CFC-free gases are used in accredited by the Central Environmental vehicles and air conditioning plants which have built-in systems to capture and recycle gas Authority (CEA). when such units are being serviced. Product stewardship We consider it our responsibility to sell products that have minimum environment A Case Study impact throughout their lifespan. As such, each business unit carries out life cycle assessments to assess the environmental impact of products and services we deliver. This helps us identify concerns related to material consumption, discharges, possible emissions & pollutions, positive and negative impacts to the environment and end of life disposals. The assessments are reviewed periodically. INVESTING INTO THE FUTURE THROUGH VOLUNTARY INITIATIVES Reaching beyond our business boundaries, we extend our collective responsibility towards environment protection and conservation efforts with the motive of DIMO celebrated Environment Day 2017 under the theme “Connect replenishing, restoring, and rejuvenating the with Nature”, by erecting a 100 foot long green wall consisting of more environment and preserving it for the future. than 1000 plants. The aesthetically pleasing wall serves as a mini carbon As a signatory to the United Nations Global sink absorbing carbon emissions. This initiative is part of the DIMO Compact, we ensure that value added initiatives undertaken towards Environment Carbon Management Plan, a 5 year programme developed with the Sustainability are in line with one or more motive of controlling and reducing carbon emissions. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) declared by United Nations (The account The structure of the wall was built by the employees of Colombo of Group’s contribution towards SDGs is workshop as a voluntary engagement activity towards environment presented on pages 114 and 115) protection. Continuous employee support is received towards maintenance of the green wall thus far this project has recorded 265 volunteer hours. The success of this project has inspired the passionate volunteers of DIMO to expand the same to another stretch of workshop area... 124 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Change is positive Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information Below is an account of signature programmes conducted during the year Life to Reef Project Earth The Coral Reef Restoration, Monitoring and Conservation Environmental Awareness sessions were carried out among Programme in partnership with Wildlife and Ocean Resource school children of five schools in 2017, for the third Conservation. consecutive year. This project is conducted in partnership with AIESEC, University of Moratuwa. OBJECTIVE: Protecting and enhancing the biodiversity of Rumassala OBJECTIVE: ecosystem by restoring the destroyed Bonavista coral reef. Increase environmental awareness among school children and introduce environmental friendly initiatives and best sustainability practices. VOLUNTEER HOURS: VOLUNTEER HOURS: 469 48 Turtle Conservation Project Project Life Conservation project for Turtles, who are vital to the balance Forest Restoration and Bio Diversity Credit Accrual of the ecosystems but face the threat of extinction. Programme was conducted in collaboration with Bio Diversity Sri Lanka. The project is carried out in a degraded OBJECTIVE: one hectare forest land in Kanneliya Forest Reserve. Protecting the balance of delicate ecosystem through conserving of turtle eggs and monitored releasing of OBJECTIVE: hatchlings and conducting awareness programmes on turtle Restore and manage the biodiversity of a degraded forest conservation for community, school children and visitors. land and develop a biodiversity credit accrual system for the first time in Sri Lanka. VOLUNTEER HOURS: 469 MANAGING THE RISKS AND THE OPPORTUNITIES Area of Challenge Risk Opportunities Balancing natural and The monetised capital budget, especially The limitation in allocating monetised capital for environmental monetised capital trade-offs. on voluntary environmental conservation impact management has provided the Group the opportunity to projects, must be evaluated carefully in order increase voluntary employee involvement on related projects. It to balance shareholders expectations and reduces the monetised capital required for labour and motivates community expectations. The Groups’ Annual our employees to participate in environmental conservation Budgeting process assesses the expected cash both within and outside the organisation. During the year 517 flow generation and decides upon investments voluntary hours were invested in environmental conservation which align with the Group’s overall objectives. projects by our employees. Ensure DIMO’s Environmental The subcontracted workers are given a briefing NA Management Best Practices on essential environmental, health & safety are adhered by subcontracted and social compliances they should adhere to workers. and are issued with a general work permit to commence work at our premises. 125 SOCIAL IMPACT WINNING TRUST AND ENSURING LEGITIMACY IN OUR SOCIAL IMPACTS 1. THE IMPERATIVE TO MANAGE SOCIAL IMPACT The Group manages its We are conscious of the reality that we are positioned within, and represent a part of, the larger social impacts through several community. The employees and customers who are providers of critical capitals to the Group also represent parts of the said community. We affect the community through the manner means including its Social in which we manage our employees and customers, while our business activities may have Accountability policy, SA negative or positive consequences on the community. Neglecting these can pose a threat to the 8000:2014 accredited systems Group’s social licence to operate and to the resource availability. and processes, and a dedicated DIMO’s statement of purpose reads ‘Create Value Responsibly’. Managing our social impact is division guided by Sustainability a prerequisite to meeting our commitment of being a responsible corporate. Committee 2. HOW WE’RE MANAGING OUR SOCIAL IMPACT We have identified four material areas through which DIMO has negative and positive impacts on society, as depicted in the diagram below. The Group manages its social impacts through several means including its Social Accountability policy, SA 8000:2014 accredited systems and processes, and a dedicated division guided by Sustainability Committee. We also contribute towards social well-being through voluntary investments. The stakeholder engagement process identifies material focus areas of the community that require due attention and of these, we select areas that are in accordance with our economic reality. These two pillars of social impact management guarantee that we protect our social licence to operate while projecting DIMO as a responsible corporate citizen. How Management of Social Impacts Contributes to Achieving Group’s Strategic Objectives Aspects of Value Systems Available Voluntary Initiatives to Make a Creation that Could to Manage Social Positive Impact to the Society Impact and to Increased Generate Material Superior availability of Social Social Impact Create Value to the brand technically licence to Society equity skilled labour operate Provision and facilitation of Expectations technical and of the Labour practices both vocational Community SA 8000:2014 education to inside business boundary accredited business Value Created to the Group and outside business the youth processes boundary Value Created to the Society Developing Defining the scope for Product stewardship the social service to the DIMO’s social and physical community Ethical business conduct accountability policy infrastructure of Increased Positive Promotion of the community access to impact on responsible Compliance with vocational community business Developing statutory and regulatory A dedicated division for education livelihood practices Economic the quality and reality requirement stakeholder relations livelihood of the and compliance local community 126 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Change is positive Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information MEASURING AND MANAGING OUR The Board’s stewardship requirements ensure that our SOCIAL IMPACT business conduct is ethical and transparent, and this mandate SA 8000:2014 is transformed into action by DIMO’s Code of Business Ethics, which details our approach to business conduct and our public Portraying DIMO’s policy voluntary commitment towards working hours and remuneration. We extend this is disclosed on page 70 in the Customer socially responsible labour this same commitment towards ethical Capital Management Report. practices, DIMO sought Social labour practices to our subcontractors, who Accountability accreditation are expected to manage their human capital Ethical business conduct responsibly, in full compliance with the The communities around us are influenced (SA8000:2014) in 2017. This by the manner in which we conduct business country’s labour law. standard not only acts as an throughout the value chain, from inputs to endorsement of our labour Extending social responsibility towards managing impacts. Therefore it is vital that our own on-site service providers and we have a mechanism to ensure that our practices, ethical business demonstrating DIMO’s commitment towards overall business conduct does not violate conduct and compliance to a healthy work force, a medical camp was widely accepted social and cultural rules, regulatory requirements, but conducted at our Weliweriya premises, norms and ethics. also enables promotion of the DIMO Logistics Centre. A free medical screening and physician consultation were The Board’s stewardship requirements ensure responsible business practices offered to 100 on-site workers of different that our business conduct is ethical and within our supply chain... contractor categories, including janitors, transparent, and this mandate is transformed drivers and man power workers. into action by DIMO’s Code of Business Labour Practices Both Inside and Outside Ethics, which details our approach to We took the initiatives to build places of business conduct and our public policy. Business Boundary worship for the benefit of our employees and The Group’s labour practices are designed The Code of Business Ethics specifies customers of different faiths. We expect this to be ethical and responsible in the way strict guidelines regarding how employees initiative will enhance our efforts towards we regard and nurture our employees – should conduct business operations and ethical labour practices and promoting the providers of human capital. These are the limits within which they may deal with equality. detailed from pages 78 to 82 in Human external parties. All new employees that Capital Management Report. DIMO has won a number of awards and join the DIMO tribe are made aware of certifications related to our human resource the requirements enshrined in the Code of In this section, we explain how responsible practices. This is an indication of our Business Ethics, during their orientation. we are in those practices because the level of commitment to better and ethical labour ethics embedded in our labour practices may The Code of Ethics also ensures that no practices. Refer page 87 for more information affect the well-being of society. Our labour representative of DIMO makes any political on accolades related to HR practices. practices are SA 8000:2014 accredited; donation nor attempts to influence any public this is an assurance that we avoid use of Product stewardship bodies. The Code also addresses issues of child labour and forced labour, maintain Product responsibility is an important corruption and competition. best practices related to health & safety of consideration in our value creation process, workers, freedom of association, eliminating Our partnerships with regulatory and nonbecause it affects the level of trust we discrimination, disciplinary practices, regulatory organisations and associations command from our customers, who provide have also strengthened our efforts towards DIMO’s customer relationship capital. Our ethical business conduct. Through such approach to product responsibility consists partnerships, we have participated and of factors such as ethical marketing, product lobbied for the promotion of fair trade, labelling, product safety and responsible social welfare and matters relating to social aftercare. During the year, there were no equity, among other issues. For example, our instances of non-compliance reported membership in trade organisations has driven relating to these aspects. More information on 127 SOCIAL IMPACT us to voice our views on matters relating to During the year under review the Group spent Rs. 65 million taxation and tariff policy. Presented below is an account of memberships we hold with worth of monetised capital (2016/17 Rs. 57 million) to maintain external associations. DIMO Automobile Training School • The American Chamber of Commerce • The Automobile Association of Ceylon • The Ceylon Chamber of Commerce Voluntary initiatives to make a positive school offers students a comfortable, • The National Chamber of Commerce impact to the society spacious learning environment with 3 In our endeavour to live by our strategic fully equipped lecture rooms, a modern • The Sri Lanka Australia and New Zealand outcome of being a responsible corporate electronics lab, a large workshop for vehicle Business Council citizen, we go the extra mile to understand repairs, a similarly large workshop for basic • The Sri Lanka France Business Council the pulse of the community and invest to metalwork training, special tools to repair • The Sri Lanka German Business Council fulfil their expectations within our economic Mercedes-Benz vehicles, high quality basic • The Sri Lanka Italy Business Council reality. As depicted in the diagram “How hand tool sets, specific electronic diagnostic • The Ceylon Motor Traders Association management of social impact contributes equipment for Mercedes models and • The Chamber of Young Lankan to achieving Group’s strategic objectives” common electronic diagnostic equipment for Entrepreneurs above, the Group’s social initiatives are in other brands such as TATA. Upon completion • The Chamber of Construction Industry Sri three main areas: of the course, graduate apprentices are free Lanka to seek employment or to use their training • The European Chamber of Commerce of • provision and facilitation of technical and to become entrepreneurs. Students could Sri Lanka vocational education for youth also find employment at DIMO in the event • The Japan Sri Lanka Technical and Culture • developing the social and physical of vacancies becoming available at the Association infrastructure of the community Company. • developing the quality and livelihood of Compliance with statutory and regulatory During the year under review the Group the local community requirements spent Rs. 65 million worth of monetised We recognise the importance of respecting Provision and facilitation of technical capital (2016/17 Rs. 57 million) to maintain the statutory and regulatory requirements and vocational education for youth DIMO Academy for Technical Skills. Today, which have been established to protect We undertake to help, develop and nurture over 550 students have graduated from both the public and to ensure ethical behaviour young Sri Lankan talent and showcase it to the Colombo and Jaffna training schools. In of individuals and corporates. As such, the world, while meeting the long term goals total, the DATS programmes have produced we place great emphasis on compliance. of creating job opportunities in Sri Lanka. 38 diploma holders during the year, while 35 Our comprehensive and well established Here is an account of our commitment students are currently undergoing training. conformance framework, presented on page towards this mandate. 42 of the Enterprise Governance section, Providing apprenticeship training ensures that we comply with all mandatory DIMO Academy for Technical Skills opportunities requirements. (DATS). We provide apprenticeship opportunities This flagship programme provides free within DIMO to students from a number We are stringent about making all required technical education to local youth via two of institutions, thereby augmenting their filings and payments punctually and training schools located in Weliweriya educational qualifications and better precisely, and about strictly following all and Jaffna. The current courses available at preparing them for employment. 254 standards and guidelines so that no issues are DATS include Vocational Education and students are undergoing training at DIMO left pending. Training (VET) that focuses on Automobile as at 31st March 2018 (221 in 2016/17). Every one of our islandwide business sites Mechatronics and the Advance Technical Training periods range from three months to are made aware of the need to adhere to Training (ATT). one year, with a longer training period for environmental regulations, product labelling These training programmes are conducted NAITA apprentices. and safety regulations applicable to their with the technical assistance of Daimler locations of operation. Refer to the Enterprise AG. Students are trained free of charge and Governance report on pages 40 to 58 for receive an allowance, subsidised meals, more discussion about our legal platform and uniforms and other benefits. The training how we comply with regulations. 128 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Change is positive Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information Students from the following universities and institutes where enrolled during the year Formula Students Quest for Talent for the Second Continuous Year • NAITA (National Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority) • The Ceylon German Technical Training Institute • The University of Moratuwa • The University of Peradeniya • The University of Sri Jayewardenepura • The University of Kelaniya • The Vocational Training Authority of Sri Lanka • The Automobile Engineering Training Institute • The Ministry of Vocational and Technical Training • The Open University of Sri Lanka • CETRAC (Construction Equipment Formula Student is Europe’s best known educational motor-sport Training Centre) competition, backed by the industry and high profile engineers. Each year, • The Asian Aviation Centre (Pvt) Ltd the competition challenges engineering students from around the world to design, build and race a single-seat racing car. Team SHARK from the University of Moratuwa was the first Sri Lankan team to enter the Formula Number of Apprentices Given Student competition in 2016 and their entry was fully sponsored by DIMO. Training by the Group # of training Team SHARK won three awards for ‘Best Newcomer in Class 1’, ‘Dedication 450 to Formula Student Award’ and an individual award for the ‘Top Individual Driver’ at the Formula Student World competition held at the Silverstone 360 Circuit, UK in July 2016. And this year we are proud to disclose that we are sponsoring the Team SHARK from University of Moratuwa for the second 270 time. This year too Team SHARK is given expert advice and guidance by the 180 Company and have full access to DIMO’s Siyambalape site facilities to build the car. The competition is scheduled to be held in July 2018 at Silverstone 90 Racing Circuit in United Kingdom... 0 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 and Vocational Education Commission of Sri qualification system to rural youth. The Lanka. The programme was launched during programme, launched to commemorate 60 Boosting employment skills in Agriculture the year and 49 students have been trained as years of Sri Lanka German co-operation, sector at 31st March 2018. entails a team travelling island wide by a DIMO initiated a harvester operations purpose built bus to offer counselling. training programme in collaboration with the Career guidance Ministry of Skill Development and Vocational Career guidance workshops were conducted Developing the social and physical Training, with the aim of promoting more for 678 students of 10 Universities including infrastructure of the community efficient and technological agricultural vocational training institutes which addressed The quality of social and physical techniques among Sri Lankan youth. The how to meet employer expectations. infrastructure has a positive correlation to participants will be awarded a recognized DIMO also provided assistance to GIZ the the economic health of a country. Therefore, National Vocational Qualification (NVQ) German Development Cooperation, a notas a responsible corporate citizen, we go Level 3 certification accredited by the Tertiary for-profit organisation, in offering mobile the extra mile to contribute towards such career guidance counselling about the NVQ development. 129 SOCIAL IMPACT Road safety and driver training Sri Lanka has a high traffic-related fatality rate. DIMO Sri Lanka has a high traffic-related fatality rate. DIMO undertook a timely initiative to undertook a timely initiative to enhance the driving skills of both enhance the driving skills of both beginners beginners and experienced drivers by establishing an institute and experienced drivers by establishing aimed at promoting road safety and reducing the number of an institute aimed at promoting road road accidents safety and reducing the number of road accidents. The DIMO Nasevena Technical Education Centre (DTI) is located on a 9 acre site in Sooriyawewa, Hambantota. December 2017, for the 7th consecutive The DTI employs classroom and practical year. This event also serves as a stakeholder training methodologies using world class engagement initiative, helping us to maintain curriculums. During the year under review a good relationship with the neighbouring Rs. 20 million worth of monetised capital community. The event was held at the (2016/17 – Rs. 23 million) was invested in Siyambalape branch premises for children maintaining Nasevena Technical Education of families living near the Siyambalape Centre (DTI). workshop. School books, stationery and We took this effort further by hosting driver DIMO branded school bags were distributed training programmes for our customers. among 100 school children. Emperor and DIMO Riyaduru Samaaja, two The DIMO Ampara Branch donated customer loyalty associations, together held schoolbags to school children residing in the 12 programmes during the year where 10 Batticaloa area. 44 DIMO branded school fleet owners were educated on safe driving bags were distributed among the participants. techniques. A house for the turtle nest protector DIMO As part of DIMO’s conservation project We noted that families in a neighbouring for Turtles (As explained in page 125 of war stricken village in Polonnaruwa lack environmental impact report) we have taken quality drinking water and are thus exposed the initiative to build a house to support the to kidney related issues. As a responsible nest protector of DIMO’s Turtle Project in corporate, we immediately invested in a Panama, Arugambay. This project is expected drinking water system comprising of a tube to enhance the livelihood of the turtle nest well, filtration system and a solar panel, protector while ensuring the nest protectors’ which now provides safe drinking water to continuous involvement in the turtle more than 1000 villagers. 72 volunteer hours conservation project. The investment on the were invested by our employees toward this project was Rs.1.5 million. effort. Blood donation camp Developing the quality and livelihood of A blood donation campaign was organised the local community by DIMO’s Kurunagala Regional Centre We strive to build enduring, mutually for patients suffering from kidney-related beneficial relationships with all our local disease. More than 60 people donated blood communities. In this process we invest in at this worthy event. initiatives that enhance their living standards and livelihoods. School supply donation The DIMO Siyambalape service team and DIMO Weliweriya team (the logistic centre) organised their annual book donation in 130 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Change is positive Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information MANAGING THE RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES Key risks Area of concern Risk and mitigation Aligning employee Employee behaviour is a reflection of organisation’s values and its ethical behaviour to the business conduct. DIMO employees work across the country at our Group’s code of branches. It is vital that each of these employees is equally aware and business ethics aligned to the Group’s code of ethics and corporate values. Unacceptable behaviour even by just one employee could severely affect the Group’s overall reputation. Our human capital management activities ensure that our employees are aligned to the Group’s strategies and code of ethics. Related information is detailed from pages 78 to 82 of Human Capital Management Report. The Group’s ethical business conduct is detailed on page 127 of social impact report. The labour Those employed by our subcontractors, such as janitors, security personnel, practices of manpower workers et al are individuals that are indirectly employed in subcontractors the Group. The manner in which they are treated indirectly becomes a Group’s responsibility and therefore impacts the Group’s reputation. The Group’s labour practices are SA 8000:2014 accredited. This ensures that our labour practices are ethical and responsible. Moreover, it ensures that the performance of subcontractors is equally ethical and responsible. More information in this regards is disclosed on pages 126 to 131 of the social impact report. Unacceptable The Group’s corporate values as presented on page 05 of this report employee promote ethical behaviour. New employees are educated on the behaviour importance of such values during their orientation. Each and every negatively affecting employee is expected to adhere to the Group’s code of business ethics Group’s Overall which is available on Group’s intranet. Any unacceptable behaviour brand reputation detected is communicated and discussed at monthly employee council meetings. During the year, there were no such material incidents reported. Key opportunities Area Opportunity Aligning employee The successful alignment of all employees to the Group’s code of ethics behaviour to the allows the Company to create a sustainable competitive advantage. We Group’s code of are proud to say that over the 79 years of service excellence, the ethical ethics. behaviour of our employees has generated a unique reputation for the Group. The labour By influencing labour practices of subcontractors, the Group has the practices of opportunity of making a positive impact on society by improving the subcontractors. livelihoods of those workers. This allows the Group to achieve its strategic goal being a “responsible corporate citizen” 131 MANAGEMENT OF RISKS In this section we review our Risk Management framework and policies and analyse what we have been doing to manage the risks inherent in our value chain activities. Risk Management 133 RISK MANAGEMENT BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Change is positive Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information MANAGING RISKS THAT AFFECT GROUP’S ABILITY TO CREATE VALUE. Managing risk is a key aspect of the Board’s stewardship obligations and a constituent of the ‘performance’ dimension of Enterprise Governance. It is the process of identifying, evaluating and then prioritising the risks that will affect the Group. Thereafter, planned action is taken to minimise the impact of negative effects or to seize reasonable opportunities. As indicated in our value creation model on pages 32 and 33, risks are identified based on the type of management activity carried out for value creation. Managing Risks at Corporate Level Managing Risks Related to Impacts Management Managing Risks Related to Value Chain Management Managing Risks Related to Capital Management Risks related to the management of capitals, value chain and impacts are managed by each Risk Management Framework respective units that has direct responsibility to ensure value creation through those Process activities. Risks that exceed the Group’s risk Identify, Risk Oversight Measurement Feedback appetite are managed at corporate level by Evaluate, Treat Appetite Review Feedback the Board of Directors to ensure that they are and Monitor treated and mitigated adequately. A Framework that ensures risks are well managed Structure The Board is responsible for ensuring effective risk management at corporate level. The risk Group Board of Employees management framework indicates how they Directors Management convert this mandate into action. Committee Heads of Audit Business Each division is required to maintain a risk Committee Units register to record significant uncertainties of the division as mandated by the Quality Management System. The Head of each business unit is expected to identify and Comfort & Assurance record significant uncertainties throughout Independent Audit Internal Audit Internal Control the value chain managed by the division. Uncertainties that have a significant impact over the division’s performance are communicated to the Group Management Committee (GMC) at the quarterly performance review meetings and annual budget meetings. 133 RISK MANAGEMENT The GMC examines such uncertainties, from their identification to the management The position of a particular risk on the risk identifies potential risks that could expose of risks map indicates whether the risk falls below or the Group to situations that may seriously beyond DIMO’s risk appetite. The extent to reduce earnings, threaten its sustenance, RISK EVALUATION AND MAPPING which risk mitigation actions are required is impair its liquidity or lead to legal, regulatory A risk map is developed based on the then determined. or reputational risks. assessment of likelihood of occurrence and The risks that are within the risk appetite of the potential impact of risks, should they The Audit Committee reviews the the Group are addressed and managed at occur. Likelihood of occurrence is assessed effectiveness of the risk management process, the GMC level, based on the management on the basis of past experience and the which includes all aspects from determining activity to which it relates. Risks falling preventive measures in place. A ranking risk appetite at Board level to measurements outside the risk appetite are communicated of ‘almost certain’, ‘likely’, ‘moderate’ or and feedback at operational level. to the Board of Directors to ensure proper ‘rare’ is assigned to each risk, relating to the mechanisms are in place to address such Internal control, internal audit and probability of its occurrence. The impact of risks. independent assurance provide comfort and the event is assessed by determining the loss assurance on the risk management process. it would cause and the extent of the impact. While internal controls focus on operations, After consideration of these two factors, the assurance provided by the internal audit the impact is then categorised as ‘minor’, and independent parties deals with any gaps, ‘moderate’, ‘major’ or ‘catastrophic’. Risk Assessment Matrix and Risks that exceed Group’s Risk Appetite Risk Map 4 3 2 1 Impact Catastrophic Risks that Exceed 6 5 Group’s Risk Appetite R i s k A p p e t i t e L e ve l 1. Volatility of import regulations and government tariff policy on automobile. Major 2. Disruptions to the relationship with Business Partners 3. A weakness in employee health and safety precautions resulting significant damage to employee’s health and safety. Moderate 4. Loss of confidential and operational data due to security breaches / system breakdowns in the IT systems. 5. Loss of reputation arising from unacceptable corporate behaviour Minor 6. Possible damages to people and property from disasters such as fire. Rare Moderate Likely Almost Certain Likelihood 134 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Change is positive Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information MANAGING RISKS RELATED TO CAPITALS Risks that threaten the availability, affordability and quality of the capitals are identified and managed by divisions directly responsible for managing such capitals. The table below provides a navigation on where risks related to capitals are discussed. Page Reference for Capital discussions Risks Affecting Monetised Capital Page 69 Risks Affecting Customer Relationship Capital Page 74 Risks Affecting Business partner relationship capital Page 77 Risks Affecting Human Capital Page 82 Risks Affecting Intellectual Capital Page 86 Risks Affecting Natural Capital Page 91 MANAGING RISKS RELATED TO VALUE CHAIN Risks that affect the operations of each value chain are managed at business segment level. The table below provides a guide to the significant risks that each segment identified and managed during the year. Page Reference for Segment discussions Vehicle Sales Page 95 Vehicle After Services Page 99 Marketing and Distribution Page 101 Construction and Material Handling Equipment Page 104 Agriculture Page 107 Electro-Mechanical, Bio-Medical and Marine Engineering Page 109 MANAGING RISKS RELATED TO IMPACTS The group makes positive and negative impacts on society, economy and the environment throughout its value chain. Those impacts could generate significant risks to the Group’s sustenance if not managed properly. The table below presents where such risks are discussed in details. Page Reference for Impact Category discussions. Risks arising from Impacts generated to the Economy Page 119 Risks arising from Impacts generated to the Environment Page 125 Risks arising from Impacts generated to the Society Page 131 135 RISK MANAGEMENT MANAGING RISKS AT CORPORATE LEVEL Risk management at corporate level includes the risks that fall beyond the Group’s risk appetite. Board of Directors evaluate such risks, decide on sufficient mitigation activities and monitor the effectiveness of such activities. Presented below is an account of the risks that received Board attention during the year. 1. Volatility of import regulations and government tariff policy on automobile. 60.7% of the Group’s revenue is generated by the vehicles sales segment. The automobile market is vulnerable to changes in Government tariff policy, which affect the price and thereby market demand. The number of vehicles imported and sold are subjected to the constantly changing import regulations imposed by the government. Mitigation at Corporate Level Reduce the dependency on the Vehicle Segment, by gradually strengthening other business segments, which are Marketing & Distribution, Construction and Material Handling Equipment, agriculture and Electro Mechanical, Bio Medical Engineering and Marine Solutions. During the year under review, the Group invested Rs. 442 million on related diversification. Vehicle Sales Segment Revenue as a percentage of total Group Revenue Areas Affected % Capitals Monetised 80 Relationship Capital 74 Customer Relationship Capital 68 Business Partners 62 Value Chain Vehicle Sales Vehicle After Sales 56 Construction and Material 50 Handing 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2. Disruptions to the relationships with Key Business Partners Disruptions to relationships maintained with business partners negatively affect the Group’s ability to source supplies to its value chain and thereby impacts the functionality of the business segment to which the business partner provides inputs. Any disruption with one business partner could negatively affect the relationship maintained with other business partners as well. Mitigation at Corporate Level DIMO has focused on developing a mutually beneficial relationships with business partners. The Group strengthens these relationships by constantly engaging with the business partners. An independent survey is conducted once in three years to assess the extent to which the Group has achieved business partner expectations. A detailed account of our relationships with principals is given from pages 75 to 77. Areas Affected Capitals Relationship Capital Business Partners Monetised Intellectual Capital Value Chain All business Segments Strategic Increased ROE Outcomes Business Partner of Choice Enhanced Brand Reputation 136 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Change is positive Value Creation Financial Statements Supplementary Information 3. A weakness in employee health and safety precautions resulting in significant damage to employees’ health and safety Being an Engineering Solutions provider, the Group has 624 number of employees working at service workshops all over the country. These workshops consist of high tech machinery and sometimes the usage of hazardous chemicals which may cause health and safety issues to employees if necessary precautions are not adhered to properly. Such issues would negatively impact the Group’s image as an employer and a responsible corporate citizen. Mitigation at Corporate Level The DIMO Health and Safety policy receives priority above everything else. Our Quality Management System and the Social Accountability management system provides the basis for employee health and safety. It requires the Group to ensure that a safe workplace is provided not only for employees but also for external contractors and visitors. A detailed account on this is provided on page 78 of the Human Capital section. Areas Affected Number of Injuries that Caused More Than Three Lost Working Days Capitals Human Capital 30 Intellectual Capital Monetised Capital 24 Value Chain All business Segments 18 Strategic Improved Stakeholder Outcomes Satisfaction 12 Responsible Corporate citizen 6 Enhanced Brand 0 Reputation 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 4. Loss of operational and confidential data due to security breaches / system breakdowns in the IT systems and disruption to operations due to breakdowns in IT systems The Company possesses a great amount of confidential information on its customers, suppliers and principals. Similarly, information regarding large scale projects handled by the Group is highly confidential and valuable. A security breach can reveal such confidential information to competitors or to the public, which might ultimately lead to ethical and financial losses. The loss of operational information due to system breakdowns also has a major impact on business continuance. Mitigation at Corporate Level Among the many activities to manage and mitigate these risks, we undertake extensive controls and reviews to maintain efficiency of IT infrastructure and data, conduct periodic technical vulnerability assessments on the corporate network and websites, ensure regular backup of data and off-site storage of data backup systems and the availability of disaster recovery plans, while constantly educating the staff on the importance of information security and on handling of sensitive data through workshops and posters at key locations. The Presence of a dedicated Information Security & System Audit Manager further mitigates this risk. Areas Affected Capitals Relationship Capital Customers Monetised Capital During the year; Intellectual Capital Value Chain All business Segments Training Strategic Outcomes Increased ROE Enhanced Brand Reputation Improved stakeholder 05 57 satisfaction Training sessions on information IT security and vulnerability Responsible Corporate security and data handling audits carried out citizen 137 RISK MANAGEMENT 05. Loss of social license to operate as a result of corporate behaviour against the interests of society Economic, environment and social impact are inherent to business value creation. It is vital that we identify negative impacts on time and address them appropriately to maintain social acceptance and our licence to operate. Mitigation at Corporate Level The Board together with the GMC has established a comprehensive stakeholder engagement process that identifies material issues affecting the Group’s material stakeholder groups. Impact management activities are in place to ensure material impacts generated by the Group’s value chain on the triple bottom line are managed properly. Refer page 113 for the Groups ESG integration strategy and pages 114 to 131 for the detail analysis on impacts generated by the Group on triple bottom line. Areas Affected Accreditations/Certificates/Recognitions that Complements the Value Chain All Business Segments Group’s Socially Acceptable Behaviour Capitals Intellectual Capital Natural Capital Monetised Capital Strategic Improved Stakeholder Outcomes Satisfaction Responsible Corporate citizen Enhanced Brand Reputation 06. Possible damage to people and property from disasters such as fire, flood etc. Damage from fire and floods has been identified as a key disaster related risk for DIMO. The usage of gas and other energy sources in workshops increases the risk of fire, unless proper precautions are followed. The employees, visitors and property would be subject to damages. The location in which the head office is situated is an area that is subject to sudden flood in case of heavy rains. This affects the day to day operations of the Company and threatens the safety of inventory stored at the head office premises (vehicles and parts). Mitigation at Corporate Level Preventive measures of safety have been taken and employees are continuously trained and educated on reducing the possible damages to people and property. The financial loss of such incidents has been transferred to insurance indemnities. The Head office premises have been renovated to face sudden flood situations better. Areas Affected Value Chain All Business Segments Capitals Monetised capital Human Capital Intellectual Capital Strategic Increased ROE Outcomes Responsible Corporate citizen Improved Stakeholder Satisfaction 138 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 CHANGE IS VALUABLE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Here we give the reader a detailed account of our monetised resources and the monetised results of our value chain management activities, one of the five key outputs we aim to achieve. We provide the reader with detailed notes and give context to the numbers in the financial statements. The Accounting policies and Basis of Preparation are also presented here. Annual Report of the Board of Directors 140 Director’s Interests in Contracts with the Company 144 Board of Directors’ Statement on Internal Controls 145 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities for Financial Statements 146 Financial Calendar 147 Independent Auditor’s Report 148 Financial Statements 152 Section 2 Corporate Information 158 Section 3 Basis of Accounting 159 Section 4 Specific Accounting Policies and Notes 164 Section 5 Other Disclosures 204 ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS GENERAL STATEMENTS OF ASPIRATION, the turnover of the Company was Rs. 40,711 The Board of Directors take pleasure in PURPOSE AND VALUES million (2016/17 Rs. 41,564 million). A presenting the Annual Report of the Company segment wise analysis is given in Note 4.2 The Company’s statements of aspiration, for the financial year ended 31st March 2018, appearing on pages 165 to 167. purpose and values are available on page 5. that includes and covers the Audited Financial The Directors and all the employees conduct Statements, Chairman’s Message, Group their activities with the highest level of ethical PROFIT AND APPROPRIATIONS Chief Executive Officer’s Review, Enterprise standards and integrity in achieving the The profit after tax of the Company was Rs. Governance, Committee Reports, Risk aspiration and purpose. All employees are 325 million (2016/17 Rs.593 million) whilst Management Report, Capitals Management given a copy of the Code of Business Ethics of the group profit attributable to equity holders Report, Value chain Management Report, the Company and employees are required to of the parent for the year was Rs. 550 million Impact Management Report, Statements of adhere to it. (2016/17 Rs.657 million). Responsibility, Auditors’ Report, Independent Assurance on NonFinancial Reporting and The Company’s total comprehensive income for other relevant information. REVIEW OF PERFORMANCE the year was Rs. 1,554 million (2016/17 Rs.565 A review of performance and future outlook million) and the Group total comprehensive The information table on ‘Disclosures required of the Group is available in the Chairman’s income attributable to parent was Rs. 1,789 by the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007’ Message (pages 8 to 11), the Group Chief million (2016/17 Rs.628 million) appearing on page 48 form part of this Annual Executive Officer’s Review (pages 12 to 15) Report of the Board of Directors. and the sections titled Management of Capitals An interim dividend of Rs.20.00 per share for Report (pages 60 to 91), Management of Value the year ended 31st March 2018 was paid The Annual Report of the Company including chain (pages 92 to 111) and Management of during the year. The Group transferred Rs. the Annual Report of the Board of Directors was Impact Report (pages 112 to 131). 150 million from retained earnings to general adopted by the Board of Directors on 30th May reserves during the year and the corresponding 2018. The required number of copies of the figure for the Company was Rs. 150 million. Company’s Annual Report will be submitted DISCLOSURES Further information on dividends and reserves to the Colombo Stock Exchange and to the The Annual Report of the Company fulfils are available in Note 4.8 and 4.20 to the Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards the disclosure requirements of the Sri Lanka Financial Statements respectively. Monitoring Board within the stipulated time. Accounting Standards (SLFRs/LKASs), Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 and the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange. THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS GROUP STRUCTURE AND NATURE OF OPERATIONS The Board of Directors of the Company consisted of thirteen members as at 31st March The Group structure and names of Directors of FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018. Information relating to the Directors the Company and its subsidiaries are available The Financial Statements of the Group and the of the Company is available in the Directors’ on page 19. Company have been prepared in accordance Profile on pages from 22 to 25. with the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards A brief description of the nature of the principal (SLFRs/LKASs), issued by the Institute of The names of the Directors of Subsidiary business activities of the Group and the Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka and Companies are given on page 19. Company is given in Note 2.2 to the Financial comply with requirements of the Companies Statements on page 158. New Appointments and Resignation of Act No. 07 of 2007 and Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange. The aforementioned Directors Investments and Acquisitions Financial Statements for the year ended 31st The following Director was appointed to the during the year March 2018 signed on behalf of the Board by Board with effect from 27th July 2017. During the year, the Group invested in DIMO Lanka Company Limited, Myanmar, PlantChem the Chairman/Managing Director and Director/ Chief Financial Officer (a member of the Name of the Executive/Non(Private) Limited, Plant Seeds (Private) Limited Board), are given on pages 152 to 205. Director Executive status and DIMO Coastline (Private) Ltd, Republic of Maldives, which are disclosed in Note 4.12 A.N.Ranasinghe Independent NonExecutive appearing on pages 179 to 183. DIMO Lanka FINANCIAL RESULTS AND Company Limited, which is a fully-owned APPROPRIATIONS subsidiary of the company, invested in United RETIREMENT AND RE-ELECTION OF DIMO Lanka Company Limited, Myanmar, Turnover The total gross Group turnover generated DIRECTORS which is given in Note 4.12 appearing on page by the six business segments was Rs. 43,686 Mr. R.C Weerawardana retired from the Board 179. million (2016/17 Rs.44,493 million), while with effect from 30th September 2017. 140 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Change is valuable Financial Statements Supplementary Information Mr. A. N. Algama, Mr. A.G. Pandithage and Mr. BOARD COMMITTEES DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS A.M. Pandithage retire by rotation in terms of The Board of Directors has appointed four Shareholdings of Directors and their spouses, the Article 66 of the Articles of Association of Committees to assist the Board. They are as required by Listing Rules of the Colombo the Company, and are eligible for re-election. Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee, Stock Exchange, are given on page 208 under Related Party Transactions Review Committee ‘Share Information’. Mr. A.N. Ranasinghe who was appointed as and Nomination Committee. While the first Director during the financial year 2017/18, Dr. H. Cabral, Mr. B. C. S. A. P. Gooneratne, three Committees are required by the Listing retire in terms of the Article 71 of the Articles Mr. P. K. W. Mahendra, Mr. S. R. W. M. C. Rules of Colombo Stock Exchange, functioning of Association of the Company, is eligible for Ranawana, Mr. R. Seevaratnam, Mr. A. D. B. of all four Committees are recommended re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Talwatte and Mr. A.N. Ranasinghe, who are by the Code of Best Practice on Corporate Meeting. Directors of the Company did not hold any Governance 2017 issued jointly by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the shares of the Company as at 31st March 2018. The agenda for the Annual General Meeting includes two separate ordinary resolution to Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. be taken up to re-appoint Mr. A.R. Pandithage The terms of reference of each Committee is set INTEREST REGISTER AND DIRECTORS’ as a Director, who has reached the age of 70 by the Board. INTERESTS IN CONTRACTS/PROPOSED and Mr. R. Seevaratnam as a Director, who has Mr. A.N. Ranasinghe was appointed as a CONTRACTS reached the age of 74. member of the Audit Committee, Nomination An Interest Register is maintained by the Committee and Related Party Transactions Company as per requirements of the Companies INDEPENDENCE OF NON-EXECUTIVE Review Committee with effect from 9th Act No. 07 of 2007. All Directors have made DIRECTORS November 2017. necessary declarations as provided for in Sections 7.10.3.b. and 7.10.4.e. of the Listing Section 192 (2) of the aforesaid Companies Act. Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange taken BOARD AND BOARD COMMITTEE During the year, entries made in the Interest together specify that a NonExecutive Director MEETINGS Register consisted of Directors’ interests in shall not be considered independent if he/she The number of Board meetings held and the contracts, remuneration paid to the Directors has served on the Board for a period of nine number of meetings attended by the Directors is and renewal of Directors’ and officers’ liability years from the date of the first appointment, given on page 45. The number of Board Committee insurance. The Interest Register is available at unless the Board taking into account all the meetings held and the attendance of members the registered office of the Company, in keeping circumstances, is of the opinion that the are given in the respective Committee Report with the requirements of the Section 119 (1) (d) Director is nevertheless ‘independent’ and appearing on pages 53 to 54, 55, 56 and 57. of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007. specify the criteria not met and the basis of its determination in the Annual Report. The particulars of the Directors’ Interests in REVIEW OF PERFORMANCE OF THE Contracts are given on page 144 of the Annual Dr. H. Cabral and Mr. R. Seevaratnam completed BOARD AND BOARD COMMITTEES Report and form an integral part of the Annual nine years in office as NonExecutive Directors The performance of the Board was reviewed Report of the Board of Directors. The Directors on 30th September 2015 and 31st December during the year by circulating a questionnaire have no direct or indirect interest in a contract 2015 respectively. among Directors. or a proposed contract with the Company other The Board recognises that Dr. H. Cabral than those disclosed. and Mr. R. Seevaratnam have acted in an The review of performance of Board independent manner over the years bringing Committees were carried out during the year by RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS their independent judgement upon matters way of a discussion during the Board meetings and it was concluded that performance of all NonRecurrent Related Party Transactions relating to the Board Committees and the four Committees were satisfactory. There were no non-recurrent related party Board. The Board is of the opinion that there transactions of which aggregate value exceeded is no reason to believe that their status as 10% of the equity or 5% of the total assets of Independent Directors have been impaired DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION the Company during the year ended 31st March in any manner due to their tenure in office. Director’s remuneration is given in Note 4.5 to 2018, which require specific disclosures in the Having taken into account all relevant aspects, the Financial Statements. Annual Report as required by Listing Rule 9.3.2 the Board determined that Dr. H. Cabral and of the Colombo Stock Exchange and the Code Mr. R. Seevaratnam continue as ‘Independent of Best Practices on Related Party Transactions Non-Executive Directors’ of the Company. issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission. 141 ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Recurrent Related Party Transactions appointed as the Independent Auditor until ENTERPRISE GOVERNANCE There were no recurrent related party the conclusion of the next Annual General The Enterprise Governance section appearing transactions which in aggregate exceeded 10% Meeting. from pages 46 to 51 shows the manner in of the consolidated revenue of the Group as per which the Board plays its stewardship role. 31st March 2017 audited Financial Statements, which required additional disclosures in the INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM AND 2017/18 Annual Report under Colombo Stock RISK MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE Exchange Listing Rule 9.3.2 and Code of Best The Board considers that strong internal BEHAVIOUR Practices on Related Party Transactions issued controls are integral to sound management of The Board is committed to and considers by the Securities and Exchange Commission. the Company and is committed to maintaining it a key priority to act responsibly towards financial, operational and risk management its stakeholders and to manage economic, The members of the Board of Directors of controls over all its activities. Further details environmental and social impacts during value the Company have been identified as Key of these aspects are discussed in the Enterprise creation activities, efficiently and effectively. Management Personnel. The Key Management Governance Report, Audit Committee Report, Personnel have disclosed transactions, if Risk Management Report and Board of any, that could be classified as Related Party Directors’ Statement on Internal Controls MATERIAL FORESEEABLE RISK Transactions in terms of LKAS 24 ‘Related available on pages 40 to 58, pages 53 to 54, FACTORS Party Disclosures’, and are given in Note 5.1 to pages 133 to 138 and page 145 respectively. Information pertaining to material foreseeable the Financial Statements. risk factors are discussed in the Risk DECLARATION Management Report on pages 133 to 138. ACCOUNTING POLICIES The Directors declare that: The significant Accounting Policies adopted by EMPLOYMENT the Group and the Company are given on pages I. to the best of their knowledge and belief, the Group/Company has not engaged in The Group practices and policies relating to 158 to 203. any activity, which contravenes laws and selection, training, development, promotion The Financial Statements and Notes thereto regulations of the country. and employee relations are detailed in the give a true and fair view of the Company’s and section titled ‘Human Capital’ on pages 78 to II. all material interests in contracts involving 82. the Group’s financial position as at 31st March the Company has been disclosed by them 2018 and of their performance for the year and refrained from voting on matters in There were no material issues pertaining to ended on that date. which they were materially interested. employees or industrial relations during the year. III. the Company has made all endeavours INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ to ensure equitable treatment of all APPOINTMENT AND REMUNERATION shareholders. SHARE INFORMATION The Company’s Independent External Auditors, IV. the business is a going concern and that Information relating to shareholding, market Messrs KPMG, Chartered Accountants, who the Board of Directors has reviewed the value of shares, public shareholding and top were re-appointed by a resolution passed at the Company’s business plans and is satisfied twenty shareholders are available on pages 207 last Annual General Meeting, have expressed that the Company has adequate resources to 208 under ‘Share Information’. their opinion which appears on page 148 to to continue its operations in the foreseeable 151 of this Annual Report. future. Accordingly, the Financial DONATIONS The details of their remuneration are given in Statements are prepared considering the Company and its subsidiaries as going The Group and the Company made donations Note 4.5 to the Financial Statements. As far as concerns. during the year amounting to Rs. 7.6 million the Directors are aware, the Auditors do not and Rs. 7.3 million respectively (2016/17 have any relationship with the Company, or any V. internal controls covering financial, Group: Rs.6.0 million, Company Rs.5.8 of its subsidiaries. The Auditors do not have any operational, risk management and million). interest in contracts with the Company, or any compliance controls have been reviewed, of its subsidiaries. and have obtained reasonable assurance from Internal Audit of their effectiveness PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Messrs KPMG, Chartered Accountants, have and successful adherence. AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS made themselves available for re-appointment and having determined their suitability for reThe Group and the Company incurred Rs. appointment, the Board proposes that they be 444 million and Rs. 404 million respectively 142 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Change is valuable Financial Statements Supplementary Information (2016/17 Group: Rs. 724 million, Company: Management Report under Environmental Rs.701 million) on acquisition of property, Impact on pages 120 to 125. plant and equipment, details of which are available in Note 4.9 to the Financial Statements. EVENTS OCCURRING AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD The investment in intangible assets by the There were no material events that occurred Group during the year was Rs. 108 million, after the reporting date that require adjustment which included an amount of Rs. 103 million to or disclosure in the Financial Statements, as goodwill on acquisition of shares in Plant other than those disclosed in Note 5.4 to the Seeds (Private) Limited, whilst the investment Financial Statements on page 205. in intangible assets by the Company was Rs. 5 million, which was on account of computer softwares purchased. (2016/17 – Group: Rs. ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 21 million, Company : Rs. 21 million). The Annual General Meeting will be held at the registered office of the Company, No. 65, Specific information on extent, locations, Jetawana Road, Colombo 14 on Thursday, valuations and number of buildings on the 28th June 2018 at 8.30 a.m. The notice of Company’s land holdings are given in Note Annual General Meeting is given on page 4.9.1 to the Financial Statements. 222. By order of the Board of Directors, MARKET VALUE OF FREEHOLD LAND A qualified independent valuer carried out a revaluation of the Company’s freehold land on 16th October 2017 and the carrying value of freehold land has been adjusted accordingly. The details of market value of freehold land are given in Note 4.9.1 to the A.R. Pandithage Financial Statements. Chairman/Managing Director STATED CAPITAL The stated capital of the Company as at 31st March 2018 amounted to Rs.425 million (2016/17Rs.425 million), details of which A.G. Pandithage are available in Note 4.19 to the Financial Director/Group Chief Executive Officer Statements. There were no shares issued during the financial year. STATUTORY PAYMENTS The Directors, to the best of their knowledge and belief are satisfied that all statutory B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne payments to the government, other regulatory Director/Secretary/Chief Financial Officer bodies and relating to the employees have been made on time. Colombo 30th May 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Policies and endeavours made on environmental preservation by the Group and the Company are detailed in Impact 143 DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN CONTRACTS WITH THE COMPANY Related party disclosures as per the Sri Lanka Accounting Standard -LKAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ is disclosed in Note 5.1 to the Financial Statements on pages 204 to 205. In addition, the Company carries out transactions in the ordinary course of business with entities where the Director of the Company is the Chairman or a Director of such entities as detailed below. Director /Company Relationship to Nature of the transaction Outstanding Outstanding Company as at as at 31st Mar 2018 31st Mar 2017 (Rs.’000) (Rs.’000) Mr. A.M Pandithage Advantis Projects & Engineering (Pvt) Ltd Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 231 Sales of Spare parts 286 156 Alumex PLC* Director Sales of Spare parts 114 Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 5 425 Dipped Products PLC Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 115 162 Fentons Ltd Director Sales of Spare parts and lighting products 670 25 Haycarb PLC Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 14 89 Hayleys Advantis Ltd Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 63 33 Hayleys Aventura (Private) Limited Director Sales of Spare parts 561 Hayleys Fabric PLC Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 113 40 Sales of Spare parts 142 Hayleys Free Zone Limited Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 38 Hayleys Global Beverages (Pvt) Ltd Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 20 Hayleys Lifesciences (Pvt) Limited Director Sales of Spare parts 137 Hayleys PLC* Chairman/Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 107 1,108 Horana Plantations PLC Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 366 Sales of Spare parts 94 44 Kelani Valley Plantations PLC Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 153 Lanka Orient Express Lines Ltd Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 20 6 Logistics International Limited Director Sales of Spare parts 4 Logiwiz Ltd Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 959 530 Ravi Industries Ltd Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 10 Sales of Vehicles 365 2,703 S & T Interiors (Pvt) Ltd Director Sales of Spare parts 33 Singer ( Sri Lanka) PLC Director Sales of Vehicles 3,191 Sri Lanka Shipping Co Ltd Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 687 Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC Director Sales of Spare parts 46 The Kingsbury PLC Director Sales of Spare parts 73 Uni Dil Packing Limited Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 106 Mr. R. Seevaratnam Alpha Apparels Ltd Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 40 19 Distilleries Company of Sri Lanka PLC Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 269 Sales of Spare parts 27 216 Lankem Ceylon PLC Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 52 Sales of Spare parts 250 Nestle Lanka PLC Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 36 Sales of Spare parts and lighting products 20,600 1,472 Sales of Vehicles 242 Omega Line Ltd Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 256 112 Sirio Limited Director Sales of Spare parts and lighting products 188 Tokyo Cement Company Lanka PLC** Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 8,870 1,548 Sales of Spare parts 234 603 Sales of Vehicles 4,457 11,625 Mr. A.N. Ranasinghe Laugfs Gas PLC Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 616 Laugfs Lubricants Limited Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 35 Sales of Spare parts 414 Laugfs Supermarket (Pvt) Ltd Director Sales of Spare parts 1,775 Mr. A.D.B. Talwatte Central Finance Co PLC Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 82 Sales of Spare parts 321 Ceylon Hospitals PLC Director Sales of Spare parts 2,987 Durdans Medical & Surgical Hospital (Pvt) Ltd Director Sales of Spare parts 2,276 Dr. Harsha Cabral Tokyo Cement Power (Lanka) Ltd Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 140 Tokyo Eastern Cement Company (Private) Ltd Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 431 Sales of Spare parts 1,390 Sales of Vehicles 23,250 * Dr. Harsha Cabral is also a Director of the said Company listed under the name of Mr. A.M Pandithage ** Mr. A.D.B. Talwatte and Dr. Harsha Cabral are also Director of the said Company listed under the name of Mr. R. Seevaratnam 144 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ STATEMENT BEING THE CHANGE Context ON INTERNAL CONTROLS Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Change is valuable Financial Statements Supplementary Information REQUIREMENT CONFIRMATION STATEMENT The Section D.1.3 of the ‘Code of Best Practice The Board of Directors of Diesel & Motor on Corporate Governance 2013’ (The Code) Engineering PLC (‘Group’) confirm that the issued jointly by the Securities and Exchange financial reporting system has been designed Commission and the Institute of Chartered to provide reasonable assurance regarding Accountants of Sri Lanka recommends that the reliability of financial reporting and the Board of Directors present a Statement on the preparation of Financial Statements Internal Controls in the Annual Report. for external purposes has been done in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRSs/LKASs) and regulatory RESPONSIBILITY requirements. Maintaining a sound system of internal controls to safeguard shareholders’ investment By order of the Board, and the Company’s assets is the responsibility of the Board of Directors. However, an internal control system is designed to manage the Company’s key areas of risk within an acceptable risk profile, rather than to eliminate the risk of failure, to achieve A.R. Pandithage the business objectives and policies of the Chairman/Managing Director Company. Accordingly, the system of internal controls can only provide a reasonable but not absolute assurance against successful management of risks, financial losses or fraud. The Board identifies significant risks on an ongoing basis and takes necessary steps for B.C.S.A.P Gooneratne implementation of appropriate procedures to Director/ Chief Financial Officer evaluate and manage the identified risks. KEY INTERNAL CONTROL PROCESSES • The Board Committees and Management Committee are established to assist the Board in ensuring the effectiveness of the Group’s operations and that the A.D.B. Talwatte Group’s operations are directed towards Chairman-Audit Committee corporate objectives, strategy, annual Colombo budget, policies, taking in to consideration 30th May 2018 the business environment and internal operating conditions. • The Group Internal Audit function provides comfort on the efficiency and effectiveness of the Internal Control System. More details are available in Audit Committee Report on pages 53 to 54. • The Audit Committee reviews internal control issues identified by the Group Internal Auditors, the Independent External Auditors, regulatory authorities and the management evaluates the adequacy of the internal control system. 145 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES FOR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The responsibilities of the Directors in made so that the form and substance of relation to the Financial Statements of the transactions are properly reflected; and Company and the Group are set out in this statement. The responsibility of the Auditors, • Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock in relation to the Financial Statements is set Exchange are complied with. out in the Report of the Auditors on pages The Directors have a responsibility to ensure from 148 to 151. that the Company maintains sufficient The Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 requires accounting records to disclose, with the Directors to prepare and present Financial reasonable accuracy the financial position of Statements for each financial year giving a the Company and of the Group. true and fair view of the state of affairs of the The Directors also are responsible for taking Company and its subsidiaries as at the end reasonable measures to safeguard the assets of the financial year and the profit or loss of of the Group/Company and in that context the Company and the Group for the financial to have proper regard to the establishment of year, and place them before a general appropriate systems of internal control with meeting of shareholders. The Financial a view to prevention and detection of fraud Statements comprise of the Statement of and irregularities. Financial Position as at 31st March 2018, the Statements of Profit or Loss and Other The Board of Directors accepts responsibility Comprehensive Income, Changes in Equity for the integrity and objectivity of the and Cash Flows for the year then ended and Financial Statements presented. Accounting Policies and Notes thereto. The Directors are required to provide the Accordingly, the Board of Directors confirms Auditors with every opportunity to take that the Financial Statements of the Group whatever steps necessary to enable them to and the Company give a true and fair view form their audit opinion. of the; The Directors, having reviewed the financial • financial position of the Company and its budget and cash flows for the year to 31st subsidiaries as at 31st March 2018; and March 2018 and the bank facilities, consider that the Group/Company has adequate • financial performance of the Company resources to continue in operation, and have and its subsidiaries for the financial year continued to adopt the going concern basis in ended. preparing these Financial Statements. Directors also ensure that; By Order of the Board, • appropriate Accounting Policies have been selected and used in a consistent manner, and material departures, if any, have been disclosed and explained and; • the Financial Statements of the Group and the Company are prepared and B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne presented in accordance with the Sri Director/Secretary/Chief Financial Officer Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRSs/ LKASs); and that reasonable and prudent Colombo judgments and estimates have been 30th May 2018 146 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Change is valuable Financial Statements Supplementary Information FINANCIAL CALENDAR Interim Financial Statements-2017/2018 Submitted On Three months ended 30th June 2017 27th July 2017 Six months ended 30th September 2017 10th November 2017 Nine months ended 31st December 2017 15th February 2018 Twelve months ended 31st March 2018 30th May 2018 Annual Report – Financial year ended 31st March 2018 4th June 2018 73rd Annual General Meeting to be held on 28th June 2018 Interim dividend paid for 2017/2018 paid on 29th March 2018 147 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OPINION in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Diesel & Motor section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance Engineering PLC and its subsidiaries (the Group), which comprise the with the Code of Ethics issued by CA Sri Lanka (Code of Ethics), and statement of financial position as at 31st March 2018, and the statement we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, statement of changes Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is in equity and statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information as set out on pages 153 to 205. KEY AUDIT MATTERS Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements of the Company were of most significance in our audit of the company financial statements and the Group give a true and fair view of the financial position of and the consolidated financial statements of the current period. These the Company and Group as at 31st March 2018, and of their financial matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the company performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with financial statements and the consolidated financial statements as a whole, Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. BASIS FOR OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described Impairment of Trade Receivables Nature and area of focus Our response The Group has recognised a total impairment provision of Rs. 464 million (2016/17: Our audit procedures among others included: Rs. 545 million) in the total trade receivables amounting to Rs. 6,455 million (2016/17: • Testing the completeness and accuracy of key inputs Rs. 4,816 million). in to models and computations. Further we assessed Impairment allowances represent management’s best estimate of the losses incurred within the reasonability of the model methodology and key trade receivables at the reporting date. They are calculated for individually significant assumptions. trade receivables and on a collective basis for portfolios of trade receivable of a similar • Assessing the recoverability of a sample of customers nature. and reviewing the underlying documents to verify The calculation of impairment allowances is inherently judgemental for any institution. the details recorded in the database such as the credit All individually significant receivables are individually assessed for impairment by limits, historical patterns of receipts and reviewing cash considering objective evidence. Collective impairment allowances are calculated using received subsequent to year end for its effect in reducing statistical models concurrent with the historical information on the probability of default, amounts outstanding at year end etc. the timing of recoveries, and the amount of loss incurred and making adjustments to • Assessing whether the Group policies had been current economic and credit conditions. The inputs to these models are subject to consistently applied and the adequacy of the Group’s management judgment and model overlays are often required. disclosures in respect of the judgment and estimates The audit was focused on impairment due to the materiality of the balances and the made in respect of trade receivable provisioning. subjective nature of the calculation. • Assessing the adequacy of the Group disclosures in See note 3.7 for Use of Judgments and Estimates and note 4.16 for information and respect of credit risk. accounting policy 148 Carrying value of Inventories Nature and area of focus Our response The Group has recognised a total impairment provision of Our audit procedures among others included: Rs. 350 million (2016/17: Rs. 406 million) in the total gross • Testing the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of the key inventory amounting to Rs. 9,911 million (2016/17: Rs. 9,348 controls management has established to manage inventories including the million). purchases, sales and holding of inventories. Assessing net realisable value is an area of significant judgment, • Testing the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of the particularly with regards to the estimation of provisions for controls management has established in arriving at criteria used for slow-moving and obsolete inventory. provision computations and to ensure the accuracy of the impairment See note 3.7 for Use of Judgments and Estimates and note no provision. 4.15 for information and accounting policy • Assessing the valuation of reporting date inventory levels, including assessing the reasonability of judgments taken regarding obsolescence. • Evaluating the net realisable value used for provision computation for the selected sample covering significant inventory categories. • Evaluating the appropriateness of the assumptions used based on our knowledge and information of the client and the industry. • Assessing the adequacy of inventory provisions held for slow moving and obsolete inventory by recalculating items included within the provision to ensure the accuracy of provision. • Assessing whether the Group policies had been consistently applied and the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures in respect of the judgment and estimates made in respect of inventory provisioning. Revaluation of Freehold Land Nature and area of focus Our response The group has recorded a revaluation gain of Rs. 2,781 million Our audit procedures among others included: by revaluing freehold land during the year. • Evaluating reasonableness of the value of the property by comparing the The Group entities have engaged professional valuer to land prices used for the land valuation with the comparable land prices determine the revalued amounts of freehold land. Estimating based on the available information. the fair value is a complex process involving a number of • Testing the property database information supplied to external valuers by judgments and estimates regarding various inputs such as price management was consistent with the underlying property records held by per perch of the land. Consequently, we have determined the the Company. revaluation of freehold land to be a key audit matter. • Assessing the competence, independence and integrity of the Valuer. See note 4.9 for information and accounting policy • Assessing the adequacy of the fair value disclosures relating to freehold Land. Other Information Management is responsible for the other information. The other Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information comprises the information included in the annual report, information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion but does not include the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. thereon. In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, 149 consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, When we read the annual report, if we conclude that there is a intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of material misstatement therein, we are required to communicate the internal control. matter to those charged with governance. We have nothing to report in this regard. • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an Governance for the Consolidated Financial Statements opinion on the effectiveness of the Company and the Group’s internal control. Management is responsible for the preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used Standards, and for such internal control as management determines and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are disclosures made by management. free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. • Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt the going concern basis of accounting unless management either on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to realistic alternative but to do so. draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the Company’s and the Group’s financial reporting process. audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated cease to continue as a going concern. Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report financial statements represent the underlying transactions and that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the accordance with SLAuSs will always detect a material misstatement financial information of the entities or business activities within when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are the Group to express an opinion on the financial statements. We considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit taken on the basis of these financial statements. opinion. As part of an audit in accordance with SLAuSs, we exercise We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and throughout the audit. We also: significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the internal control that we identify during our audit. financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and We also provide those charged with governance with a statement perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain that we have complied with ethical requirements in accordance 150 with the Code of Ethics regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements As required by section 163 (2) of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, we have obtained all the information and explanations that were required for the audit and, as far as appears from our examination, proper accounting records have been kept by the Company. CA Sri Lanka membership number of the engagement partner responsible for signing this independent auditor’s report is 3272. KPMG Colombo, Sri Lanka 30th May 2018 151 SECTION 1 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS This section identifies the Financial Statements of the Company and the Group, and presents the Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income, Statement of Financial Position, Statement of Changes in Equity and Statement of Cash Flows. The Responsibility for the Financial Statements and its authorisation is also identified. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March 2018 comprise “Company” referring to Diesel and Motor Engineering PLC as the holding company, and the “Group” referring to the companies that have been consolidated therein. COMPOSITION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Financial Statements comprise of the following; • Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income: Financial performance • Statement of Financial Position: Financial position • Statement of Changes in Equity: Summary of other comprehensive income and transactions with owners • Statement of Cash Flows: Cash flows • Notes to the Financial Statements: Comprising of Basis of Accounting (Section 3) and Specific Accounting Policies and Notes (Section 4) and other disclosures (Section 5). RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Board of Directors acknowledges their responsibility for Financial Statements, as set out in the ‘Annual Report of the Board of Directors’, ‘Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities for Financial Statements’ and in the certification on the Statement of Financial Position on pages 140 to 143, 146 and 154 respectively, of this Annual Report. AUTHORISATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March 2018, were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 30th May 2018. 152 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND BEING THE CHANGE Context OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Change is valuable Financial Statements Supplementary Information Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2018 2017 Change 2018 2017 Change Note Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 % Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 % Revenue 4.1 43,686,158 44,492,990 (2) 40,710,842 41,563,559 (2) Sales taxes (250,797) (221,157) 13 (202,458) (174,697) 16 Net revenue 43,435,361 44,271,833 (2) 40,508,384 41,388,862 (2) Cost of sales (36,344,317) (36,874,214) (1) (34,277,501) (34,802,483) (2) Gross profit 7,091,044 7,397,619 (4) 6,230,883 6,586,379 (5) Other operating income 4.3 187,847 173,403 8 151,033 269,638 (44) Selling and distribution expenses (865,623) (1,029,667) (16) (788,824) (941,391) (16) Administrative expenses (4,775,941) (4,848,990) (2) (4,257,115) (4,358,235) (2) Operating profit 1,637,327 1,692,365 (3) 1,335,977 1,556,391 (14) Finance income 171,368 207,210 (17) 154,264 198,389 (22) Finance costs (1,058,109) (856,183) 24 (1,038,623) (848,378) 22 Net finance costs 4.4 (886,741) (648,973) 37 (884,359) (649,989) 36 Share of loss of equity-accounted investee, net of tax 4.12.5 (2,980) 100 (2,980) 100 Profit before tax 4.5 747,606 1,043,392 (28) 448,638 906,402 (51) Income tax expense 4.6 (193,391) (386,601) (50) (123,733) (313,370) (61) Profit for the year 554,215 656,791 (16) 324,905 593,032 (45) Other Comprehensive Income Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Remeasurement of defined benefit obligation 4.23.1 38,019 (40,795) 193 27,013 (39,213) 169 Deferred tax charge on actuarial (gain)/loss 4.24.2 (10,646) 11,423 (193) (7,564) 10,980 (169) Revaluation of freehold land 4.9 2,780,984 100 2,780,984 100 Deferred tax charge on Land revaluation 4.24.2 (1,571,993) (100) (1,571,993) (100) 1,236,364 (29,372) 4,309 1,228,440 (28,233) 4,451 Items that are or may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Foreign operationsforeign currency translation differences 1,892 100 (85) 100 Net fair value gains on remeasuring financial assets-available-for-sale 371 542 (32) 363 544 33 2,263 542 (318) 278 544 (49) Total other comprehensive income, net of tax 1,238,627 (28,830) 4,396 1,228,718 (27,689) 4,538 Total comprehensive income for the year 1,792,842 627,961 186 1,553,623 565,343 175 Profit attributable to: Owners of the Company 550,308 656,791 (16) 324,905 593,032 (45) Non-controlling interest 3,907 100 554,215 656,791 (16) 324,905 593,032 (45) Total comprehensive income attributable to: Owners of the Company 1,788,745 627,961 185 1,553,623 565,343 175 Non-controlling interest 4,097 100 1,792,842 627,961 186 1,553,623 565,343 175 Basic and diluted earnings per share (Rs.) 4.7 62.00 73.99 36.60 66.81 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. Information and Notes in sections 1,2,3,4 and 5 appearing from page 152 to 205 form an integral part of these Financial Statements. 153 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION Group Company As at 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Note Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Assets Property, plant and equipment 4.9 11,452,530 8,299,035 11,128,864 8,298,487 Lease rentals paid in advance 4.10 20,116 22,321 20,116 22,321 Intangible assets and goodwill 4.11 120,219 24,051 17,226 24,044 Investments in subsidiaries 4.12.1 428,591 23,289 Equity-accounted investee 4.12.5 55,098 55,098 Certification Financial assets-available-for-sale 4.14 8,296 7,825 8,267 7,804 These Financial Statements as set out on Deferred tax assets 4.24 24,906 4,034 pages 152 to 205 have been prepared in Total non-current assets 11,681,165 8,357,266 11,658,162 8,375,945 compliance with the requirements of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007. Inventories 4.15 9,561,038 8,941,711 8,915,805 8,574,365 Trade and other receivables 4.16 5,997,911 4,276,799 4,466,471 3,243,893 Other current assets 4.17 934,878 895,450 613,467 824,446 Current tax asset 4.29 121,978 6,393 118,510 Amounts due from related parties 4.30.1 9,860 100,842 79,319 E.D.C. Kodituwakku Cash and cash equivalents 4.18 265,532 281,799 191,538 269,556 Total current assets 16,891,197 14,402,152 14,406,633 12,991,579 General Manager Finance and Controlling Total assets 28,572,362 22,759,418 26,064,795 21,367,524 Member Group Management Equity and Liabilities Committee Equity Stated capital 4.19 425,297 425,297 425,297 425,297 Other components of equity 4.21 4,050,962 2,839,898 4,049,154 2,839,885 The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and presentation of Revenue reserves 4.20 7,299,899 6,899,747 6,148,714 5,981,889 these Financial Statements. Equity attributable to owners of the Company 11,776,158 10,164,942 10,623,165 9,247,071 Non-controlling interests 4.12.4 304,203 Signed for and on behalf of the Board, Total equity 12,080,361 10,164,942 10,623,165 9,247,071 Long-term borrowings 4.22.1 312,505 590,100 310,140 590,100 Finance lease liabilities 4.22.3 5,683 Employee benefits 4.23 661,415 626,158 609,222 583,912 Deferred tax liabilities 4.24 1,864,432 247,606 1,861,319 247,606 A.R. Pandithage Deferred income 4.25 35,662 47,762 22,813 8,758 Chairman/Managing Director Total non-current liabilities 2,879,697 1,511,626 2,803,494 1,430,376 Trade payables 4.27 2,974,203 1,681,344 2,495,928 1,563,181 Other current liabilities 4.28 1,493,000 1,302,970 1,105,165 1,091,120 Current portion of long-term borrowings 4.22.1 282,350 319,425 281,236 319,425 B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne Current portion of finance lease liabilities 4.22.3 11,333 Current portion deferred income 4.25 225,581 288,133 94,983 99,861 Director/Chief Financial Officer Current tax liability 4.29 31,769 18,286 14,990 Short-term borrowings 4.22.2 8,594,068 7,472,692 8,161,883 7,406,351 30th May 2018 Amounts due to related parties 4.30.1 498,941 195,149 Total current liabilities 13,612,304 11,082,850 12,638,136 10,690,077 Colombo Total liabilities 16,492,001 12,594,476 15,441,630 12,120,453 Information and Notes in sections Total equity and liabilities 28,572,362 22,759,418 26,064,795 21,367,524 1,2,3,4 and 5 appearing from page 152 Net assets per share 1,326.68 1,145.16 1,196.78 1,041.75 to 205 form an integral part of these Financial Statements. 154 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Change is valuable Financial Statements Supplementary Information Stated Other Components of Equity Revenue Reserves NonFor the year ended 31st March Capital Revaluation AvailableForeign General Retained controlling Total Reserve for-Sale currency Reserve Earnings interests Reserve translation reserve Note Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Group As at 01st April 2016 425,297 2,833,277 6,079 4,617,290 2,107,736 9,989,679 Total comprehensive income Profit for the year 656,791 656,791 Other comprehensive income, net of tax 542 (29,372) (28,830) Total comprehensive income 542 627,419 627,961 Transactions with owners of the Company contributions and distributions Dividends to equity owners 2015/16 First and final dividend (239,664) (239,664) 2016/17 Interim dividend 4.8 (213,034) (213,034) Transfer during the year 400,000 (400,000) Total contributions and distributions 400,000 (852,698) (452,698) As at 31st March 2017 425,297 2,833,277 6,621 5,017,290 1,882,457 10,164,942 As at 01st April 2017 425,297 2,833,277 6,621 5,017,290 1,882,457 10,164,942 Changes in ownership interests Acquisition of subsidiary with non-controlling interests 4.12.4 300,106 300,106 Total changes in ownership interests 300,106 300,106 Total comprehensive income Profit for the year 550,308 3,907 554,215 Other comprehensive income, net of tax 1,208,991 371 1,702 27,373 190 1,238,627 Total comprehensive income 1,208,991 371 1,702 577,681 4,097 1,792,842 Transactions with owners of the Companycontributions and distributions Dividends to equity owners 2017/18 Interim dividend 4.8 (177,529) (177,529) Transfer during the year 150,000 (150,000) Total contributions and distributions 150,000 (327,529) (177,529) As at 31st March 2018 425,297 4,042,268 6,992 1,702 5,167,290 2,132,609 304,203 12,080,361 Company As at 01st April 2016 425,297 2,833,277 6,064 4,329,464 1,540,324 9,134,426 Total comprehensive income Profit for the year 593,032 593,032 Other comprehensive income, net of tax 544 (28,233) (27,689) Total comprehensive income 544 564,799 565,343 Transactions with owners of the Company contributions and distributions Dividends to equity owners 2015/16 First and final dividend (239,664) (239,664) 2016/17 Interim dividend 4.8 (213,034) (213,034) Transfer during the year 300,000 (300,000) Total contributions and distributions 300,000 (752,698) (452,698) As at 31st March 2017 425,297 2,833,277 6,608 4,629,464 1,352,425 9,247,071 As at 01st April 2017 425,297 2,833,277 6,608 4,629,464 1,352,425 9,247,071 Total comprehensive income Profit for the year 324,905 324,905 Other comprehensive income, net of tax 1,208,991 363 (85) 19,449 1,228,718 Total comprehensive income 1,208,991 363 (85) 344,354 1,553,623 Transactions with owners of the Company contributions and distributions Dividends to equity owners 2017/18 Interim dividend 4.8 (177,529) (177,529) Transfer during the year 150,000 (150,000) Total contributions and distributions 150,000 (327,529) (177,529) As at 31st March 2018 425,297 4,042,268 6,971 (85) 4,779,464 1,369,250 10,623,165 The General Reserve and Retained Earnings represent reserves available for distribution. Available-for-Sale Reserve consists of net unrealised gains arising from fair valuation of available-for-sale financial assets, excluding the impact arising from impairment of assets. Figures in brackets indicate deductions. Information and Notes in sections 1,2,3,4 and 5 appearing from page 152 to 105 form an integral part of these Financial Statements. 155 STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Note Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Profit before taxation 747,606 1,043,392 448,638 906,402 Adjustments for Depreciation on property, plant and equipment 4.9 355,897 326,354 344,879 320,445 Amortisation of intangible assets and lease rentals paid in advance 4.5 14,475 17,625 14,468 17,614 Amortisation of deferred income classified under non-current liabilities (12,100) 15,511 14,055 8,542 Provision for impairment of investments in subsidiaries 4.12.2 126 61 Gains on sale of property, plant and equipment 4.3 (18,480) (17,302) (16,791) (17,901) Gain on bargain purchase through business combinations 4.3 (38,623) Derecognition of capital work-in-progress 4.9 645 389 645 389 Interest expenses 4.4 1,058,109 856,183 1,038,623 848,378 Interest income 4.4 (19,222) (13,536) (14,308) (12,397) Dividend income 4.3 (480) (298) (480) (88,545) Share of loss of equity-accounted investee, net of tax 4.12.5 2,980 2,980 (Reversal of)/Provision for impairment of trade receivables 4.5 (81,013) 77,463 (87,542) 50,819 (Reversal of)/Provision for slow moving inventories 4.5 (56,078) 143,855 (66,985) 140,333 Provision for employee benefits obligation excluding actuarial loss/(gain) 4.5.1 121,549 97,439 110,530 88,755 2,075,265 2,547,075 1,788,838 2,262,895 Changes in working capital Increase in inventories (336,582) (1,478,274) (274,455) (1,388,487) Increase in trade and other receivables (1,359,533) (477,188) (1,135,036) (202,478) (Increase)/decrease in other current assets 188,862 (206,133) 210,979 (227,944) Increase in amounts due from related parties (9,860) (21,523) (25,605) Increase/(decrease) in trade payables 1,184,874 35,525 932,747 (2,448) Increase/(decrease) in other current liabilities 151,690 192,774 (28,017) 205,006 Decrease in deferred Income classified under current liabilities (62,552) (34,371) (4,878) (58,236) Increase/(decrease) in amounts due to related parties 303,792 (187,706) Cash generated from operating activities 1,832,164 579,408 1,772,447 374,997 Interest paid (1,038,766) (856,412) (1,019,446) (848,607) Employee benefits paid 4.23.1 (59,563) (12,581) (58,207) (12,581) Income tax paid 4.29 (270,777) (365,173) (223,077) (244,959) Net cash from/(used in) operating activities 463,058 (654,758) 471,717 (731,150) 156 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Change is valuable Financial Statements Supplementary Information Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Note Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 30,634 46,921 25,611 46,715 Dividends received 379 194 379 88,441 Interest received 19,677 13,536 14,308 12,397 Investment in subsidiary (38,199) Acquisition of subsidiary and joint ventures, net of cash acquired 4.12.3 (714,932) (403,666) Acquisition and construction of property, plant and equipment and capital work4.9 (444,089) (724,381) (403,736) (701,114) in-progress Acquisition of intangible assets 4.11 (5,445) (21,082) (5,445) (21,082) Net cash used in investing activities (1,113,776) (684,812) (810,748) (574,643) Cash Flows from Financing Activities Capital contribution from non-controlling interest of a newly incorporated 9,122 subsidiary (Note 4.12.4) Repayment of long-term borrowings 4.22.1.1 (317,061) (394,900) (316,990) (394,900) Repayment of finance lease liabilities 4.22.3 (1,525) Dividends paid 4.20 (177,529) (452,698) (177,529) (452,698) Net cash used in financing activities (486,993) (847,598) (494,519) (847,598) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (1,137,711) (2,187,168) (833,550) (2,153,391) Cash and cash equivalents as at 01st April (7,190,893) (5,003,725) (7,136,795) (4,983,404) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash & cash equivalents 68 Cash and cash equivalents as at 31st March (Note-A) (8,328,536) (7,190,893) (7,970,345) (7,136,795) Note A Analysis of Cash and Cash Equivalents as at 31st March Cash and bank balances 4.18 265,532 281,799 191,538 269,556 Short-term borrowings 4.22.2 (8,594,068) (7,472,692) (8,161,883) (7,406,351) Cash and cash equivalents (8,328,536) (7,190,893) (7,970,345) (7,136,795) Figures in brackets indicate deductions. Information and Notes in sections 1,2,3,4 and 5 appearing from page 152 to 205 form an integral part of these Financial Statements. 157 SECTION 2 CORPORATE INFORMATION This section gives a description of the reporting entity, its subsidiaries and joint venture 2.1 REPORTING ENTITY The ordinary shares of the Company are listed at the Colombo Stock The Reporting Entity is Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC (the ‘Company’) Exchange. which is a public limited liability Company, incorporated and domiciled Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC does not have an identifiable parent of in Sri Lanka. The registered office and principal place of business its own. The Company is the ultimate parent of the Group. of the company is located at No. 65, Jetawana Road, Colombo 14. 2.2 PRINCIPAL BUSINESS ACTIVITIES AND NATURE OF OPERATIONS The principal place of business and business activities of the Company, subsidiaries and the joint venture are as follows: Entity Principal place of Principal Business Activities business The Company Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Sri Lanka Import, sale and repair of passenger vehicles, commercial vehicles, material handling machinery, construction machinery, agri machinery, earth moving machinery, car parking systems, power tools, lamps, batteries, import and sale of vehicle spares, components, accessories, providing lighting solutions and storage systems, import, repack and distribution of fertiliser. Subsidiaries DIMO (Private) Limited Sri Lanka Sale and after sales services of bio-medical equipment, power engineering equipment and solutions, building technologies, generator sets, industrial refrigeration systems, diesel engines for marine propulsion and rail traction and fluid management systems. DIMO Travels (Private) Limited Sri Lanka Provision of transportation facilities. DIMO Industries (Private) Limited Sri Lanka Import and sale of tyres. PlantChem(Private) Limited Sri Lanka Import re-packing and sales of pesticides, ,fungicides, insecticides, herbicides, plant growth regulators, compound fertilisers and liquid fertilisers. Plant Seeds (Private) Limited Sri Lanka Import and sale of hybrid seeds and produce, process and distribution of seed paddy, hybrid seeds and vegetable seeds DIMO Lanka Company Limited Republic of the Union Automobile repair and servicing of Myanmar United DIMO Lanka Company Limited Republic of the Union Automobile repair and servicing of Myanmar Joint venture DIMO Coastline (Private) Limited Republic of Maldives Marine and general engineering including repair and service of marine craft, marine engines, generators, turbines, pumps and boilers. The country of incorporation of the above companies is the same country where the principal place of business is domiciled. More details of the Group is available in the group structure on page 19. 158 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Change is valuable Financial Statements Supplementary Information SECTION 3 BASIS OF ACCOUNTING This section covers the basis of preparation of Financial Statements including policies, assumptions, judgements, estimates, and adoption of Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRSs/LKASs). Where applicable, specific accounting policies and basis for judgements and estimates relating to notes in section 4 are given in the same note. 3.1 STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE The subsidiaries and equity-accounted investees whose functional The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group and the separate currency is different from the presentation currency is given below. Financial Statements of the Company, have been prepared and Name of the Entity Country of Domicile Functional presented in accordance with the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards Currency (SLFRSs/LKASs) laid down by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of DIMO Lanka Company Limited Republic of the Union of Burmese kyat Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) and in compliance with the requirements of the Myanmar Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, and provide appropriate disclosures as United DIMO Lanka Company Republic of the Union of Burmese kyat required by the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE). Limited Myanmar DIMO Coastline (Private) Republic of Maldives United States 3.2 BASIS OF PREPARATION Limited Dollar Basis of Measurement The Financial Statements of the Group/Company have been prepared on 3.5 MATERIALITY, AGGREGATION, OFFSETTING AND historical cost basis, except for following; ROUNDING Item Basis of measurement Note Materiality and aggregation Freehold land Initially measured at cost and 4.9 Each material class of similar items is presented separately in the subsequently at revalued amounts Financial Statements. Items of dissimilar nature or function are which are the fair values at the date of presented separately unless they are treated immaterial as permitted revaluation. by the Sri Lanka Accounting Standard LKAS 1 on ‘Presentation of Financial assetsFair value 4.14 Financial Statements’. available-for-sale Defined benefit Actuarially valued and recognised at 4.23 Understandability of the Financial Statements is not compromised obligation present value by obscuring material information with immaterial information or by aggregating material items that have different natures or functions. The Financial Statements, except for information on cash flows have Notes to the Financial Statements are presented in a systematic manner been prepared following the accrual basis of accounting. that ensures the understandability and comparability of Financial Statements. 3.3 GOING CONCERN Offsetting The Management has made an assessment of its ability to continue as Assets and liabilities or income and expenses are not set off unless a going concern and is satisfied that it has the resources to continue in required or permitted by a Sri Lanka Accounting Standard. business for the foreseeable future. Furthermore, the Management is not aware of any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt Rounding upon the Group’s/Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The amounts in the Financial Statements are rounded off to the nearest Therefore, the Financial Statements of the Group continue to be Rupees thousands, except where otherwise indicated. prepared on a going concern basis. 3.4 FUNCTIONAL AND PRESENTATION CURRENCY The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in Sri Lankan Rupees (LKR), which is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the reporting entity operates. Each entity of the Group uses the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates as its functional currency. 159 SECTION 3 BASIS OF ACCOUNTING 3.6 COMPARATIVE INFORMATION The presentation and classification of the financial statements of which will be crystallised within next financial year is identified the previous years have been amended, where relevant for better as current liabilities. Accordingly, comparative figures have been presentation and to be comparable with those of the current year. reclassified for better presentation and to be in-line with the current presentation. Deferred income which was previously reported under non-current liabilities have been reviewed during the year and deferred income Group Company As at 31st March 2017 Re-classification Re classified 2017 Re-classification Re classified adjustment 2017 adjustment 2017 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Deferred income Classified as current liabilities 288,133 288,133 99,861 99,861 Classified as non-current liabilities 335,895 (288,133) 47,762 108,619 (99,861) 8,758 Total 335,895 335,895 108,619 108,619 3.7 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS, Note Accounting Policy Page No. ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS Significant accounting policies The preparation of the Financial Statements of the Group require the 4.1 Revenue 164 Management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that 4.2 Operating Segments 165 may affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and income. 4.3 Other Operating Income/(Expenses) 168 Management make estimates and judgements based on current 4.4 Finance Income and Costs 168 knowledge, historical experience and various other assumptions that 4.6 Income Tax 170 are held to be reasonable under the circumstances. However, actual 4.7 Earnings Per Share-Basic and Diluted 171 results may differ from these judgements and estimates. Estimates and 4.8 Dividends 172 underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis and revisions 4.9 Property, Plant and Equipment 173 to accounting estimates are recognised prospectively. 4.10 Lease Rentals Paid in Advance 177 Significant judgements, estimates and assumptions made by 4.11 Intangible Assets and Goodwill 178 management in preparing these Consolidated Financial Statements are 4.12 Investments in Subsidiaries and Equity accounted 179 described in the following notes. investee 4.13 Fair value of Assets and Liabilities 183 Accounting Policies Note 4.14 Financial Assets Available-for-Sale (AFS) 188 Impairment of non financial assets 3.9.3 4.15 Inventories 189 Current tax & Deferred tax asset 4.6 & 4.24 4.16 Trade and Other Receivables 190 Useful life time of property, plant and equipment 4.9 4.17 Other Current Assets 191 Provision for impairment of trade receivables 4.16 4.18 Cash and Cash Equivalents 192 Employee benefits 4.23 4.19 Stated Capital 192 Provisions and contingent liabilities 4.26 & 5.2 4.20 Revenue Reserve 193 Acquisition of subsidiary 4.12.3 4.21 Other Components of Equity 193 4.22 Long-term and Short-term Borrowings 193 3.8 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 4.23 Employee Benefits 196 4.24 Deferred Tax 198 Summary of significant accounting policies are presented along with the relevant individual notes to the consolidated financial statements. 4.25 Deferred Income 200 4.26 Provisions 201 Those accounting policies presented with each note, have been applied 4.27 Trade Payables 202 consistently by the Group. 4.28 Other Current Liabilities 202 Set out below is an index of the significant accounting policies, the 4.29 Current Tax Assets and Liabilities 203 details of which are available on the pages that follow. 4.30 Amounts Due (to)/from Subsidiaries and Equity203 accounted investee 160 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Change is valuable Financial Statements Supplementary Information 3.9 OTHER SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES NOT components of equity while any resultant gain or loss is recognised in COVERED WITH INDIVIDUAL NOTES the Statement of Profit or Loss. Any investment retained is recognised at Following accounting policies, which have been applied consistently fair value. by the Group, are considered to be significant, but are not covered with Business combination individual notes in section 4. The Group accounts for business combinations using the acquisition Accounting Policy Note method when control is transferred to the Group. The consideration Basis of consolidation 3.9.1 transferred in the acquisition is generally measured at fair value, as Foreign currency 3.9.2 are the identifiable net assets acquired. Any goodwill that arises is Impairment of non-financial assets 3.9.3 tested annually for impairment. Any gain on a bargain purchase is Statement of cash flows 3.9.4 recognised in Statement of Profit or Loss immediately. Transaction costs are expensed as incurred, except if related to the issue of debt or equity securities. 3.9.1 Basis of consolidation The Group’s Financial Statements comprise Consolidated Financial The consideration transferred does not include amounts related to the Statements of the Company and its subsidiaries prepared as per the settlement of pre-existing relationships. Such amounts are generally Sri Lanka Accounting Standard-SLFRS 10 on ‘Consolidated Financial recognised in profit or loss. Statements’. If the business combination is achieved in stages, any previously held equity interest is remeasured at its acquisition date fair value and any Subsidiaries resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss. Subsidiaries are investees that are controlled by the Company. The Company ‘Controls’ an investee if it is exposed to, or has rights to, Any contingent consideration is measured at fair value at the date of variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the acquisition. If an obligation to pay contingent consideration that meets ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee. At the definition of a financial instrument is classified as equity, then each reporting date the Company reassesses whether it controls an it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity. investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to Otherwise, other contingent consideration is remeasured at fair value one or more of the elements of control mentioned above. The Financial at each reporting date and subsequent changes in the fair value of the Statements of all the subsidiaries are included in the Consolidated contingent consideration are recognised in profit or loss. Financial Statements from the date on which control commences until the date when control ceases. Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income A list of the Group’s subsidiaries is set out in Note 4.12.1 to the and expenses arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated in Financial Statements. preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements. Unrealised losses are The Financial Statements of the parent company and subsidiaries are also eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the prepared to a common financial year ending 31st March, using uniform extent that there is no evidence of impairment. accounting policies. 3.9.2 Foreign currency There are no significant restrictions on the ability of subsidiaries to Transactions and balances transfer funds to the Company (the ‘Parent’) in the form of cash dividend Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into functional currency or repayment of loans and advances. at the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Non-controlling interests Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies Non-controlling interests are measured initially at their proportionate are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rate at the share of the fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets at the date reporting date. of acquisition. Non-monetary items that are measured based on historical cost in a Changes in the Group’s interest in a subsidiary that do not result in foreign currency are translated at the exchange rate at the date of the a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactionsthat is, as transaction. transactions with the owners in their capacity as owners. The difference Foreign currency differences are recognised in the Statement of Profit or between fair value of any consideration paid and the relevant share Loss. acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity. However, foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the following items are recognised in Other Comprehensive income (OCI): Loss of Control (i) available-for-sale equity investments (except on impairment, in If the Group loses control over a subsidiary,it derecognises the related which case foreign currency differences that have been recognised assets (including goodwill), liabilities, non-controlling interest and other in OCI are reclassified to profit or loss); 161 SECTION 3 BASIS OF ACCOUNTING (ii) a financial liability designated as a hedge of the net investment in a The ‘recoverable amount’ of an asset is the greater of its value in use and foreign operation to the extent that the hedge is effective and; its fair value less costs to sell. ‘Value in use’ is based on the estimated (iii) qualifying cash flow hedges to the extent that the hedges are future cash flows, discounted to their present value using a pre-tax effective. discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. The fair value less costs to Share capital denominated in a currency other than the functional sell calculation is based on available data from an active market, in an currency is initially stated at spot rate of the date of issue but is not arm’s length transaction, of similar assets or observable market prices retranslated. less incremental costs for disposing of the asset. For impairment testing, assets that cannot be tested individually are grouped together into the Foreign operations smallest group of assets that generates cash inflows from continuing use The results and financial position of entities whose functional currency that is largely independent of the cash inflows of other assets. is not the currency of Sri Lankan Rupee has been translated into Sri Lankan Rupees using the following procedures: An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset (i) Assets and liabilities for each statement of financial position exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised in presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that Profit or Loss. Impairment losses recognised in prior periods are assessed statement of financial position; at each reporting date for any indication that the loss has decreased or no longer exists. An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a (ii) Income and expenses for each statement presenting profit or loss change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. An and other comprehensive income are translated at the average impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. For other assets, exchange rates for the period. an impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying Foreign currency differences are recognised in Other Comprehensive amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been Income and accumulated in the translation reserve, except to the extent determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss that the translation difference is allocated to non-controlling interests. had been recognised. 3.9.3 Impairment of non-financial assets 3.9.4 Statement of cash flows The carrying amount of all non-financial assets, other than inventories The Statement of Cash Flows has been prepared by using the ‘Indirect and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each reporting date to Method’ of preparing cash flows in accordance with Sri Lanka determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such Accounting Standard-LKAS 7 on ‘Statement of Cash Flows’. Cash and indication exists, then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. cash equivalents as referred to in the Statement of Cash Flows are Goodwill is tested annually for impairment. comprised of those items as explained in Note 4.18 and 4.22.2. 162 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Change is valuable Financial Statements Supplementary Information 3.10 New Accounting Standards Issued but not yet Effective The following SLFRSs issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, not effective for a financial year commencing on 1st April 2017 unless early adopted, have not been applied in preparing these Consolidated Financial Statements. New or amended Summary of the requirements Possible impact on Financial Statements Standards SLFRS 9 SLFRS 9, issued in 2014, replaces LKAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and During the year, the Group performed a gap ‘Financial Measurement. SLFRS 9 includes revised guidance on the classification and measurement of assessment of the impact of SLFRS 9. The Instruments’ financial instruments, including a new expected credit loss model for calculating impairment company is in the process of quantifying on financial assets, and the new general hedge accounting requirements. It also carries forward the potential impact on its financial the guidance on recognition and de-recognition of financial instruments from LKAS 39. statements resulting from application of this standards. SLFRS 9 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 01st January 2018. SLFRS 15 SLFRS 15 establishes a comprehensive framework for determining whether, how much and During the year, the Group performed a gap ‘Revenue from when revenue is recognised. New qualitative and quantitative disclosure requirements aim to assessment of the impact of SLFRS 15. The Contracts with enable Financial Statements users to understand the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of company is in the process of quantifying Customers’ revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. the potential impact on its financial statements resulting from application of this SLFRS 15 introduces a five-step model to determine when to recognise revenue and at what standards. amount. The model specified that revenue is recognised when or as an entity transfers control of goods and services to a customer at the amount to which the entity expects to be entitled. Depending on whether certain criteria are met, revenue is recognised. It replaces existing revenue recognition guidance, LKAS 18 on ‘Revenue’, LKAS 11 on ‘Construction Contracts’ and IFRIC 13 ‘Customer Loyalty Programmes’. SLFRS 15 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 01st January 2018. SLFRS 16 SLFRS 16 eliminates the current dual accounting model for lessees which distinguishes The Group is assessing the potential impact ‘Leases’ between on-balance sheet finance leases and off – balance sheet operating leases. Instead there on its Consolidated Financial Statements will be a single on-balance sheet accounting model that is similar to current finance lease resulting from the application of SLFRS 16. accounting. SLFRS 16 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 01st January 2019. 163 SECTION 4 SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NOTES This section provides specific accounting policies and basis of accounting estimates in relation to the reported values in the Financial Statements with additional Notes and explanations thereon. 4.1 REVENUE Rendering of services Revenue from services rendered is recognised in Profit or Loss once all Accounting Policy significant performance obligations have been provided. Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customers, to the extent that it Constructions related contracts is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group/Company Revenue from construction related contracts is recognised in Profit or and the revenue and associated costs incurred or to be incurred can Loss in proportion to the stage of completion of the transaction at the be reliably measured. Revenue is measured at the fair value of the reporting date. consideration received or receivable net of trade discounts and value added taxes. The Group/Company separately identifies different The stage of completion is assessed based on surveys of work performed. components of a single transaction in order to reflect the substance of When the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated the transaction. The following specific criteria are used for the purpose reliably, contract revenue is recognised only to the extent of contract of recognition of revenue. costs incurred that are likely to be recoverable. Sale of goods Service support income Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the significant risks Service support income which is included in revenue represents and rewards of ownership of the goods have been passed to the buyer, income received from foreign principals on indent sales. Such income usually on delivery of the goods. is recognised on an accrual basis at the time of supply of goods and services relating to the service support provided by the Group. Revenue by category Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Revenue Source Sale of goods 39,084,564 40,921,797 37,745,259 39,339,500 Rendering of services 1,853,955 1,643,418 1,786,058 1,432,425 Constructions related contracts 2,546,594 1,706,461 1,111,203 726,957 Service support income 201,045 221,314 68,322 64,677 Total revenue 43,686,158 44,492,990 40,710,842 41,563,559 Revenue by category Group Revenue by category Company 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 1% 3% 2% 6% 4% 4% 3% 4% 4% Sale of goods Rendering of services 89% 92% Constructions related contracts 93% 95% Service support income 164 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Change is valuable Financial Statements Supplementary Information 4.2 OPERATING SEGMENTS Accounting Policy The operating business segments are organised and managed separately Inter-segment transfers are carried out in the ordinary course of business. according to the nature, risks and returns. Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable The Board of Directors regularly reviews the operating results of all basis. operating business segments for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment. Segment performance Unallocated assets and liabilities comprise mainly of assets and is evaluated based on operating profit or loss which in certain respects, liabilities that cannot be attributed to a particular segment. is measured differently from operating profit or loss in the Consolidated Finance income and expenses and income taxes are managed Financial Statements. on a Group basis and are not allocated to operating business The Group has the following six strategic business segments which are segments. reportable segments, namely: Sales to any single customer does not represent more than 10% of the Operating Operations total sales and no segments are determined based on the geographical segments area. Vehicles -Sales Sale of brand new passenger vehicles, commercial Restatement vehicles, special purpose vehicles and pre-owned passenger vehicles. With the expansion of business in the domain of Agriculture, a new operating segment evolved, which is titled “Agriculture”. The products Vehicles -After Repair and service of vehicles included in the vehicleand services that comprise this segment are similar in nature, risks and Services sales segment, sale of franchised vehicle spare parts, returns. Therefore, segment information has been classified accordingly accessories and components. and restated where applicable. Marketing and Sale and service of power tools and accessories, lamps, Distribution lighting controls, switchgear, fittings and accessories, tyres, original equipment spare parts and auto components. Construction Sales and services of earth moving machinery, road and Material construction machinery, material handling machinery, Handling forklifts, storage systems, dock levellers, car parking Equipment systems and gondolas. Agriculture Import, sale and after sales services of agri machinery, import, processing and distribution of agro chemicals, seeds and fertiliser, import, producing, processing and sale of agricultural seeds. ElectroSale, installation, commissioning and maintenance Mechanical, of medical equipment, generating sets, diesel engines Bio-Medical for marine propulsion and rail traction, building and Marine management systems, fluid management systems, Engineering industrial refrigeration systems and power engineering equipment and systems. 165 SECTION 4 SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NOTES Segmental Results, Assets and Liabilities Group *Vehicles *Vehicles Marketing Construction and Agriculture Electro-Mechanical, Total Sales After Services and Distribution Material Handling Bio-Medical and Equipment Marine Engineering For the year ended 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 (Restated) (Restated) (Restated) Business Segment Turnover and Results Total segment revenue 26,566,205 29,687,824 4,616,937 4,331,484 4,833,244 4,440,746 2,756,199 2,666,122 3,385,619 1,979,117 2,667,793 2,750,667 44,825,997 45,855,960 Inter-segment revenue (68,897) (117,760) (734,351) (829,156) (116,816) (126,259) (85,071) (85,285) (69,464) (174,346) (65,240) (30,164) (1,139,839) (1,362,970) Total external revenue 26,497,308 29,570,064 3,882,586 3,502,328 4,716,428 4,314,487 2,671,128 2,580,837 3,316,155 1,804,771 2,602,553 2,720,503 43,686,158 44,492,990 Segment results 1,365,395 1,748,176 723,731 723,153 406,858 166,970 334,571 205,934 121,214 200,701 260,981 200,196 3,212,750 3,245,130 Unallocated other income 187,847 173,403 Unallocated expenses (1,766,250) (1,726,168) Finance costsnet (886,741) (648,973) Income tax expense (193,391) (386,601) Profit for the year 554,215 656,791 Business Segment Assets and Liabilities Segment assets 6,810,143 6,267,894 2,292,408 1,718,505 3,389,264 2,317,840 1,578,368 1,419,580 3,452,004 1,176,319 2,628,319 1,913,840 20,150,506 14,813,978 Unallocated assets 8,421,856 7,945,440 Total assets 28,572,362 22,759,418 Segment liabilities 5,377,659 4,949,089 1,093,901 449,006 1,098,142 825,682 556,033 292,627 1,259,795 229,116 517,512 252,813 9,903,042 6,998,333 Unallocated liabilities 6,588,959 5,596,143 Equity 12,080,361 10,164,942 Total equity and liabilities 28,572,362 22,759,418 Other Information Capital expenditure 40,733 80,666 91,867 92,695 13,158 18,189 8,712 6,295 58,825 2,214 23,434 15,535 236,729 215,594 Unallocated capital expenditure 212,805 529,869 Depreciation and amortisation 39,250 27,370 106,326 111,775 11,472 10,309 5,882 5,547 4,262 2,607 14,112 9,555 181,304 167,163 Unallocated depreciation and amortisation 189,068 176,816 *Restated to reflect the changes due to introduction of the new “Agriculture” operating segment. Segment Revenue Group Segment Results Group 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 6% 6% Vehicles Sales 8% 6% 7% 4% Vehicles-After Services 4% 6% 6% 6% 10% 7% Marketing and Distribution Construction and Material 5% 11% 10% 13% Handling Equipment 9% 8% Agriculture 22% 23% 42% 61% 66% Electro-Mechanical, Bio-Medical 54% and Marine Engineering 166 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Change is valuable Financial Statements Supplementary Information Segmental Results, Assets and Liabilities Company *Vehicles *Vehicles Marketing Construction and Agriculture Total Sales After Services and Distribution Material Handling Equipment For the year ended 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 (Restated) (Restated) (Restated) Business Segment Turnover and Results Total segment revenue 26,566,205 29,687,824 4,608,592 4,331,484 4,588,970 4,217,361 2,756,199 2,666,122 3,234,947 1,979,117 41,754,913 42,881,908 Inter-segment revenue (68,897) (117,760) (730,292) (826,118) (100,422) (114,840) (74,995) (85,285) (69,465) (174,346) (1,044,071) (1,318,349) Total external revenue 26,497,308 29,570,064 3,878,300 3,505,366 4,488,548 4,102,521 2,681,204 2,580,837 3,165,482 1,804,771 40,710,842 41,563,559 Segment results 1,365,395 1,748,176 735,421 723,153 374,232 167,067 334,571 205,934 111,446 200,701 2,921,065 3,045,031 Unallocated other income 151,033 269,638 Unallocated expenses (1,739,101) (1,758,278) Finance costs net (884,359) (649,989) Income tax expense (123,733) (313,370) Profit for the year -324,905 593,032 Business Segment Assets and Liabilities Segment assets 6,810,143 6,267,894 2,253,604 1,718,505 3,381,181 2,317,840 1,578,368 1,419,580 2,385,586 1,176,319 16,408,882 12,900,138 Unallocated assets 9,655,913 8,467,386 Total assets 26,064,795 21,367,524 Segment liabilities 5,377,659 4,949,089 1,093,564 449,006 1,089,478 825,682 556,033 292,627 959,294 229,116 9,076,028 6,745,520 Unallocated liabilities 6,365,602 5,374,933 Equity 10,623,165 9,247,071 Total equity and liabilities 26,064,795 21,367,524 Other Information Capital expenditure 40,733 80,666 74,112 92,695 13,158 18,189 8,712 6,295 58,825 2,214 195,540 200,059 Unallocated capital expenditure 213,641 522,137 Depreciation and amortisation 39,250 27,370 105,631 111,776 11,472 10,309 5,882 5,547 4,261 2,606 166,496 157,608 Unallocated depreciation and amortisation 192,851 180,451 *Restated to reflect the changes due to introduction of the new “Agriculture” operating segment. Segment Revenue Company Segment Results Company 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 4% 7% 8% 4% 6% 7% 7% Vehicles Sales 11% 10% 5% Vehicles-After Services 11% 13% 9% Marketing and Distribution 24% 9% Construction and Material 25% Handling Equipment 47% 65% 71% Agriculture 57% 167 SECTION 4 SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NOTES 4.3 OTHER OPERATING INCOME/(EXPENSES) Accounting Policy Income earned and expenses incurred which are not directly related to Gains or losses on sale of property, plant and equipment the normal operations of the Group are recognised as other operating The gains or losses on the sale of property, plant and equipment is income/(expenses). determined as the difference between the carrying amount of the property, plant and equipment at the time of disposal and the proceeds Other operating Income and expenses comprises disposal gains/losses from disposal, net of expenses incurred on disposal. This is recognised on sale of property, plant and equipment, gain on bargain purchase in the year in which significant risks and rewards of ownership are through business combination, dividend income and sundry income. transferred to the buyer. Other operating income and expenses are recognised on an accrual basis. Dividend income The following specific criteria are used for the purpose of recognising Dividend income is recognised when the Group’s/Company’s right to income. receive payment is established. Other Operating Income Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Gain on bargain purchase through Business Combination (Note 4.12.3) 38,623 Dividend income 480 298 480 88,545 Gains on sale of property, plant and equipment 18,480 17,302 16,791 17,901 Sundry income 130,264 155,803 133,762 163,192 187,847 173,403 151,033 269,638 4.4 FINANCE INCOME AND COSTS Accounting Policies Finance income comprises of interest income. Interest income is receivables). Interest expense is recognised using the effective interest recognised as it accrues, using the effective interest method. method. Finance costs comprise of interest expense on borrowings and Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on a net basis as impairment losses recognised on financial assets (other than trade either finance income or finance costs, depending on whether foreign currency movements are in a net gain or net loss position. Net Finance Costs Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Interest income 19,222 13,536 14,308 12,397 Net foreign exchange gain 152,146 193,674 139,956 185,992 Finance income 171,368 207,210 154,264 198,389 Interest on long-term borrowings (65,765) (96,546) (65,765) (96,546) Interest on short-term borrowings (992,178) (759,637) (972,858) (751,832) Finance charges payable under finance leases (166) Finance costs (1,058,109) (856,183) (1,038,623) (848,378) Net finance costs recognised in profit or loss (886,741) (648,973) (884,359) (649,989) 168 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Change is valuable Financial Statements Supplementary Information 4.5 PROFIT BEFORE TAX Profit before tax is stated after charging/(reversing) the following: Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Directors’ emoluments Short-term employment benefits 424,631 398,816 412,871 386,694 Post-employment benefits 46,179 71,635 44,720 69,775 Terminal benefits 24,638 24,638 Auditors’ remuneration Audit and audit-related services 5,393 5,181 4,254 4,302 Non-audit services 2,235 679 1,756 405 Depreciation on property, plant and equipment 355,897 326,354 344,879 320,445 Amortisation of intangible assets and lease rentals paid in advance 14,475 17,625 14,468 17,614 (Reversal of)/ Provision for impairment of trade receivables (81,013) 77,463 (87,542) 50,819 (Reversal of)/ Provision for slow moving inventories (56,078) 143,855 (66,985) 140,333 Donations 7,559 6,013 7,332 5,834 Legal fees 17,640 22,649 16,903 20,817 Staff expenses (Note 4.5.1) 2,426,255 2,378,629 2,066,964 2,034,805 4.5.1 Staff Expenses Accounting Policy Salaries and wages, contribution to EPF and ETF, training expenses and cost of defined benefit plans are recognised as an expense in the year in which the related services are provided. Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Defined contribution plan cost 290,282 265,400 252,425 231,405 Employee benefit obligation costs (Note 4.23.1) 121,549 97,439 110,530 88,755 Training expenses 69,893 95,237 59,710 77,577 Salaries and wages 1,944,531 1,920,553 1,644,299 1,637,068 2,426,255 2,378,629 2,066,964 2,034,805 Average number of employees for the year 1,788 1,649 1,547 1,482 The average number of employees is calculated by averaging the 2018, and 19 employees from United Dimo Lanka Company Limited number of employees as at the year end in the current and previous in which DIMO Lanka Company Limited invested on 27th November year. Average employees for the year ended 31st March 2018 includes 2018. Staff expenses of these employees have been recognised from the 100 employees from PlantChem (Private) Limited and Plant Seeds acquisition date. (Private) Limited, companies which were acquired on 23rd February Staff Expenses Group Staff Expenses Company 12% 12% Salaries and wages 8% 5% 8% 5% Defined contribution plan cost 3% Employee benefit obligation costs 3% 80% Training expenses 80% 169 SECTION 4 SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NOTES 4.6 INCOME TAX Accounting Policy Income tax expense for the year comprises current and deferred tax. It Deferred tax is recognised in Profit or Loss except to the extent that it relates to items A detail disclosure of accounting policies and estimate of deferred tax recognised directly in Equity or in Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) . are available in Note 4.24. Current tax Sales tax Current tax comprises the expected tax payable or receivable on the Net revenue, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of taxable income or loss for the year and any adjustment to the tax sales tax except: payable or receivable in respect of previous years. The amount of current Where the sales tax incurred on the purchase of an asset or service tax receivable or payable is the best estimate of the tax amount expected is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case the to be paid or received that reflects uncertainty related to income taxes, sales tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset if any. It is measured using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted, or as part of the expense item as applicable; and as at the reporting date in the countries where the Group operates and generates taxable income. Where receivables and payables are stated with the amount of sales tax included. Accounting Estimate The Group/Company recognises liabilities for anticipated tax, based The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation on an estimate of taxable income. Given the wide range of business authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the statement relationships and the long-term nature and complexity of existing of financial position. contractual agreements, differences arising between the actual results Income tax rates of off-shore subsidiaries and the assumptions made, or future changes to such assumptions, Name of the Entity Country of Domicile Rate could necessitate future adjustments to tax expense already recorded. Where the final tax outcome of such matters is different from the DIMO Lanka Company Limited Republic of the Union of 25% amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact Myanmar the income and deferred tax amounts in the period in which the United DIMO Lanka Company Republic of the Union of 25% determination is made. Limited Myanmar Income Tax Expense Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Current Tax Expense Current tax on profit for the year (Note 4.6.1) 165,462 231,544 88,472 166,371 Under provision in respect of previous years 1,299 70,707 1,105 70,574 10% withholding tax on inter-company dividend 9,805 166,761 312,056 89,577 236,945 Deferred Tax Expense Origination of temporary differences (Note 4.6.2) 26,630 74,545 34,156 76,425 Total income tax expense 193,391 386,601 123,733 313,370 Effective tax rate (%)-including deferred tax 26% 37% 28% 35% Effective tax rate (%)-excluding deferred tax 22% 30% 20% 26% 170 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Change is valuable Financial Statements Supplementary Information 4.6.1 Reconciliation of Accounting Profit to Income Tax Expense Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Profit before taxation 747,606 1,043,392 448,638 906,402 Disallowable expenses 944,170 786,771 857,865 733,517 Allowable expenses (1,046,339) (815,493) (985,040) (785,210) Income not liable for tax (7,520) (102,589) (5,453) (89,815) Qualifying payments (170,650) (170,650) Taxable income 637,917 741,431 316,010 594,244 Income tax Tax at 28% 164,230 231,531 88,465 166,358 Tax at 25% Tax at 12% 1,232 13 7 13 Current tax on profit for the year 165,462 231,544 88,472 166,371 Current tax has been computed in accordance with the provisions of The tax liability of resident companies are computed at the standard rate Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 and amendments thereto. of 28% except for Plant Seeds (Private) Limited taxed at 12%. The tax on export profits is 12%. 4.6.2 Recognition of Deferred Tax Expenses in the Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Statement of Profit or Loss (Note 4.24.2) 26,630 74,545 34,156 76,425 Other Comprehensive Income (Note 4.24.2) 1,582,580 (11,423) 1,579,557 (10,980) 1,609,210 63,122 1,613,713 65,445 As per the Inland Revenue Act No 24 of 2017, applicable from 1st The Company has recognised a revaluation reserve on freehold land April 2018, any gains on realisation from disposal of lands used in the amounting to Rs. 5.6 billion as at 31st March 2018, which gives rise business are liable for taxation under the business income of the entity. to a potential gain that will be eventually liable for the income tax on Accordingly, the realisation gains shall be the amount by which the sum realisation. Accordingly, the Company has recognised a deferred tax of the consideration received on the asset that exceeds the acquiring liability of Rs. 1.6 billion pertaining to revaluation reserve on freehold cost and any accumulated allowable costs incurred on improvement land which has been computed at the corporate tax rate of 28%. thereon at the time of the realisation. 4.7 EARNINGS PER SHARE-BASIC AND DILUTED Accounting Policy-Measurement basis The earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year The weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Company by the weighted year and the previous year are adjusted for events that have changed the average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. There were no potentially dilutive ordinary shares outstanding at any time during the year/previous year. 171 SECTION 4 SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NOTES Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders (Rs.’000) 550,308 656,791 324,905 593,032 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 8,876,437 8,876,437 8,876,437 8,876,437 Earnings per ordinary share-basic and diluted (Rs.) 62.00 73.99 36.60 66.81 EPS Group EPS Company Rs. Rs. 100 100 80 73.99 80 66.81 62.00 60 60 40 40 36.60 20 20 0 0 2018 2017 2018 2017 4.8 DIVIDENDS Company For the year ended 31st March 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Interim dividend paid 177,529 213,034 177,529 213,034 Dividend per share (Rs.) 20.00 24.00 An Interim dividend of Rs. 20.00 per share was paid on 29th March 2018 to the shareholders of the Company for the Financial Year 2017/18. (Rs.24.00 per share interim dividend was paid in 2016/17). A withholding tax of 10% was applicable on interim dividend paid. 4.8.1 Compliance with Section 56 and 57 of Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 As required by Section 56 of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company satisfied the solvency test in accordance with Section 57, prior to recommending the interim dividend. A statement of solvency completed and duly signed by the Directors on 14th March 2018 has been audited by Messrs KPMG, Chartered Accountants. 172 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Change is valuable Financial Statements Supplementary Information 4.9 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Accounting Policy Subsequent costs Basis of recognition Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it is probable that the Property, plant and equipment are recognised if it is probable that future future economic benefits of the expenditure will flow to the Group and economic benefits associated with the asset will flow to the Group/ its cost can be measured reliably. The costs of day to day servicing of Company and cost of the asset can be measured reliably. property, plant and equipment are expensed as incurred. Basis of measurement Derecognition An item of property, plant and equipment that qualifies for recognition An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon as an asset is initially measured at its cost. Cost includes expenditure disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use. that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset and subsequent Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset is recognised in costs (as explained under ‘subsequent cost’) . The cost of selfProfit or Loss in the year the asset is derecognised. constructed assets include the cost of materials, direct labour, any other Borrowing costs costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to a working condition Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, for its intended use, the costs of dismantling and removing the items construction or production of a qualifying asset are capitalised as and restoring the site on which they are located and borrowing costs part of the cost of the asset. A qualifying asset is an asset which takes that are directly attributable to the asset under construction. a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale. If significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have Capitalisation of borrowing costs ceases when substantially all the different useful lives, then they are accounted for as separate items activities necessary to prepare the qualifying asset for its intended use (major components) of property, plant and equipment. are completed. Other borrowing costs are recognised in Profit or Loss in the period in which they are incurred. Purchased software which is integral to the functionality of the related equipment is capitalised as part of that equipment. Capital work-in-progress Capital work-in-progress is stated in the Statement of Financial Position Cost model at cost, including borrowing costs, less any accumulated impairment All property, plant and equipment except freehold land, are recorded losses. Capital work-in-progress would be transferred to the relevant at cost, less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment asset when it is in the location and condition necessary for it to be losses, if any. capable of operating in the manner intended by management (i.e. When an asset’s carrying value is higher than it’s estimated recoverable available for use). amount, the carrying value is written down to its recoverable amount (Please refer Note 3.8 Impairment of non-financial assets). Depreciation Depreciation is calculated to write-off the cost of items of property, Revaluation model plant and equipment less their estimated residual values using the The Group/Company applies the revaluation model for the entire class straight-line method over their estimated useful lives and is recognised of freehold land for measurement after initial recognition. The Group in Profit or Loss. Freehold land is not depreciated. policy is to revalue all freehold land by an independent professional Depreciation of an asset begins from the date it is available for use valuer every three years or when there is a substantial difference or in respect of self-constructed assets from the date that the asset is between the fair value and the carrying amount. completed and ready for use. Depreciation ceases at the earlier of the On revaluation of an asset, any increase in the carrying amount date that the asset is classified as held for sale and the date that the is recognised in revaluation reserve in equity through Other asset is derecognised. Comprehensive Income or used to reverse a previous loss on The estimated useful lives of assets are as follows: revaluation of the same asset, which was charged to Profit or Loss. In this circumstance, the increase is recognised as income only to Class of Asset Year the extent of the previous write down in value. Any decrease in the Buildings 36 40 carrying amount is recognised as an expense in Profit or Loss or Buildings on leasehold land Over the lease period charged to revaluation reserve in equity through Other Comprehensive Plant and machinery 04-13 Income, only to the extent of any credit balance existing in the Tools and implements 03-04 revaluation reserve in respect of that asset. Any balance remaining in Motor vehicles 03-04 the revaluation reserve in respect of an asset, is transferred directly to Furniture and fittings 04-13 retained earnings upon disposal of the asset. Office equipment and electrical fittings 04-10 Computer hardware and software 02-04 Residual values, useful lives and method of depreciation are reviewed at each financial year end and adjusted if appropriate. 173 SECTION 4 SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NOTES Carrying Value of Property, Plant and Equipment Group Freehold Buildings Buildings Plant and Tools and Motor Computer Electrical Total Land and on Machinery Implements Vehicles Hardware Fixtures, 2018 2017 Premises Leasehold and Fittings Land Software and Office Equipment Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Cost or Revalued Amount At the beginning of the year 4,460,029 2,629,615 267,884 754,452 295,957 639,662 243,956 618,210 9,909,765 9,306,536 Acquired through business combination 32,635 42,840 47,300 17,141 114,750 254,666 (Note 4.12.3) Revaluation 2,780,984 2,780,984 Additions 750 3,906 8,118 37,015 27,145 72,557 22,814 31,711 204,016 349,408 Transferred from capital work-in-progress 3,195 119,055 8,894 57,632 1,975 11,678 202,429 379,694 Disposals (525) (7,290) (1,592) (35,180) (11,300) (14,536) (70,423) (125,873) Transfers 1,964 7,356 3,303 2 (12,625) At the end of the year 7,277,593 2,796,855 332,196 866,306 326,788 791,789 255,472 634,438 13,281,437 9,909,765 Depreciation At the beginning of the year 300,115 119,924 288,374 230,410 378,015 192,279 244,810 1,753,927 1,525,014 Charge for the year 71,056 20,181 55,455 34,529 100,262 22,877 51,537 355,897 326,354 On disposals (246) (3,304) (1,556) (35,179) (10,285) (8,669) (59,239) (97,441) Transfers 661 4,252 (2,984) (1,929) Effect of movements in exchange rates 6 2 1 0 1 1 11 At the end of the year 371,586 140,111 344,779 260,400 443,098 204,872 285,750 2,050,596 1,753,927 Carrying amount before capital work-in-progress 7,277,593 2,425,269 192,085 521,527 66,388 348,691 50,600 348,688 11,230,841 8,155,838 Capital work-in-progress at cost At the beginning of the year 75 129,247 5,529 5,804 2,189 135 218 143,197 148,306 Acquired through business combination 42,033 42,033 (Note 4.12.3) Additions 6,748 110,850 52,167 60,518 1,975 405 7,410 240,073 374,973 Transferred to PPE (3,195) (119,055) (8,894) (57,632) (1,975) (11,678) (202,429) (379,693) Transferred to Intangible Assets (540) (540) Derecognition (338) (160) (147) (645) (389) Transfers (1,137) 682 (2,189) 2,644 At the end of the year 3,628 161,600 48,642 9,372 (1,553) 221,689 143,197 Carrying amount as at 31st March 2018 7,281,221 2,586,869 240,727 530,899 66,388 348,691 50,600 347,135 11,452,530 Carrying amount as at 31st March 2017 4,460,104 2,458,747 153,489 471,882 67,736 261,647 51,812 373,618 8,299,035 There were no capitalised borrowing costs related to the acquisition of property, plant and equipment during the year 2017/18 (2016/17 – Nil). 174 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Change is valuable Financial Statements Supplementary Information Carrying Value of Property, Plant and Equipment Company Freehold Buildings Buildings Plant and Tools and Motor Computer Electrical Total Land and on Machinery Implements Vehicles Hardware Fixtures, 2018 2017 Premises Leasehold and Fittings Land Software and Office Equipment Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Cost or Revalued Amount At the beginning of the year 4,460,029 2,661,780 267,884 719,948 268,160 626,152 218,694 618,260 9,840,907 9,257,055 Revaluation 2,780,984 2,780,984 Additions 750 3,906 31,012 16,317 64,057 18,467 28,252 162,761 326,141 Transferred from capital work-in-progress 3,195 119,055 8,894 57,632 1,975 11,678 202,429 379,693 Disposals (259) (4,500) (1,592) (34,135) (10,826) (14,374) (65,686) (121,982) Transfers 1,964 7,356 3,303 2 (12,625) At the end of the year 7,244,958 2,786,446 276,778 811,448 288,163 656,074 226,337 631,191 12,921,395 9,840,907 Depreciation At the beginning of the year 302,166 119,924 269,826 208,622 372,435 174,919 237,725 1,685,617 1,459,528 Charge for the year 71,938 19,856 53,016 30,739 97,894 19,490 51,946 344,879 320,445 On disposals (145) (3,215) (1,556) (34,134) (9,830) (8,527) (57,407) (94,356) Transfers 661 4,252 (2,984) (1,929) At the end of the year 374,620 139,780 323,879 234,821 436,195 184,579 279,215 1,973,089 1,685,617 Carrying amount before capital work-in-progress 7,244,958 2,411,826 136,998 487,569 53,342 219,879 41,758 351,976 10,948,306 8,155,290 Capital work-in-progress at cost At the beginning of the year 75 129,247 5,529 5,804 2,189 135 218 143,197 148,306 Additions 6,748 110,199 52,167 60,518 1,975 405 8,963 240,975 374,973 Transferred to PPE (3,195) (119,055) (8,894) (57,632) (1,975) (11,678) (202,429) (379,693) Transferred to Intangible Assets (540) (540) Derecognition (338) (160) (147) (645) (389) Transfers (1,137) 682 (2,189) 2,644 At the end of the year 3,628 118,916 48,642 9,372 180,558 143,197 Carrying amount as at 31st March 2018 7,248,586 2,530,742 185,640 496,941 53,342 219,879 41,758 351,976 11,128,864 Carrying amount as at 31st March 2017 4,460,104 2,488,861 153,489 455,926 61,727 253,717 43,910 380,753 8,298,487 There were no capitalised borrowing costs related to the acquisition of property, plant and equipment during the year 2017/18 (2016/17 – Nil). 175 SECTION 4 SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NOTES 4.9.1 Revaluation of Freehold Land Freehold land was revalued as at 16th October 2017 by Mr. K. Arthur Perera (Sri Lanka) who is a professionally qualified independent valuer. The valuation method adopted was the Market Comparable Method. The value of freehold land has been written up to correspond with the market value and the details are as follows: Freehold Land Location Significant Extent Original Revalued Revalued Freehold Pledged Mortgaged Unobservable Cost Amount Amount Building to Inputs as No. of Square Financial Times of Feet Institution Cost Rs. Rs.’000 Rs.’000 1. No. 65, Jetawana Road, Colombo 14 8,000,000 p.p 2A-0R-33.29P 414 2,575,810 6,222 88,302 No. 56, K. Cyril C. Perera Mawatha, Colombo 14 7,000,000 p.p Sanctioned Street Line of above land 3.500,000 p.p 2. No. 61, Jetawana Road, Colombo 14 8,500,000 p.p 0A-1R-04.00P 18,014 374,000 21 11,418 3. No. 74, Jetawana Road, Colombo 14 8,000,000 p.p 0A-1R-14.56P 113,808 436,480 4 4,043 4. No. 800, Sirimawo Bandaranaike Mawatha, 2,500,000 p.p 3A-3R-20.60P 641,519 1,551,500 2 229,025 Colombo 14 5. No. 135, Mahena Road, Siyambalape and No. 300,000 p.p *8A-3R-19.90P 37,606 422,550 39 117,657 274/A, Kakunagaha Watta, Siyambalape 6. Kirindiwela Road, Weliweriya 146,250 p.p 15A-3R-30.00P 89,958 372,938 4 219,880 7. No. 360, Madampitiya Road, Mahawatta, 2,500,000 p.p 1A-2R-26.80P 301,599 667,000 2 Colombo 14 8. No. 09, Ariyala, Kandy Road, Jaffna 150,000 p.p 1A-2R-26.72P 32,487 39,375 1 38,675 9. Yaggapitiya Watta, Dambulla Road, Kurunegala 300,000 p.p 5A-0R-0P 54,599 240,000 4 10. No. 23, Kaldemulla Road, Ratmalana 765,000 p.p 0A-3R-27.04P 92,102 112,485 1 17,323 11. No. 63 & 63 A Jetawana Road, Colombo 14 7,500,000 p.p 0A-1R-08.75P 176,539 365,625 2 8,192 12. Hunuketalanda, Nayakubura, Walgamwewa 18,000 p.p 29A-0R-27.85P 68,107 84,000 1 Acquired through business combination 13. Nikaweratiya Road, Kahatakulama 12,500 p.p 13A-3R-28.80P 7,575 27,860 4 14,376 14. Puttalam Road, Nabadewa, Nikaweratiya 125,000 p.p 0A-0R-25P 3,727 3,125 1 Commercial 0A-1R-00P 1,650 portion (10p) at Rs. 90,000 p.p and balance (30p) at Rs.25,000 p.p Total 1,638,054 7,274,398 748,891 Improvements to land during the year after the revaluation 3,195 Improvements to land in capital work-in-progress 3,628 Total carrying value 7,281,221 748,891 p.p-per perch *Land original extent is 8A-3A-19.90, but valuation has been given only for 8A-3R-08.50P 176 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Change is valuable Financial Statements Supplementary Information Description of the valuation technique used together with a narrative description on sensitivity of the fair value measurement to changes in significant unobservable inputs are as follows: Valuation technique Significant Sensitivity of fair value measurement to inputs unobservable inputs Market Comparable Method This method considers the selling price of a similar property within a Price per perch for Estimated fair value would increase/ (decrease) if reasonably recent period of time in determining the fair value of the property land the price per perch would increase/ (decrease). being revalued. This involves evaluation of recent active market prices of similar assets, making appropriate adjustments for any differences in the nature, size, location or condition of the specific property. 4.9.2 Fully Depreciated but still in Use 4.9.4 Permanent Fall in Value of Property, Plant and Equipment The cost of fully-depreciated property, plant and equipment of the There is no permanent fall in the value of property, plant and equipment Group and the Company which are still in use amounted to Rs. 904.5 which require a provision for impairment. million (2016/17 Rs. 768.3 million) and Rs. 850.07 million (2016/17 Rs. 717.9 million) respectively. 4.9.5 Title Restriction on Property, Plant and Equipment There were no restrictions that existed on the title to the property, plant 4.9.3 Property, Plant and Equipment Pledged as Security against and equipment of the Group/Company as at the reporting date. Long-Term Bank Loan Long-Term Bank Loan for which Land and building pledged as security 4.9.6 Assets held under finance lease was settled as at 31st March 2018. Thus, there is no Property, Plant and During the year ended 31st March 2018, the Group has acquired Equipment pledged as security against Long-Term Bank Loans as at 31st property, plant and equipment under finance leases through business March 2018 (2016/17 Land and buildings with a carrying value of combination with a fair value of Rs.86.6 million as at the acquisition Rs. 248 million have been pledged as security against term loans date. obtained). 4.10 LEASE RENTALS PAID IN ADVANCE Accounting Policy Lease rentals paid in advance are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation. Such carrying amounts are amortised over the remaining lease period or useful life of the leasehold property whichever is shorter. Carrying Value of Lease Rentals Paid in Advance Group Company As at 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Cost At the beginning of the year 39,938 39,938 39,938 39,938 Additions during the year At the end of the year 39,938 39,938 39,938 39,938 Accumulated Amortisation At the beginning of the year 15,412 13,207 15,412 13,207 Amortisation for the year 2,205 2,205 2,205 2,205 At the end of the year 17,617 15,412 17,617 15,412 Carrying amount at the end of the year 22,321 24,526 22,321 24,526 Current portion of lease rentals paid (Note 4.17) 2,205 2,205 2,205 2,205 Non-current portion of lease rentals paid 20,116 22,321 20,116 22,321 Carrying amount at the end of the year 22,321 24,526 22,321 24,526 177 SECTION 4 SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NOTES 4.10.1 Details of Lease Rentals Paid in Advance Location Amount of Lease Duration of the Lease Rs.‘000 i. No. 562/126, D.S. Senanayake Mawatha, Anuradhapura 2,400 From April 1997 to August 2021 ii. No. 562/100, Jayanthi Mawatha, Anuradhapura 37,538 From October 2010 to May 2028 39,938 The Company had acquired these properties to operate Anuradhapura branch premises. 4.11 INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND GOODWILL Accounting Policy Basis of recognition amortised. These assets are assessed for impairment whenever there is An intangible asset is recognised if it is probable that future economic an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired. benefits that are attributable to the asset will flow to the entity and the The period over which intangible assets are amortised is as follows; cost of the asset can be measured reliably. Class of Asset Amortisation period (years) Basis of measurement Computer software 4 Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost. The costs of intangible assets acquired in a business The above rate is consistent with the rate used in the previous years. combination are their fair value as at the date of acquisition. Following The amortisation method, useful lives and residual values are reviewed initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated at each reporting date and adjusted if appropriate. amortisation and accumulated impairment losses, if any. Derecognition Subsequent expenditure Intangible assets are derecognised upon disposal or when no future Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits are expected from its use. Any gain or loss arising on economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates. All derecognition of the asset, is recognised in Profit or Loss in the year the other expenditure is recognised in Profit or Loss as incurred. asset is derecognised. Useful economic lives, amortisation and impairment Goodwill Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised using the straight-line Goodwill acquired through business combinations is measured at cost method to write down the cost over its estimated useful economic less accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is tested annually for lives and is generally recognised in Profit or Loss. Goodwill is not impairment. Carrying Value of Intangible Assets Group Software Goodwill Total As at 31st March 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Cost At the beginning of the year 84,813 84,813 65,089 Acquired through business combinations (Note 4.12.3) 102,993 102,993 Additions during the year 4,905 4,905 21,082 Transferred from Capital Work In progress PPE 540 540 Disposals during the year (1,358) At the end of the year 90,258 102,993 193,251 84,813 Accumulated Amortisation At the beginning of the year 60,762 60,762 45,512 Amortisation for the year 12,270 12,270 15,420 Disposals during the year (170) At the end of the year 73,032 73,032 60,762 Carrying amount at the end of the year 17,226 102,993 120,219 24,051 178 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Change is valuable Financial Statements Supplementary Information Carrying Value of Intangible Assets Company Software Total As at 31st March 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Cost At the beginning of the year 81,816 81,816 62,092 Additions during the year 4,905 4,905 21,082 Transferred from Capital Work In progress PPE 540 540 Disposals during the year (1,358) At the end of the year 87,261 87,261 81,816 Accumulated Amortisation At the beginning of the year 57,772 57,772 42,533 Amortisation for the year 12,263 12,263 15,409 Disposals during the year (170) At the end of the year 70,035 70,035 57,772 Carrying amount as at end of the year 17,226 17,226 24,044 Goodwill arisen through business combination Impairment of goodwill The Group recognised an intangible asset by way of goodwill in Goodwill arising on acquisition of Plant Seeds (Private) Limited respect of the registered and established product portfolio acquired amounting to Rs 103 million was based on the fair values of the from acquisition of the 51% stake in Plant Seeds (Private) Limited. identifiable assets and liabilities on the date of acquisition (on 23rd The management is of the opinion that the brand name of Plant Seeds February 2018). Based on the impairment assessment carried out by the together with its duly registered product portfolio will bring synergies to management at the reporting date, it was concluded that no impairment the current product offering of the Company in the Agriculture Sector is required as there is no significant change in the fair value of such and bring future economic benefits. acquired assets and liabilities, subsequent to the acquisition. 4.12 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES AND EQUITY-ACCOUNTED INVESTEE 4.12.1 Investments in Subsidiaries Investment in DIMO Lanka Company Limited On 31st August 2017, Diesel and Motor Engineering PLC invested Rs. Accounting Policy 38.1 million in DIMO Lanka Company Limited, a subsidiary of the Investments in subsidiaries are initially recognised at cost in the company, which is involved in automobile repair and servicing. The Financial Statements of the Company. Any transaction cost relating to Group invested in the company as part of expansion into automobile acquisition of investment in subsidiaries are immediately recognised in repair and servicing business, overseas. Profit or Loss. Following initial recognition, investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. The Investment in United DIMO Lanka Company Limited net assets of each subsidiary are reviewed at each reporting date to On 27th November 2017, DIMO Lanka Company Limited, which is determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such a fully-owned subsidiary of the company invested Rs. 21.2 million indication exists, then the recoverable amount of the investment is in United DIMO Lanka Company Limited, for 70% shares of the estimated and the impairment loss is recognised to the extent of its net latter involved in automobile repair and servicing. The DIMO Lanka assets loss. Company Limited invested in United DIMO Lanka Company Limited as part of expansion into automobile repair and servicing business. Accounting Estimate Provision for Impairment An impairment assessment was carried out as at 31st March 2018 and it was concluded that net realisable value of all the investments included under unquoted investments exceed its carrying value except for DIMO Travels (Private) Limited. Based on an assessment made for impairment, the provision given in Note 4.12.2 was considered to be adequate as at reporting date. 179 SECTION 4 SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NOTES Carrying Value of Investments in Subsidiaries Company As at 31st March Percentage of Holding 2018 2017 (%) Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Unquoted Investment Ordinary Shares DIMO (Private) Limited 25,000 ordinary shares 100 250 250 DIMO Industries (Private) Limited 2,305,000 ordinary shares 100 23,050 23,050 DIMO Travels (Private) Limited 500 ordinary shares 100 50 50 DIMO Lanka Company Limited 25,000 ordinary shares 100 38,199 United DIMO Lanka Company Limited 14,000 ordinary shares (sub-subsidiary) 70 PlantChem (Pvt) Limited 14,195,767 ordinary shares 51 119,059 Contingent consideration 16,768 Plant Seeds (Pvt) Limited 6,577,185 ordinary shares 51 226,444 Contingent consideration 4,958 428,778 23,350 Impairment provision (Note 4.12.2) (187) (61) 428,591 23,289 The Group subsidiaries with material non-controlling interests are given in Note 4.12.4 4.12.2 Movement in Provision for Impairment of Investments in Subsidiaries Company As at 31st March 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 At the beginning of the year 61 Provision for impairment 126 61 At the end of the year 187 61 4.12.3 Acquisition of Subsidiaries On 23rd February 2018, the Group acquired 51% equity interest consideration of Rs 345.5 million. The Group has acquired these in PlantChem(Private) Limited and Plant Seeds (Private) Limited, companies as part of its agriculture business expansion plan. companies incorporated in Sri Lanka, for an aggregate purchase 180 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Change is valuable Financial Statements Supplementary Information The following represents the fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the said subsidiaries, as at the date of acquisition. PlantChem (Private) Limited Plant Seeds (Private) Limited As at 31st March 2018 2018 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Assets Property, plant and equipment 197,337 99,362 Fixed Deposits 119,839 10,980 Deferred tax Asset 16,359 Inventories 140,924 85,743 Trade and other receivables 199,857 80,709 Loans, Advances & Pre-payments 50,810 43,296 Amount Due from Related Parties 20,059 76,372 Cash and Cash Equivalents 16,082 14,384 Total Assets 761,267 410,846 Liabilities Lease Liability 10,543 7,832 Trade Creditors 68,081 39,903 Amount Due to Related Parties 76,372 20,059 Loans and Other Payables 218,255 77,665 Retirement Gratuity 9,567 1,723 Tax Liability 1,914 Deferred Tax liability 3,103 Accrued Expenses 11,940 7,226 Bank Overdrafts 22,534 1,552 Total Liabilities 419,206 159,063 Total identifiable net assets at fair value 342,061 251,783 Non-controlling interest measured at fair value 167,610 123,374 Goodwill arising on acquisition 102,993 Bargain purchase arising on acquisition 38,623 Purchased consideration transferred 119,059 226,444 Contingent consideration 16,768 4,958 Net cash outflow on Acquisition 360,534 296,235 Contingent consideration Fair value of the contingent consideration was arrived based on the As part of the purchase agreement with the acquirees of recoveries made subsequently from the debtors outstanding for more PlantChem(Private) Limited and Plant Seeds (Private) Limited, a than 180 days as at 31st October 2017 and subsequent sale of slow contingent consideration has been agreed. There will be additional cash moving stock which were over 365 days overdue as at 31st October payments to the acquirees, PlantChem (Private) Limited and Plant Seeds 2017. (Private) Limited, as purchaser agreed and undertook that in the event the below amounts or any part thereof is realised prior to 31st October 2018, Acquisition-related costs 51% of the aggregate recovered amount shall be paid to acquirees. The Group incurred acquisition-related costs of Rs. 6.6 million on legal fees and due diligence costs. These costs have been included in a) Inventory over 365 days amounting Rs. 135 million as at ‘Administrative expenses’. 31st October 2017 4.12.4 Principal subsidiaries with material non-controlling interests b) Trade receivables over 180 days amounting Rs. 38 million as at Accounting Policy 31st October 2017 Non-controlling interest which represents the portion of profit or loss and As at the reporting date, the fair value of the contingent consideration net assets not held by the Group, are shown as a component of profit was estimated to be Rs. 16.7 million for PlantChem (Private) Limited for the year in the Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive and Rs. 4.9 million for Plant Seeds (Private) Limited. This has been duly and as a component of equity in the Statement of Financial Position, recognised in the Financial Statements separately from equity attributable to owners of the Company. 181 SECTION 4 SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NOTES Acquisition of subsidiary with non-controlling Interests Amount (Rs.’000) United DIMO Lanka Company Limited 9,122 PlantChem (Private) Limited 167,610 Plant Seeds (Private) Limited 123,374 300,106 The following table summarises the information relating to United Seeds (Private) Limited that has material non-controlling interest, before DIMO Lanka Company Limited, PlantChem(Private) Limited and Plant any intra-group eliminations. United DIMO PlantChem Plant Seeds Total Lanka Company (Private) Ltd (Private) Ltd Limited As at 31st March 2018 2018 2018 2018 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Non-controlling interest percentage 30% 49% 49% Summarised statement of financial position Current assets 22,320 530,239 370,360 922,919 Non-current assets 19,530 339,496 110,445 469,471 Total assets 41,850 869,735 480,805 1,392,390 Current liabilities 19,510 510,270 215,082 744,862 Non-current liabilities 9,692 8,352 18,044 Total liabilities 19,510 519,962 223,434 762,906 Net assets 22,340 349,773 257,371 629,484 Net assets attributable to non-controlling interest 6,702 171,389 126,112 304,203 Summarised statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income Revenue 8,346 88,654 62,018 159,018 Profit after tax (8,699) 7,712 5,588 4,601 Other comprehensive income 633 633 Total comprehensive income (8,066) 7,712 5,588 5,234 Profit attributable to non-controlling interest (2,610) 3,779 2,738 3,907 Other comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interest 190 190 Summarised statement of cash flow Cash flows from operating activities (31,200) 16,716 3,106 (11,378) Cash flows from investing activities (17,755) (4,088) 27 (21,816) Cash flows from financing activities 49,853 (1,201) (395) 48,257 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 898 11,427 2,738 15,063 4.12.5 Equity-accounted investee Accounting Policy The Group’s interest in equity-accounted investees comprise interest in Interests in the Joint venture are accounted for using the equity method. a Joint venture. They are initially recognised at cost, which includes transaction costs. A Joint venture is an arrangement in which the Group has joint control, Subsequent to initial recognition, the consolidated financial statements whereby the Group has rights to the net assets of the arrangement, rather include the Group’s share of the profit or loss and other comprehensive than rights to its assets and obligations for its liabilities. income of equity-accounted investees, until the date on which significant influence or joint control ceases. 182 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Change is valuable Financial Statements Supplementary Information Acquisition of DIMO Coastline (Private) Limited On 22 February 2018, the Group acquired 40% equity interest of Carrying Value of Equity-accounted investee DIMO Coastline (Private) Limited for an aggregate consideration of Rs. As at 31st March 2018 58.16 million with an option to purchase further 10% of the shares Rs.‘000 within next 3 years. DIMO Coastline (Private) Limited is a company incorporated in Republic of Maldives. The Group has acquired the Acquisition of equity accounted investee 58,163 company as part of expansion into marine and general engineering Less business overseas. Net loss for the period recognised in income (2,980) statement The following table summarises the financial information relating to Foreign currency translation difference in ownership (85) DIMO Coastline (Private) Limited as included in its own financial in equity statements. The table also reconciles the summarised financial Value of investment in equity accounted investee as 55,098 information to the carrying amount of the Group’s interest in DIMO at 31st March 2018 Coastline (Private) Limited. Statement of Financial Position 4.13 FAIR VALUE OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES DIMO Coastline (Private) Ltd Accounting Policies As at 31st March 2018 Financial assets Rs.‘000 Initial recognition and measurement The Group classifies financial assets at initial recognition as availablePercentage ownership interest 40% for-sale financial assets or loans and receivables based on the purpose, Non-current assets 96,882 characteristics and Management’s intention in acquiring them. At the Current assets 67,905 end of each reporting period all classifications are re-evaluated to the Total assets 164,787 extent that such classification is permitted and required. Non-current liabilities Current liabilities 27,042 All the financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus directly Total liabilities 27,042 attributable transaction costs. Net assets (100%) 137,745 The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on their Group's share of net assets (40%) 55,098 classification. Details of different types of financial assets recognised in Carrying amount of interest in equity-accounted 55,098 the Statement of Financial Position are given in Notes 4.14 and 4.16 on investee pages 188 and 190. Income Statement Financial assets available-for-sale (AFS) Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial DIMO Coastline (Private) Ltd assets that are designated as available-for-sale financial assets or which For the year ended 2018 are not classified as loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments or financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. Rs.‘000 Available-for-sale financial assets consist of investments in quoted Revenue 6,342 shares held for earnings on income or for capital appreciation. Depreciation 155 Interest expense 78 Loans and receivables Income tax expense Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or Loss after tax 7,451 determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. Loans Total comprehensive income (100%) 7,451 and receivables mainly consist of trade and other receivables, deposits Group’s Share of results of equity accounted and cash and cash equivalents. investee recognised in statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, net of tax (40%) 2,980 Derecognition of financial assets The Group derecognises a financial asset (or where applicable a part of thereof) when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset Reconciliation of summarised financial information expire, or it transfers the rights to receive the contractual cash flows Reconciliation of the above summarised financial information to the in a transaction in which substantially all of the risks and rewards of carrying amount of the interest in equity accounted investee recognised ownership of the financial asset are transferred, or it neither transfers in the financial statements is as follows; nor retains substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership and it does not retain control over the transferred asset. Any interest in such 183 SECTION 4 SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NOTES derecognised financial assets that is created or retained by the Group is of Financial Position are given in Notes 4.22 and 4.27 on pages 193 to recognised as a separate asset or liability. 202. On derecognition of a financial asset, the difference between the Derecognition carrying amount of the asset (or the carrying amount allocated to the The Group derecognises a financial liability when its contractual portion of the asset derecognised) and the sum of the consideration obligations are discharged, cancelled or expired. received (including any new asset obtained less any new liability assumed) and any cumulative gain or loss that had been recognised in Amortised cost measurement Other Comprehensive Income is recognised in Profit or Loss. The amortised cost of a financial asset or liability is the amount at which the financial asset or liability is measured at initial recognition, Financial liabilities minus principal repayments, plus or minus the cumulative amortisation Initial recognition and measurement using the effective interest method of any difference between the initial The Group classifies financial liabilities at initial recognition as other amount recognised and the maturity amount, minus any reduction for financial liabilities. At the end of each reporting period all classifications impairment. are re-evaluated to the extent that such classification is permitted and required. Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities All the financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value less any Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount directly attributable transaction costs. Other financial liabilities mainly presented in the Statement of Financial Position when, and only when, consist of trade and other payables and bank borrowings. the Group currently has a legally enforceable right to offset the amounts and intends either to settle them on a net basis or to realise the asset The subsequent measurement of financial liabilities depends on their and settle the liability simultaneously. classification. Details of financial liabilities recognised in the Statement 4.13.1 Financial Assets and Liabilities by Category Financial Assets Group Company As at 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 i. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss ii. Held-to-maturity (HTM) iii. Loans and receivables (L&R) Trade and other receivables 5,997,911 4,276,799 4,466,471 3,243,893 Deposits 176,269 117,393 147,202 112,123 Cash and cash equivalents 265,532 281,799 191,538 269,556 Amounts due from subsidiaries 100,842 79,319 Amount due from Equity accounted investee 9,860 9,860 iv. Available-for-sale (AFS) Financial assets-available-for-sale 8,296 7,825 8,267 7,804 Total financial assets 6,457,868 4,683,816 4,924,180 3,712,695 Financial Liabilities Group Company As at 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 i. Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss ii. Other financial liabilities Current portion of long-term borrowings 282,350 319,425 281,236 319,425 Long-term borrowings 312,505 590,100 310,140 590,100 Short-term borrowings 8,594,068 7,472,692 8,161,883 7,406,351 Trade payables 2,974,203 1,681,344 2,495,928 1,563,181 Contingent consideration acquired through business combination 21,726 21,726 Amounts due to subsidiaries 498,941 195,149 Total financial liabilities 12,184,852 10,063,561 11,769,854 10,074,206 184 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Change is valuable Financial Statements Supplementary Information Fair value of assets and liabilities Level 3: Valuation techniques that use inputs that have a significant The Group measures the fair value using the following fair value effect on the recorded fair values that are not based on observable hierarchy, which reflects the significance of the inputs used in making market data. the measurement. Non-financial assets measured at fair value Level 1: Inputs that are quoted market prices (unadjusted) in an active The valuation technique and inputs used in measuring the fair value of market for identical instruments; freehold land are given in Note 4.9.1. Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices included within level that are The Group held the following financial and non-financial assets carried observable either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from at fair value in the Statement of Financial Position. prices); Group Company As at 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Financial assets Classified as available-for-sale Level 1 8,296 7,825 8,267 7,804 Level 2 Level 3 Non-financial assets Freehold land Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 7,277,593 4,460,029 7,244,958 4,460,029 Financial liabilities are not measured at fair value. (a) Market risk Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a 4.13.2 Financial Risk Management financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices, The Group has exposure mainly to the following risks from financial such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices, will instruments: affect the Group’s income or the value of its holdings of financial a. Market risk (including currency risk, fair value interest rate risk and instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage cash flow interest rate risk) and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while b. Credit risk optimising the return. c. Liquidity risk (i) Currency risk Risk management framework Currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in foreign The Board of Directors has the overall responsibility for the exchange rates. The Group has exposure to foreign currency risk establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management where it has cash flows in overseas operations and foreign currency framework. The Group’s overall risk management programme focuses transactions which are affected by foreign exchange movements. on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance. The Group had taken measures to manage risk by having foreign currency trade receivables and foreign currency bank account balances The overall objectives and policies for the Group’s financial risk to cover the exposure on foreign currency payables. Hence the overall management are as per the internal treasury practices. It will cover objective of currency risk management is to reduce the short term foreign exchange policy, investment policy, financing policy and negative impact of exchange rate fluctuations on earnings and cash policies on credit risk and risk limits. Further details are discussed in the flow, thereby increasing the predictability of the financial results. Risk Management Report on pages 132 to 138. 185 SECTION 4 SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NOTES The following table demonstrates Group exposure to currency risk as at the reporting date as follows: Sensitivity Analysis Based on exchange rate fluctuation Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 US Dollar (USD) Appreciation/(depreciation) during the financial year Rs. 3.69 2.75 3.69 2.75 -% 2% 2% 2% 2% 1 % change impact to profitability by Rs.’000 1,814 2,160 2,054 1,472 Euro (EUR) Appreciation/(depreciation) during the financial year Rs. 28.93 (2.76) 28.93 (2.76) -% 18% 2% 18% 2% 1 % change impact to profitability by Rs.’000 1,232 594 558 120 Movement in Exchange Rate USD Movement in Exchange Rate EUR Rs. Rs. 154 200 153.40 153 190 188.18 152 180.05 151.30 151.40 180 177.01 151 172.35 150.90 170 150 149.71 160 149 159.25 148 150 147 140 Mar 17 Jun 17 Sep 17 Dec 17 Mar 18 Mar 17 Jun 17 Sep 17 Dec 17 Mar 18 (ii) Interest rate risk The value of these investments is subjected to the performance of Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a investee company and the factors that affects the status of the stock financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest market. The Group manages the equity price risk through diversification rates. The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest and by placing limits on individual and total equity instruments. rates relates primarily to the Group’s long-term debt obligations with The Board of Directors reviews and approves all equity investment floating rates. The Group manages its interest rate risk by monitoring decisions. Sensitivity analysis on the value of the investments is not and managing cash flows, negotiating favourable rates on borrowings provided as it is deemed to be not material. and deposits including and maintaining an appropriate combination of (b) Credit risk fixed and floating rate debt. Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or Sensitivity Analysis counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual If interest rates had been higher/lower by 50 basis points and all other obligations, and arises principally from Group’s trade receivables. variables were held constant, the profit before tax for the year ended The Group has taken several measures to manage and mitigate the 31st March 2018 would decrease/increase by Rs. 4.6 million (2016/17 credit risk including carrying out a credit evaluation as per the Group Rs. 4.3 million). This is mainly attributable to the Group’s exposure to credit policy, prior to extending credit. A review of age analysis of trade variable rates of interest. receivables and follow-up meetings are carried out by the business unit managers at least once a month and by the Group Management (iii) Equity price risk Committee (GMC) at least once a quarter. In the event of a debt The Group is exposed to equity price risk because of investments in becoming doubtful, legal action is initiated by the Manager-Legal. quoted shares held by the Group classified as financial assets availablefor-sale. 186 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Change is valuable Financial Statements Supplementary Information Credit risk exposure The maximum risk exposure of financial assets which are generally subject to credit risk are equal to their carrying amounts. Following table shows the maximum risk positions. Group Company As at 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Trade and other receivables 5,997,911 4,276,799 4,466,471 3,243,893 Amounts due from subsidiaries 100,842 79,319 Cash at bank 232,860 253,402 164,248 245,020 Total credit risk exposure 6,230,771 4,530,201 4,731,561 3,568,232 Balances with banks Group Company As at 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Fitch Rating AAA 30,020 30,020 AA+ 99,757 129,870 98,619 129,845 AA 14,843 14,597 8,082 6,284 AA80,247 78,915 46,395 78,871 A+ 16,448 5,970 A 5,190 5,182 A12,714 Not Rated 3,661 Total bank balances (Note 4.18) 232,860 253,402 164,248 245,020 Balances with Banks Group Balances with Banks Company 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 AAA 2% 6% AA+ 3% 12% 12% 2% AA 4% 7% AA31% A+ 32% 28% A A3% 6% 34% 43% 51% Not Rated 5% 60% 53% 6% 187 SECTION 4 SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NOTES (c) Liquidity risk 4.13.3 Capital Risk Management This is the risk that the Group will encounter in meeting the obligations The objectives of the capital management can be summarised as associated with its financial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash follows: or another financial asset. a. Appropriately allocate capital to meet strategic objectives. In the management of liquidity risk, the Group monitors and maintains b. Enable the Group to face any economic downturn/ crisis situation. a level of cash and cash equivalents deemed adequate by the management to finance the Group’s operations and to mitigate the The Group’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to ensure effects of fluctuations in cash flows. The Group’s objective is to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence in order to sustain future a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use development of the business. The impact of the shareholders’ return of bank overdrafts,finance leases and bank loans. Access to sources of is also recognised and the Group recognises the need to maintain a funding is sufficiently available. balance between higher returns that might be possible with greater gearing and the advantages and security afforded by a sound capital Maturity profiles and specific risk management strategies with regard position. to trade payables and bank borrowings are given in Note 4.27.1 and 4.22.1. The Company manages its capital structure and adjusts it accordingly in line with changes in global and local economic and market conditions and its overall risk appetite. Given below is a summary of the capital structure of the Group: Group As at 31st March 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Long-term borrowings (Note 4.22.1.1) 594,855 909,525 Equity 11,776,158 10,164,942 Total equity and long-term borrowings 12,371,013 11,074,467 Gearing ratio (%) 5% 8% 4.14 FINANCIAL ASSETS AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE (AFS) Accounting Policy After initial measurement, available-for-sale financial investments are Accounting Estimate Assessment of Impairment subsequently measured at fair value. Unrealised gains and losses arising At each reporting date the Group assesses whether there is any from changes in the fair value are recognised in equity through Other objective evidence that an asset or a group of assets is impaired. In the Comprehensive Income in the available-for-sale reserve. When these case of equity investments classified as available-for-sale, objective financial assets are derecognised, the gain or loss accumulated in equity evidence would include a ‘Significant’ or ‘Prolonged’ decline in the fair is reclassified to Profit or Loss. value of the investment below its cost. ‘Significant’ is evaluated against the original cost of the investment and ‘Prolonged’ against the period The fair values of quoted shares are based on current bid prices at the for which the fair value has been below its original cost. Where there end of the reporting period. is evidence of impairment, the cumulative impairment loss measured Dividends earned whilst holding available-for-sale financial assets are as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair recognised in Profit or Loss as ‘Other Operating Income’ when the right value (less any impairment loss previously recognised in profit or loss), to receive the payment has been established. is removed from other comprehensive income. Impairment losses on equity investments are not reversed through income statement; increase in fair value after impairment are recognised directly in other comprehensive income. 188 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Change is valuable Financial Statements Supplementary Information Carrying Value of Available-for-Sale Financial Assets Group Company As at 31st March No. of Market Total Cost Fair Value No. of Market Total Cost Fair Value Shares Value Shares Value 2018 2018 2017 2018 2018 2017 (Per Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 (Per Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Share) Share) Quoted Investments Ordinary Shares Hunas Falls Hotels PLC 900 65 14 58 42 450 65 7 29 21 Hatton National Bank PLC (non-voting) 35,076 186 700 6,538 6,389 35,076 186 700 6,538 6,389 Ceylinco Insurance PLC (non-voting) 1,700 1,000 298 1,700 1,394 1,700 1,000 298 1,700 1,394 1,012 8,296 7,825 1,005 8,267 7,804 4.15 INVENTORIES Accounting Policy Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Stock-in-trade Inventories that are not interchangeable are valued Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less estimated cost of by identifying their specific individual costs, and inventories that completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale. are interchangeable are valued using weighted average cost. The costs incurred in bringing inventories to its present location and Other inventories – At actual cost condition, are accounted for as follows: Goods-in-transit are recognised at actual cost as at reporting date. Raw materials At actual cost on a weighted average basis Finished goods and work-in-progress At the cost of direct materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of fixed production overheads based on normal operating capacity but excluding borrowing costs. Work-in-progress remaining incomplete in the workshops are stated at cost. Carrying Value of Inventories Group Company As at 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Raw material 492,387 359,165 Stock-in-trade and finished goods 7,266,600 7,614,666 7,010,061 7,527,741 Work-in-progress (at cost) 329,526 406,459 91,367 135,621 Provision for slow moving inventories (Note 4.15.1) (349,743) (405,821) (318,820) (385,805) 7,738,770 7,615,304 7,141,773 7,277,557 Goods-in-transit 1,822,268 1,326,407 1,774,032 1,296,808 Total inventories at the lower of cost and net realisable value 9,561,038 8,941,711 8,915,805 8,574,365 4.15.1 Movement in Provision for Slow Moving Inventories Group Company As at 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 At the beginning of the year 405,821 261,966 385,805 245,472 (Reversal)/Provision for slow moving inventories (56,078) 143,855 (66,985) 140,333 At the end of the year 349,743 405,821 318,820 385,805 189 SECTION 4 SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NOTES 4.16 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Accounting Policy Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for goods sold or considering objective evidence i.e. experiencing a significant financial services performed in the ordinary course of business. Other financial difficulty or default in payments by a customer. All individually nature receivables are recognised as other receivables. If collection is insignificant debtors and based on management judgment, similar expected in one year or less, they are classified as current assets. If not, risk characteristic debtors that are not specifically impaired are then they are presented as non-current assets. collectively assessed for any impairment that has been incurred but not yet identified by grouping them together based on similar risk Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and characteristics. subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment. In assessing collective impairment, the Group/Company uses historical information on the probability of default, the timing of recoveries, Accounting Estimate Provision for Impairment and the amount of loss incurred, and makes an adjustment if current The Group/Company considers evidence of impairment for receivables economic and credit conditions are such that the actual losses are likely at both an individual asset and at a collective level. All individually to be greater or lesser than suggested historical trends. significant receivables are individually assessed for impairment by Carrying Value of Trade and Other Receivables Group Company As at 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Trade receivables 6,454,988 4,815,895 4,828,452 3,693,389 Provision for impairment (Note 4.16.1) (463,949) (544,962) (367,424) (454,966) 5,991,039 4,270,933 4,461,028 3,238,423 Other receivables 6,872 5,866 5,443 5,470 Carrying value 5,997,911 4,276,799 4,466,471 3,243,893 4.16.1 Movement in Provision for Impairment of Trade Receivables Group Company As at 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 At the beginning of the year 544,962 467,499 454,966 404,147 Provision for impairment of trade receivables (81,013) 77,463 (87,542) 50,819 At the end of the year 463,949 544,962 367,424 454,966 4.16.2 Age Analysis of Trade Receivables after Provision for Impairment Group Company As at 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Not due 4,018,092 3,112,656 2,904,281 2,337,178 Due but not impaired Between 61 days to 180 days 1,569,308 960,673 1,280,984 750,058 Between 181 days to 365 days 337,839 165,408 260,622 141,466 Over 365 days 65,800 32,196 15,141 9,721 Net trade receivables maximum exposure to credit risk 5,991,039 4,270,933 4,461,028 3,238,423 Provision for impairment 463,949 544,962 367,424 454,966 Gross trade receivables 6,454,988 4,815,895 4,828,452 3,693,389 190 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Change is valuable Financial Statements Supplementary Information Debtor Age Analysis Group Debtor Age Analysis Company % % 100 1% 1% 100 6% 4% 6% 5% 22% 23% 80 26% 80 29% 60 60 40 40 67% 73% 65% 72% Not due 20 Between 61 days to 180 days 20 Between 181 days to 365 days 0 Over 365 days 0 2018 2017 2018 2017 With respect to trade receivables as at the reporting date, past due but not will not be able to meet their obligations. No indication of default is impaired, based on credit history, there are no indications that customers identifiable for trade receivables that are neither past due nor impaired. 4.16.3 Carrying amount of trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies Group Company As at 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Currency Sri Lankan Rupees 5,604,830 4,097,608 4,177,805 3,149,450 USD 252,516 134,619 217,624 65,540 Euro 132,899 37,353 65,555 22,571 Japanese Yen 493 668 177 Other 301 685 44 685 5,991,039 4,270,933 4,461,028 3,238,423 Trade receivables jointly with inventories have been pledged as security 4.16.4 Terms of Trade and Other Receivables for short-term borrowings up to a limit of Rs. 95 million (2016/17 Rs. Trade and other receivables are non-interest-bearing and are expected 95 million). to be received within 60 days. 4.17 OTHER CURRENT ASSETS Accounting Policy Advances and deposits are carried at historical value less provision for The Group/Company classifies all non financial current assets under impairment. Prepayments are amortised over the period during which other current assets. Other current assets mainly comprise of advances, it is utilised and carried at historical value less amortisation charge and deposits, prepayments and current portion of the lease rentals paid in any impairment. advance. Carrying Value of Other Current Assets Group Company As at 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Deposits 176,269 117,393 147,202 112,123 Prepayments 691,930 529,934 385,293 465,714 Lease rentals paid in advance (Note 4.10) 2,205 2,205 2,205 2,205 Other receivables 64,474 245,918 78,767 244,404 934,878 895,450 613,467 824,446 191 SECTION 4 SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NOTES 4.18 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Accounting Policy Cash and cash equivalents comprise of cash at bank and in hand Bank overdrafts and short-term borrowings that are repayable on balances. Cash and bank balances are stated at recoverable values. demand and forming an integral part of the Group’s cash management There were no cash and cash equivalents held by the Group companies are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the that were not available for use. purpose of the Statement of Cash Flows. Carrying Value of Cash and Cash Equivalents Group Company As at 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Bank balances 232,860 253,402 164,248 245,020 Cash in hand 32,672 28,397 27,290 24,536 265,532 281,799 191,538 269,556 Review of credit risk The Group’s cash and cash equivalents comprise of cash at bank and in hand balances. The credit risk relating to bank balances are analysed according to ratings of each bank which is available on page 187. Group Company As at 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Currency Sri Lankan Rupees 199,835 173,234 158,825 161,005 USD 50,539 108,545 22,113 108,545 Euro 9,084 20 8,498 6 Other 6,074 2,102 265,532 281,799 191,538 269,556 4.19 STATED CAPITAL Company As at 31st March No. of Shares 2018 No. of Shares 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Ordinary Shares Issued and Fully-paid Ordinary Shares At the end of the year 8,876,437 425,297 8,876,437 425,297 192 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Change is valuable Financial Statements Supplementary Information 4.20 REVENUE RESERVE Group Company As at 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 At the beginning of the year 6,899,747 6,725,026 5,981,889 5,869,788 Dividends (177,529) (452,698) (177,529) (452,698) Statement of Profit or Loss and other comprehensive income Profit for the year 550,308 656,791 324,905 593,032 Other Comprehensive Income Actuarial loss arising from employees benefits (Net of tax) 27,373 (29,372) 19,449 (28,233) At the end of the year 7,299,899 6,899,747 6,148,714 5,981,889 4.21 OTHER COMPONENTS OF EQUITY Group Company As at 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 At the beginning of the year 2,839,898 2,839,356 2,839,885 2,839,341 Other Comprehensive Income Revaluation of freehold land, net of tax 1,208,991 1,208,991 Net fair value gains on remeasuring financial assets-available-for-sale 371 542 363 544 Foreign currency translation reserve 1,702 (85) At the end of the year 4,050,962 2,839,898 4,049,154 2,839,885 4.22 LONG-TERM AND SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less any directly the repayable amount (including interest) is recognised in Profit or Loss attributable transaction costs. Subsequently, they are stated at amortised over the period of the loan using the effective interest method. cost, any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction cost) and 4.22.1 Carrying Value of Long-term Borrowings Group Company As at 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 i. Non-current portion of the long-term borrowings Finance lease liabilities (Note 4.22.3) 5,683 Term loans (Note 4.22.1.1) 312,505 590,100 310,140 590,100 Total non-current portion of long-term borrowings 318,188 590,100 310,140 590,100 ii. Current portion of the long-term borrowings Finance lease liabilities (Note 4.22.3) 11,333 Term loans (Note 4.22.1.1) 282,350 319,425 281,236 319,425 Total current portion of long-term borrowings 293,683 319,425 281,236 319,425 193 SECTION 4 SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NOTES 4.22.1.1 Movement and Classification of Long-term Borrowings Group Company As at 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 At the beginning of the year 907,090 1,301,990 907,090 1,301,990 Acquisition through business combination (Note 4.12.3) 3,550 Loans obtained during the year Repayments during the year (317,061) (394,900) (316,990) (394,900) At the end of the year (before adjusting interest payable) 593,579 907,090 590,100 907,090 Interest payable 1,276 2,435 1,276 2,435 At the end of the year 594,855 909,525 591,376 909,525 Classified as current liabilities (repayable within one year) 282,350 319,425 281,236 319,425 Classified as non current liabilities (repayable after one year) 312,505 590,100 310,140 590,100 4.22.1.2 Principal Amounts of Long-term Borrowings Lender Currency Group Outstanding as at Company Outstanding as at 2018 2017 31.03.2018 31.03.2017 2018 2017 31.03.2018 31.03.2017 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC LKR 400,000 37,030 400,000 37,030 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC LKR 600,000 600,000 190,000 310,000 600,000 600,000 190,000 * 310,000 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC LKR 800,000 800,000 400,100 560,060 800,000 800,000 400,100 ** 560,060 DFCC Bank LKR 4,000 3,479 Total 1,404,000 1,800,000 593,579 907,090 1,400,000 1,800,000 590,100 907,090 * Repayable in 60 instalments commenced from December 2014 ** Repayable in 60 instalments commenced from October 2015 Security pledged against the above bank loan facilities are disclosed in Note 4.9.3. 4.22.1.3 Analysis of Long-term Borrowings by the year of Repayment Group Commercial DFCC Bank Total As at 31st March Bank of 2018 2017 Ceylon PLC Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 At the beginning of the year 907,090 907,090 1,301,990 Acquisition through business combination (Note 4.12.3) 3,550 3,550 Loans obtained during the year Repayments during the year (316,990) (71) (317,061) (394,900) At the end of the year 590,100 3,479 593,579 907,090 Analysis of Long-term Borrowings by Period of Repayment Repayable within 6 months from year end 139,980 557 140,537 159,960 between 6 months and 1 year 139,980 557 140,537 157,030 between 1 and 5 years from year end 310,140 2,365 312,505 590,100 590,100 3,479 593,579 907,090 194 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Change is valuable Financial Statements Supplementary Information Company Commercial Total As at 31st March Bank of 2018 2017 Ceylon PLC Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 At the beginning of the year 907,090 907,090 1,301,990 Loans obtained during the year Repayments during the year (316,990) (316,990) (394,900) At the end of the year 590,100 590,100 907,090 Analysis of Long-term Borrowings by Period of Repayment Repayable within 6 months from year end 139,980 139,980 159,960 between 6 months and 1 year 139,980 139,980 157,030 between 1 and 5 years from year end 310,140 310,140 590,100 590,100 590,100 907,090 4.22.2 Short-term Borrowings Group Company As at 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Short-term bank loans 7,992,541 7,349,669 7,638,296 7,306,939 Bank overdrafts 601,527 123,023 523,587 99,412 8,594,068 7,472,692 8,161,883 7,406,351 Unutilised bank facilities as at 31st March 2018 amounted to Rs. 4,060 Short-term bank loans are repayable within a period of six months and million (2016/17 Rs. 5,801.3 million). details of inventories and trade receivables which have been pledged against the above short-term loan facilities are disclosed in Note 4.16.3. 4.22.3 Finance lease liabilities Accounting Policy The determination of whether an arrangement is (or contains) a lease A leased asset is depreciated over the useful life of the asset. However, is based on the substance of the arrangement at the inception of the if there is no reasonable certainty that the Group will obtain ownership lease. The arrangement is, or contains, a lease if fulfilment of the by the end of the lease term, the asset is depreciated over the shorter of arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset (or assets) and the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term. the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset (or assets), even if that The Group acquired the following finance lease obligations through asset is (or those assets are) not explicitly specified in an arrangement. business combination. These leases have been obtained for motor Group as a lessee vehicles. A lease is classified at the inception date as a finance lease or an operating lease. A lease that transfers substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership to the Group is classified as a finance lease. Finance leases are capitalised at the commencement of the lease at the inception date fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments. Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are recognised in finance costs in the statement of profit or loss. 195 SECTION 4 SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NOTES Movement of Finance Lease Liabilities Analysis of Finance Lease Liabilities by period of Re-payment Group As at 31st March 2018 Group As at 31st March 2017 2017 Future Finance charge Present value minimum lease unamortised of minimum Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 payments lease payments At the beginning of the year Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Acquisition through business Within the year 12,600 (1,267) 11,333 combination (Note 4.12.3) After one year 6,234 (551) 5,683 Lease Creditors 20,359 18,834 (1,818) 17,016 Finance Charge unamortised (1,984) 18,375 New leases obtained Repayments (1,525) Finance Lease Expense recognised in 166 Income Statement Present value of minimum lease 17,016 payments Finance charge unamortised 1,818 Future minimum lease payments 18,834 4.23 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Accounting Policy Short-term employee benefits The liability recognised in the Statement of Financial Position is the Short-term employee benefits are expensed as the related service is present value of the defined benefit obligation at the reporting date. provided. A liability is recognised for the amount expected to be paid The calculation is performed annually by a qualified actuary using the if the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this projected unit credit method (PUC). Remeasurement of the defined amount as a result of the past service provided by the employee and the benefit liability, which comprises actuarial gains and losses are obligation can be estimated reliably. recognised immediately in Other Comprehensive Income. The Group recognises the increase in defined benefit liability attributable to the Defined contribution plan services provided by employees during the year (current service cost) A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under in Profit or Loss together with the interest expenses. In the absence of which an entity pays fixed determinable contributions into a separate a deep market in long term corporate bonds in Sri Lanka, the discount entity and will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further rate has been derived, and approximation of a long term interest rate amounts. of 10.5% p.a. (2016/17 Rs. 11.5%) has been used to discount future Employees are eligible to Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF) liabilities. contributions and Employees’ Trust Fund (ETF) contributions as per The liability is not externally funded. the respective statutes. These obligations come within the scope of a defined contribution plan as per LKAS -19 on ‘Employee Benefits’. Accounting Estimate Obligations for contributions to defined contribution plans are The actuarial valuation involves making assumptions about discount recognised in Profit or Loss as the related service is provided. rates, future salary increases and mortality rates. The complexity of the valuation, the underlying assumptions and its long term nature, Defined benefit obligation the defined benefit obligation is highly sensitive to changes in these In accordance with the Gratuity Act No. 12 of 1983, a liability arises for assumptions. All assumptions are reviewed at each reporting date. a defined benefit obligation to employees. Such defined benefit obligation is a post-employment benefit obligation falling within the scope of Sri Lanka Accounting Standard LKAS -19 on ‘Employee Benefits’. 196 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Change is valuable Financial Statements Supplementary Information 4.23.1 Movement in Defined Benefit Obligation Group Company As at 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 At the beginning of the year 626,158 500,505 583,912 468,525 Acquisition through business combination (Note 4.12.3) 11,290 Statement of Profit or Loss Current service cost 49,611 44,933 43,380 39,560 Interest cost 71,938 52,506 67,150 49,195 121,549 97,439 110,530 88,755 Other Comprehensive Income Net Actuarial loss/(gain) (38,019) 40,795 (27,013) 39,213 (38,019) 40,795 (27,013) 39,213 Total charge for the year 83,530 138,234 83,517 127,968 Other Paid during the year (59,563) (12,581) (58,207) (12,581) At the end of the year 661,415 626,158 609,222 583,912 4.23.2 Principal Actuarial Assumptions An actuarial valuation was carried out as at 31st March 2018 by Mr. M. Poopalanathan, AIA, of Messrs Actuarial and Management Consultants (Pvt) Limited, a firm of professional actuaries. Assumption 2018 2017 Financial Rate of discount 10.50% p.a. 11.50% p.a. Salary escalation rate 10.00% p.a. 11.00% p.a. Demographic Mortality-in service A 67/70 mortality table, issued by the Institute of Actuaries, London Retirement Age An Executive employee 60 years 60 years A Non-Executive employee 55 Years 55 Years Staff Turnover Upto age 49 14% 16%-22% After age 49 0% 0% According to the Payment of Gratuity Act No. 12 of 1983, the liability for gratuity to an employee arises only on completion of five years of continuous service. The liability as required by the Payment of Gratuity Act for the Group and the Company as at 31st March 2018 amounted to Rs. 615.2 million (2016/17Rs.556.6 million) and Rs. 573.3 million (2016/17Rs.519.0 million) respectively. 197 SECTION 4 SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NOTES 4.23.3 Sensitivity Analysis Reasonably possible variation in one of the relevant actuarial assumptions at the reporting date, holding other assumptions constant, would have affected defined benefit obligation by the amounts shown below; Assumption Change in Defined Benefit Obligation Present Value of Defined Benefit Obligation Group Company Group Company 1% Increase 1% Decrease 1% Increase 1% Decrease 1% Increase 1% Decrease 1% Increase 1% Decrease Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rate of discount (27,289) 30,210 (24,892) 27,520 621,808 679,307 584,330 636,742 Salary escalation rate 32,691 (30,054) 29,828 (27,461) 681,788 619,043 639,050 581,761 4.23.4 Maturity Analysis of the payments Group Company As at 31st March 2018 Rs. '000 Rs. ‘000 Within the next 12 months 215,707 198,440 Between 1-2years 97,982 91,071 Between2-5 years 158,938 151,590 Between5-10 years 115,169 101,753 Beyond 10 years 73,619 66,368 661,415 609,222 4.24 DEFERRED TAX Accounting Policy Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between reassessed at each reporting date and recognised to the extent that it the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting has become probable that future taxable profits will be available against purpose and the amounts used for taxation purposes. which they can be used. Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset, if a legally to temporary differences when they reverse, using tax rates enacted or enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax substantively enacted at the reporting date. liabilities and when the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority. A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which they can be Accounting Estimate Judgement Used used. Deferred tax assets are recognised in respect of tax losses to the extent Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available and can to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit be utilised against such tax losses. Judgement is required to determine will be realised; such reductions are reversed when the probability of the amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based upon future taxable profits improves. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are the likely timing and level of future taxable profits, together with future tax-planning strategies. 198 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Change is valuable Financial Statements Supplementary Information Carrying Value of Deferred Tax Assets/(Liabilities) Group Company As at 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Summary of net deferred tax assets/(liabilities) At the beginning of the year (243,572) (180,450) (247,606) (182,161) Acquired through business combination (Note 4.12.3) PlantChem (Private) Limited 16,359 Plant Seeds (Private) Limited (3,103) Origination of temporary differences to Profit or Loss (26,630) (74,545) (34,156) (76,425) (Origination) / Reversal of temporary differences to (1,582,580) 11,423 (1,579,557) 10,980 Other Comprehensive Income (Note 4.24.2) At the end of the year (Note 4.24.1) (1,839,526) (243,572) (1,861,319) (247,606) Made up as follows: Deferred tax assets 24,906 4,034 Deferred tax liabilities (1,864,432) (247,606) (1,861,319) (247,606) (1,839,526) (243,572) (1,861,319) (247,606) 4.24.1 Reconciliation of Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities Group Company As at 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Deferred Tax Liability Temporary difference arising from property, plant and equipment (7,334,452) (1,502,871) (7,273,445) (1,473,398) Total temporary difference of deferred tax liability (7,334,452) (1,502,871) (7,273,445) (1,473,398) Closing deferred tax liability @ 28% (2,046,654) (420,803) (2,036,564) (412,551) Closing deferred tax liability @ 25% (162) Closing deferred tax liability @ 14% (2,840) Closing deferred tax liability @ 12% (484) (2,050,140) (420,803) (2,036,564) (412,551) Deferred Tax Assets Temporary difference arising from defined benefit obligation 661,415 626,158 609,222 583,911 Temporary difference arising from warranty provision 19,158 6,811 16,656 5,178 Temporary difference arising from Tax Losses 73,991 Total temporary difference of deferred tax assets 754,564 632,969 625,878 589,089 Closing deferred tax assets @ 28% 207,240 177,231 175,245 164,945 Closing deferred tax assets @ 25% 3,162 Closing deferred tax assets @ 12% 212 210,614 177,231 175,245 164,945 Net temporary differences (6,579,888) (869,902) (6,647,567) (884,309) Net deferred tax liability (1,839,526) (243,572) (1,861,319) (247,606) 199 SECTION 4 SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NOTES 4.24.2 Movement in Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities during the Year Group Company As at Acquired Recognised in Recognised As at As at 01.04.2017 Recognised in Recognised As at 31.03.2018 01.04.2017 though business Profit or Loss in Other 31.03.2018 Profit or Loss in Other combination Comprehensive Comprehensive Income Income Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Property, plant and equipment Deferred tax liability (420,803) (6,806) (50,538) (1,571,993) (2,050,140) (412,551) (52,020) *(1,571,993) (2,036,564) Retirement benefit obligation Deferred tax asset 175,324 2,886 17,349 (10,646) 184,913 163,495 14,650 (7,564) 170,581 Warranty provision Deferred tax asset 1,907 3,457 5,364 1,450 3,214 4,664 Tax Losses Deferred tax asset 17,176 3,102 20,278 Effect of movement in exchange rates 59 59 (243,572) 13,256 (26,630) (1,582,580) (1,839,526) (247,606) (34,156) (1,579,557) (1,861,319) * Deferred tax liability attributable to revaluation surplus Deferred tax effect on land revaluation is made up as follows; As at 31st March 2018 Amount Rs.‘000 Deferred tax effect to revaluation reserve at the beginning of the year 793,317 Deferred tax effect on addition to revaluation reserve made during the year 778,676 1,571,993 4.25 DEFERRED INCOME Accounting Policy Accounting Estimate Unprovided free services relating to vehicle sales Relative fair value of free services The Company sells vehicles bundled with free services to the customers The amount charged by the Company in respect of each service is with limitations on mileage or usage period. The unprovided free recognised as the relative fair value of free services. These amounts are services are deferred at the time of selling the vehicles at its relative estimated using the combination of historical experience in service and fair value and recognised as revenue when the recognition criteria price changes. are fulfilled i.e. upon provision of the service or expiration of entitled period or/and criteria, whichever occurs first. Carrying Value of Deferred Income Group Company As at 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 At the beginning of the year 335,895 354,755 108,619 158,313 Income deferred during the year 845,417 1,110,692 318,282 495,856 Income amortised during the year (920,069) (1,129,552) (309,105) (545,550) At the end of the year 261,243 335,895 117,796 108,619 200 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Change is valuable Financial Statements Supplementary Information Analysis of deferred income by period of amortisation Group Company As at 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Current portion of deferred income 225,581 288,133 94,983 99,861 Non-current portion of deferred income 35,662 47,762 22,812 8,758 261,243 335,895 117,795 108,619 4.26 PROVISIONS Accounting Policy Provisions Provisions for extended warranty Provisions are recognised when the Group/Company has a present The Company may offer extended warranties on vehicles on its own obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is account in, certain circumstances. The extended warranty is provided probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits by giving a warranty period that goes beyond the warranty period will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be provided by manufacturers. made of the amount of the obligation. Where the Group expects some A provision for warranty is recognised when the underlying products or all of a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance are sold. The provision is based on the historical warranty data and a contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only weighting of possible outcomes against their associated probabilities. when the reimbursement is virtually certain. The expense relating to any The said extended warranty provision will be reversed upon expiration provision is presented in Profit or Loss net of any reimbursement. If the of the warranty period. effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, the risks Accounting Estimate specific to the liability. Where discounting is used, the increase in the The Management considers likelihood of any claim succeeding, in provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost. making provisions. The time of concluding legal claims is uncertain, Provisions are calculated based on the historical experience and the as is the amount of possible outflow of economic benefits. The timing specific terms in the individual cases. The Group arrives at an estimate and cost ultimately depend on the due process in the respective legal on the basis of an evaluation of the most likely outcome. jurisdictions. All known provisions have been accounted for in preparing the Financial Statements. Group Company As at 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Provision for litigation and claims 11,000 11,000 11,000 11,000 Provisions for warranty 19,158 6,812 16,656 5,179 30,158 17,812 27,656 16,179 Carrying value of warranty provision Group Company As at 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Balance Beginning of the year 6,812 5,315 5,179 5,315 Provision made during the year 18,188 7,850 14,459 4,688 Amount used/reversed during the period (5,842) (6,353) (2,982) (4,824) Carrying value at the end of the year 19,158 6,812 16,656 5,179 201 SECTION 4 SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NOTES 4.27 TRADE PAYABLES Accounting Policy Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently been acquired in the ordinary course of business. Trade payables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less Generally trade payables are due within 90 days. (or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer). If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities. Carrying Value of Trade Payables Group Company As at 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Trade payables 2,974,203 1,681,344 2,495,928 1,563,181 4.27.1 Review of Liquidity Risk The trade payables of the Group include an amount of Rs. 1,822 million Trade payables are non-interest-bearing and have settlement periods as bills payable corresponding to goods shipped but not received. At the less than 90 days. The quick assets ratio of the Group and the Company time of settlement of such bills, the Group will obtain short-term loans as at the year-end was 0.54 and 0.43 respectively (2016/17 Group to cover the working capital cycle period of the imports. 0.51:1, Company 0.42:1). As a liquidity risk management measure, the Unutilised banking facilities are given in Note 4.22.2. Group/Company continually compare trade payables with receivables, cash and cash equivalents and unutilised banking facilities. 4.28 OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES Accounting Policy and contingent consideration arisen through business combination. The Group classifies all non financial current liabilities under other These liabilities are recorded at the amounts that are expected to be current liabilities. Other current liabilities include accruals, advances paid. Carrying Value of Other Current Liabilities Group Company As at 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Advanced received 447,154 347,444 256,036 324,903 Unclaimed dividend 9,594 7,996 9,594 7,996 Value Added Tax (VAT) 452 21,238 Contingent consideration arisen through business combination 21,726 21,726 Provisions for litigation and claims 11,000 11,000 11,000 11,000 Other payables and accrued expenses 1,003,074 915,292 806,809 747,221 1,493,000 1,302,970 1,105,165 1,091,120 Details of provisions are disclosed in Note 4.26 4.28.1 Terms of Settlement of Other Current Liabilities Other current liabilities are non-interest bearing and payable within three months excluding advances and unclaimed dividends. Advances received are expected to be set-off within three months. 202 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Change is valuable Financial Statements Supplementary Information 4.29 CURRENT TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Current tax assets are recognised at historical value less impairment. Income tax liabilities are recorded at the amounts expected to be paid. Carrying Value of Current Tax Asset/(Liability) Group Company As at 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Opening balance (11,893) (65,010) (14,990) (23,004) Acquired through business combination (Note 4.12.3) (1,914) Current tax for the year (Note 4.6) (166,761) (312,056) (89,577) (236,945) (180,568) (377,066) (104,567) (259,949) Tax paid during the year: Current tax, ESC and withholding tax 270,777 365,173 223,077 244,959 270,777 365,173 223,077 244,959 Current tax asset/(liability) 90,209 (11,893) 118,510 (14,990) Made up as follows: Current tax asset 121,978 6,393 118,510 Current tax liability (31,769) (18,286) (14,990) 90,209 (11,893) 118,510 (14,990) 4.30 AMOUNTS DUE (TO)/FROM SUBSIDIARIES AND EQUITY-ACCOUNTED INVESTEE Name of the Company DIMO DIMO DIMO Plant Plant DIMO United DIMO As at As at (Private) Ltd Industries Travels (Pvt) Chem(Pvt) Seeds(Pvt) Lanka DIMO Coastline 31.03.2018 31.03.2017 (Pvt) Ltd Ltd Ltd Ltd Company Lanka (Pvt) Ltd Limited Company Limited Shareholding 100% 100% 100% 51% 51% 100% 70% 40% Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 At the beginning of the year (195,149) 79,142 177 (115,830) (329,141) Sale of goods and services 20,660 6,374 10,064 37,098 9,692 Purchase of goods and services (16,428) (3,492) (19,920) (38,528) Expenses incurred on behalf of 144,820 10,428 5,951 161,199 142,736 subsidiaries/ equity accounted investee Fund transfers net (463,083) (1,762) 115 (11,802) (476,532) 97,782 Asset transfer 10,239 5,714 15,953 1,629 Exchange rate translation difference (67) (67) Closing balance due (to)/from subsidiaries (498,941) 90,690 292 9,860 (398,099) (115,830) 4.30.1 Summary of Amounts Due (to)/from Subsidiaries and Equity-accounted investee comprise: Company 2018 2017 As at 31st March Rs. '000 Rs. ‘000 Amounts due from subsidiaries 100,842 79,319 Amounts due to subsidiaries (498,941) (195,149) Amounts due (to)/from subsidiaries (398,099) (115,830) 203 SECTION 5 OTHER DISCLOSURES This section provides information on related party disclosures and other disclosures required by Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. 5.1 RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES The Company carried out transactions in the ordinary course of its Officers who are employees of Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC business with parties who are defined as related parties as per Sri Lanka and Directors of the subsidiaries and not of the Company have been Accounting Standard LKAS 24 on ‘Related Party Disclosures’. classified as KMP of the respective subsidiary only. 5.1.1 (a) Transactions with Key Management Personnel (KMP) The Group revenue includes sales made to Key Management Personnel amounting to Rs. 17.3 million. (2016/17Rs. 14.9 million) According to Sri Lanka Accounting Standard LKAS 24 on ‘Related Party Disclosures’, Key Management Personnel are those having 5.1.1 (b) The Compensation Paid to Key Management Personnel authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the (KMP) activities of the entity directly or indirectly. Accordingly, the members The Executive Directors are entitled to a structured incentive scheme of the Board of Directors of the Company (Executive and Non-Executive which is linked to performance. Directors) have been classified as KMP. As the Company is the ultimate parent of the subsidiaries (listed in Note 2.2), the Board of Directors The Company contributes towards a post-employment contribution plan of the Company has the authority and responsibility for planning or for the Executive Directors. In addition to their salaries, the Company controlling the activities of the Group directly or indirectly. Accordingly, provides non-cash benefits to KMP. the Board of Directors of the Company (Executive and Non-Executive) There are no share-based payments made to the Directors during the are KMP of the Group. year. Key Management Personnel (KMP) are entitled to discount schemes No loans were granted to KMP of the Company. which are uniformly applicable to all employees of the Group. Compensation to Key Management Personnel of the Company are as follows: Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Short-term employment benefits 421,731 398,816 412,871 386,694 Post-employment benefits 46,134 71,635 44,721 69,775 Terminal benefits 24,638 24,638 Total compensation applicable to Key Management Personnel 492,503 470,451 482,230 456,469 The Company also has an obligation towards a post-employment 5.1.2 Transactions with Companies in which Key Management benefit plan for the Executive Directors. The liability arising from Personnel (KMP) have Control or Significant Influence the post-employment obligation has been provided for, based on an There were no transactions with companies on which KMP have control. actuarial valuation and is disclosed under Employee Benefits in Note 4.23 to the Financial Statements. The transactions with companies in which KMP is the Chairman or a Director of such entities are disclosed in ‘Directors’ Interests in 5.1.1 (c) Transactions with Close Family Members of Key Contracts’ on page 144. Management Personnel (KMP) 5.1.3 Terms and Conditions of Transactions with the Companies on Close family members are defined as spouse or dependant. A which Key Management Personnel (KMP) have Control or Significant dependant is defined as anyone who depends on the respective Influence Director for more than 50% of his/her financial needs. Outstanding balances at the year-end relating to the companies on There were no transactions with the close family members during the which KMP have control or significant influence over these companies year. are unsecured, interest free, and all related-party dues are on demand. There have been no guarantees provided or received for any related party receivables or payables for the year ended 31st March 2018. 204 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Change is valuable Financial Statements Supplementary Information 5.1.4 Transactions with Group Entities Although, there can be no assurance, the Directors believe, based The Company has carried out transactions with Group entities in the on the information currently available that the ultimate resolution of ordinary course of business. The details are set out in Note 203. such lawsuits are not likely to have a material effect on the results of operations, financial position or liquidity. The Group has not recorded any impairment for receivables relating to amount owed by Group entities (2016/17 Rs. Nil). Commitments for obligations under finance leases The Group has commitments for obligations under finance leases as 5.2 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES disclosed in Note 4.22.3. Capital Expenditure Commitments Guarantees Capital expenditure committed by the Board of Directors for which a The contingent liabilities as at 31st March 2018 on guarantees given provision has not been made in the Financial Statements amounted to by Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC, in respect of bank guarantees, approximately Rs. 874.7 million (2016/17 Rs. 894.2 million). bid bonds and performance bonds amounted to Rs. 1,278.9 million (2016/17 Rs. 1,326.3 million). Contingent liabilities Contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence will be Income tax assessments confirmed only by uncertain future events or present obligations where Assessment was received for the year of assessment 2010/2011 in the transfer of economic benefit is not probable or cannot be readily December 2013 based on normal tax rates. Appeal was lodged measured. Further, contingent liabilities are not recognised in Statement against the tax assessed by the Department of Inland Revenue and the of Financial Position but are disclosed unless its occurrence is remote. Company is currently with the Tax Appeals Commission. Currently the Group/Company is involved in legal actions arising out of With the advice of tax consultants and based on the information the normal course of the business. The Group/Company does not expect available, the Company is of the view that there is no basis for company the pending litigations and claims, individually and in aggregate, to to be made liable. Accordingly no provision has been made in the have a material impact on the reported financial results of the Group. financial statements and contingent liability there on as at 31st March 2018 is estimated to be Rs. 124.7 million (2016/17 – Rs. 233.4 million. Litigation Against the Company The claims for lawsuits filed against the Company as at 31st March 2018 amounted to Rs. 3.75 million (2016/17 Rs. 30.3 million). 5.3 OPERATING LEASE An operating lease is a lease other than a finance lease. Operating lease ten years. Lease agreements include clauses to enable upward revision payments are recognised as an operating expense in the statement of of the rental payments on a periodic basis to recent market conditions. profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the lease term. There are no restrictions placed upon the Group by entering into these leases. The Group has leased a number of branches and office premises under operating leases. These leases have an average life of between five to Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Group Company As at 31st March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Within one year 106,130 84,282 83,343 61,895 Between one to five years 285,281 208,275 249,661 149,867 Over five years 200,970 104,732 200,970 104,732 Total operating lease commitments 592,381 397,289 533,974 316,494 5.4 EVENTS OCCURRING AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD There were no material events that occurred after the reporting date that as at 6th April 2018 and all subsequent imports will be entitled to a require adjustments to or disclosure in the Financial Statements except government subsidy. described below; In accordance with LKAS 10, Events after the reporting period, the National fertiliser secretariat of Ministry of Agriculture has issued a government subsidy receivable and impact on sales has not been circular to all fertiliser companies with instruction to issue fertiliser recognised in the financial statements as at 31 March 2018. stocks with a ceiling price. It is expected, as per circular, fertiliser stock 205 CHANGE IS PERCEPTIVE SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION This section includes information complementary to the main body of the report. Appendix I Share Information 207 Appendix II GRI Content Index 209 Appendix III Independent Assurance Statement on Non-Financial Reporting 215 Appendix IV Ten Year Summary 218 Appendix V Glossary 219 Corporate Information 221 Notice of Meeting 222 Form of Proxy 223 APPENDIX I BEING THE CHANGE Context SHARE INFORMATION Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Statements Change is perceptive Supplementary Information 1 STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING The issued ordinary shares of Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC are listed at the Colombo Stock Exchange of Sri Lanka. 2 SHAREHOLDERS The number of Ordinary Shareholders as at 31st March 2018 was 1,858 (1,832 as at 31st March 2017). Resident Non Resident Total No of Shares Held No of Share No of % No of Share No of % No of Share Total No of % holders Shares holders Shares holders Shares 1 1,000 1,599 173,065 1.95 26 8,527 0.10 1,625 181,592 2.05 1,001 10,000 170 491,611 5.54 5 19,022 0.21 175 510,633 5.75 10,001 100,000 42 1,104,162 12.44 0.00 42 1,104,162 12.44 100,001 1,000,000 15 5,314,790 59.88 0.00 15 5,314,790 59.88 1,000,001 and over 1 1,765,260 19.89 0.00 1 1,765,260 19.89 Total 1,827 8,848,888 99.69 31 27,549 0.31 1,858 8,876,437 100.00 31st March 2018 31st March 2017 No of Shares Held No. of Share No. of shares % No. of Share No. of shares % holders holders Individuals 1,775 5,522,488 62.22 1,747 5,533,193 62.34 Institutions 83 3,353,949 37.78 85 3,343,244 37.66 Total 1,858 8,876,437 100.00 1,832 8,876,437 100 3 MARKET VALUE OF SHARES The Market value of an ordinary share of Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC (based on the Volume Weighted Average Price),as at 31st March 2018 was Rs.464.90 (Rs. 559.90 as at 31st March 2017). 4 DIVIDEND PAYMENT 2017/18 2016/17 Rs.mn Rs.mn Interim dividend Rs.20.00 per share (Rs.24.00 per share-2016/17) 177,528,740 213,034,488 5 SHARE TRADING INFORMATION Year Ended 31st March 2018 Year Ended 31st March 2017 Highest (Rs.) 639.00 17-May-17 790.00 18-May-16 Lowest (Rs.) 462.00 28-Mar-18 542.00 28-Mar-17 Closing (Rs.) 464.90 29-Mar-18 559.90 31-Mar-17 No. of transactions 1,316 1,620 No. of shares traded 103,629 340,293 Value of shares traded (Rs.) 7,609,462 224,075,773 6 PUBLIC SHAREHOLDING As at 31st March 2018 2017 Public Holding % 53.18 46.54 Number of Public shareholders 1,846 1,753 Float adjusted market capitalisation LKR 2,194,740,831 The Company is in compliance of Option 5 of the CSE Listing Rule 7.13.1 (a) 207 APPENDIX I SHARE INFORMATION 7 SHARE ISSUES AND BUY-BACKS FOR PAST TWENTY YEARS Year Issue No. of Shares Price 2011/12 Scrip (one share per every fifty shares held) 174,048 Rs. 1,395.00 2008/09 Share Buy back (3,397,611) Rs. 160.00 2006/07 Rights (one share per every ten shares held) 1,100,000 Rs.55.00 2006/07 Scrip(one share per every ten shares held) 1,000,000 Nil 2004/05 Scrip(one share per every nine shares held) 1,000,000 Nil 2003/04 Rights (one share per every two shares held) 3,000,000 Rs.20.00 2000/01 Scrip(one share per every four shares held) 1,200,000 Nil 8 CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDINGS OF DIRECTORS AND THEIR SPOUSES DURING 2017/2018 Name Shareholding As at 31.03.2018 Movement of As at 31.03.2017 % Shares Shares Shares Mr A R Pandithage 21.74 1,929,735 1,929,735 Mr S C Algama 6.48 574,779 574,779 Mr A G Pandithage 6.43 570,862 570,862 Mr A N Algama 2.41 213,739 213,739 Mr A M Pandithage 2.53 224,172 224,172 Mr M V Bandara 0.02 1,882 1,882 39.58 3,515,169 0 3,515,169 9 TOP TWENTY SHAREHOLDERS Name As At 31St March 2018 As At 31St March 2017 Shares % Shares % Employees Provident Fund 1,765,260 19.89 1,765,260 19.89 Mr. A R Pandithage 991,233 11.17 991,233 11.17 Mrs. J C Pandithage 938,502 10.57 938,502 10.57 A & G Investments Pvt Limited 640,380 7.21 630,844 7.11 Mr. S C Algama 567,786 6.40 567,786 6.40 Mr. A G Pandithage 525,814 5.92 525,814 5.92 Almar Trading Co (Pvt) Ltd 279,945 3.15 310,875 3.50 Mr. A N Algama 213,739 2.41 213,739 2.41 Mr. T G H Peries 193,069 2.18 193,069 2.18 Mr. A M Pandithage 182,319 2.05 182,319 2.05 Dr D. Jayanntha 160,000 1.80 160,000 1.80 Miss T.R.N.C Peries 148,009 1.67 148,009 1.67 Mr. L P Algama 134,569 1.52 134,569 1.52 Estate of the Late Mr. N.U. Algama 118,845 1.34 118,845 1.34 Deutsche Bank Ag As Trustee For Jb Vantage Value E 110,697 1.25 123,733 1.39 United Motors Lanka PLC 109,883 1.24 109,883 1.24 Bank of Ceylon 77,935 0.88 77,935 0.88 Almar International (PVT)Ltd 62,861 0.71 62,810 0.71 Indira Siromani 46,000 0.52 46,000 0.52 Harsha Semage 45,048 0.51 45,048 0.51 7,311,894 82.37 7,346,273 82.76 10 THE STATED CAPITAL REPRESENTS 8,876,437 ORDINARY SHARES. 208 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 APPENDIX II BEING THE CHANGE Context GRI CONTENT INDEX Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Statements Change is perceptive Supplementary Information GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Omission Part Reason Explanation Omitted GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102:General Disclosures 2016 Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization 221 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 92-111 102-3 Location of headquarters 221 102-4 Location of operations 72, 19 , 140 102-5 Ownership and legal form 221 102-6 Markets served 72,92-111, 140 102-7 Scale of the organization 78,73, 92-111, 153, 164, 154 & 92-111 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 78, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance/ 102-9 Supply chain 75-77, 92-111, 31 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its 8-11 , 12-15, 16-17,75-77, 92-111 supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 8,14,114-115 102-12 External initiatives 8,14,114-115, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance/ 102-13 Membership of associations 129 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 8-11 & 12-15 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 8-11 ,12-15,92-111,132-138 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of 5, 128 & http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilitybehaviour performance/ 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about 86 & http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityethics performance/ Governance 102-18 Governance structure 41-42 102-19 Delegating authority 44 & 113 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, 44 environmental, and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, 42,44, 16-17, 34-38 environmental, and social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body 44,45, 53-58 and its committees 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 100, http://www.dimolanka.com/stewardship/ 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest 57, http://www.dimolanka.com/stewardship/ governance body 102-25 Conflicts of interest http://www.dimolanka.com/stewardship/, 42, 44, 51, 141,145. Pg. 141 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting 140-143 & http://www.dimolanka.com/stewardship/ purpose, values, and strategy 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance 20-25 body 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s 140-143 , http://www.dimolanka.com/stewardship/ , 17, performance 44, 52 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, http://www.dimolanka.com/stewardship/ environmental, and social impacts 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 132-138 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and 140-143, http://www.dimolanka.com/stewardship/ social topics 209 APPENDIX II GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Omission Part Reason Explanation Omitted 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in http://www.dimolanka.com/stewardship/ sustainability reporting 102-33 Communicating critical concerns http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ 102-35 Remuneration policies Confidentiality Not disclosure Constraints due to confidentiality of the data 102-36 Process for determining remuneration http://www.dimolanka.com/stewardship/ 102-37 Stakeholders involvement in remuneration Confidentiality Not disclosure Constraints due to confidentiality of the data 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio Confidentiality Not disclosure Constraints due to confidentiality of the data 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total Confidentiality Not disclosure compensation ratio Constraints due to confidentiality of the data Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 35-36 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 34 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 35 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 37-38 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial 19, 16-17 statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 16-17,36 102-47 List of material topics 36 102-48 Restatements of information 17 102-49 Changes in reporting 16, 37-38 102-50 Reporting period 16 102-51 Date of most recent report May-2017 102-52 Reporting cycle 16 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the 221 report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the 17 GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index 209-214 102-56 External assurance 215-217 GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Omission Part Reason Explanation Omitted Material Topics GRI 200 Economic Standard Series Economic Performance GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 116-119 Management Boundary Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 116-119 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 116-119 GRI 201: 201-1 Direct economic value generated and 117 Economic distributed Performance 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and 122, 125, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability2016 opportunities due to climate change performance/ 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other 196-198 retirement plans 201-4 Financial assistance received from government 205 210 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Statements Change is perceptive Supplementary Information GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Omission Part Reason Explanation Omitted Indirect Economic Impacts GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 126-131 Management Boundary Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 126-131 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 126-131 GRI 203: 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services 126-131 Indirect supported Economic 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ Impacts 2016 Procurement Practices GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 75-77, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityManagement Boundary performance/ Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 75-77, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability2016 performance/ 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 75-77, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance/ page 14 GRI 204: 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 117 Procurement Practices 2016 GRI 300 Environmental Standards Series Materials GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 93-94 Management Boundary Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 93-94 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 93-94 GRI 301: 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 90 Materials 301-2 Recycled input materials used 121 2016 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ materials Energy GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 89-90 & http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityManagement Boundary performance/ Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 89-90 & http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability2016 performance/ 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 89-90 & http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance/ GRI 302: 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 89-90 & http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityEnergy 2016 performance/ 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 89-90 & http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance/ 302-3 Energy intensity 89-90 & http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance/ 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 89-90 & http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance/ 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products 89-90 & http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityand services performance/ Water GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 89, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityManagement Boundary performance/ Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 89, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability2016 performance/ 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 89, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance/ GRI 303: 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 89 Water 2016 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ withdrawal of water 303-3 Water recycled and reused 89 , 122 211 APPENDIX II GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Omission Part Reason Explanation Omitted Emissions GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 122-124, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityManagement Boundary performance/ Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 122-124, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability2016 performance/ 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 122-124, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance/ GRI 305: 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 122-124, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityEmissions performance/ 2016 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 122-124, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance/ 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 122-124, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance/ 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 122-124, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance/ 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 123 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ and other significant air emissions Effluents and Waste GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 113,121-122, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityManagement Boundary performance/ Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 113,121-122, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability2016 performance/ 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 113,121-122, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance/ GRI 306: 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 122-124, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityEffluents and performance/ Waste 2016 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 122-124, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance/ 306-3 Significant spills Not applicable 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Not applicable 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/ http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ or runoff Environmental Compliance GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 113,121,122,126 Management Boundary Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 113,121,122,126 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 113,121,122,126 GRI 307: 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ Environmental regulations Compliance 2016 GRI 400 Social Standards Series Employment GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 78-82, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityManagement Boundary performance/ Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 78-82, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability2016 performance/ 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 78-82, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance/ GRI 401: 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 62, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityEmployment performance/ 2016 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ Labour/Management Relations GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 78-82, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityManagement Boundary performance/ Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 78-82, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability2016 performance/ 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 78-82, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance/ 212 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Statements Change is perceptive Supplementary Information GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Omission Part Reason Explanation Omitted GRI 402: 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ Labour/ changes Management Relations 2016 Occupational Health and Safety GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 78-82, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityManagement Boundary performance/ Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 78-82, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability2016 performance/ 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 78-82, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance/ GRI 403: 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint 82 & http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityOccupational management-worker health and safety committees performance/ Health and 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational 82 & http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilitySafety 2016 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of performance/ work-related fatalities 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of 82 & http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilitydiseases related to their occupation performance/ 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ agreements with trade unions Training and Education GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 79-80 & http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityManagement Boundary performance/ Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 79-80 & http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability2016 performance/ 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 79-80 & http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance/ GRI 404: 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 79-80 & http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityTraining and performance/ Education 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and 79-80, 84 & http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability2016 transition assistance programs performance/ 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular 79-80 performance and career development reviews Non-discrimination GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ Management Boundary Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ GRI 406: 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ Nonactions taken discrimination 2016 Human Rights Assessment GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ Management Boundary Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ GRI 412: 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ Human Rights rights reviews or impact assessments Assessment 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ 2016 procedures 412-3 Significant investment agreements and http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening Local Communities GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ Management Boundary Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ 213 APPENDIX II GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Omission Part Reason Explanation Omitted GRI 413: 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ Local impact assessments, and development programs Communities 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ 2016 negative impacts on local communities Customer Health and Safety GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 72, 74 & http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityManagement Boundary performance/ Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 72, 74 & http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability2016 performance/ 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 72, 74 & http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance/ GRI 416: 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of 72, 74 & http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityCustomer product and service categories performance/ Health and 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the 72, 74 & http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilitySafety 2016 health and safety impacts of products and services performance/ Marketing and Labelling GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 72-73 http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityManagement Boundary performance/ Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 72-73 http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability2016 performance/ 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 72-73 http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance/ GRI 417: 417-1 Requirements for product and service 72-73 http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityMarketing information and labelling performance/ and Labelling 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning 72-73 http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability2016 product and service information and labelling performance/ 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning 72-73 http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilitymarketing communications performance/ Customer Privacy GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 72-73 http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityManagement Boundary performance/ Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 72-73 http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability2016 performance/ 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 72-73 http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance/ GRI 418: 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches 72-73 http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityCustomer of customer privacy and losses of customer data performance/ Privacy 2016 Socioeconomic Compliance GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 126-131 & http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityManagement Boundary performance/ Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 126-131 & http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability2016 performance/ 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 126-131 & http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance/ GRI 419: 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in 126-131 & http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilitySocioeconomic the social and economic area performance/ Compliance 2016 214 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 APPENDIX III INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT ON NON-FINANCIAL REPORTING SCOPE AND APPROACH investments made in the last quarter of the BASIS OF OUR OPINION DNV GL represented by DNV GL Business financial year, and DIMO Coastline (Pvt) Ltd As part of the assurance a multi-disciplinary Assurance Lanka (Private) Limited has been over which DIMO does not exercise significant team of sustainability and assurance specialists commissioned by the management of Diesel management control. This is as set out in the performed work at DIMO’s Head Office, and and Motor Engineering PLC (‘DIMO’ or ‘the Report in the section ‘Report Boundaries’. we visited sample operations in Sri Lanka at Company’) to carry out an independent We planned and performed our work to obtain Colombo, Weliweriya and Anuradhapura. We assurance engagement for the non-financial the evidence we considered necessary to undertook the following activities: qualitative and quantitative information provide a basis for our assurance opinion and • Review of DIMO’s approach to stakeholder (sustainability performance) reported in the process did not involve engagement with engagement and materiality determination DIMO Integrated Annual Report 2017-18 external stakeholders. process and the outcome as reported in (‘the Report’) in its printed format and the this Report. We did not have any direct Company’s website, for the financial year RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE MANAGEMENT engagement with external stakeholders; ending 31st March 2018. The sustainability OF DIMO AND OF THE ASSURANCE disclosures in this Report have been prepared PROVIDERS • Interviews with selected senior managers while considering the key requirements responsible for management of The Management of DIMO has the sole of the International Integrated Reporting sustainability issues and review of selected responsibility for the preparation of the Council’s (IIRC’s) <IR> Framework and evidence to support issues disclosed Report and are responsible for all information the ‘Comprehensive’ option of the Global in the Report. We were free to choose disclosed in the Report as well as the processes Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability interviewees and interviewed those for collecting, analysing and reporting the Reporting Standards 2016 (‘GRI Standards’). with overall responsibility to deliver the information presented in the printed and Company’s sustainability objectives; We performed our verification (Type web-based versions of the Report, including 2, Moderate level) activities based on the maintenance and integrity of the website. • Site visits to sample operations of the AccountAbility’s AA1000 Assurance Standard In performing this assurance work, DNV GL’s Group: (i) DIMO Logistics Center, 2008 (AA1000 AS) and DNV GL’s assurance responsibility is to the Management; however, Weliweriya (ii) DIMO Lanka methodology VeriSustainTM 1, which is based this statement represents our independent Anuradhapura Branch, and (iii) DIMO on our professional experience, international opinion and is intended to inform the outcome 800 Mercedes-Benz Centre to review assurance best practice including International of the assurance to the stakeholders of the processes and systems for preparing site Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 Company. DNV GL was not involved in the level sustainability data and implementation (ISAE 3000) Revised* and GRI Guidelines. preparation of any statements or data included of sustainability strategy. We were free to Our assurance engagement was planned and in the Report except for this Assurance choose sites for conducting assessments; carried out in May 2018. Statement. • Review of supporting evidence for key The intended user of this assurance statement DNV GL provides a range of other services claims and data in the Report; is the Management of DIMO. We disclaim any to DIMO, none of which in our opinion, • Review of the processes for gathering and liability or responsibility to a third party for constitute a conflict of interest with this consolidating the specified performance decisions, whether investment or otherwise, assurance work. data related to identified material topics based on this Assurance Statement. DNV GL’s assurance engagements are based on and, for a sample, checking the data The reporting Topic Boundaries of sustainability the assumption that the data and information consolidation in context to the Principle of performance are based on internal and external provided by the client to us as part of our Completeness as per VeriSustain. materiality assessment carried out by the review have been provided in good faith. • An independent assessment of DIMO’s Company and covers DIMO’s operations in DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or reporting against the GRI Standards and Sri Lanka. The Report include limited nonco-responsibility for any decision a person or the reporting requirements for the GRI financial data and information related to the an entity may make based on this Assurance Standards: Comprehensive option of activities of PlantChem (Private) Limited, Statement. reporting. PlantSeeds (Private) Limited, DIMO Lanka Company Limited and United DIMO Lanka During the assurance process, we did not come Company Limited which are new acquisitions/ across limitations to the scope of the agreed 1 The VeriSustain protocol is available on www.dnvgl.com * Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. 215 APPENDIX III INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT ON NON-FINANCIAL REPORTING assurance engagement. The reported data on –– GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety Inclusivity economic performance, and other financial 2016 – 403-1, 403-3, 403-4; The participation of stakeholders in developing data are based on audited financial statements and achieving an accountable and strategic –– GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 – issued by the Company’s statutory auditors. response to Sustainability. 404-1, 404-2, 404-3; OPINION –– GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 – The Company’s Sustainability Committee 406-1; and senior management monitors the various On the basis of the verification undertaken, formal and informal processes in place for nothing has come to our attention to suggest –– GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 stakeholder engagement, and ensures that that the Report does not properly describe 412-1, 412-2, 412-3; responses are formulated via appropriate DIMO’s adherence to the GRI Standards: –– GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 – 413strategies and plans towards value creation. Comprehensive option of reporting including 1, 413-2; The Group Management Committee and Board the GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016, are involved in assessing key concerns raised GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 –– GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety by stakeholders through these engagement and disclosures related to the following 2016 – 416-1, 416-2; mechanisms. GRI Standards which have been chosen by DIMO to bring out its performance against its –– GRI 417: Marketing and Labelling 2016 – Responsiveness identified material topics: 417-1, 417-3; The extent to which an organization responds –– GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 – 418-1; to stakeholder issues. Economic –– GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 – –– GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance The Report shows how DIMO monitors and 201-1, 201-2, 201-3, 201-4; 2016 – 419-1. provides feedback based on key concerns, The Report brings out omission/partial expectations and issues raised by its –– GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 reporting of the performance indicators (301-2, stakeholders such as shareholders, customers, – 203-1, 203-2; 403-2) with a commitment to reporting them in business partners/suppliers, society, and –– GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016 – the future. employees. Policies, strategies, management 204-1; systems and governance mechanisms that OBSERVATIONS the Company has established to respond to Environmental topics identified as material are adequately Without affecting our assurance opinion, we –– GRI 301: Materials 2016 – 301-1, 301-3; represented in the Report. The performance provide the following observations evaluating on sustainability-related objectives – which –– GRI 302: Energy 2016 – 302-1, 302-2, the Report’s adherence to the AA1000AS include short, medium and long term targets 302-3, 302-4; principles: linked to identified material topics – are –– GRI 303: Water 2016 – 303-1, 303-2, brought out in the Report. Materiality 303-3; The process of determining the issues that Reliability –– GRI 305: Emissions 2016 – 305-1, 305-2, is most relevant to an organization and its The accuracy and comparability of information 305-5, 305-7; stakeholders. presented in the report, as well as the quality of –– GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 – 306DIMO has identified material topics to bring underlying data management systems. 1, 306-2, 306-3, 306-4, 306-5; out in its Report on the basis of a stakeholder The majority of data and information verified engagement process, topics identified by the –– GRI 307: Environmental Compliance at Head Office and at operational sites Board and General Management Committee, 2016 – 307-1; visited by us were found to be fairly accurate and inputs from the Group’s risk management and reliable. Some of the data inaccuracies Social process. The Company has also reviewed the identified during the verification process process of materiality determination to account –– GRI 401: Employment 2016 – 401-1, were found to be attributable to transcription, for significant changes in its value creation 401-2, 401-3; interpretation and aggregation errors and the model. errors have been corrected. –– GRI 402: Labour/Management Relations 2016 – 402-1; 216 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 Specific Evaluation of the Information on The Report generally meets the Principle OPPORTUNITIES FOR IMPROVEMENT Sustainability Performance of Completeness with respect to scope, The following is an excerpt from the We consider the methodology and the boundary and time. DIMO’s business observations and further opportunities for process for gathering information developed model and value creation strategies across improvement reported to the management by DIMO for its sustainability performance its identified capitals is adequately brought and are not considered for drawing our reporting to be appropriate. The qualitative out within the Report in line with key conclusion on the Report; however, they are and quantitative data included in the Report requirements of the <IR> framework. The generally consistent with the Management’s were found to be identifiable and traceable; Report has adequately captured disclosures objectives: the personnel responsible were able to on DIMO’s economic, environmental and social performance related to its material • Internal management systems related to demonstrate the origin and interpretation topics through selected GRI Standards. sustainability aspects and the reliability of the data and its reliability. Nothing has of reported sustainability data may be come to our attention that has proved to us Neutrality reinforced by linking distinct references that information provided was inconsistent, The extent to which a report provides a to GRI Standard requirements and by inaccurate and unreliable. We observed that balanced account of an organization’s implementing quality assurance systems the Report presents a faithful description of performance, delivered in a neutral tone. for data measurement and recording. the disclosures on sustainability performance for the reporting period. The disclosures related to sustainability • DIMO may strengthen the awareness performance and issues are presented in levels on material topics for key Additional principles as per DNV GL personnel across its various geographies a neutral tone, in terms of content and VeriSustain and businesses, through frequent presentation, along with key concerns and Completeness challenges faced during the period. awareness and engagement sessions. How much of all the information that has been identified as material to the organisation and its stakeholders is reported? For DNV GL Rathika de Silva Kiran Radhakrishnan Prasun Kundu Country Head Lead verifier Sustainability Services Assurance Reviewer DNV GL Business Assurance Lanka (Private) DNV GL Business Assurance India Private Global Service Responsible Social Limited, Colombo, Sri Lanka Limited, India. Accountability DNV GL Business Assurance India Private Limited, India. 1st June, 2018, Colombo, Sri Lanka. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------DNV GL Business Assurance Lanka (Private) Limited is part of DNV GL – Business Assurance, a global provider of certification, verification, assessment and training services, helping customers to build sustainable business performance. www.dnvgl.com 217 APPENDIX IV TEN YEAR SUMMARY Year Ended 31st March 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 2009/10 2008/09 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Operating Results Revenue 43,686,158 44,492,990 37,749,750 28,037,376 20,884,674 27,711,604 39,862,943 29,357,271 10,530,587 9,187,966 Profit before taxation 747,606 1,043,392 1,380,059 847,033 512,858 490,021 3,724,521 3,395,980 420,095 175,082 Income tax (193,391) (386,601) (433,453) (250,950) (119,317) (27,871) (1,022,870) (1,274,228) (141,842) (72,054) Profit for the year 554,215 656,791 946,606 596,083 393,541 462,150 2,701,651 2,121,752 278,253 103,028 Profit attributable to Owners of the Company 550,308 656,791 946,606 596,083 393,541 462,150 2,701,651 2,121,752 278,253 103,028 Capital Employed Stated capital 425,297 425,297 425,297 425,297 425,297 425,297 425,297 182,500 182,500 182,500 Other components of equity 4,050,962 2,839,898 2,839,356 2,838,894 2,018,475 2,014,752 2,014,752 1,135,612 1,135,612 1,135,612 Revenue reserves 7,299,899 6,899,747 6,725,026 5,973,747 5,473,721 5,191,118 5,000,566 2,882,735 882,816 686,733 Non-controlling interests 304,203 Total equity 12,080,361 10,164,942 9,989,679 9,237,938 7,917,493 7,631,167 7,440,615 4,200,847 2,200,928 2,004,845 Total borrowings 9,188,923 8,382,217 6,484,996 5,253,838 5,950,126 3,417,800 5,045,829 3,068,466 1,966,600 2,709,671 Total capital employed 21,269,284 18,547,159 16,474,675 14,491,776 13,867,619 11,048,967 12,486,444 7,269,313 4,167,528 4,714,516 Assets Employed Noncurrent assets 11,681,165 8,357,266 7,982,821 8,039,357 6,937,410 5,719,010 4,763,435 3,099,509 2,149,406 2,234,911 Current assets 16,891,197 14,402,152 12,349,823 9,910,853 9,157,244 7,183,369 10,536,783 7,839,972 3,389,023 3,028,263 Total liabilities (excluding borrowings) (7,303,078) (4,212,259) (3,857,969) (3,458,434) (2,227,035) (1,851,412) (2,813,774) (3,670,168) (1,370,901) (548,658) Total assets employed 21,269,284 18,547,159 16,474,675 14,491,776 13,867,619 11,048,967 12,486,444 7,269,313 4,167,528 4,714,516 Cash Flow Net cash from/(used in) operating activities 463,058 (654,758) (836,816) 648,049 (726,849) 3,207,700 (2,430,074) 1,793,848 846,833 625,652 Net cash from/(used in) investing activities (1,113,776) (684,812) (223,129) (677,408) (1,361,283) (970,581) (788,829) (937,710) (24,275) 1,918 Net cash from/(used in) financing activities (486,993) (847,598) (495,191) (340,735) 975,156 (474,062) 277,902 (377,658) (295,885) (416,861) Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (1,137,711) (2,187,168) (1,555,136) (370,094) (1,112,976) 1,763,057 (2,941,001) 478,480 526,673 210,709 Key Indicators Earnings per share (Rs.) 62.00 73.99 106.64 67.15 44.34 51.16 304.36 239.03 27.97 9.36 Net assets per share (Rs.) 1,326.68 1,145.16 1,125.42 1040.73 891.97 859.71 838.24 473.26 252.92 230.39 Market value per share (Rs.) 464.90 559.90 549.70 630.00 505.00 505.00 982.20 1,484.70 394.25 60.25 Dividend per share (Rs.) 20.00 24.00 27.00 20.00 10.00 10.00 40.00 61.00 7.00 3.00 Dividends approved/ Paid (Rs.’000) 177,529 213,034 239,664 177,529 88,764 88,764 244,102 443,822 34,810 26,107 Annual sales growth (%) (1.81) 17.86 34.64 34.25 24.64 (30.48) 35.91 178.78 14.61 (27.58) Equity to total assets ratio (%) 41.22 44.66 49.13 51.46 49.19 59.15 48.63 38.40 39.78 38.09 Dividends cover (no. of times) 3.10 3.08 3.95 3.36 4.43 5.11 7.61 4.00 3.11 2.34 Price earnings ratio (no. of times) 7.50 7.57 5.15 9.38 11.39 9.70 3.23 6.21 14.89 6.44 Current ratio (no. of times) 1.24 1.30 1.47 1.45 1.50 1.71 1.60 1.27 1.20 1.31 Turnover to capital employed (no. of times) 2.05 2.40 2.29 1.93 1.51 2.51 3.19 4.04 2.53 1.95 Interest Cover (no. of times) 1.71 2.22 3.93 3.00 2.42 2.42 15.67 17.35 2.20 1.31 Average no. of employees 1788 1,649 1,554 1,524 1,518 1,433 1,179 942 867 869 218 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 APPENDIX V BEING THE CHANGE Context GLOSSARY Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Statements Change is perceptive Supplementary Information Accounting Policies Cash Equivalents Degradation The specific principles, bases, conventions, Short –term highly liquid investments that are The process in which the status or quality of rules and practices adopted by an entity in readily convertible to known amounts of cash something is destroyed or spoiled. preparing and presenting Financial Statements. and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. Direct Employment Accolades The workers employed by the company. Awards and privileges granted as a special CFC honour or as an acknowledgement of merit. Chlorofluorocarbon a class of compounds Discount Rate harmful to the ozone layer. A rate used to place a current value on future Accrual Basis cash flows. It is needed to reflect the fact that Recording revenues and expenses in the CFL money has a time value. period in which they are earned or incurred Compact fluorescent lamp. An energy-saving regardless of whether cash is received or lamp. Dividend Cover disbursed in that period. Profit after tax divided by gross dividends. This CGUs ratio measures the number of times dividend is Actuarial Gain/Loss on defined benefit plan The smallest group of assets that covered by current year’s distributable profits. Gain or loss arising from the difference independently generates cash flow and the between estimates and actual experience in an cash flow is largely independent of the cash Dividend Payout Ratio entity’s defined benefit plan. flows generated by other assets. The percentage of earnings paid to shareholders in dividends. Amortised Cost Chemical Oxygen Demand Amount at which the financial asset or A measure of the capacity of water to Dust Extractors financial liability is measured at initial consume oxygen during the decomposition of A system used to enhance the quality of air recognition, minus principal repayments, organic matter and the oxidation of inorganic released from industrial and commercial plus or minus the cumulative amortisation chemicals. processes by collecting dust and other using the effective interest method of any impurities from air or gas. difference between that initial amount and the Consolidate Financial Statements maturity amount and minus any reduction for Consolidated Financial Statements are the Effective Interest Rate (EIR) impairment or un-collectability. financial statements of a Group in which Rate that exactly discounts estimated future assets, liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash payments or receipts through the Apprenticeship cash flows of the parent and its subsidiaries expected life of the financial instruments or Method in which trainees learn a skill or trade are presented as those of a single economic when appropriate, a shorter period to the by hands-on experience while working with a entity. net carrying amount of the financial asset or skilled worker. financial liability. Credit Rating Asset Turnover An evaluation of a corporate’s ability to repay Effective Tax Rate The amount of sales generated for every rupee its obligations or likelihood of not defaulting, Provision for taxation expressed as a worth of assets. It is calculated by dividing carried out by an independent rating agency. percentage of the profit before taxation. sales by assets. Current Ratio Emissions AWPR Total current assets divided by total current Emission of fumes, dust & ozone depleting Average Weighted Prime Lending Rate as liabilities. gases to the atmosphere. published by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka. Debt to Equity Ratio Energy Intensity Basis Point (bp) Debt as a percentage of shareholders’ funds. Total energy consumed by the Group divided One-hundredth of a percentage point (0.01 by the number of full time employees of the per cent); 100 basis points is 1 percentage Deferred Taxation Group as at the year-end. point. Used in quoting movements in interest Sum set aside for income tax in the Financial rates or yields on securities. Statements that may become payable/ Equity receivable in a financial year other than the Shareholders’ funds. current financial year. It arises because of temporary differences between tax rules and accounting conventions. 219 APPENDIX V GLOSSARY Ethical Infrastructure Price Earnings Ratio Relating to moral principles. The basic physical and organizational Market price of a share divided by the earnings structures and facilities needed for the per share. E-Waste operation of a society or enterprise. Electronic waste, especially mobile phones, Quick Assets Ratio televisions and personal computers. Interest Cover Total current assets minus inventories, divided A ratio showing the number of times interest by current liabilities. Exhaust Gas charges is covered by earnings before interest Gases ejected from an engine as waste and tax. Recycle products. The process of converting waste into reusable LED material. Fair Value Light Emitting Diode used as energy-efficient The price that would be received to sell an lighting. Revenue Reserves asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly Reserves set aside for future distributions and transaction between market participants at the Loan to Value Ratio investments. measurement date. Financial term used by lenders to express the ratio of a loan to the value of an asset Risk Appetite Financial Instrument purchased. The amount and type of risk that an A financial instrument is any contract that organisation is willing to take in order to meet gives rise to both a financial asset in one entity Market Capitalisation their strategic objectives. and a financial liability or equity instrument in The value of a company obtained by another entity. multiplying the number of ordinary shares in Risk Management issue by the market value as at a date. The identification, analysis, assessment, Financial Leverages control, and avoidance, minimization, or A measure of how an entity used its debt Net Assets elimination of unacceptable risks. capital to finance its assets, calculated as total Total assets minus long term and current assets divided by total shareholders’ equity. liabilities. Stewardship The role of supervising or taking care of the Grey Water Net Assets Per Share organisation. Wastewater composed of wash water from Net assets at the year-end divided by the workshops, kitchen and bathroom. number of shares in issue. Storm Water Surface water in abnormal quantity resulting Groundwater Net Profit Ratio from heavy falls of rain. Water found below the surface. Profit after tax attributable to equity holders of the parent divided by total revenue. Toxic Hazardous Waste Poisonous. Waste that cannot be handled by routine Non-controlling Interest waste management methods because of its Equity in a subsidiary not attributable, directly Water Consumption biological, chemical or physical properties or indirectly, to a parent. Usage of water by means of municipal supply, that may pose a danger to living organisms, ground water or rain water harvesting. materials, structures or the environment. Organic Waste Bio-degradable waste. Working Capital Human Rights Total current assets minus current liabilities. A right which is believed to belong to every Particles person. A minute portion of matter. Workshops Locations that carry out the activity of Incineration PH Level servicing, repair, tinkering painting and The destruction of something, especially waste Level of potential of hydrogen which is used to washing of vehicles. material, by burning. measure acidity or alkalinity of water soluble substances. 220 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 CORPORATE INFORMATION BEING THE CHANGE Context Strategy Enterprise Governance Value Creation Financial Statements Change is perceptive Supplementary Information Name of the Company Auditors Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC KPMG, Chartered Accountants, P.O. Box 186, Registered Office No 32A, Sir Mohamed Macan Markar Mawatha, P.O. Box 339, Colombo 3, Sri Lanka. No. 65, Jetawana Road, Colombo 14, Sri Lanka. Telephone: +94-11-2449797, Lawyers +94-112338883 Julius & Creasy www.dimolanka.com Attorneys-at-law & Notaries Public E-mail: dimo@dimolanka.com P.O. Box 154, Facsimile: +94-11-2449080 No 41, Janadhipathi Mawatha Colombo 01 Sri Lanka Legal Form A public limited Company incorporated in 1945 under the Laws of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. The Company Bankers was re-registered as per the requirements of the Companies Act Bank of Ceylon No. 07 of 2007 on 9th May 2008. Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC DFCC Bank PLC Hatton National Bank PLC Company Registration Number Hong Kong & Shanghai Banking Corporation Ltd PQ 146 Nations Trust Bank PLC NDB Bank PLC People’s Bank Founded Sampath Bank PLC 1939 Company Secretary Accounting Year End B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne, F.C.A., M.B.A. (Sri J.) 31st March Company Registrars Tax Payer Identification Number (TIN) Jacey and Company 104002498 No.9/5, Thambiah Avenue Off Independence Avenue Stock Exchange Listing Colombo 07 Sri Lanka The ordinary shares of the Company are listed with the Colombo Stock Exchange of Sri Lanka 221 NOTICE OF MEETING NOTICE is hereby given that the Seventy Third Annual General Meeting 3. To re-appoint the retiring Auditors M/s KPMG, Chartered of DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC will be held at the registered Accountants, to hold office until the conclusion of the next Annual office of the Company, No. 65, Jetawana Road, Colombo 14, on Thursday, General Meeting and to authorise the Directors to determine their 28th June, 2018 at 8.30 a.m. for the following purposes: remuneration. 1. To receive and consider the Audited Financial Statements for the 4. To authorise the Directors to determine contributions to charities. Year Ended 31st March 2018, together with the Reports of the Directors’ and Auditors’ thereon. The profiles of the Directors proposed for re-election are given on pages 22 to 25 of the Annual Report. 2. Directors i. to re-elect Mr. Ajit Nimal Algama, Director, who retires by Notes: rotation in terms of Article 66 of the Articles of Association of the Company at the Annual General Meeting A shareholder is entitled to appoint a Proxy to attend and vote instead of himself and a Proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company. ii. to re-elect Mr. Aruna Gahanath Pandithage, Director, who retires by rotation in terms of Article 66 of the Articles of A Form of Proxy is enclosed for this purpose. The instrument appointing Association of the Company at the Annual General Meeting a proxy must be deposited at the office of Jacey and Company, Registrars to Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC , 9/5, Thambiah Avenue, Colombo 07 iii. to re-elect Mr. Abeykumar Mohan Pandithage, Director, who not less than forty eight (48) hours before the time fixed for the meeting. retires by rotation in terms of Article 66 of the Articles of Association of the Company at the Annual General Meeting By Order of the Board, iv. to elect Mr. Asanga Nishamen Ranasinghe, Director, who retires in terms of Article 71 of the Articles of Association of the Company Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Company Registration No. PQ-146 v. to re appoint Mr. Asoka Ranjith Pandithage, as a Director, who is 70 years old and who vacates his office in terms of Section 210 of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 (the Act). Notice is hereby given to propose the undernoted Ordinary Resolution in compliance with Section 211 of the Act, in relation to his re-appointment. “RESOLVED THAT Mr. Asoka Ranjith Pandithage, who is 70 B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne years of age be and is hereby re-appointed a Director of the Secretary Company and it is hereby declared that the age limit of 70 years referred to in Section 210 of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 shall not apply to the said Mr. Asoka Ranjith Pandithage” Colombo 30th May 2018 vi. to re appoint Mr. Ranjeevan Seevaratnam, as a Director, who is 74 years old and who vacates his office in terms of Section 210 of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 (the Act). Notice is hereby given to propose the undernoted Ordinary Resolution in compliance with Section 211 of the Act, in relation to his re-appointment. “RESOLVED THAT Mr. Ranjeevan Seevaratnam, who is 74 years of age be and is hereby re-appointed a Director of the Company and it is hereby declared that the age limit of 70 years referred to in Section 210 of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 shall not apply to the said Mr. Ranjeevan Seevaratnam” 222 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18 FORM OF PROXY I/We the undersigned ………………………..........……....................….................................................................................……………......................... of ..............................……………………………........……………………………........……………………………........………………………........................……… being a shareholder / shareholders of DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC, hereby appoint ....................................................................................... of ………..................................................…….................................………………….………………......................................................................……… .................................................... Holder of NIC No. ................................................ whom failing, Mr. Asoka Ranjith Pandithage whom failing Mr. Aruna Gahanath Pandithage whom failing Mr. Ajit Nimal Algama whom failing Mr. Sarath Chandrasiri Algama whom failing Mr. Mudiyanselage Vijitha Bandara whom failing Dr. Harsha Cabral whom failing Mr. Bodiyabaduge Charindra Suresh Alexius Perera Gooneratne whom failing Mr. Pushpawela Kankanamge Wijith Mahendra whom failing Mr. Abeykumar Mohan Pandithage whom failing Mr. Sri Rama Waidayasekera Mudiyanselage Chaminda Ranawana whom failing Mr. Asanga Nishamen Ranasinghe whom failing Mr. Ranjeevan Seevaratnam whom failing Mr. Asite Drupath Bandara Talwatte whom failing as my/our* proxy to represent me/us*and to vote and **…………… as indicated hereunder for me/us and on my/our behalf at the SEVENTY THIRD ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING of the Company to be held on THURSDAY, 28th June, 2018 and at any adjournment thereof, and at every poll which may be taken in consequence thereof. I/We* the undersigned hereby authorise my/our* proxy to vote on my/our* behalf in accordance with the preference indicated below:For Against 1. To receive and consider the Audited Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31st March, 2018, the Report of the Auditors and the Annual Report of the Board for the said year. 2. Directors i To re-elect Mr. Ajit Nimal Algama, Director, who retires by rotation in terms of Article 66 of the Articles of Association of the Company. ii To re-elect Mr. Aruna Gahanath Pandithage, Director, who retires by rotation in terms of Article 66 of the Articles of Association of the Company. iii To re-elect Mr. Abeykumar Mohan Pandithage, Director, who retires by rotation in terms of Article 66 of the Articles of Association of the Company. iv To elect Mr. Asanga Nishaman Ranasinghe, Director, who retires in terms of Article 71 of the Articles of Association of the Company. v To re-appoint as a Director Mr. Asoka Ranjith Pandithage, who is 70 Years old and who vacates his office in terms of Section 210 of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007, the Resolution pertaining to which re-appointment is set out in the Notice of Meeting of the Annual General Meeting. vi To re-appoint as a Director Mr. Ranjeevan Seevaratnam, who is 74 Years old and who vacates his office in terms of Section 210 of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007, the Resolution pertaining to which re-appointment is set out in the Notice of Meeting of the Annual General Meeting. 3 To re-appoint the retiring Auditors Messrs KPMG, Chartered Accountants, to hold office until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration. 4 To authorise the Directors to determine contributions to charities. As witness my/our hand this ………………. day of …………....…… Two Thousand and Eighteen. ……………………………….…. Signature of Shareholder * Please delete as appropriate. 223 Notes: If you wish your Proxy to speak at the Meeting you should insert the words “to speak and” in the place indicated with two asterisks (**) and initial such insertion. Please indicate with an “x” in the space provided how your Proxy is to vote. If there is in the view of the Proxy holder doubt (by reason of the way in which the instructions contained in the Proxy have been completed) as to the way in which the Proxy holder should vote, the Proxy holder shall vote as he thinks fit. A Proxy holder need not be a member of the Company Instructions as to completion appear on the reverse hereof. Instruction as to Completion 1. To be valid this Form of Proxy must be deposited at the office of the Registrars to the Company, Jacey and Company, No. 9/5, Thambiah Avenue, Colombo 07 not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the Meeting. 2. The full name and address of the Proxy holder and of the Shareholder appointing the Proxy holder should be entered legibly in the Form of Proxy. 3. If you wish to appoint a person other than the Chairman (or failing him, one of the Directors) as your Proxy, please insert the relevant details overleaf and initial against this entry. 4. In the case of a Company/Corporation, the proxy must be under its Common Seal, which should be affixed and attested in the manner prescribed by its Articles of Association. 5. If the Proxy Form is signed by an Attorney, the relevant Power of Attorney or a notarially certified copy thereof, should also accompany the completed Form of Proxy if it had not already registered with the Company. 224 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC . Annual Report 2017/18
