Annual Report 2017 We build for a better society. Skanska Annual Report 2017 C Contents Group overview 2017 in brief 1 Comments by the President and CEO 2 Skanska’s values 6 Business model 7 Business plan 2016 –2020 8 – Financial targets 2016 –2020 9 – Great People 12 – Market Making 13 – Operational Excellence 14 Risk and opportunity management 16 – Main risks 18 Focus areas within sustainability 20 Share data 24 Market overview 26 Business streams Business streams 30 Construction 32 Residential Development 36 Commercial Property Development 40 Top photo: the 121 Seaport and 101 Seaport ofﬁce developments. Infrastructure Development 44 From left in bottom photo: the 121 Seaport and 101 Seaport ofﬁce developments, and the Watermark Seaport residential development. Financial information Corporate Governance report 49 A bold addition to Boston Group Leadership Team Board of Directors 56 58 Report of the Directors 61 121 Seaport Boulevard, Boston, USA Commercial Property Development and Construction – Sustainability report 70 Consolidated income statement 87 It’s a building impossible to miss. In a boxy city, 121 Seaport Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 88 stands out as a 17-story ellipse. Consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position 89 This bold, curved look was key to attracting the companies Consolidated statement of changes in equity 91 now secured as ofﬁce tenants. It also enabled a highly efﬁcient Consolidated cash ﬂow statement 92 and ﬂexible design, beneﬁting both customers and Skanska. Parent Company income statement 94 During design, data analysis showed that an elliptical building Parent Company balance sheet 95 has less direct sun exposure, producing 15 percent energy Parent Company statement of changes in equity 96 savings compared to a similarly sized rectangular building. Parent Company cash ﬂow statement 97 Also, the elliptical design required 10 percent less cladding, Notes, table of contents 98 and utilized a lighter structure because of decreased wind Auditor’s Report 183 loads. These reduced material needs led to lower costs and Independent practitioner’s review report less carbon emissions. on Skanska AB’s greenhouse reporting 187 Skanska speculatively began this building, which is targeting the top LEED Platinum green building rating. The combination Major orders, investments and divestments 190 of Skanska Commercial Property Development USA, Skanska Consolidated quarterly results 194 USA Building and Skanska USA Civil led to innovative solutions Annual General Meeting 196 for a rapid delivery. In 2017, all 37,000 sq m of ofﬁce space was Investors 196 leased. Addresses 197 Skanska has led the transformation of this neighborhood. Along with 121 Seaport, Skanska developed 101 Seaport, This document is in all respects a translation of the Swedish original Annual Report. an ofﬁce property divested in 2016 for about SEK 3.8 billion, In the event of any differences between this translation and the Swedish original, the latter shall prevail. and Watermark Seaport, a residential property that Skanska Reporting of revenue and earnings in the ﬁrst part of the Annual Report (pages 1–48) and an equity partner divested in 2017; the Group’s portion complies with the segment reporting method. The statements of ﬁnancial position of that divestment was about SEK 510 M. A public park will be and cash ﬂow are presented in compliance with IFRS in all parts of the Annual Report. Skanska’s ﬁnal addition to that row of buildings. Skanska AB, Swedish corporate identity number 556000-4615. B Skanska Annual Report 2017 Synergies from Skanska’s business streams Project Development Residential Commercial Infrastructure Skanska’s Construction Development Property Development business Builds civil and building Initiates, develops and Development Produces solutions for streams projects sells homes to private essential infrastructure in individuals Initiates, develops and the form of public-private divests properties partnerships (PPP) Shared common values and people’s expertise in all areas on a Group-wide scale. Collaboration reduces risks, maximizes opportunities and improves project delivery, Operational providing beneﬁts to customers. synergies Close cooperation in procurement and production increases efﬁciencies. Internally generated construction contracts. Operations in different geographies reduces risks and creates a stable platform for increased operating income over time. Leads to Ability to take on large, complex projects. Maximized opportunities in the marketplace. Skanska Ability to offer customers a wide range Improved cost control. being more competitive of services and products. Strong ﬁnancial position. through Innovative solutions to challenges. Enhanced returns from multiple sources. Operational and ﬁnancial synergies are among the beneﬁts achieved SEK 30.8 bn SEK 23.2 bn through collaboration between of Skanska’s total order backlog in Construction revenue were business streams and Business Units were contracts involving more from internal Project Developin Skanska. than one Business Unit. ment contracts in 2017. In New York City, signiﬁcant progress is being made redeveloping LaGuardia Airport’s Central Terminal B, the biggest US public-private partnership (PPP). In 2018, travelers will begin using the project’s ﬁrst new facilities: the initial terminal section and a 3,200-space parking garage. Skanska Infrastructure Development is part of LaGuardia Gateway Partners, which is responsible for ﬁnancing, design, construction, operations and maintenance. The Group’s 70 percent share of the design-build contract is about SEK 23 billion, equally divided between Skanska USA Building and Skanska USA Civil. D Skanska Annual Report 2017 Skanska as an investment Skanska is one of the world’s leading construction and project development companies, focused on select home markets in the Nordic region, Europe and USA. Supported by global trends in urbanization and demographics, and by being at the forefront of sustainability, Skanska offers competitive solutions for both simple and the most complex assignments. Driven by the Group’s values, Skanska helps create sustainable futures for customers and communities. In 2017, the Group’s 40,000 employees delivered good results while building for a better society. Strong global trends Diversiﬁcation Financial synergies Demographic changes and conSkanska’s risk diversiﬁcation across The strong cash ﬂow from Constructinued urbanization lead to four business streams with operations tion is invested in the Group’s own increased demand for infrastructure, in several geographic markets and high-return development projects. hospitals, schools, homes, ofﬁces segments helps ensure a balanced The investments in Project Developand more. Demand for Skanska’s and diversiﬁed risk proﬁle. ment will continue to increase. expertise in green construction is signiﬁcant in a world that is becomStrong cash ﬂow Attractive total shareholder return ing increasingly aware of the human Through an attractive business Skanska has a competitive total shareimpact on the planet. model, Skanska generates strong holder return with more than ﬁfteen cash ﬂow which puts the Group in a years of increased or maintained Leading market position stable ﬁnancial position. ordinary dividend, while maintaining Skanska holds a leading market posia continued high level of investments tion in each of its home markets. By in Project Development. leveraging the operational synergies across the business streams and home markets, its competitive advantage is strengthened. Earnings for the period per share and return on equity Dividend history SEK % SEK % 25 45 14 10 40 12 20 35 8 10 30 15 8 6 25 20 6 10 4 15 4 5 10 2 5 2 0 0 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 1 Earnings for the period per share, SEK Return on equity, % Dividend, SEK Extra dividend, SEK Dividend yield, % 2 1 Based on the dividend proposed by the Board of Directors. 2 Dividend per share divided by the closing share price for each respective year. Skanska Annual Report 2017 1 2017 in brief Revenue, SEK 161 bn Operating income, SEK 5.5 bn1 Capital employed, SEK 38.9 bn 2 2 by geography, % by business stream, % in Project Development, by business stream, % • Nordics, 42 • Construction, 18 • Europe, 22 • Residential • Residential • USA, 36 Development, 26 Development, 32 • Commercial Property • Commercial Property 161 5.5 Development, 42 • Infrastructure Development, 14 38.9 Development, 63 • Infrastructure Development, 5 1 Operating income in 2017 was negatively affected by impairment charges of SEK 1.0 billion and project write-downs of SEK 1.5 billion. 2 Before Central and eliminations. Construction • Order bookings amounted to SEK 151.8 billion. The major • The number of homes sold and started totaled 4,285 and 4,318, respectively. contracts included: – Farley Post Ofﬁce in New York, USA • BoKlok, the affordable homes business, continued to deliver great returns and represented almost half the homes Skanska – George Washington Bridge in New York, USA sold in Sweden. • Order backlog amounted to, SEK 188.4 billion, corresponding Commercial Property Development • to 15 months of production. •–TheStrongoperating margin in the stream was 0.8 percent: A new all-time high in divestment gains of SEK 3.5 billion from divesting 27 projects. • The performance in the Nordics and USA Building – Weak performance in Poland, the UK and in USA Civil. number of ongoing property projects was 46 at the • Operating income was negatively affected by impairend of the year, corresponding to an investment value upon completion of SEK 27.6 billion. • 24Europe ment charges of SEK 1.0 billion and project write-downs of SEK 1.5 billion. projects started across all geographies: in the Nordics, • Actions to restore proﬁtability have been initiated and consists of restructuring of the Polish operations, exiting the power secand USA. Infrastructure Development tor in USA, focusing on core business in the UK and continuing • The investment in the A1 motorway project in Poland was Operating income totaled SEK 925 M. to adapt to tougher market conditions in the Czech Republic. Residential Development • divested for about SEK 1.4 billion. • Continued improved performance with an all-time high in • Net present value of the portfolio was SEK 3.0 billion. operating income, SEK 1,716 M, and clearly met return targets. • Focusing on the US market. Skanska’s home markets Skanska has operations in Sweden eleven countries in Construction, Finland Residential Development, Norway USA Commercial Property Development and Infrastructure Denmark Development. The Business Units in these business streams United Kingdom Poland work together in various ways Czech Republic Slovakia to create both operational and Hungary ﬁnancial synergies, leading to Romania increased value creation. 2 Comments by the President and CEO Skanska Annual Report 2017 Comments by the President and CEO Skanska’s ﬁnancial position remains strong, powered by continued high performances from Project Development. We are taking actions to improve Construction proﬁtability, while our values and sustainability expertise provide competitive advantages. In 2018, we will advance further with our Proﬁt with Purpose Business Plan. Guiding Skanska until 2020 is our Profit with Purpose Business Signiﬁcant Infrastructure Development gains Plan, which has two core elements: delivering an industry-leading We made significant gains in Infrastructure Development from total shareholder return, while building for a better society through divesting three public-private partnership (PPP) projects, most the important projects we undertake and our innovative, sustainnotably the A1 highway in Poland. We are selectively pursuing new able solutions. These ambitions arise from what we have long done. projects as well as bringing existing projects into a fully operational We are determined to resume providing an industry-leading state, increasing their value. return, while increasing our positive contributions to society. Profit with Purpose is based on Skanska’s strengths. We are Improving proﬁtability in Construction strong through our business model, which has consistently proIn Construction, our Nordic units and Skanska USA Building vided significant financial returns. We are strong from how our continued to achieve top results, but it was not enough to offset 13 Business Units in eleven countries increasingly collaborate and weaknesses in several other units. Consequently, we did not reach share expertise to provide customers with the best solutions. And our target Construction margin of 3.5 percent – a result that is not we are strong through our values, which more and more customers acceptable. appreciate. These strengths form our foundation. They position us To improve profitability across the Group, we are downsizing to create long-term value for Skanska and our shareholders. operations with continuously low profitability or that are no longer Our performance in 2017 consisted of solid accomplishments, strategically important. In the Construction stream, this involves but also significant challenges that we are urgently addressing. restructuring Polish operations, exiting the power sector in USA, Overall, Group operating income for the year was lower at increasing focus on the core business in the UK, and continuing to SEK 5.5 billion. Our financial position remains strong, so the adapt to tougher market conditions in the Czech Republic. FurtherBoard of Directors proposes to maintain the dividend at more, with a thin pipeline of PPPs in Europe, we are focusing InfraSEK 8.25 per share. structure Development operations on the US market. Overall, we are increasing our focus on cost control and risk manResidential Development’s top performance agement. During 2018, we will implement a new Group management Our Residential Development stream’s performance was even structure, including a new Group Leadership Team (GLT). This stronger than in 2016, with returns significantly above our targets model is intended to increase organizational effectiveness – includand operating income reaching an all-time-high of SEK 1.7 billion. ing bringing leadership closer to operations – and reduce costs. We started 4,318 homes, and sold 4,285 homes. This stream’s geographic breadth provides resiliency to market shifts and local flucGrowing Project Development tuations in demand. Also, we mainly operate in the affordable and Boosting profitability also includes increasing investments in Comcore segments, where demand tends to be durable. mercial Property Development and Residential Development. This is key to securing Skanska’s strong financial performance into the New Commercial Development records future. Investments include acquiring additional land and buildCommercial Property Development set a new record in 2017 with ing rights, and bolstering our capabilities. In 2017, Commercial divestment gains of more than SEK 3.5 billion from divesting Property Development delivered 42 percent of Skanska’s operating 27 projects. At the same time, we continue to increase investments income, and Residential Development 26 percent. in new commercial developments starting 24 projects in 2017 and secure major leases, with leasing also achieving record high Synergies through collaborations levels last year. These actions improve our ability to create value We continue to drive One Skanska collaborations between and to be realized in future years. within Business Units, resulting in operational and financial synergies. These synergies enable Skanska to self-finance Project Development activities, while raising efficiencies, lowering risks and strengthening customer offerings. Ultimately, both Profit and Purpose are advanced. Deepening these synergies is a key priority. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Comments by the President and CEO 3 “Increasing investments in Project Development will help secure Skanska’s strong financial performance into the future.” Values attract employees and customers Ongoing good market conditions Everything we do at Skanska is grounded in our four values: Care For 2018, we see continued robustness in the world economy, and for Life, Act Ethically and Transparently, Be Better Together and stable to strong conditions across all home markets. Plentiful Commit to Customers. Through our people living the Skanska valopportunities enable Skanska to focus on pursuing projects right ues in their daily work, we become more attractive as an employer, for us, while our strong balance sheet allows us to capitalize on as people want to work for companies that stand up for larger development possibilities. At the same time, Skanska will continue beliefs. And we become more appealing to customers, as they can to monitor ongoing political uncertainties in our home markets. trust us. Sweden’s favorable environment Creating a sustainable future In Sweden, we anticipate strong market conditions continuing Skanska’s values are essential to creating a sustainable future for for construction and commercial properties. The Swedish residenour people, customers and communities. Our sustainability agenda tial market, our largest housing market, has returned to a sounder consists of five focus areas linked to our values and to our core and more stable condition. activities in Construction and Project Development: Safety, Ethics, Almost half the homes we sell in Sweden are through the BoKlok Green, Community Investment and Diversity and Inclusion. affordable residential business. We are investing about SEK 250 M In 2017, we continued to make important progress with sustainto increase production capacity nearly 50 percent at BoKlok’s main ability, including launching a business-focused Green strategy and plant. That will grow an important part of Skanska, while enabling driving vital conversations about diversity and inclusion. Core us to provide even more people with the opportunity of homeownto the Green strategy is significantly reducing carbon emissions ership. by 2030 to align with the Paris international climate agreement. Beyond environmental benefits, lowering carbon emissions will Beneﬁting customers and shareholders help us both lift our operational efficiencies and deliver solutions I am fortunate to lead a company with deeply embedded values that that help customers meet their own carbon and energy objectives. is guided by Profit and Purpose – for these I thank my predecessor, Even with those forward steps, the three work-related fatalities Johan Karlström. on Skanska sites in 2017 make us deeply aware of the importance Together with our great people, my new Group Leadership Team of continuous focus. (GLT) and I are committed to improving Construction profitability. We are also dedicated to leveraging Skanska’s extensive ConSupporting global priorities struction and Project Development expertise and strong balance Our sustainability expertise is a key differentiator in our markets, sheet to provide customers with the most compelling solutions. and an important part of how we contribute to society. I am confident our actions will benefit shareholders too. For 17 years, Skanska has actively supported the universal I look forward to earning the trust of Skanska’s shareholders, sustainability principles defined by the United Nations Global customers and communities in the years ahead. Compact. More recently, the UN’s member countries adopted 17 Sustainable Development Goals to transform the world by 2030. Stockholm, February 2018 In 2017, Skanska began using these goals to measure the performance and contributions of the Group’s sustainability work. The UN goal of sustainable cities and communities – making cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable – is most relevant to Skanska, providing us with the greatest opportunities to affect Anders Danielsson positive change. President and CEO 4 Skanska Annual Report 2017 Engineering future scientiﬁc breakthroughs Skanska Annual Report 2017 5 European Spallation Source (ESS), Lund, Sweden Construction Amid the low landscape of southern Sweden, the most powerful research facility of its type is being created. Comparable to a giant microscope, ESS will use neutrons to enable scientiﬁc breakthroughs with materials, energy, health and the environment. Also, the facility’s unique capabilities will help scientists tackle some of the most complex challenges confronting science and medicine. Delivering this pioneering facility requires a true partnership. That’s because well into construction, speciﬁcations are still being developed for major pieces of scientiﬁc equipment. An agreement based on mutual transparency and trust between the customer and Skanska – leveraging expertise from Sweden and the UK – accommodates such evolving requirements. It is intended to set a new industry standard for collaboration. Another ESS aspiration is to be the world’s most sustainable research facility. A key Skanska contribution is eliminating waste to landﬁll, requiring new ways of working with materials and suppliers. 6 Skanska’s values Skanska Annual Report 2017 Skanska’s values Fundamental to Skanska’s success are four values, which keep the Group moving in the right direction in a fast-changing world. Skanska constantly drives the need for every employee to strongly live these values in all they do. Skanska selects customers and partners that share the Group’s values. Care for Life Through Care for Life, Skanska supports health and well-being. Aiding in advancing this priority is the Well Building Standard, an external certiﬁcation of building features that affect health and well-being. In 2017, Skanska committed to pursuing Well certiﬁcation for all ofﬁce development projects in Poland, Czech Republic, Romania and Hungary. This early commitment will help drive the market for healthy buildings in Central and Eastern Europe, and advance Group-wide sustainability efforts. Research shows that green and healthy work environments lead to improved occupant wellCare for Life being and productivity. Act Ethically and Transparently Living Skanska’s value of doing business with a high degree of integrity and transparency depends on the Group’s employees, and those working on the Group’s behalf. In 2017, Skanska increased due diligence efforts on the broad network of consultants, partners, suppliers and subcontractors essential to delivering projects. This increased scrutiny – done through a risk-based approach – will continue to intensify, further ensuring adherence with Skanska’s Supplier Code of Conduct. The Supplier Code, which describes behaviors expected of suppliers, is incorporated into every supplier Act Ethically & Transparently agreement. Be Better – Together The Group wants to move forward together with customers, partners and communities. In the UK, a Skanska consortium is pioneering new ways of analyzing and visualizing data to help local governments more proactively manage infrastructure, such as highways. This starts with public customers sharing large databases – including about emergency vehicle routes and ﬂood zones – with companies such as Skanska during the tender process. The Group rapidly analyzes this information to identify trends of value to the customer, and these are used to create optimized offerings. Data Be Better – Together analytics are increasingly forming a central role in how Skanska plans projects. Commit to Customers Skanska helps customers be successful, and aims to build partnerships that endure. Since 1962, the Group has partnered with Boeing to build and upgrade facilities, and has established a track record of successfully delivering critical projects while not impacting production. Often, Skanska is engaged early to offer cost and schedule insights. Safety has been another area of collaboration, with Skanska supporting Boeing safety goals. Skanska has been recognized as a Boeing Supplier of the Year, and now actively supports Boeing in three US states. Commit to Customers Skanska Annual Report 2017 Business model 7 Business model Projects are the core of Skanska’s operations. Value is generated through the thousands of projects the Group executes each year. The goal is for every project to be proﬁtable while being executed in line with Skanska’s ambition to be an industry leader in sustainability. Internal collaborations produce operational and ﬁnancial synergies that create further value. The Business Units within the four business use of expertise or size. Business Units estabSize provides competitive advantages streams collaborate in various ways, creating lish geographical clusters to share resources By being a market leader, Skanska is well operational and financial synergies that and expertise, with shared activities in positioned to meet the highest expectations generate increased value. Going forward, procurement and production also boosting of customers. even more will be invested in releasing these efficiency. The Group’s size and financial strength synergies. give Skanska an advantage in the most Financial synergies complex assignments, where collective Operational synergies Skanska’s Construction business stream experience and know-how are used to meet Operational synergies are primarily generdoes not tie up capital but instead operates customer needs. ated by using the local, specialized expertise with free working capital. The free working The Group’s operations are based on found in the various Business Units on a capital combined with the profits generated local Business Units with good knowledge Group-wide scale. Units from different busiby the Group, as well as its ability to leverof their respective markets, customers and ness streams often collaborate on projects, age up its balance sheet to borrow money, suppliers. Local units are backed by Skanwhich reinforces their customer focus and enables the financing of investments in ska’s brand and financial strength, as well creates the necessary conditions for sharing Project Development, which generate an as Group-wide expertise and values. Conbest practices, while ensuring efficient utiliexcellent return on invested capital. These sequently, Skanska is both a local company zation of the Group’s collective expertise and investments also create new contracts for the with global strength and an international financial resources. Units in the same busiConstruction stream that generate a profit. construction and project development ness stream also collaborate to make better This is illustrated in the image below. business with a strong local presence. Skanska’s business model The free working capital in Construction combined with the proﬁts generated by the Group enable the ﬁnancing of investments in Project Development Investment ◀ Revenue from external customers ◀ Construction opportunities ◀ Project Development ◀ External ﬁnancing Revenue with associated contract proﬁts ◀ Internal contracts are generated by investments in Development gains are generated and are realized upon divestment Project Development ◀ Operating margin ◀ Return on capital employed ◀ ◀ Return on equity Dividend 8 Business plan 2016–2020 Skanska Annual Report 2017 Business plan 2016–2020 Proﬁt with Purpose Guided by this business plan, Skanska is striving to increase shareholder value while building for a better society. Advancing with these interlinked priorities is how Skanska creates Proﬁt with Purpose. Key actions for 2018 include boosting Construction performance while continuing to create value through Project Development. Strategic actions Under the Profit with Purpose plan, key Aspirations 2020 • actions during 2017 included increasing investments in Project Development; Industry-leading total shareholder driving collaboration to unlock synergies; return establishing digital strategies; enhancing Skanska’s customer focus; promoting an • Balanced value creation between Construction and Project Develop inclusive culture; and launching a businessment focused Green strategy. Additionally, a primary focus was improving the profitability • Recognized as a preferred partner when it comes to creating solutions of the Construction stream. that meet customers’ needs Restructuring for proﬁtability • Living our values and recognized as a value-driven company building Following a strategic review initiated in for a better society • fall 2017, at the beginning of 2018 Skanska The five-year Profit with Purpose Business announced a comprehensive restructuring An injury-free and ethical environPlan is based on the strategy that Profit to increase profitability. This involves ment and Purpose are interlinked, with each strengthening the other. Profit is needed to downsizing operations with continuously low profitability or that are no longer stra• The most attractive employer in the industry deliver Skanska’s purpose of building for a better society, and advancing with that tegically important, as well as further increasing the Group’s focus on cost control • Cooperation within and between units and business streams as One purpose contributes to Skanska’s profit. and risk management. Also during 2018, Skanska in high-performing teams • Skanska has high ambitions for both Profit a new Group managment structure will be and Purpose, and for leveraging them to implemented to increase organizational Improved operational efﬁciency create value for the Group’s shareholders. effectiveness and reduce costs. This business plan – lasting until 2020 – Focus areas within supports Skanska’s aspiration to deliver an 2018 priorities industry-leading total shareholder return. Boosting Construction profitability and Sustainability This financial aim includes stable, longcontinuing to create value through Project • Safety • term earnings and the cash flow necessary Development – both while living Skanska’s for an attractive dividend. The plan focuses values – are the Group’s fundamental priorEthics on three areas, which are described in more ities in 2018. Also, the Group will progress • Green detail on pages 12–14: with purpose, such as providing customers • Community Investment • Great people • Market Making with solutions based on innovation and sustainability, encompassing Safety, Ethics, • Diversity and Inclusion • Operational Excellence Green, Community Investment and Diversity and Inclusion. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Business plan 2016–2020 9 Financial targets 2016–2020 Skanska’s business plan for the period 2016–2020 sets ﬁnancial targets that best reﬂect the proﬁtability of operations and show the Group’s ﬁnancial capacity for investment and growth. Return on equity and on capital employed are measures of how well shareholder Financial targets 2016–2020 Outcome 2017 and lender capital are being used (capital efficiency), and are considered fair meaGroup Group surements for the Group and the Project Return on equity Return on equity was Development business streams, respectively. The operating margin is an expression of the profitability and efficiency within ≥ 18% 18.6% Construction. The margin is dependent on the mix of contract types and the different Financial strength Financial strength geographical markets. Net operating ﬁnancial Net operating ﬁnancial assets / liabilities assets / liabilities were Outcome 2017 In 2017, Skanska reached its return target, and its financial position remains strong, can be powered by continued high performances from Project Development. The Group’s financial strength enables the continuanegative if opportunities arise SEK 9.7 billion tion of increased investments in Project Development. As the value creation from Project Development increases and starts to Construction Construction balance the value created in Construction, Operating margin The operating margin was the outcome of the return targets for Project Development can be maintained at stable levels. ≥ 3.5% 0.8% The operating margin in the Construction stream was below the target, mainly due Project Development Project Development to underperformance of some of the ConReturn on capital employed for Return on capital employed was struction units outside the Nordic region. the combined Project Development To improve profitability a restructuring was operations initiated, which led to impairment charges of SEK 1.0 billion. Operating income was also negatively affected by project write≥ 10% 14.5% downs of SEK 1.5 billion. Adjusted for impairments and write-downs, the operatDeﬁnitions are provided in note 44. ing margin in 2017 was 2.5 percent. 10 Business plan 2016–2020 Skanska Annual Report 2017 Developing places where people want to gather Sundtkvartalet, Oslo, Norway Commercial Property Development and Construction Skanska’s ﬁrst ofﬁce development in Norway ﬁlls ﬁve ﬂoors and 31,300 sq m, and is loaded with such tenants as IBM and Manpower. It is a showpiece full of energy and natural light that achieved the rigorous BREEAM Excellent environmental rating. Less obvious are the ways that Sundtkvartalet and Skanska are improving the local community. The Group leveraged the Construction period to provide unemployed young adults with opportunities. In the completed building is a multipurpose hall for schools and sports clubs – a city requirement that the Group implemented in a model way. And to help residents move about the area, Skanska is contributing a pedestrian bridge. In 2017, Skanska sold the Group’s 50 percent ownership in Sundtkvartalet to the project’s development partner for about SEK 830 M. Now established as an Oslo developer, the Group has more local ofﬁce properties on the way. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Business plan 2016–2020 11 12 Business plan 2016–2020 Skanska Annual Report 2017 Great People Success in Skanska’s project-based business depends on having people with the right skills and commitment, and who share the Group’s values. Recruiting and developing Great People are key priorities, as is becoming more diverse and inclusive. Skanska aims to be the most attractive Broadening employees’ experiences is an largest Skanska shareholder in terms of capiemployer in its industry. Progress toward important means of development and boosttal. That high level of participation demonthis was measured in 2017 through a firsting organizational knowledge sharing and strates employees’ motivation and commitever Group-wide employee survey. Out of collaboration, thereby driving performance. ment, which drives improved performance. 32 questions, 27 responses were significantEmployees are provided opportunities to ly above the general industry benchmark work in different functions, Business Units Strengthening customer connections provided by Korn Ferry Hay Group, which and geographies. Every management team The Group is working to achieve a more has created one of the world’s largest datashould have a member with experience from diverse workforce by attracting, recruiting bases of employee opinion. other parts of Skanska. and retaining employees from more segments of society. This enables Skanska to Enabling high-performing teams Employee ownership shows engagement build better relationships with customers. The Group helps employees do their best. Seop, the Skanska employee ownership proAlso, a more diverse Skanska is able to leverSkanska’s culture is based on transparency, gram, helps build pride and an understandage a greater variety of employee experiences trust, values and high performance, with ing of creating shareholder value. Seop has and perspectives, which is key to producing employees collaborating in teams to build nearly 11,500 participants who invested the best customer solutions. Increased diverfor a better society. Employees are provided about SEK 350 M in 2017. In combination sity is coupled with including all employees many opportunities to learn and grow: prowith the Parent Company's holding of in Skanska’s culture. Improving diversity fessional development benefits the entire Series B treasury shares securing the future and inclusion is a priority at every level of organization. delivery of shares in Seop, they are the the Group. In Sweden, there’s a great need for engineers. Yet in Sweden, engineers from other countries often have trouble practicing their profession. The Skanska International Leadership Program aims to bridge that divide while increasing Skanska’s diversity. This strategic recruitment program starts with training and ends with jobs for many participants. That’s how Diana Baghdo from Syria started at Skanska – she’s now a crew leader. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Business plan 2016–2020 13 Market Making Market Making is about understanding customer needs so Skanska can collaboratively offer and deliver the best solutions, including innovations new to local markets. This requires staying close to customers, and proactive and structured ways of working. Skanska wants to be customers’ preferred partner. Skanska seeks to align the Group’s broad talents and offerings to help customers sucValues appreciated by customers Project Development requires ceed. Essential to this is understanding the Skanska’s values are key to the Group’s aspideep awareness evolving needs and challenges of customration of being a preferred partner through A high level of market and customer awareers, markets and government leaders. Early creating solutions that meet customers’ ness is increasingly important as Skanska and ongoing engagement aids Skanska needs. Customers and others appreciate boosts investments in Project Development. in developing the best, most sustainable how Skanska has integrated values into the With development projects, Skanska is inisolutions. Such early contractor involveGroup’s culture and daily activities. Values tiating the creation of the building or inframent is increasingly valued by customers, help differentiate Skanska, as people want to structure asset. Deep understandings especially those with highly challenging collaborate with companies that are responof trends and market forces are key to maxiassignments. sible and trusted. mizing opportunities and lowering risks. Staying close to customers and other leaders can provide Skanska opportunities Driving stronger customer focus Broader perspectives to shape markets and raise customer Satisfied customers that lead to long-term partMore and more customers see success in demands. This occurs through contributing nerships are key to Skanska’s success. The new multiple dimensions, including contributions insights related to Construction, Project Group Staff Unit Market Making is driving a to society. Skanska shares this perspective, Development and sustainability. Such stronger customer focus across Skanska. Also, so the Group seeks to broaden collaborations sharing can better position Skanska for it is improving how innovative Market Making with customers to create holistic solutions future success. activities are shared across the Group, helping that benefit local communities. This ampliSkanska better support customers. fies the benefits provided by projects. Lease an entire ﬂoor for 10 years. Rent a desk for one hour. Or choose something in between. Increasingly, Skanska is developing ofﬁce buildings that offer solutions for organizations of nearly any size. This provides access to the growing market for shared ofﬁces, and expands the Group’s tenant mix. Studio, in Malmö, Sweden, is one example. 14 Business plan 2016–2020 Skanska Annual Report 2017 Operational Excellence Strong results for Skanska and high customer satisfaction depend on excellence in the Group’s operations. Top priorities are increased process discipline, digitalization, collaboration and knowledge sharing. A focus on continuous improvement spans all of Skanska's activities. Skanska is focused on continuously mercial terms and project scope changes Setting more common processes improving all aspects of the Group’s operaare being given increased attention. The Group is increasing the use of comtions. It means ensuring the right systems mon, proven project delivery practices. This and efficient processes are in place, as well Digitalizing the business builds on Skanska Sweden’s work establishas relevant resources. Equally important Skanska has commenced a program to ing a more structured approach to deliveris that all employees have the proper skills. enhance digital capabilities across the ing world-class projects. Such projects are Finally, it is about leveraging knowledge Group. Digitalization presents enormous profitable, have high sustainability achieveand expertise across Skanska. opportunities to increase project delivery ments, develop the skills of those who create certainty and efficiency, and to strengthen them and result in satisfied customers. Stricter bid strategy collaboration and knowledge sharing. In The Group has placed special focus on 2017, all Business Units established digital Implementing good practices improving construction project execution. strategies, building on existing digital activSkanska continues to use knowledge sharThis begins with a stricter bid strategy. ities. These activities include building inforing networks and capabilities to drive colSkanska prioritizes pursuing projects in mation modeling (BIM), machine learning, laborative ways of working. Sharing and sectors and geographies in which the Group drones, robotics, 3-D printing, data analytadopting good practices from across the has proven strengths. Also, the Group will ics, autonomous equipment, and virtual and Group improves performance and is a comonly bid on projects after identifying teams augmented reality. Skanska’s Research and petitive advantage. with the right competencies. More broadly, Innovation function develops innovative management of the design process, comand more efficient ways of working. Skanska in the UK is embedding digital rehearsals into the project delivery process. Before on-site activities begin, Skanska, key partners and sometimes the customer jointly practice the construction process using a digital model to ensure proper planning and risk mitigation. Smaller rehearsals occur during construction. These help boost safety while increasing budget and schedule certainty. Skanska Annual Report 2017 15 Making essential infrastructure reality Autostrada A1, Gdańsk, Poland Infrastructure Development and Construction Stretching from Gdańsk on the Baltic Sea south toward Poland’s central regions, this 152 km section of four-lane highway opened in phases between 2007 and 2011. It replaced a two-lane road that was narrow, congested and accident stricken. The new highway provides a fast and safe link that has become essential to traveling. It is also a major contributor to social and economic development, opening new possibilities to live and work. Skanska’s consortium was assigned responsibility for ﬁnancing, designing, building, operating and maintaining this A1 stretch under a 35-year public-private partnership (PPP) that started in 2004. Construction included 137 bridges, including two large river spans. In 2017, Skanska secured the value created, divesting the Group’s 30 percent project ownership for about SEK 1.4 billion. Demand from long-term investors is strong for such highquality infrastructure assets. 16 Risk and opportunity management Skanska Annual Report 2017 Risk and opportunity management Skanska has embedded proactive and structured risk and opportunity management at all levels of the organization. Consistency is enabled by Group-wide risk and opportunity management procedures. The breadth of the Group’s Project Development and Construction operations provides increased resilience to risks and greater ability to capture opportunities. Journey of continuous improvement Group-wide risk and opportunity posals subject to top management approval Skanska’s first formal risk management management procedures – approximately 400 projects per year. tool applied throughout the Group was the Skanska uses Group-wide procedures for Initially, each Business Unit conducts risk Operational Risk Assessment, introduced identifying and managing risks and opporand opportunity assessments and identifies in 1999. Since then, a suite of procedures tunities: the Skanska Tender Approval measures for managing risks. The proposals and tools to assess and manage risk and Procedure and the Skanska Investment are then processed by the Risk Team, which opportunity during the project lifecycle has Approval Procedure. issues a recommendation based on the busibeen developed and refined. Guided by the procedures, the Skanska ness case, risks and opportunities. The final Beginning in 2008, scrutiny and approval Risk Team supports the Group Leadership decision is made by the Group Leadership of large and complex projects have been Team by examining and analyzing tenders Team Tender Board and, in certain cases, managed at the Group level by the Skanska along with investment and divestment proby the Board of Directors. Risk Team – a staff function providing scrutiny and analysis – and the Group LeaderSkanska Tender Approval Procedure: Construction and Infrastructure Development ship Team Tender Board, a decision making body. The largest projects go to the Project Activity Preliminary Draft tender Final tender Execution accordReview Committee of the Board of Direcevaluation of the with a focus on ing to contract with tors for final approval. project with a the main risks a continual focus focus on Skanska’s and opportunities. on monitoring risk core geographies, and opportunities. Enhanced operational risk management competence, In the 2020 Profit with Purpose Business customer, contract Plan, risk management is an important part and partners. of the Operational Excellence focus area. Responsible Business Unit Business Unit Business Unit Building on the Skanska Risk Team and the Group Leadership Team Tender Board, all Decision Proceed or abstain? Submit tender Contract Business Units established their own risk or abstain? negotiations teams and project boards in 2016. This was Responsible Business Unit Business Unit Business Unit Business Unit Group Leadership Team Group Leadership Team Group Leadership Team done to improve the quality and objectivity Board of Directors Board of Directors of scrutiny at the operational level, enabling Group-level reviews to add more value. In 2017, the Business Units further integrated Skanska Investment Approval Procedure: Commercial Property Development and Residential Development their risk teams and project boards into their ways of working. The efforts to further Activity Land investment Launch of project, Start of project Divestment of increase risk and opportunity management with a focus on considering pricing with a focus on project with a focus continues in 2018. location, zoning, and pre-sale rate main risks and on the occupancy partners, environ(Residential opportunities in rate and payment mental issues and Development only). the market. terms (Commercial return. Property Development only). Responsible Business Unit Business Unit Business Unit Business Unit Decision Proceed or abstain? Proceed, hold, Proceed, hold, Proceed or hold? re-develop or re-develop or divest? divest? Responsible Business Unit Business Unit Business Unit Business Unit Group Leadership Team Group Leadership Team Group Leadership Team Group Leadership Team Board of Directors Board of Directors Board of Directors Board of Directors Skanska Annual Report 2017 Risk and opportunity management 17 Enterprise level Large and complex projects receive additional scrutiny at the Group level. Skanska’s approach Skanska’s diversity of projects across geographies and business streams Proactive and structured risk and opporenable the Group to be better prepared about risks and opportunities. tunity management is embedded at every Operational level level of the organization. Business Units are further integrating more structured ways of evaluating projects into their ways of working. At all operational Enterprise level levels, every Skanska employee should be a manager of risk. Established by the Board of Directors, Skanska’s Enterprise Risk Management Project Level Policy sets out the structure and responExcellent management at the project level is the most sibilities for risk management across the important element in Skanska’s ability to control risks Group. Enterprise risks are categorized as and maximize opportunities. strategic, operational, financial or regulatory, and for each category the policy details the primary policies, procedures, regulations and other controlling documents govEach Business Unit has a Risk Heat Map Beneﬁting from synergies erning the management of risk. that records the competency of the unit to An aspiration of the Profit with Purpose Skanska’s wide diversity of projects execute projects: this is expressed in terms Business Plan is to have a business that creacross geographies and business streams of scope, size, geography and contract ates balanced value between Construction enables the Group to be better informed model. Projects outside a Business Unit’s and Project Development. Project Developand better prepared about risks and opporcore competency are subject to increased ment assignments involve Construction tunities. scrutiny and higher level approval. Business Units, creating synergies that provide many benefits related to risk and Operational level Project level opportunity management: enhanced comRisk management at the operational level is Skanska’s business is effectively an aggrepetitiveness; better ability to control risks governed by the Operational Risk System. gation of the Group’s projects. Excellent and maximize opportunities; and increased This system’s philosophy is that the process management at the project level is the single chances to drive sustainability and innovaof managing risks is an integral line manmost important element in the ability to tion. Overall, profitability and consistency agement responsibility. At all operational control risks and maximize opportunities. are increased. levels, every Skanska employee should be This depends on people being properly These benefits are further enhanced a manager of risk. This system details how equipped, trained and supported to bid, when different construction units, such as Business Units organize for risk managenegotiate and execute work. Business Units building and civil, are involved and collaboment, and it acts as a roadmap for a suite of and support units work together to ensure rate on assignments for external customers. risk and opportunity management procethat project teams are selected, trained and Many of these advantages are also realized dures, guidelines and templates. supported so they deliver Profit with Purwhen different Construction Business Units The Skanska Tender Approval Procepose every time. collaborate on assignments for customers. dure and Investment Approval Procedure To ensure that risks and opportunities control the level of authorization required identified during project planning are manto proceed with Construction and Project aged effectively during project execution, Development undertakings, respectively. an early warning process is used on larger These procedures guide project teams and more challenging projects within the through a structured presentation of risks Construction business stream. Through and opportunities, facilitating scrutiny and this, senior management is alerted if certain approval at the required level. events occur, or if key performance indicators are outside a set tolerance level. 18 Risk and opportunity management Skanska Annual Report 2017 Main risks Skanska conducts an annual Group-wide risk survey that involves more than 200 managers. This generates a ranking of enterprise risks: for each of the main risks, the appropriateness and effectiveness of management and mitigation measures are assessed and calibrated, as required. Skanska’s main risks are: Loss or lack of key employees Macro ﬁnancial instability Construction and development are most of Macro-economic risks cannot be avoided, so all people businesses. New project opportuSkanska focuses on mitigating their effects nities will not be pursued unless employees and ensuring the Group’s business is strong with the right competencies are available. enough to weather economic downturns. Skanska is focused on attracting, developing Skanska Financial Services plays a lead role and retaining a skilled, diverse and commitin managing the Group’s ﬁnancial exposure ted workforce, and providing an inclusive and looking ahead at markets. The diversity workplace in which people can ﬂourish and of Skanska’s operations provides signiﬁcant everyone can contribute. built-in resilience. Ethical breach Accident with multiple people affected A severe breach could inﬂict long-term damSkanska’s Care for Life value directs the age on Skanska’s reputation and ability to Group to work safely or not at all. Skanska participate in home markets, and it could continually works to improve the Group’s lead to ﬁnancial penalties and other sancculture of safety, health and well-being, and tions. Skanska has proactively invested in regularly develops and enhances systems strengthening the Group’s ethics organizaand processes. The Group strives to learn tion and compliance processes, and has from others and to share what has been taken many steps to bolster the ethical cullearned. ture. The Code of Conduct provides employees with expectations for everyday behavior. Project or systemic losses Other risks Not every project or investment goes to Skanska presents sustainability-related plan. Skanska has several layers of defense risks – along with potential impacts and to protect against one-off and Business mitigation strategies – on pages 82-83 of this Unit-wide ﬁnancial losses. These include the Annual Report. These risks encompass enviGroup’s procedures for scrutiny, approval, ronment; health and safety; human rights; follow-up, review and reporting, plus the supply chain management; diversity and early warning system for all construction inclusion; and anti-corruption and bribery projects subject to Group Leadership Team matters. Additionally, ﬁnancial risks are preTender Board approval. sented on pages 68-69. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Risk and opportunity management 19 A complex project, structured for success Ordsall Chord, Manchester, UK, Construction How Skanska and customers collectively manage risks is an important factor in the ﬁnancial success of projects. Increasingly, customers are choosing to use contract structures that collaboratively and openly share risks and opportunities. For Skanska, such contracts – called early contractor involvement, alliances or integrated project delivery – are ways to execute large and challenging projects with a reduced risk proﬁle and the predictable performance desired by shareholders. Early in the Ordsall Chord project, customer Network Rail, a Skanska joint venture and two other contractors joined together in an alliance. An integrated project culture underpinned by the collaborative contract was key to unlocking innovative approaches. The alliance delivered this challenging project on budget and two years less than the duration expected with a traditional approach. Furthermore, Skanska and the other alliance companies achieved target ﬁnancial margins with reduced risk. 20 Focus areas within sustainability Skanska Annual Report 2017 Connected to the UN Sustainable Development Goals Sustainability at Skanska is grounded in the Group’s values, and supports the Proﬁt with Purpose Business Plan. The Group’s ﬁve sustainability focus areas are strengthened by their connection to the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals. These goals further guide Skanska’s efforts to make the most signiﬁcant positive contributions to society. Driven by Skanska’s values, the Group helps Signiﬁcant ways to contribute Increasing positive beneﬁts create sustainable futures for customers, This review highlighted strong ties between Skanska’s operations most directly concommunities and employees. This is intesustainability at Skanska and the United nect with Goal 11: Sustainable Cities and gral to Skanska’s purpose of building for Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals Communities. Goal 11 is about making a better society, as well as delivering profit. (SDGs). The 17 SDGs are essential to the cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainSkanska’s sustainability agenda consists 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development able – areas that Skanska can positively of five focus areas that are linked to those adopted by the UN’s 193 member countries. impact. Also, in 2017 Skanska focused values and most relevant to the Group’s Achieving the SDGs depends on actions by on other closely related SDGs – see image core Construction and Project Developall of society, including governments and below. Through these SDGs, the Group ment operations. The focus areas are Safety, the private sector. seeks to harness interconnected risks and Ethics, Green, Community Investment, Through the scale and type of Skanska’s opportunities. and Diversity and Inclusion. During 2017, operations, the Group has significant Skanska recognizes that the built a review was conducted of how the focus opportunities to contribute to society’s environment produces negative exterareas best fit into an evolving Skanska and needed solutions while running a profitable nal effects, both during production and society in general. business. In 2017, Skanska began using the operation. Skanska strives to minimize SDGs as a framework to measure the pernegative impacts and increase positive formance and contributions of the Group’s benefits. Further information is provided sustainability work. The SDGs have an in Skanska’s Sustainability Report on Skanska recognizes relevance with many of important role in the future of sustainabilpages 70-83. the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). ity at Skanska. During 2017, the Group focused on the SDGs selected in the graphic below, most directly Goal 11, Sustainable Cities and Communities. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Focus areas within sustainability 21 Sustainability focus areas Safety Skanska is determined to eliminate injuries and support employees’ health and well-being. In 2017, Skanska created a health and well-being strategy that focuses on ensuring healthy Focusing on health workplaces, helping employees and workers to be physically and mentally ﬁt so they can and well-being extends perform at their best and live full lives. This includes providing improved practices to reduce Skanska’s caring culture. long-term health hazards, such as noise and dust. Health and well-being is an important way of furthering Skanska’s caring culture, which underpins the Group’s safety approach. Ethics Acting ethically and transparently is central to Skanska’s culture. Following the 2016 launch of Ethics is not a silent a new Code of Conduct, in 2017 all employees were trained on the expected behaviors. Code of topic at Skanska. Regular Conduct training is consistent across all Group operations, helping align behaviors. To help keep conversations keep it top ethics top of mind, employees are encouraged to have ethical dilemma discussions. Inspiration of mind. for these discussions can be found in the growing library of value moments videos, which depict real situations faced by Skanska employees. Green During the year, Skanska set a new green strategy, which focuses on delivering proﬁtable, resilient and zero/low-carbon solutions to customers. This strategy also involves signiﬁcantly A new green strategy will reducing the Group’s carbon footprint by 2030, in alignment with the Paris climate agreement. significantly reduce Skanska’s Such steps support society and customer ambitions, and they reduce energy consumption, carbon footprint by 2030. carbon, materials and water use – driving Operational Excellence while lowering project costs. In 2017, the environment organization CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) recognized Skanska for leadership in managing environmental impacts. Community Investment By leveraging the Group’s core competencies and business activities, Skanska seeks to address local social challenges, together with customers, partners and communities. The aim is creating Shared value is created shared value that provides long-term beneﬁts to all stakeholders. In 2017, the Group set a new together with customers, Community Investment Guideline that focuses on three areas: educating youths; increasing partners and communities. employability; and using design to help improve communities. Efforts continue to further integrate Community Investment into Skanska’s business. Diversity and Inclusion Skanska continues to make progress toward the Group’s vision of mirroring society’s diversity Skanska’s success lies in at all levels, and having leaders who excel in fostering an inclusive culture. Both employee surwelcoming people of all vey results and headcount statistics demonstrate this advancement. With the 2017 Group-wide employee survey, responses to diversity and inclusion questions were 3 and 6 percentage points types, and enabling them higher than the external benchmark. By improving with diversity and inclusion, Skanska can to reach their full potential. better connect with customers and stakeholders, and has greater capacity for the creative thinking needed to be most competitive. 22 Skanska Annual Report 2017 Faster and safer journeys, one year early Skanska Annual Report 2017 23 Highway 6 Taavetti-Lappeenranta, South Karelia, Finland Construction In the southeast corner of Finland, close to the Russian border, runs the VT6 highway. It’s the main axis through the region, and the road’s popularity led to much congestion. Skanska was part of the multidisciplinary alliance charged with widening and improving a 28-kilometer stretch. Skanska, the Finnish Transport Agency and two design ﬁrms collaboratively planned the project under a contract structure that shared risks and rewards. That joint effort, further strengthened by the diversity of the alliance’s people, enabled trust and innovative approaches that enhanced operational efﬁciency. Methods included advanced uses of technology, such as machine learning to support quality control and safety. Also, drones for rapid and accurate quantity estimating. It all led to the road opening one year ahead of schedule and people got an early start to faster and safer journeys. 24 Share data Skanska Annual Report 2017 Share data Skanska’s Series B shares are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm, and the market capitalization on December 31, 2017, was SEK 69.5 billion. The last price paid for Skanska Series B shares in 2017 was SEK 170.0. • Skanska’s Series B shares (SKA B) • 109,951 shareholders. Market development 2017 are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm Bloomberg ticker SKAB:SS • Market capitalization of SEK 69.5 billion and a share price of SEK 170.0 on The Nasdaq Stockholm exchange had a positive development during the first six Reuters quote SKAb.ST months, with a temporary drop during the December 31,2017. • Skanska has a sponsored American Depositary Receipt program (Level I) • Inshares 2017, 2.3 million Skanska Series B were traded on average per summer. The exchange had a positive journey in the beginning of second half of the year, ending 2017 up six percent for the year. in the USA that is traded under the day. • symbol SKBSY. In February 2017, Skanska’s share • The Board of Directors proposes a maintained dividend of SEK 8.25. Dividend policy Skanska’s dividend policy is to pay out price reached a new record high of 40–70 percent of the profit for the year as SEK 226.6. dividends to the shareholders, provided that the company’s overall financial condiAround ten equity research analysts follow across four business streams with operation is stable and satisfactory. the company regularly. Under the Skanska tions in several geographical markets and share tab on Skanska’s website for investors is segments. This has contributed to Skanska’s Dividend a list of these analysts, along with their increased or maintained ordinary diviFor the 2017 financial year, the Board’s current recommendations. dend for more than fifteen years, as well assessment is that the Group’s financial The stable underlying level of earnings in as achieving a stable financial position that position remains strong and has proposed a the Group is an result of risk diversification allows it to borrow at attractive rates. maintained dividend of SEK 8.25 (8.25) per The largest shareholders in Skanska AB, ranked by voting power, December 31, 2017 Total return of the Skanska share compared to indices Shareholders % of votes % of capital Index Industrivärden AB 23.9 6.9 300 Lundberg Group 12.4 4.7 Skanska employees through Seop 1 4.9 7.0 250 Alecta 4.8 6.8 3.0 4.3 200 Swedbank Robur Funds AMF Insurance & Funds 2.7 3.9 150 BlackRock 1.5 2.1 Vanguard 1.4 2.1 100 Carnegie Funds 1.2 1.7 SEB Funds & Trygg Life Insurance 1.0 1.4 50 10 largest shareholders in Skanska 56.9 40.8 other shareholders in Skanska 43.1 59.2 0 Total 100.0 100.0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 of which shareholders in Sweden 81.4 73.5 of which shareholders abroad 18.6 26.5 • Skanska B • SIX Portfolio • DJ Construction & Materials • SBI 1 Total return Return Index Titans Total Return Index 1 Not treated as a uniﬁed ownership group and includes the Parent Company’s holding of Series B treasury shares securing the future delivery of shares to the participants. 1 Strategic Benchmark Index consists of listed companies that, taken together, reﬂects Skanska’s operations. Source: Modular Finance Holdings Skanska Annual Report 2017 Share data 25 Skanska’s share price reached a new record high of SEK 226.6 in February 2017. share. The proposal is equivalent to 23.9 percent, followed by Lundberg Group and has a 5-year term with two consecua dividend totaling SEK 3,372 M (3,380), with voting power of 12.4 percent. The tive 1-year extension options. Further, an corresponding to 69 percent of the profit Skanska employees in combination with additional EUR 200 M RCF was established, for the year. the Parent Company’s holding of Series B with a green profile and 2-year term with a No dividend is paid for the Parent Comtreasury shares securing the future delivery 1-year extension option. In 2017, Skanska pany’s holding of Series B treasury shares, of shares in Seop is the largest shareholder established two 7-year private placements where the aim of the holding is to secure in terms of capital. During the year, foreign amounting to USD 100 M respectively, in delivery of shares to participants in ownership decreased to 19 percent of voting order to extend the credit maturity profile Skanska’s employee ownership program power. and to safeguard access to US dollars. No (Seop). The total dividend amount may new MTN bonds were issued during the change by the record date, depending on Funding year. Short term funding needed due to searepurchases of shares and the transfer of Skanska has several borrowing programs sonality in cash flow, was covered through shares to participants in Skanska’s long– both committed bank credit facilities commercial papers. At the end of the year, term employee ownership program. and market funding programs – which the central debt portfolio amounted to provide good preparedness for temporary SEK 4.6 billion. The unutilized credit faciliOwnership ﬂuctuations in the Group’s short-term ties of SEK 8.2 billion combined with the The majority of Skanska’s shareholders liquidity requirements and help ensure operating financial assets of SEK 9.7 billion are financial and institutional organizalong-term funding. In 2017, Skanska refi(which includes the central debt) ensure the tions in Sweden. The largest shareholder is nanced the Revolving Credit Facility (RCF). Group has sufficient financial capacity. Industrivärden AB, with voting power of The new facility amounts to EUR 600 M Skanska share history Growth in equity 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 SEK bn Year-end market price, SEK 170.0 215.1 164.8 167.9 131.4 60 Year-end market capitalization, SEK bn 69.5 88.0 67.7 69.0 54.0 50 Number of shares for the year, million 1 408.9 409.3 411.0 410.8 411.3 Highest share price during the year, 40 SEK 226.6 218.7 208.4 170.0 131.6 Lowest share price during the year, 30 SEK 170.0 149.2 151.4 126.7 104.6 Yield, percent 2 4.9 3.8 4.6 4.0 4.8 Earnings per share 3, SEK 12.01 15.89 11.96 9.98 8.43 20 4 Regular dividend per share, SEK 8.25 8.25 7.50 6.75 6.25 Dividend pay-out ratio 5, % 69 52 63 68 74 10 1 Number of shares outstanding at year-end. 0 2 Dividend as a percentage of respective year-end share price. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 3 Earning per share according to segment reporting divided by the number of shares outstandning . 4 Based on the dividend proposed by the Board of Directors 5 Dividend as a percentage of earnings per share. • Equity closing balance • Equity closing balance, dividends restored 26 Market overview Skanska Annual Report 2017 Market overview Skanska’s ability to grow and create value in its home markets is affected by a number of external factors. Some of these variables – macroeconomic as well as more sector-speciﬁc – are presented below. Skanska’s home markets Construction investments 2016 Population = 10 million SEK 9,500 billion SEK 50 billion people Sweden Finland USA Norway Denmark Nordics United Kingdom Poland USA Czech Republic Slovakia Europe Hungary Romania GDP growth in Skanska’s home markets Construction investments in Skanska’s home markets as a percentage of GDP % % 4.0 14 3.5 12 3.0 10 2.5 8 2.0 6 1.5 1.0 4 0.5 2 0.0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Nordics Europe USA Nordics Europe USA The global upswing in economic activity during 2017 was also noticeable in SkanLed by Norway, the Nordics have the highest level of construction investment as a ska’s markets. The Central European countries continued to perform strongly, percentage of GDP of Skanska’s markets. In the USA, the level is much lower and while the Nordics showed synchronized growth. In the USA, the pick-up was driven is far below pre-crisis levels, but is slowly increasing. The weaker intensity of conby the recovery in business investments. The only country reporting slightly slower struction investments in other European countries can be primarily explained by development was the UK, due to Brexit uncertainty. temporary lower use of EU funds in Central Europe. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Market overview 27 Market share, Skanska’s Construction business stream Transparency index % 8 Denmark Finland 7 Sweden 6 Norway United Kingdom 5 USA 4 Poland 3 Czech Republilc G20 2 Slovakia 1 Hungary Romania 0 Sweden Norway Finland Poland Czech Republic UK USA 0 20 40 60 80 100 and Slovakia The market share in Sweden is signiﬁcantly higher than in the rest of Skanska’s This corruption perception index goes from 0-100. The closer to 100 the better, markets. Despite this Skanska is one of the leading companies in the USA and the being less perceived as corrupt. The Central European countries are still struggling UK markets. The low market share in these countries is due to higher market fragwith corruption issues, while the environment in the Nordic region is among the mentation and competition. best in the world. Homes constructed in relation to urbanization growth Urbanization in Skanska’s home markets in Sweden, Norway and Finland Millions % of the total population People of people living in urbanized areas Homes 400 100 250,000 350 300 200,000 75 250 150,000 200 50 150 100,000 100 25 50,000 50 0 0 0 1990 2016 2050 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Nordics Europe USA Increase in the number of people in urbanized areas, per year Number of homes started, per year The urban population is increasing all over the world, with an average of 70 percent For years, the number of homes started has not matched the number of people of the global population living in urban areas by 2050. All of Skanska’s markets are moving to urbanized areas. This has resulted in a large deﬁcit in the supply of homes. above that average and have a higher degree of urban population. In 2017, the number of homes started was in line with 2016. Property clock Malmö Washington D.C. Copenhagen, Boston Budapest, Prague, Seattle Rental Rents Wrocław Stockholm, Gothenburg growth falling slowing Katowice, Rental Rents Houston growth bottoming Helsinki accelerating out Kraków Łódź Oslo Warsaw, Tri-City, Poznań, Bucharest Source: JLL, Q3, Q4 2017 The Property Clock indicates where the respective market is in the property cycle. Sources: JLL, Central Statistics ofﬁces, SEB, HSBC, Citibank, Transparency International, UN Department of Economic Skanska has a diversiﬁed portfolio of projects and land in different development and Social Affairs, World Bank. phases in the cities listed above. 28 Market overview Skanska Annual Report 2017 Skanska Annual Report 2017 Market overview 29 Establishing Stockholm’s new hub for creative companies Sthlm New Creative Business Spaces, Stockholm, Sweden Commercial Property Development and Construction There’s a cool, new ofﬁce district in Stockholm. It’s a place that a few years ago was known as an industrial area. It’s just across the water from hip Södermalm, but imagination was needed to see the great commercial possibilities. What Skanska imagined is now reality. Two ofﬁce buildings have been developed, and these were sold in 2017 for about SEK 1.3 billion in total. Skanska will develop ﬁve other ofﬁce buildings nearby, including the 27-story Sthlm 01 under construction. Skanska’s broad capabilities have produced a diverse and integrated area. The initial ofﬁce properties were built on top of a bus terminal the Group was constructing below, providing operational synergies by leveraging various Construction competencies. And the ofﬁces buffer three Residential Development projects emerging from a former heating plant. 30 Business streams Skanska Annual Report 2017 Business streams Skanska’s operations consist of Construction, Residential Development, Commercial Property Development and Infrastructure Development. The Business Units within these streams collaborate in various ways, creating operational and ﬁnancial synergies that generate increased value. Construction Revenue Operating income 2 Market drivers and key trends Countries 3 share of Group, % 1 share of Group, % 1 GDP growth Sweden – Growth in the Construction business Norway stream strongly correlates to growth Finland in GDP. Poland Public investment Czech Republic 86 18 – Infrastructure investments are largely driven by the public sector. Urbanization Slovakia UK – Urbanization brings an increasing need USA for infrastructure to be expanded, which increases demand for the Construction SEK 150,050 M SEK 1,205 M business streams’ skills and products in USD 17,552 M USD 141 M EUR 15,569 M EUR 125 M areas such as highways, bridges, mass transit airports and water treatment works. Residential Development Revenue Operating income Market drivers and key trends Countries share of Group, % 1 share of Group, % 1 Household conﬁdence indicator Sweden – Potential customers’ views on future pay Norway raises, housing costs and borrowing opporFinland tunities affect decisions on whether to buy. Poland Urbanization Czech Republic 7.5 26 – More and more people are moving to cities, leading to increased demand for homes. Shortage of housing – Housing production has lagged population growth, resulting in an undersupply – more homes need to be built. This means greater SEK 13,237 M SEK 1,716 M demand for this business stream’s expertise USD 1,548 M USD 201 M EUR 1,373 M EUR 178 M and products. 1 Before central and eliminations. 2 Operating income in Construction was negatively affected by impairment charges of SEK 1.0 billion and project write-downs of SEK 1.5 billion. 3 Skanska has decided to down-size operations with continously low proﬁtability or are no longer strategically important. Read more on page 34. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Business streams 31 Commercial Property Development Revenue Operating income Market drivers and key trends Countries share of Group, % 1 share of Group, % 1 Economic growth Sweden – Economic growth increases companies’ Norway recruitment needs, which drives activity Finland in the leasing market. Denmark Urbanization Poland 6.5 42 – More people moving to cities increases demand for ofﬁces and logistics centers close to cities. Czech Republic UK Hungary Cost-efﬁcient location – Energy-efﬁcient, green premises in Romania attractive areas are in demand and are USA SEK 11,440 M SEK 2,714 M contributing to relocation. USD 1,338 M USD 317 M EUR 1,187 M EUR 282 M Attractive investment – Long-term tenants in high-quality properties offer attractive returns for investors. Infrastructure Development Revenue Operating income Market drivers and key trends Countries 3 share of Group, % 1, 2 share of Group, % 1 Lack of ﬁnancing Sweden – There is often insufﬁcient public ﬁnancing Norway for the new and expanded infrastructure UK needed. Public-private partnerships (PPP) allow such projects to be ﬁnanced. USA 0 14 Lifecycle perspective – Cost overruns in public projects increase interest in PPP solutions, which have a lifecycle perspective in which resource-efﬁcient, innovative and sustainable solutions are delivered on time and for a ﬁxed total cost. SEK 81 M SEK 925 M Attractive investment USD 9 M USD 108 M – Projects with stable, long -term cash ﬂows EUR 8 M EUR 96 M with public counterparties offer attractive returns for investors. 1 Before Central and eliminations. 2 Accounted for according to the equity method. 3 The primary market going forward is the US market due to a thin pipeline of PPPs in Europe. 32 Construction Skanska Annual Report 2017 Construction Skanska Annual Report 2017 Construction 33 For society to thrive, people need well-functioning workplaces, housing, transportation hubs, schools, hospitals and other key facilities. Construction – the largest business stream in terms of revenue and people – leverages Skanska’s local and Group-wide expertise and resources to enhance communities. James A. Farley Post Ofﬁce Building Renovation, New York City, USA For 106 years, New York City’s Farley Post Ofﬁce Building has been a grand presence along Eighth Avenue. Now Skanska, with developers Related Companies and Vornado Realty Trust, is transforming this landmark into a new way of accessing trains serving adjacent Pennsylvania (Penn) Station, the Western Hemisphere’s busiest transit hub and one of the most crowded. The new portal, called the Moynihan Train Hall, will feature a spectacular 3,300 sq m skylight supported by original steel trusses. Natural light will illuminate the main concourse area, with restaurants, shops and escalators to train platforms below. This large and complicated assignment requires the combined strengths of Skanska USA Building and Skanska USA Civil, working together under a roughly SEK 11 billion design-build contract. All work is being carefully executed to ensure safe and smooth passages of people and trains currently using Penn Station. Moynihan Train Hall will be the third major New York City transportation hub delivered by Skanska, joined by the World Trade Center hub and the ongoing LaGuardia Airport Central Terminal B redevelopment. 34 Construction Skanska Annual Report 2017 Construction The performance in 2017 was strong in the Nordic region and in USA Building, while the underperformance in Construction units outside the Nordic region impacted the proﬁtability of the Construction stream negatively. Targets and actions – Major events 2017 Market outlook 2018 business plan 2016–2020 Despite a very strong performance in the The overall construction market outlook • Controlled growth – stable organizations Nordic region during 2017, the profitability of the Construction stream was impacted continues to be positive. The non-residential and civil markets • Decrease number of loss-making projects through enhanced risk by the underperformance of some Construction units outside the Nordics. in Sweden are very strong, although the landscape is competitive. The residential Operating income amounted to SEK building market is slowing down slightly. management • Operational 1.2 billion, with a corresponding operatIn Norway, the outlook for the civil market efﬁciency ing margin of 0.8 percent. The operating remains positive, but with significant com• Early Contractor Involvement Operating margin ≥ 3.5% income in 2017 was negatively affected petition in new bids. The non-residential • Continued focus on working capital (ECI) by impairment charges of SEK 1.0 billion market also benefits from increased public • related to the decision to down-size operations with continuously low profitability investments, while the residential building market is stable with the exception of ceror are no longer strategically important. In tain regions that are dependent on the enerSelection of competitors addition, operating income was affected gy sector. The overall market situation in • Balfour Beatty by project write-downs of SEK 1.5 billion, Finland is steadily improving. • Ferrovial of which SEK 360 M and SEK 640 M in the In the UK the uncertainty in the non• Granite UK and USA, respectively, relate to project residential building market related to Brexit delays and not achieving estimated produccontinues to have a negative impact. In • Grupo ACS tion rates. Write-downs of SEK 500 M in Central Europe the overall market situation • NCC Hochtief Poland relate to cost escalation and claims is relatively stable even though the Czech • PEAB mainly in completed projects. Republic civil market is experiencing sig• Strabag nificant competition. In USA the overall market is strong. The • Veidekke civil construction market remains good, • VINCI although competition is intense, and the • building construction market is strong in the aviation, education, data center, lifescience and healthcare sectors. Business operations in 2018 Construction Actions to restore profitability have been SEK M 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 initiated and consists of restructuring of the Revenue 150,050 138,001 140,648 128,663 118,976 Polish construction operations, exiting the Operating income 1 1,205 3,546 3,874 4,508 3,880 power sector in the USA, focusing on core Operating margin % 0.8 2.6 2.8 3.5 3.3 business in the UK and continuing to adapt 21.8 22.5 20.5 18.1 18.5 to tougher market conditions in the Czech Free working capital, SEK bn Republic. Moreover, focus on cost control Operating cash ﬂow 2,136 4,562 6,803 2,979 3,470 and risk management will further increase Order bookings, SEK bn 151.8 170.2 122.1 146.9 113.9 going forward. Order backlog, SEK bn 188.4 196.3 158.2 170.5 134.5 Number of employees 39,002 40,991 42,193 42,397 40,854 1 Operating income for 2017 was negatively affected by impairment charges of SEK 1.0 billion relating to the restructuring of construction units outside the Nordics. Adjusted for these charges, the operating margin in 2017 was 1.5 percent. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Construction 35 Order backlog SEK 188 bn Order backlog, total SEK 188 bn Type of product Customer structure • Government, 62% • Building • Corp. Industrial, 17% construction, 48% • Commercial • Civil construction, 43% Development, 7% • Residential, 5% • Residential • Service 1, 4% Development, 6% • Institutional 2, 5% 1 Facilities management • Other, 3% or maintenance contract. 2 Mainly private healthcare and educational institutions. Revenue, total SEK 150 bn Revenue and operating margin, rolling 12 months Geographic area % SEK bn 5 150 145 4 140 • Nordics, 37% 135 o/w Sweden, 23% 3 130 • Europe, 22% 125 • USA, 41% 2 120 1 115 110 0 105 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 • Operating margin • Revenue Value creation in Construction Skanska’s Construction business stream builds and renovates for quality and execution. In the very largest projects that require buildings, industrial facilities, infrastructure and residences. It also high-level performance guarantees, few competitors can measure executes service-related assignments, in areas such as construction up to Skanska in terms of skills and strength. services and facility operations and maintenance. With a strong risk-assessment focus during the tender stage, In keeping with Skanska’s business model, contracting asSkanska concentrates on securing the right projects, for which signments are also executed for Skanska’s Project Development there is a balance between risk levels and expected margins. streams. This collaboration generates large construction assignSkanska’s ambition is to increase its share of contracts, in which ments, as well as synergies for the Group. customers value service, quality and reliability – in addition to Project and synergy opportunities are also generated thanks to price – when evaluating tenders. Skanska’s clear focus on sustainthe ﬁnancial expertise and resources within the Group. A combinaable development – including Safety, Ethics, Green, Community tion of ﬁnancial strength and global expertise in Construction and Investment, and Diversity and Inclusion – is also a factor that Project Development enables Skanska to take on large, complistrengthens Skanska’s offering to customers. cated projects for international customers with high expectations 36 Residential Development Skanska Annual Report 2017 Residential Development Skanska Annual Report 2017 Residential Development 37 Modern families want homes that are well-designed, responsibly produced, reasonably priced and in good locations. Residential Development teams up with the Construction business stream to efﬁciently provide homes that help make people’s lives better and easier. BoKlok Production Plant, Gullringen, Sweden Construction industry productivity isn’t what it should be. Other sectors, such as manufacturing, have increased productivity at much higher rates in recent decades. To improve, construction needs to think differently. Industrialized methods are one important solution. That future is already reality at BoKlok (Live Smart), the affordable residential concept jointly owned by Skanska and Ikea. At this main BoKlok plant, 180 employees produce truck-sized modules nearly ready for living. These standardized sections – comprising multiple rooms – depart outﬁtted with tile walls, Ikea cabinets, windows and doors. Every year, this factory produces some 1,570 modules, which become about 700 homes. This highly efﬁcient approach helps ensure worker safety and high quality, while minimizing wasted materials. Also, it enables low costs, which make BoKlok’s affordable prices possible. From here, the modules are encased in plastic and transported throughout Sweden. Within days they are assembled into buildings of up to four stories, plus time for ﬁnal touches and site works. Strategic partners produce BoKlok modules for Norway and Finland. With housing costs high, demand for smartly designed BoKlok homes is strong. An expansion will increase this plant’s production capacity by almost 50 percent. In 2017, BoKlok represented about half the homes Skanska sold in Sweden. 38 Residential Development Skanska Annual Report 2017 Residential Development The Residential Development stream continued to improve its performance during the year, with returns signiﬁcantly above targets and operating income reaching an all-time-high of SEK 1.7 billion. Demand tends to be durable in the affordable and core segments, where Skanska mainly operates. Targets and actions – Major events 2017 Market outlook 2018 business plan 2016–2020 In 2017, profitability within Residential In the residential market segments that • Controlled growth Development was even stronger than in Skanska’s product range is targeting, the • Increased capital efﬁciency Design to cost 2016 . Performance was good in all markets, Swedish market has slowed down to a stable • Increase landbank particularly in Sweden and Norway. Operenvironment and the Norwegian market ating income reached an all-time high and remains stable but with increased uncer• Establish Residential Development the return targets of 10 percent operating tainties. In both these markets customers • Europe in Warsaw margin and 10 percent return on capital employed were clearly surpassed. are showing signs of delayed decision making. The Finnish market is steadily improvBoKlok, the affordable homes business, ing and the Central European market is also made a noticeable contribution with solid. Common to all home markets is the Selection of competitors • Bonava its high operational efficiency and sizable challenge to acquire and develop land, due returns. In 2017, BoKlok represented about to high prices and long permitting pro• Central Group half the homes Skanska sold in Sweden. cesses. • DOM Development During the year, 4,318 (4,848) homes • JW Construction Finep were started and 4,285 (4,603) were sold. Business operations 2018 • JM A majority of the homes were started and Skanska aims to increase investments in sold in Sweden. Residential Development in order to enhance • PEAB profitability. • YIT • Residential Development SEK M 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Revenue 13,237 13,264 12,298 9,558 9,234 Operating income 1,716 1,605 1,174 683 573 Operating margin, % 13.0 12.1 9.5 7.1 6.2 Investments –11,093 –9,148 –6,675 –6,871 –6,961 Divestments 11,773 7,517 8,630 8,939 7,980 Operating cash ﬂow from business operations 1 1,229 –1,210 1,509 1,830 446 Capital employed, average, SEK bn 12.7 11.6 9.3 10.4 10.8 Return on capital employed, % 2 15.4 17.1 14.4 7.1 7.4 Number of employees 482 434 389 396 419 1 Before taxes, ﬁnancing activities and dividends. 2 A deﬁnition is provided in note 44. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Residential Development 39 7,243 homes under construction Homes under construction and unsold completed Revenue and operating margin, rolling 12 months Homes % SEK bn 10,000 16 16 14 14 8,000 12 12 6,000 10 10 8 8 4,000 6 6 4 4 2,000 2 2 0 0 0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Sold under construction Unsold under construction Unsold completed • Operating margin • Revenue Operating income, total SEK 1.7 bn Homes started and sold Geographic area Homes 4,000 3,000 • Nordics, 95% 2,000 o/w Sweden 63% • Europe, 5% 1,000 0 Nordics Europe Started o/w Sweden Sold o/w Sweden Generating value in Residential Development Generating value in Residential Development begins with an Value 5. Customer care analysis of macroeconomic and demographic trends. Where is 4. Sales and the growth, who are the target groups and what do they need construction and want? 3. Marketing and preBefore making land purchases, Skanska analyzes local conditions construction engineering in detail. Then begins a step-by-step process aimed at ultimately offering customers the best possible value. During the planning 2. Planning and stage, Skanska establishes a framework in close collaboration permitting with the municipal authorities. Based on the potential offered by 1. Concept the site’s surroundings, a neighborhood with a distinct character and analysis is created. An attractive neighborhood is designed and built on the basis of the residents’ needs and environmental considerAdvance booking Land purchase before production start Move-in ations. Skanska’s own sales organization then markets the new homes to the right target groups. 5–7 years Time 40 Commercial Property Development Skanska Annual Report 2017 Commercial Property Development Skanska Annual Report 2017 Commercial Property Development 41 Skanska creates healthy, environmentally responsible and customer-focused ofﬁces and properties. Commercial Property Development initiates, develops, leases and divests properties built by Skanska’s Construction business stream. These buildings contribute to tenants’ well-being and creativity. Five, Prague, Czech Republic History was important to executing this project. After all, it involved transforming a 70-year-old tram depot into a modern ofﬁce building. In leasing Five’s 14,400 sq m, history proved vital too. A few years earlier, Skanska sought to attract global healthcare company MSD to a nearby ofﬁce development called Riverview. A relationship was established, and trust built. MSD secured 90 percent of that building for its Global IT Innovation Center. The success of MSD´s Riverview operations resulted in more space being needed. When Skanska acquired an adjacent plot to develop Five, the dialogue continued. Five would be another distinctive, innovative and green building backed by the Group’s commitment to MSD. Naturally, this included handling both development and construction to ensure a smooth and efﬁcient delivery. MSD agreed to lease 80 percent of Five. “The concept of Skanska’s buildings resonates fully with the philosophy and the needs of MSD,” says Richard Branton, MSD Vice President and Chief Technology Ofﬁcer. In 2017, Skanska sold Five for about SEK 480 M. The property has achieved the top LEED Platinum green building certiﬁcation, and has a rooftop terrace providing views of two castles. 42 Commercial Property Development Skanska Annual Report 2017 Commercial Property Development Gains from property divestments were the highest ever, reaching more than SEK 3.5 billion, including joint ventures. At the same time investments in new projects continued to grow with 24 new projects started during the year. Targets and actions – Major events 2017 Market outlook 2018 business plan 2016–2020 The high level of activity in terms of investVacancy rates for office space are stable in • Increase project activity ments, leasing and divestments continued most of the Nordic and Central European • Drive costlandbank Increase during the year, and by the end of 2017 cities where Skanska has operations. In • Consider expansion Skanska had 46 ongoing projects. Gains Sweden vacancy rates are low and rents are efﬁciency from divesting 27 property projects reached rising. Demand for office space is strong in • Central Europe and USA in an all-time high of SEK 3.5 billion including joint ventures, with all three geographies Poland and continues to improve in other parts of Central Europe. In USA, demand contributing to this success. For example: from tenants continues to improve in Selection of competitors In April, Skanska sold its residential projWashington D.C. and remains strong • Boston Properties ect Ö-huset in Copenhagen, Denmark, for in Boston and Seattle, while demand in • Diligentia about SEK 1.1 billion. Houston’s energy corridor is somewhat In Kalmar, Sweden, three buildings at weaker due to low oil prices. • Echo investment Linnaeus University were divested in June, Modern properties with high quality • Ghelamco for a total value of about SEK 1.1 billion. tenants are in demand from property inves• Hines In December, Skanska sold The Monutors, resulting in attractive valuations for • Lemminkäinen ment Building in London, UK, for about these properties. Investor appetite remains SEK 1.3 billion and its Watermark Seaport strong in the Nordics, especially Sweden, • NCC multi-family development in Boston, USA, USA and Central Europe. • Trammell Crow in partnership with Twining Properties, for In all home markets there is a challenge • Vasakronan about SEK 510 M. In 2017, a total of 24 projects were started, to acquire and develop land due to high prices and long permitting processes. spread across all geographies. Leasing activity reached an all-time high, with Business operations 2018 477,000 sq m leased during the year. UnreSkanska aims to increase investments in alized gains, excluding properties divested Commercial Property Development in according to segment reporting, totaled order to enhance profitability. SEK 7.9 billion by the end of the year. Commercial Property Development SEK M 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Revenue 11,440 10,226 9,034 10,228 6,206 Operating income 2,714 2 ,336 1,947 1,700 1,068 of which gain from divestments of properties 1 2,879 3,111 2,564 1,989 1 ,415 Investments –10,716 –8,364 –8,826 –6,885 –4,514 Divestments 9,341 9,043 9 ,914 8,237 6,954 Operating cash ﬂow from business operations 2 –3,119 –687 917 1,174 1,722 Capital employed, SEK bn 24.5 19.9 16.5 15.0 13.5 Return on capital employed, % 3 15.5 14.8 15.6 11.4 10.7 Number of employees 389 364 344 304 279 1 Additional gain included in eliminations was 197 173 190 279 112 2 Before taxes, ﬁnancial activities and dividends. 3 A deﬁnition is provided in note 44. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Commercial Property Development 43 Unrealized gains of SEK 7.9 bn Unrealized and realized gains Revenue and operating income from property divestments SEK bn SEK bn 10 14 9 12 8 7 10 6 8 5 4 6 3 4 2 2 1 0 0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Unrealized gains in: Land Ongoing projects Completed projects • Revenue from divestments, rolling 12 months Realized gains, rolling 12 months • Operating income from divestments, rolling 12 months Capital employed, total SEK 24.5 bn Leasing, total 477,000 sq m Geographic area Geographic area • Nordics, 36% • Nordics, 33% • Europe, 33% • Europe, 39% • USA, 31% • USA, 28% Value creation in Commercial Property Development The development of commercial projects is a continuous process Value 5. Divestment with a number of clearly deﬁned phases. The average development 4. Property management cycle from project idea to completion is ﬁve to seven years. All acquisitions of land are preceded by macroeconomic and 3. Construction and leasing local market analysis. A major step in value creation is taken when the zoning plan is approved for undeveloped land. The design is based on previous experience and adjusted to local market demands, aimed at creating appropriate premises for tenants and 2. Design and pre-construction property investors as well as enabling efﬁcient construction execution. A successful leasing process usually begins in connection with the start of construction, with most leases signed before 1. Building permit and zoning construction is completed. The construction projects are carried out by Skanska’s local construction units. Property management and work with customers can add further value to the property. 5–7 years Time All projects are developed with divestment as the ultimate goal. Divestment occurs when Skanska has provided maximum value to the project within its competency areas. 44 Infrastructure Development Skanska Annual Report 2017 Infrastructure Development Skanska Annual Report 2017 Infrastructure Development 45 This business stream advances essential infrastructure such as hospitals, roads and airports, using Skanska’s ﬁnancial and development expertise and resources. These public-private partnerships – that the Construction business stream executes – provide optimal solutions for each project’s entire lifecycle. New Karolinska Solna, Solna, Sweden For eight years, New Karolinska Solna has been a design and construction project, until recently Skanska’s largest. Creating it required three Skanska Business Units, and at peak production 250 of the Group’s managers and 2,000 workers were onsite. They pioneered uses of technology, environmentally responsible methods and public-private partnership PPP. Each phase was delivered on time and on budget. Now construction is complete. With the handover of the ﬁnal phase in December 2017, it is now fully Karolinska University Hospital’s new facility. The ﬁrst patients were recieved in 2016 and the remaining patients will move in during 2018. “The facilities that NKS gives us… really strengthen our ability to deliver highly specialized care to provide patients with the best healthcare,” says Melvin Samsom, Karolinska’s CEO. Under the PPP agreement, Swedish Hospital Partners, in which Skanska has a 50 percent ownership, was responsible for ﬁnancing, designing and constructing this 330,000 sq m facility and are now taking the responsibility to maintain the facility and manage its lifecycle costs in cooperation with the client until 2040. 46 Infrastructure Development Skanska Annual Report 2017 Infrastructure Development Skanska divested three projects, one of which was the A1 project in Poland, generating a signiﬁcant gain during 2017. The primary market going forward will be the US market. Targets and actions – Major events 2017 Market outlook 2018 business plan 2016–2020 In 2017, three projects in Infrastructure The public-private partnership (PPP) market • Maximize existing portfolio the value of Development were divested, generating a significant gain for Skanska. In the first in the USA is strong, albeit with considerable competition. In other markets the pipeline • Growth in the USA quarter Skanska divested the A1 motorway is thin, with opportunities being seen in the • project in Poland for about SEK 1.4 billion. Norwegian market. Downsize European operations The net present value of projects at the end of the period decreased to SEK 3.0 bilBusiness operations 2018 Selection of competitors lion (4.3). The decrease is mainly attributThe work is now focused on bringing exist• Balfour Beatty able to the divestment of the A1 motorway ing projects into a fully operational state, • Grupo ACS Ferrovial project and the divestment of Skanska’s while selectively pursuing new projects. • VINCI shares in two wind farms in Sweden. The Furthermore, with a thin pipleine of PPPs unrealized development gain in the project in Europe, the primary market going for• portfolio amounted to SEK 0.5 billion at the end of the year. ward is the US market. Infrastructure Development SEK M 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Revenue 81 237 106 163 87 Operating income 925 1,818 863 463 401 Investments –449 –1,336 –234 –328 –75 Divestments 1,950 3,102 1,114 419 242 Operating cash ﬂow from business operations 1 4,096 –1,045 1,258 –106 108 Capital employed, SEK bn 1.8 5.4 1.8 1.9 2.0 Return on capital employed, % 2 3.6 41.1 12.7 16.9 17.5 Net present value, project portfolio, SEK bn 3.0 4.3 4.8 5.3 4.9 Employees 94 102 111 127 130 1 Before taxes, ﬁnancial activities and dividends. 2 A deﬁnition is provided in note 44. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Infrastructure Development 47 Gains from divestments SEK 1.0 bn Project portfolio, estimated gross value, total SEK 3.8 bn Geographic area Compensation type • Nordics, 40% • Market risk, 44% • Europe, 3% • Availability risk, 56% • USA, 57% Phase Changes in net present value SEK bn 5 0.2 –1.4 4.3 4 –0.1 3.0 3 • Construction, 25% • Ramp-up, 75% 2 1 0 Dec 31, Time value/Reduced Investments/ Currency Dec 31, 2016 discount rate Divestments effect 2017 Value creation in Infrastructure Development Public-private partnership is a form of public procurement in which Value a project company owned by private companies is given 6. Steady state responsibility for developing, ﬁnancing, building, operating and 5. Ramp up of operations maintaining public facilities such as large hospitals, schools, airports and highways. As the investment is partially or entirely privately ﬁnanced, public sector customers’ costs can be spread 4. Construction over a longer period of time. A life cycle perspective is used to Award or create resource-efﬁcient, innovative and sustainable solutions. ﬁnancial close The project company’s incentives become beneﬁts for the 3. Bid and negotiation customer: – Established total cost. An insurance against ﬁnancial surprises. 2. Qualifying – A ﬁxed annual price. The customer pays agreed compensation 1. Identifying over a predetermined period. – Delivery on time with the right quality. Compensation is only paid once the facility goes into operation. Project Development Asset management – Frees up resources. Having a counterparty with overall responsi0−3 years 3+ years Time bility allows the customer to focus on its core operations. 48 Infrastructure Development Skanska Annual Report 2017 Estimated annual cashﬂow in Skanska Infrastructure Development’s project portfolio December 31, 2017 1 SEK M 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 0 –500 2018 2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050 2055 2060 2065 2070 • Inﬂow: SEK 34 bn (interest, dividends and repayments) • Outﬂow: SEK –1.8 bn (contracted future investments) 1 Cash ﬂows have been translated into SEK at the exchange rates prevailing on December 31, 2017. Project portfolio, SEK M Year of Invested Payment Concession Operation/ full as per Dec 31, Total Category Type Country type Phase end Ownership completion 2017 Commitments Highways Elizabeth River Tunnels Highway USA Market risk Ramp-up 2070 50% 2017 793 793 I-4 Ultimate Highway USA Availability Construction 2054 50% 2022 0 602 Social infrastructure New Karolinska Solna Health Sweden Availability Ramp-up 2040 50% 2018 591 591 Papworth Health UK Availability Construction 2048 50% 2019 0 61 Airports LaGuardia Airport USA Market risk Construction 2051 32% 2024 0 519 Total Skanska 1,384 2,566 Essex BSF, Bristol, Essex Woodlands were sold during 2013; Skanska Infrastructure Development retains indirect interest in project through its participation in the Local Education Partnership. For more info see note 20 B. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Corporate governance report 49 Corporate governance report 1 Good corporate governance ensures that Skanska is manone vote per share. Series A and B shares carry the same right to aged sustainably, responsibly and as efficiently as possible on share in the company’s assets and entitle the holder to the same behalf of all shareholders. The overall goal is to increase value dividend. There are no restrictions on the number of votes each for the shareholders and in doing so meet their expectations shareholder may cast at an Annual General Meeting. for invested capital. The purpose of the corporate governance At the end of 2017 Skanska had a total of 109,951 shareholders is also to ensure oversight by the Board of Directors and according to statistics from Euroclear Sweden. The ten largest management. By having a clearly-defined structure as well shareholders held 56.9 percent of the votes and 40.8 percent of the as proper rules and processes in place, the Board of Direccapital. Industrivärden’s holding amounted to 23.9 percent and tors can ensure that management and employees are focused Lundberg’s holding to 12.4 percent of the votes. on developing the business and thereby generating value for More information about the Skanska share and shareholders is shareholders. available on page 24. Annual General Meeting Corporate governance principles The shareholders’ meeting is the highest decision-making body Skanska AB is a Swedish public limited company. Corporate govwithin Skanska and it is where shareholders exercise their influernance for Skanska AB and its subsidiaries (Skanska) is based on ence over the company. At the Annual General Meeting (AGM) both external and internal governing documents and on monithe shareholders decide on key issues, such as adoption of income toring compliance with these by all units and functions in the statements and balance sheets, the dividend, the composition of organisation. The most important governing documents are the the Board of Directors, discharging the members of the Board following: and the CEO from liability, election of auditors and principles for remuneration to senior executives. Skanska’s financial year is External governing documents •• from January 1 to December 31 and the AGM is to be held within Swedish Companies Act six months of the end of the financial year. The date and venue for Nasdaq Stockholm Rule Book for Issuers •• the AGM is communicated no later than in connection with the Swedish Corporate Governance Code (the Code) publishing of the third quarter interim report on the company’s Annual Accounts Act • website. The notice to attend is published in Postoch Inrikes International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and other Tidningar (the Official Swedish Gazette) and on Skanska’s website. accounting rules An announcement of the convening of a meeting is published in Dagens Nyheter and in at least one more daily newspaper. All docInternal governing documents •• uments pertaining to the AGM are published on Skanska’s website Articles of Association in both Swedish and English. Shareholders listed in the register of Procedural Rules for the Board of Directors and Board shareholders on the record date who notify the company of their Committees •• intention to participate in the meeting are entitled to attend it Instructions for the CEO either personally or by proxy through a representative or substiFinancial Policy •• tute. Shareholders have the right to have matters addressed at the Information Policy AGM if they have submitted a request to the Board no later than Risk Management Policy • seven weeks before the AGM. Skanska’s Code of Conduct is available on Skanska’s website https://group.skanska.com/corporate-governance/ Annual General Meeting 2017 governing-documents/ The 2017 AGM was held on April 4 in Stockholm. A total of 1,107 shareholders were present, representing around 57.8 perSkanska has no deviations from the Code to report for the 2017 cent of the total number of votes. Among other matters, the financial year. Nor has Skanska been subject to any rulings by meeting voted to re-elect Johan Karlström, Fredrik Lundberg, Nasdaq Stockholm’s Disciplinary Committee or decisions on Charlotte Strömberg, Pär Boman, Jayne McGivern, John Carrig, breaches of sound practices in the stock market by the Swedish Nina Linander and Hans Biörck as members of the Board and Securities Council. to elect Catherine Marcus as a new member. Hans Biörck was re-elected as Chairman of the Board. The employees were repShareholders resented on the Board by Richard Hörstedt, Lennart Karlsson Skanska AB’s Series B shares are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm and Gunnar Larsson as members, with Pär-Olow Johansson and in the Large Cap segment. The share capital at the end of 2017 Anders Rättgård as deputy members. All members and deputy amounted to SEK 1,259,709,216 shared between a total of members of the Board, as well as the company’s auditors and 419,903,072 shares, of which 19,755,414 are Series A shares and members of the Group Leadership Team, were present at the AGM. 400,147,658 are Series B shares. The company’s Series A shares The AGM elected Ernst & Young AB as auditor, with Hamish entitle the holders to ten votes per share and the Series B shares to Mabon as auditor in charge. The AGM also decided to approve a dividend to the shareholders of SEK 8.25 per share. 1 This Corporate Governance Report for 2017 has been reviewed by the compaThe Board of Directors was authorized to acquire a maximum ny’s external auditors in compliance with Chapter 9, Section 31 of the Swedish Companies Act. The report contains information as required by Chapter 6, of 3,000,000 Series B shares in Skanska AB to ensure future Section 6 of the Annual Accounts Act. share allotments to participants in Skanska’s employee owner50 Corporate governance report Skanska Annual Report 2017 ship program (Seop) and on the transferal of a maximum of Nomination Committee 2018 763,000 Series B share in Skanska AB on Nasdaq Stockholm. The Nomination Committee for the 2018 AGM has the folThese shares were acquired based on an earlier authorization lowing composition: Helena Stjernholm, AB Industrivärden to buy back treasury shares for the purpose of covering certain (23.9 percent of votes), Chairman of the Nomination Comcosts, primarily social insurance contributions, which may arise mittee, Mats Guldbrand, L E Lundbergföretagen AB in connection with Skanska’s employee ownership programs. (12.4 percent of votes), Bo Selling, Alecta (4.8 percent of Complete information on the AGM and the minutes of the meeting votes), Lars-Åke Bokenberger, AMF (2.7 percent of votes) and are available on Skanska’s website. https://group.skanska.com/ Hans Biörck, Chairman of the Board, Skanska AB. This information corporate-governance/annual-general-meeting/agm-archive/ was announced on Skanska’s website and published in a press release on October 2, 2017. According to the Code, the majority of Annual General Meeting 2018 the Nomination Committee’s members are to be independent in The next AGM for shareholders in Skanska AB will be held at relation to the company and management and at least one member 10:00 a.m. on April 13, 2018 at Stockholm Waterfront Congress is also to be independent in relation to the largest shareholders in Centre in Stockholm, Sweden. the company in terms of voting rights. All of the appointed members are independent in relation to the company and management The Nomination Committee and three are independent in relation to the largest shareholders in The 2013 AGM gave the Chairman of the Board a mandate, ahead the company in terms of voting rights. of each AGM, to allow each of the four largest shareholders in In preparation for the 2018 AGM the Nomination Committee terms of voting power to appoint a representative to join the held four meetings, at which minutes were kept, and maintained Chairman on the Nomination Committee. In determining which frequent contact between these meetings. No fees have been paid are deemed to be the largest shareholders in terms of voting power, out for Nomination Committee duties. To perform its work, the the list of shareholders registered with and categorized by EuroNomination Committee has taken part of the internal evaluation clear Sweden AB as of the last business day in August is to be used. carried out of the Board’s work, the Chairman’s account of Board duties and the company’s strategy. The Committee has also inter•• The Nomination Committee’s mandate includes: viewed individual members of the Board as well as members of the evaluating the composition of the Board and its work; Group Leadership Team. preparing proposals to submit to the AGM regarding the election The Nomination Committee applies the rules on the compoof Board members and the Chairman of the Board; • sition of the Board of Directors in accordance with the Code. working with the company’s Audit Committee to prepare proThe Nomination Committee has determined that the proposed posals to submit to the AGM regarding the election of auditors; • members have a broad range of experience and complement each preparing a proposal to submit to the AGM on fees for members other’s skills. The independence requirement is also deemed to of the Board to be divided between the Chairman and other have been met. The Nomination Committee has also discussed the members, and any compensation for committee work, and for diversity requirement. In this regard the Nomination Committee • auditors; has decided to apply as its diversity policy Chapter 4.1 of the Code, preparing a proposal to submit to the AGM regarding a Chairwhich states that Board members are to collectively exhibit diverman for the AGM; • sity and breadth of qualifications, experience and background. where applicable, preparing a proposal on changes to the prinA gender balance is also to be aimed for. In addition to the inforciples for appointing the next Nomination Committee. mation already provided on the background and experience of the members of the Board, it has been determined that the proposed On Skanska’s website there is information on how the shareholders Board will consist of 4 women and 3 men. The gender balance can submit their own proposals to the Nomination Committee is therefore 57 percent/ 43 percent, which, in the opinion of the https://group.skanska.com/corporate-governance/ Nomination Committee, is consistent with the gender balance annual-general-meeting/nomination-committee/. requirement. Governance structure Nomination Shareholders/AGM Auditors Committee Compensation Committee Board Audit Committee Project Review Committee Group staff units President and CEO, Internal Audit and and support unit Group Leadership Team Compliance Construction Residential Commercial Infrastructure Development Property Development Development Skanska Annual Report 2017 Corporate governance report 51 The members and the deputy members of the Board Project Independent in Independent in Elected, Audit Compensation Review relation to the relation to major Member Position Born, year Nationality year Committee Committee Committee Company and GLT shareholders Hans Biörck Chairman 1951 Sweden 2016 • • • Yes Yes John Carrig Member 1952 USA 2014 • • • Yes Yes Johan Karlström President and CEO 1 1957 Sweden 2008 • No Yes Nina Linander Member 1959 Sweden 2014 • • Yes No Fredrik Lundberg Member 1951 Sweden 2011 • Yes No Charlotte Strömberg Member 1959 Sweden 2010 • • Yes Yes Pär Boman Member 1961 Sweden 2015 • • • Yes No Jayne McGivern Member 1960 UK 2015 • • Yes Yes Catherine Marcus Member 2 1965 USA 2017 • Yes Yes Richard Hörstedt Employee Representative 1963 Sweden 2007 • – – Lennart Karlsson Employee Representative 3 1957 Sweden 2016 – – Gunnar Larsson Employee Representative 1953 Sweden 2014 – – Pär-Olow Johansson Employee Representative (Deputy) 1954 Sweden 2014 – – Anders Rättgård Employee Representative (Deputy) 2 1961 Sweden 2017 – – • = Chairman • = Member 1 Until December 31, 2017. 2 From April 4, 2017. 3 Until January 18, 2018. The Nomination Committee’s proposals, work report and suppleThe work of the Board in 2017 mentary information on proposed members of the Board is pubThe work of the Board of Directors follows an annual agenda lished in connection with the notice to attend the AGM and will established in the Board’s Procedural Rules. In preparation for also be presented to the 2018 AGM. each Board meeting, the Board receives reports and documentation compiled according to established procedures. The purpose of Board of Directors this is to ensure that the Board has the relevant information and According to the Articles of Association, the Board of Directors documentation on which to base decisions. In 2017 the Board held is to consist of no fewer than five and no more than ten members nine meetings, including its statutory meeting. The more imporwith no more than three deputies, all of which are elected by the tant issues dealt with by the Board during the year included the shareholders at each AGM. The Board of Directors has overall appointment of a new CEO, updating and monitoring operations, responsibility for Skanska’s organizational structure and manreview and approval of the interim reports and year-end report, agement and the Board’s main duty is to safeguard the interests writedowns on construction projects in Poland, the UK and USA of the company and the shareholders. The Board of Directors Civil, restructuring of Construction operations, Infrastructure thus makes decisions regarding the Group’s strategy, interim and Development operations and the Group management structure, annual reports, major construction projects, investments and renewal of the Revolving Credit Facility (RCF), establishing an divestments, appointment of the President and CEO and matters additional RCF with a green profile, internal control, risk manageconcerning the organizational structure of the Group. The Chairment and compliance matters. man leads the Board in its work and has regular contact with the President and CEO in order to stay informed about the Group’s The Board’s committees activities and development. The overall responsibility of the Board of Directors cannot be In 2017 the Board of Directors consisted of nine members elected delegated, but the Board may appoint committees to do preparaby the AGM, without deputies, plus three members and two tory work and explore certain issues in preparation for decisions deputy members appointed by the employees. According to the by the Board. Skanska’s Board has formed three committees to Code the majority of the Board’s AGM-elected members are to be provide structure, improve efficiency and ensure the quality of independent in relation to the company and senior executives and its work (i) Audit Committee, (ii) Compensation Committee and at least two members are to also be independent in relation to the (iii) Project Review Committee. The members of the committees largest shareholder in the company. Eight of the Board members are appointed annually at the statutory meeting of the Board. elected by the AGM are independent in relation to the company The Board’s Procedural Rules specify which duties and decisionand its management. Of these, five members are also independent making powers have been delegated. The committees report orally in relation to the company’s largest shareholders. The composition to the Board at each meeting and all minutes from these meetings of the Board and an assessment of the independence of each memare submitted to the Board. ber are presented in more detail on pages 58–59. 52 Corporate governance report Skanska Annual Report 2017 Audit Committee Evaluation of the work of the Board The main task of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in The work of the Board is evaluated annually through a structured overseeing of financial reporting, reporting procedures and process aimed at improving work processes, efficiency and collecaccounting principles, and to monitor the auditing of the accounts tive expertise, and to assess any need for change. The Chairman for the Parent Company and the Group. The Committee also of the Board is responsible for the evaluation and for presenting evaluates the quality of the Group’s reporting, internal auditing the findings to the Board and the Nomination Committee. In and risk management, and reviews the reports and opinions of the 2017 an evaluation was carried out in the form of a questionnaire company’s external auditors. The Committee monitors the external and individual conversations between the Chairman and each auditors’ assessment of their impartiality and independence, member of the Board, but also through discussion during board and that there are routines in place stipulating which non-audit meetings. The Chairman was also evaluated through a written services they provide to the Parent Company and the Group. The questionnaire; the board meeting on this occasion was chaired by Committee also monitors compliance with the rules on auditor another member appointed for the purpose. The outcome of the rotation. The external auditors are present at all Audit Committee 2017 evaluation was that the work of the Board was deemed to be meetings. At least once a year the Audit Committee meets the functioning well. auditors without senior executives being present. In 2017 the Audit Committee consisted of Charlotte Strömberg Fees to the Board (Chairman), Hans Biörck, John Carrig, Nina Linander and Total fees to the AGM-elected Board members were approved by Pär Boman. the 2017 AGM in the amount of SEK 9,715,000. The Chairman of The Committee held six meetings in 2017. Important matters the Board received SEK 2,040,000 in fees and other Board memaddressed during the year included capital allocation, financbers who are not employed by the Group received SEK 680,000 ing, pension reporting, external reporting, implementation of each. The Chairman of the Audit Committee received SEK 220,000 the Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) systems, IT strategy and and the other members of the Committee received SEK 157,500. security, impairment testing, writedowns on construction projects The Chairman of the Compensation Committee received in Poland, the UK and USA Civil, larger disputes, review of the SEK 110,000 and the other members SEK 105,000. The Chairman interim reports and year-end report, risk management and comof the Project Review Committee received SEK 205,000 as did each pliance matters. of the other members, who are not employed by the Group. For more detailed information, see Note 37, “Remuneration to senior Compensation Committee executives and Board members.” The main task of the Compensation Committee is to prepare recommendations for board decisions on the appointment of the Attendance at the Board and Committee meetings President and CEO, including salary and other compensation, and Board Audit Compensation Project Review other Group Leadership Team members, including compensameetings Committee Committee Committee tion, pension and employment terms for these individuals. The Number of meetings 9 6 7 11 Committee prepares recommendations for board decisions on Member incentive programs, and examines the outcomes of variable salary Hans Biörck 9 6 7 11 components. Johan Karlström 1 9 10 In 2017 the Compensation Committee consisted of Hans Biörck (Chairman), John Carrig, Jayne McGivern and Pär Boman. The Fredrik Lundberg 9 11 Code requirements regarding independence, according to which Nina Linander 9 6 11 the Chairman of the Board is permitted to be the Chairman of the John Carrig 9 6 7 11 Compensation Committee and other AGM-elected members are Charlotte Strömberg 9 6 10 to be independent in relation to the company and the Group LeadPär Boman 9 6 6 11 ership Team, have therefore been met. Jayne McGivern 9 7 10 The Committee held seven meetings in 2017. Important matCatherine Marcus 2 8 9 ters addressed during the year was appointment of a new CEO, review of executives’ other assignments, review of Skanska’s variGunnar Larsson 9 able remuneration programs for the Group Leadership Team, Richard Hörstedt 9 11 and review and evaluation of the application of the principles for Lennart Karlsson 3 7 remuneration to senior executives as well as the existing remuPär-Olow Johansson 9 neration structure and remuneration levels. Anders Rättgård 2 8 Project Review Committee 1 Until December 31, 2017. 2 From April 4, 2017. The Project Review Committee makes decisions on individual 3 Until January 18, 2018. projects within the Construction, Commercial Property Development and Residential Development business steams, investments and divestments within Infrastructure Development and certain project financing packages. Projects that involve especially high or unusual risks or other special circumstances may be referred to the Board for a decision. The Committee consists of all AGMelected members and employee representative Richard Hörstedt. The Committee held eleven meetings in 2017. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Corporate governance report 53 Skanska’s management structure Group Leadership Team, from 17 January, 2018 Anders Danielsson President and CEO Magnus Persson Caroline Richard Kennedy Claes Larsson Kirsi Mettälä EVP, CFO Fellenius-Omnell EVP EVP EVP, EVP, General Counsel Human Resources ◀ ◀ ◀ ◀ ◀ Skanska Financial Legal Affairs Skanska Skanska Commercial Human Skanska Business Unit/Operating Unit Services USA Building Property Development Nordic Resources Finland ◀ Group Staff Unit/Support Unit Controlling Ethics Skanska Skanska Commercial Skanska USA Civil Property Development Europe Norway ◀ Reporting Green & Skanska Skanska Commercial Skanska Community Investment Infrastructure Development Property Development USA Sweden ◀ Internal Audit & Safety Skanska Residential Skanska Compliance Development Europe Czech Republic and Slovakia ◀ Investor BoKlok Skanska Relations Housing Poland ◀ Risk Market Skanska Management Making UK ◀ Information Communications Technology ◀ Operational Efficiency ◀ Operational management and internal control January 17, 2018, a new Group Leadership Team in a new structure The President and CEO and the Group Leadership Team replaced the former Senior Executive Team, in order to strengthen The President and CEO is appointed by the Board of Directors the units’ performance. and runs the company in accordance with the instructions Information on the President and CEO and the members of the adopted by the Board. The President and CEO is responsible for Group Leadership Team can be found on pages 56–57. the day-do-day management of the operations of the company and the Group. The work of the President and CEO is evaluated at one Group Staff Units and Support unit board meeting each year at which no senior executives are present. Group Staff Units and the Support unit, Skanska Financial SerOn September 13, 2017 Skanska announced in a press release vices AB, are based at the Group headquarters in Stockholm. The that Johan Karlström had informed the Board that he wished to Group Staff Units and Support units assist the President and CEO retire from his position as CEO. He will continue to serve as a and the Group Leadership Team on matters relating to corporate senior advisor until January 2019. On December 7, 2017, Skanska functions, coordination and oversight. They also provide support announced that the Board of Directors had appointed Anders to the business units. The head of each Group Staff Unit reports Danielsson as the new President and CEO. Anders Danielsson directly to a member of the Group Leadership Team. The head started the position as the new President and CEO on January 1, of the Internal Audit and Compliance unit reports directly to 2018, when Johan Karlström left his position. The President and the Board by way of the Audit Committee. A presentation of the CEO has no business dealings of any significance with Skanska Group Staff Units and the Support unit can be found on page 57. AB or its Group companies. The President and CEO and the Executive Vice Presidents form The Business Units and their governance the Group Leadership Team. The Skanska Group has a decentralized structure characterized by In alignment with the strategic review in 2017, Skanska is undera large measure of delegation of authority and responsibility to the taking a comprehensive restructuring of the business, primarily in Business Units. Each Business Unit is headed by a president and the Construction stream, to improve profitability. Effective as of has its own administrative departments and other resources in 54 Corporate governance report Skanska Annual Report 2017 Skanska reporting structure Commercial Residential Property Infrastructure Operational units Construction Development Development Development Sweden Business stream Norway Operating Finland unit Commercial Property Development Nordic External Czech Republic Reporting and Slovakia Poland United Kingdom Commercial Property Development Europe Residential Development Europe USA Civil USA Building Commercial Property Development USA Infrastructure Development order to conduct its operations effectively. Aside from day-to-day as well as outstanding share award and share-related incentive operations managing projects, the Business Units deal with matprograms are found in Note 37. ters such as their strategic development, business plans, investments, divestments and organization. The company’s auditors In addition to the Board’s governing documents, the Group According to the Articles of Association, the AGM is to elect one Leadership Team has adopted policies and guidelines for the or two authorized public accountants and no more than two deputy Group. These policies and guidelines are updated regularly to auditors. Registered accounting firms may also be appointed as reflect changes in operations or new regulations. The Board’s Prothe company’s auditor. The auditors have attended two board cedural Rules state which items of business will be decided upon meetings to report on the auditing process of Ernst & Young AB by the Board of Skanska AB, by the President and CEO/Group for Skanska and to provide the members of the Board with an Leadership Team or at the Business Unit level. The thresholds for opportunity to ask questions without management being present. decision authority stipulated in the Procedural Rules are further The auditors have also attended all meetings of the Board’s Audit broken down in the Business Units’ own rules on decision authorCommittee. For information on fees and other remuneration to ity. The Business Units provide regular, systematic feedback to the accounting firm, see the table below and Note 38. the Group Leadership Team on compliance with the more important governing documents, such as the Risk Management Policy, Fees and other remuneration to auditors Financial Policy, Information Policy and the Code of Conduct. Ernst & Young KPMG Risk management follows a structured process in which the decision-making body depends, among other things, on the size, type SEK M 2017 2016 2017 2016 and geographic location of the projects/assignments. Audit assignments 49 46 – 8 Audit-related activities Remuneration to senior executives besides the annual audit The 2017 AGM approved principles for salaries and other remuassignment 5 0 – – neration to senior executives. These are described on page 160. Tax advisory services 1 3 – 1 Information about salaries and other remuneration to the PresiOther services 3 1 – 2 dent and CEO and other members of the Group Leadership Team, Total 58 50 – 11 Skanska Annual Report 2017 Corporate governance report 55 Internal control certain cases, by the Project Review Committee. This description includes the most important elements of the The company considers the greatest risks that the Group faces to company’s internal control and risk management systems in con•• be the following: nection with financial reporting. Loss or lack of key individuals Ethical breaches Control environment The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for ensuring that •• Project or investment losses Macro-financial instability Skanska has effective and adequate risk management and internal control. The purpose is to provide a reasonable assurance that • Accidents with multiple people affected the operations are run appropriately and efficiently, that external A more detailed description of the risks and how they are manreporting is reliable and that laws and internal rules are complied aged is found on pages 16–18. with. The Board’s Procedural Rules and instructions for the CEO and Board Committees ensure a clear division of roles and responInformation and communication sibilities for the purpose of ensuring effective management of Significant accounting principles, manuals and other documents business risk. The Board has also adopted a number of fundamenof importance in financial reporting are updated and information tal rules of importance for internal control work, such as the comon them is communicated regularly. There are several information pany’s Risk Management Policy, Financial Policy, Information channels to the Group Leadership Team and the Board of DirecPolicy and Code of Conduct. The Group Leadership Team reports tors for important information. For its external communication, regularly to the Board according to established routines. The the Group has an Information Policy to ensure that the company Audit Committee also presents reports on its work. The Group meets the existing regulations for providing the market with accuLeadership Team is responsible for the system of internal controls rate information. required to manage material operational risks. This includes providing instructions to people in various positions in order to Monitoring maintain good internal control. The Board of Directors continually evaluates the information provided by the Group Leadership Team and the Audit Committee. Risk assessment and control activities Of particular importance is the result of the Audit Committee’s Skanska has identified the material risks in its operations that work on monitoring the effectiveness of the Group Leadership may, if not managed correctly, lead to errors in financial reporting Team’s internal control processes. This includes ensuring that and/or have an impact on the company’s performance results. The steps are taken to address the shortcomings revealed in internal company has subsequently ensured that the Group has rules in and external audits and to implement the proposed actions. place to guarantee that these risks are managed. The Group Leadership Team and the corporate departments are responsible for Internal Audit and Compliance managing general risks relating to strategy, macroeconomics and The Internal Audit and Compliance Group Staff Unit is responregulatory frameworks, while the main tasks relating to operasible for monitoring and evaluating risk management and internal tional risks and opportunities are carried out at the local level control processes. The unit’s work is planned in consultation with within the Business Units. the Audit Committee and reporting takes place directly to the Risks and opportunities for improvement are both greatest during Board through the Committee. Matters relating to the internal the actual execution phase of the projects, and thus the work audit are also communicated on an ongoing basis to Skanska’s focuses heavily on this phase. Since almost every project is unique, external auditors. In 2017 the Internal Audit and Compliance unit risks and opportunities must be analyzed with respect to project focused on reviewing the risks identified relating to the company’s type, location, execution phase and client. projects, business critical processes and key corporate departSkanska uses a Group-wide procedure for identifying and manments. A total of some 120 audits were conducted during the year aging risks associated with construction contracts, projects and within all business units. There was a particular focus on the busiinvestments. A specialized Group Staff Unit, the Skanska Risk ness operations in the USA and central Europe. The audits were Team, examines and analyzes projects and investments above a performed in accordance with a uniform audit method. certain size. The proposals are then processed by the Skanska Risk Team, which issues a recommendation. The final decision on tenders, investments or divestments is made by the Group Leadership Tender Board which consists of the Group Leadership Team and in 56 Group Leadership Team Skanska Annual Report 2017 Group Leadership Team New Group Leadership Team Anders Danielsson Caroline Fellenius-Omnell Richard Kennedy as of January 17, 2018 Position President and Chief Executive Executive Vice President, General Executive Vice President Skanska announced a new Ofﬁcer Counsel Group Leadership Team (GLT), effective as of January 17, 2018, Responsible for Business Units Responsible for Group Staff Units Reponsible for Business Units/ which will replace the former – Skanska Finland – Legal Affairs Group Staff Units Senior Executive Team (SET). – Skanska Norway – Ethics – Skanska USA Building The Business Unit Presidents – Skanska Sweden – Green & Community Investment – Skanska USA Civil will be members of an Extended – Skanska Czech Republic – Skanska Infrastructure Leadership Team. and Slovakia Development – Skanska Poland – Safety – Skanska UK Members who have left the former SET – Richard Cavallaro – Johan Karlström – Pierre Olofsson Born 1966 1968 1966 – Veronica Rörsgård Joined 1991 2017 2004 – Peter Wallin Skanska in – Mats Williamson – Christel Åkerman Shareholding 86,924 B-shares 1,552 B-shares 29,593 B-shares in Skanska, December 31, 2017 Board – – – ACE Mentor Program, NY, USA assignments – Building Trades Employers Association, NY, USA Education – M.Sc. Engineering, Royal Institute – Master of Laws, – Bachelor of Arts, Rutgers College, of Technology, Stockholm Stockholm University Rutgers University – Advanced Management – Master of Laws, – Juris Doctor, Seton Hall University Program, Harvard, College of Europe, Brügge, School of Law Boston, MA, USA Belgium – Master of Laws, London School of Economics and Political Science Work – Executive Vice President, – Group General Counsel, Tele2 AB – President and CEO, experience Skanska AB – Group General Counsel, Sidel Skanska USA Building – President, Skanska Sweden – General Counsel Europe, – Chief Operating Ofﬁcer, – President, Skanska Norway Tetra Pak AB Skanska USA Building – Corporate Counsel, – General Counsel, AB Electrolux Skanska USA Building Presidents of Gunnar Hagman Skanska Sweden Business Units Ståle Rød Skanska Norway Tuomas Särkilahti Skanska Finland Magnus Persson Skanska Poland Michal Jurka Skanska Czech Republic and Slovakia Greg Craig Skanska UK Paul Hewins Skanska USA Building Richard Cavallaro Skanska USA Civil Jonas Spangenberg BoKlok Housing Mikael Matts Skanska Residential Development Europe Jan Odelstam Skanska Commercial Property Development Nordic Katarzyna Zawodna Skanska Commercial Property Development Europe Robert Ward Skanska Commercial Property Development USA Johan Henriksson Skanska Infrastructure Development Skanska Annual Report 2017 Group Leadership Team 57 Claes Larsson Kirsi Mettälä Magnus Persson Executive Vice President Executive Vice President, Human Executive Vice President, Resources Chief Financial Ofﬁcer Responsible for Business Units/ Responsible for Group Staff Units Responsible for Group Staff Units/ Group Staff Units – Human Resources Support Unit – Skanska Commercial Property – Controlling Development Europe – Reporting – Skanska Commercial Property – Internal Audit and Compliance Development Nordic – Investor Relations – Skanska Commercial Property – Risk Managment Development USA – Skanska Financial Services – Residential Development Europe – IT – BoKlok Housing – Market Making 1965 1963 1976 1990 1994 2006 151,182 B-shares 13,902 B-shares 5,872 B-shares – Chairman , Handelsbanken’s – Board member, Helsinki Region – regional bank board of directors, Chamber of Commerce western Sweden – Vice Chairman, FIBS Finnish Business Society – M.Sc. Engineering, Chalmers – Bachelor of Business Administra– Ph.D. in Business Economics, University of Technology, tion, Haaga-Helia University of Uppsala University Gothenburg Applied Sciences – Master of Science in Business – MBA, Chalmers University – eMBA, Aalto Executive Education Economics, Uppsala University of Technology and Göteborg University – President, Skanska – Senior Vice President, HR and – Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, Commercial Property Communications Skanska Finland Skanska Sweden Development Nordic – Senior Vice President, HR devel– Senior Vice President, Investor – President, Skanska opment, BU Skanska Finland Relations, Skanska AB Fastigheter Göteborg – HRD manager, Skanska Finland – Group Manager, Corporate Finance, – HR specialist, Skanska Finland Skanska AB – Head of Research & Analysis, Skanska Financial Services President Therese Tegner Skanska Financial Services of Support Unit Senior Vice Presidents, George Fadool Ethics Group Staff Units Katarina Bylund Reporting Karolina Cederhage Communications Anders Göransson Internal Audit & Compliance Caroline Walméus Controlling Jarosław Urbańczyk Information Technology (IT) Neil Moore Safety Lena Hök Green & Community Investment André Löfgren Investor Relations Mark Lemon Risk Management Roger Bayliss Operational Efﬁciency Larry Casey Market Making 58 Board of Directors Skanska Annual Report 2017 Board of Directors Hans Biörck Pär Boman John Carrig Nina Linander Position Chairman Board member Board member Board member Born Sweden, 1951 Sweden, 1961 USA, 1952 Sweden, 1959 Elected 2016 2015 2014 2014 Shareholding 20,273 B shares 1,000 B shares 8,000 B shares 3,000 B shares in Skanska, 666 B shares related person 2,600 B shares related December 31, 2017 persons Other – Board member, Trelleborg AB, – Chairman, Svenska – Board member and Chair of the – Board member Telia Company AB Board – Board member, Bure Equity AB Handelsbanken AB Nominating and Governance – Chairman, Awa Holding AB, assignments – Board member, Henry Dunkers –V ice Chairman, Committee, Forum Energy – Board member, AB Industri­ Stiftelse AB Industrivärden Technologies Inc. värden – Board member, Crescit Asset – Board member, – Board member, Castellum AB –C  hairman, Svenska Management AB WPX Energy Inc. – Board member, OneMed AB Cellulosa Aktiebolag, SCA – Board member, – Chairman, Essity AB Alley Theatre in Houston – Board member, The British American Foundation of Texas – Board member, Jones Graduate School of Business, Rice University Education –Master of Science in Business – Degree in engineering – Law Degree, Temple – MBA, IMEDE, Switzerland and Economics, Stockholm and in economics. University, Philadelphia – Master of Science in Business and School of Economics Doctor H.C. Umeå School – Advanced degree in Tax Law, Economics, Stockholm School of of Business, Economics and New York University School Economics Statistics of Law Work – Chief Financial Officer, – President and CEO, – Chief Operating Officer, – Head of Product Area experience Skanska AB Svenska Handelsbanken AB ConocoPhilips Electricity, Vattenfall AB – Chief Financial Officer, – Senior Vice President, Autoliv AB Head of Staff Unit Finance, – Chief Financial Officer, AB Electrolux Esselte AB – Partner, Stanton Chase International AB Dependency relation– Independent in relation – Independent in relation – Independent in relation – Independent in relation ship in accordance to company and company to company and company to company and company to company and company with Code of management management management management Corporate – Independent in relation – Dependent in relation – Independent in relation –D  ependent in relation Governance to major shareholders to major shareholders to major shareholders to major shareholders Richard Hörstedt Pär-Olow Johansson Born: Helsingborg, 1963 Born: Stockholm, 1954 Swedish Building Workers’ Region Hus Stockholm Nord Union, appointed 2007 Byggnads, appointed 2014 Board member Deputy Board member Shareholding in Skanska Shareholding in Skanska 0 shares 3,392 B-shares Skanska Annual Report 2017 Board of Directors 59 Fredrik Lundberg Catherine Marcus Jayne McGivern Charlotte Strömberg Board member Board member Board member Board member Sweden, 1951 USA, 1965 United Kingdom, 1960 Sweden, 1959 2011 2017 2015 2010 6,032,000 A-shares and 0 shares 0 shares 7,000 B shares 11,550,000 B-shares through 900 B shares related person L E Lundbergföretagen AB (publ) 5,376 A-shares and 2,100,000 B-shares privately – Chairman, AB Industrivärden, – NCREIF PREA Reporting –C  hair of Defence Infra­ – Board member, Bonnier – Chairman, Holmen AB Standards Board (Private) structure Organisation Holding AB – Chairman, Hufvudstaden AB (Ministry of Defence) – Chairman, Castellum AB – Chairman, Indutrade AB – S enior Advisor to Madison – Board member, – Vice Chairman, Svenska Square Garden plc on DevelClas Ohlson AB Handelsbanken AB opment and Construction – Board member, Ratos AB – Board member, L E Lundberg– Board member, Sofina S.A. företagen AB – Member, The Swedish Securities Council – M.Sc. Engineering, Royal Insti– M.S., Real Estate Investment –H  arrogate Ladies College – MBA, Stockholm School tute of Technology, Stockholm and Development, New York – F ellow of the Royal Institution of Economics – MBA, Stockholm School of University of Chartered Surveyors Economics – B.S.E. Real Estate Finance – Dr. (Econ.) h.c., Stockholm and Entrepreneurial ManSchool of Economics agement, Wharton School, – Dr. (Eng.) h.c., Linköping University of Pennsylvania University – President and CEO, – Global Chief Operating –R  ed Grouse Properties – S enior Project and Account L E Lundbergföretagen AB Office, PGIM Real Estate –C  hief Executive Officer, MultiManager, Alfred Berg, – MBL Life Assurance plex plc (Europe) ABN AMRO, Stockholm Corporation –M  anaging Director UK, –H  ead of Investment – T he Related Companies Anschutz Entertainment Banking, – Integrated Resources Group Carnegie Investment Bank –G  roup Development Director, –P  resident, Jones Lang LaSalle MWB Group Holdings plc, Norden –  D  ivisional Managing Director, Redrow plc. – Independent in relation – Independent in relation – I ndependent in relation – Independent in relation to company and company to company and company to company and company to company and company management management management management – Dependent in relation – Independent in relation – I ndependent in relation – Independent in relation to major shareholders to major shareholders to major shareholders to major shareholders Gunnar Larsson Anders Rättgård Auditors Born: Kalix, 1953 Born: Holmestad, 1961 Ernst & Young AB Asfalt och Betong Norr Unionen, appointed 2017 Auditor in charge Ledarna, appointed 2014 Deputy Board member since 2016: Board member Hamish Mabon, Shareholding in Skanska Stockholm, Shareholding in Skanska 4,173 shares born 1965. 3,448 B-shares Authorized public accountant. 60 xxxxxxxx Skanska Annual Report 2017 Tunneling a faster connection through downtown Los Angeles Regional Connector, Los Angeles, USA Construction In Los Angeles, the car is not just a mode of transportation – it’s a way of life. But faced with very challenging trafﬁc congestion, LA is doubling the size of its rail transit network, with Skanska as an important partner. Perhaps the most transformational rail project is the Regional Connector, which will link three separate rail lines to streamline travel through downtown. Under a SEK 9 billion design-build contract, of which Skanska has a 62.5 percent share, the Group’s joint venture is delivering 3 kilometers of double-track subway with three new stations. Throughout 2017, a massive tunnel-boring machine snaked below the city, precisely guided by a wireless sensor system. The route was carefully chosen to avoid utilities, foundations and other underground obstacles. Boring concluded in early 2018, with a late 2021 completion targeted for the entire project. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Report of the Directors 61 Report of the Directors Report of the Directors 62 Sustainability report 70 Consolidated income statement 87 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 88 Consolidated statement of financial position 89 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 91 Consolidated cash flow statement 92 Parent Company income statement 94 Parent Company balance sheet 95 Parent Company statement of changes in equity 96 Parent Company cash flow statement 97 Notes, table of contents 98 Auditor’s Report 183 Independent practitioner’s review report on Skanska AB’s greenhouse gas reporting 187 62 Report of the Directors Skanska Annual Report 2017 The Board of Directors and the President of Skanska AB (publ) benefiting from increased public investment, while the residential hereby submit their report on the operations of both the company construction market is stable except in certain regions that are and the Group in 2017. dependent on the power sector. In Finland the market is improving Revenue increased both in Swedish kronor and in local currencies, continously. The result of the EU referendum is still having a negawhile operating income fell both in Swedish kronor and in local tive impact on the commercial building construction market in currencies compared to the previous year. The overall profitability the UK. In Central Europe the market is relatively stable, although in Construction was weak and the operating income was affected there is significant competition for building projects in the Czech by impairment of goodwill and other tangible and intangible assets Republic. In USA the market in general is strong. The civil conof about SEK 1.0 billion relating to the restructuring of Business struction market remains good, although competition is intense. Units within Construction in Europe and USA, and project write In building construction, the markets for airports, education, data downs of about SEK 1.5 billion, also in the Construction business centers, healthcare and life sciences are strong. stream. Project write downs were caused by delayed projects, a slower than expected pace of production as well as design changes Residential Development from clients in the UK and USA as well as cost increases and client The residential market for the segments on which Skanska is claims, primarily relating to completed projects in Poland. Confocusing has slowed down to a more stable level in Sweden. The struction operations in the Nordic region remained strong in 2017, Norwegian market remains strong, although uncertainty has especially in Sweden. Skanska intends to scale down operations at increased. Customers in both of these markets are showing signs Business Units with sustained low profitability or that are no longer of being more cautious in their purchasing decisions. The Finnish of strategic importance, and increase the focus on cost control and market is improving steadily and the Central European market is risk management. Skanska intends to restructure the construction good. Common to all home markets are the difficulties in acquiring unit in Poland. In USA Skanska will exit the power sector and in the and developing land due to high prices and long planning processes. UK the focus will be on the core business. Finally, the operations in In 2017, 4,285 units (4,603) were sold and 4,318 units (4,848) were the Czech Republic will be adapted to tougher market conditions. started, of which BoKlok sold 1,195 homes (1,211) and started Order bookings were strong, with USA and the Nordic countries 1,257 (1,176). BoKlok is a joint concept of Skanska and Ikea for having higher order bookings than revenue in 2017. The order backaffordable homes based on standardized modules. At the end of the log at the end of the year amounted to SEK 188.4 billion, which is year there were 7,243 units (7,421) in production and 76 percent (77) equivalent to 15 months of production. of these had been sold. The Residential Development business stream continued to show improved profitability compared to the previous year and was Commercial Property Development strong in Sweden and Norway in particular. Despite slowing in the Demand for modern and efficient premises is strong. There is a balSwedish market, demand for Skanska’s homes in the affordable and ance between demand and supply in the Nordic and Central Eurocore segment was good. In Stockholm and Oslo, Skanska noted that pean markets, providing a stable vacancy rate. The vacancy rates are customers were more cautious in their purchasing decisions, while low in Sweden and rents are increasing. Demand for office space is other markets in the Nordic region and Europe remained stable. strong in Poland and is improving in other parts of Central Europe. The number of speculative buyers in Sweden fell as a consequence of In USA, demand from tenants continues to improve in Washington new regulations. This increased stability in the market. D.C., and remains strong in Boston and Seattle, while demand in Commercial Property Development also had a very active and Houston’s energy corridor is weaker due to low oil prices. Modern profitable year in all three markets: Nordic, Central Europe and properties with long-term tenants are in high demand among propUSA, and sold 24 properties in 2017, for a total of SEK 10.9 billion, erty investors, resulting in attractive valuations for these properties. generating capital gains of about SEK 2.9 billion, based on segment Investor interest remains strong in USA, Central Europe and the reporting. In addition, three projects developed in joint ventures Nordic region , particularly Sweden. Common to all of Skanska’s were sold for a sales gain of SEK 0.6 billion. At the end of the year home markets are difficulties in acquiring and developing land due Commercial Property Development had 46 projects in progress. to high prices and long planning processes. During the year a total Skanska leased out 477,000 sq m during the year. Leasing is an of 24 projects were started across all markets: USA, Central Europe important factor in the company’s ability to realize surplus value and the Nordic region. At the end of the year a total of 46 projects generated in future years. were in progress. 477,000 sq m were leased during the year. The Infrastructure Development business stream sold its investment in the A1 motorway in Poland during the year as well as Skanska’s share of two wind power projects in Sweden. Due to a Infrastructure Development weak European market, the Infrastructure Development business The market for public-private partnership (PPP) projects is strong stream will be concentrating on the US market in the future. The in USA although competition is significant. In the other markets priority will be to bid selectively on new projects and complete the prospects for new PPP projects are limited, although there are existing ones. some opportunities in the Nowegian market. At the end of the year the net present value of the projects was SEK 3.0 billion (4.3). Construction The market outlook for Construction remains positive. The market for building construction and civil construction projects in Sweden is very strong, although competition is significant. The residential construction market is slowing slightly. In Norway the outlook for the civil project market remains good, although there is significant competition for new bids. The building construction market is also Skanska Annual Report 2017 Report of the Directors 63 Order bookings and order backlog value of around SEK 1.4 billion. Skanska also signed a seven-year motorway maintenance contract with Hampshire County Council Construction order bookings, order backlog and revenue in the south of England. The total value of the contract is around SEK 3.1 billion, of which SEK 890 M, corresponding to the first two SEK bn years, will be included in order bookings for Skanska UK. An addi250 tional seven-year motorway maintenance contract was signed with Somerset County Council in southwest England. The total value of 200 the contract is around SEK 2 billion, but the value for the first two years of around SEK 570 M will be included in order bookings for Skanska UK. Furthermore, a contract was signed with Helical Plc to 150 renovate the property 207 Old Street, London, with an order value of around SEK 810 M. 100 USA 50 Skanska USA secured several major projects during the year. The largest contract was one Skanska signed with the Empire 0 State Development Corporation (ESD), the project development Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 company Related Companies and Vornado Realty Trust to restore and improve the historic James A. Farley Post Office in • Order backlog New York. The contract is worth around SEK 11 billion. Skanska • Order bookings, R-12 • Revenue, R-12 USA won a contract in 2017 with the Port Authority of New York • Order bookings per quarter & New Jersey to renovate and replace supporting structures and to upgrade the George Washington Bridge in New York with an Order bookings order value of around SEK 3.9 billion. Skanska is investing in an The order bookings decreased in both local currencies and Swedish office space project in Seattle under a construction contract worth kronor by 11 percent compared to the previous year, amounting around SEK 2.0 billion. Skanska has also signed a contract with the to SEK 151.8 billion (170.2). Order bookings in SEK were 1 percent University of California San Francisco (UCSF) to build two higher than revenue in 2017. This can be compared to the previous graduate student housing in San Francisco for a contract value of year when order bookings were 23 percent higher than revenue. around SEK 1.5 billion. A contract has also been signed with Meridian Order bookings were good across the board, but were particularly Group & Rockefeller Group to build a new office building and strong for the US operations. Of the contracts signed in 2017 a nummovie theater in Tysons Corner in Virginia with an order value of ber of substantial ones in segments that are important to Skanska around 1.5 billion. As part of a joint venture with Ames Construction, are mentioned below. Skanska has signed a contract with Riverside County Transportation Commission to build express lanes on interstate highway I-15 in Nordics California. Skanska’s share of the total order is around SEK 1.3 bilSweden received a number of substantial orders, the largest being lion. Skanska has signed a contract with New York City Transit to a contract with Locum for the reconstruction and extension renovate four subway stations along the Astoria Line in Queens, of Saint Göran Hospital in Stockholm with an order value of New York, with an order value of around SEK 1.3 billion. In another around SEK 1.3 billion. Skanska Sweden signed a contract with joint venture, with Stacy and Witbeck, Skanska has signed a contract AMF Fastig heter to build a new building for retail and office with the city of Los Angeles to build the new Sixth Street Viaduct space in Stockholm, with an order value of around SEK 1.2 billion. in the city. The order value for Skanska is around SEK 1.2 billion. Skanska Sweden also signed a contract with Västfastigheter for a Skanska has signed two contracts in Massachusetts. The first is with new medical building at Kungälv Hospital with an order value of EF Education First (EF) to construct a building on EF’s campus around SEK 940 M. In Norway, Skanska signed a contract with with an order value of around SEK 1.1 billion. The second contract the Norwegian Public Roads Administration for construction of was to build a new sports center at Boston College in Massachusetts the E6 route in southern Helgeland with an order value of around with an order value of around SEK 1 billion. Lastly, Skanska signed SEK 2.4 billion. Skanska Norway and the Cura Group signed a conan add-on order with an existing client to build a manufacturing tract with Sykehuset i Vestfold HF for an extension at the hospital facility in western USA with an order value of around SEK 1 billion. in Vestfold. The contract is worth around SEK 1 billion and will be executed by Skanska Norway (70 percent) in cooperation with Order bookings and order backlog Skanska UK (30 percent). In Finland, Skanska signed an agreement Order bookings Order backlog with the city of Helsinki to renovate its Olympic stadium for an SEK M 2017 2016 2017 2016 order value of around SEK 1.5 billion. Nordic countries 54,720 55,984 53,779 54,107 of which Sweden 33,317 36,041 34,954 35,416 Europe Several substantial orders were received in the UK in 2017. Skanska Europe 32,401 36,324 38,158 38,398 signed a contract with Consolidated Development to construct USA 64,690 77,936 96,474 103,749 the St Giles Circus commercial property in London for an order Total 151,811 170,244 188,411 196,254 value of around SEK 1.6 billion. Skanska also signed a contract with Partners Group Fenchurch Ltd to build Eighty Fenchurch Street, a commercial property for offices and retail in London, with an order 64 Report of the Directors Skanska Annual Report 2017 Order backlog Operating income The order backlog decreased by 4 percent (increased by 1 percent SEK M 2017 2016 in local currency) and at the end of the year amounted to Operating income by business stream according SEK 188.4 billion (196.3). The order backlog is equivalent to about to segment reporting 15 (17) months of production. The US, Nordic and European operaConstruction 1,205 3,546 tions accounted for 51, 29 and 20 percent respectively of the order Residential Development 1,716 1,605 backlog. Commercial Property Development 2,714 2,336 Segment and IFRS Reporting Infrastructure Development 925 1,818 The Group reports its Residential Development and Commercial Central –944 –1,140 Property Development segments according to a method in which Eliminations –112 34 sales revenue and gains on the divestment of properties – residential Operating income according to segment reporting 5,504 8,199 as well as commercial – are recognized when binding sales contracts Difference in accounting principles –926 –979 are signed. When reporting in compliance with IFRS, revenue and Operating income according to IFRS 4,578 7,220 gains on property divestment are recognized when the purchaser takes possession of the property or home. Accrual differences within Commercial Property Development generally only occur across a Operating income according to segment reporting amounted to few quarters. Within Residential Development, the differences can SEK 5,504 M (8,199). last for a longer period depending on changes in initiated projects Impairment losses on current and non-current assets were and the rate of sales. The differences between the two methods of charged to operating income in the amount of SEK –875 M (–534) reporting revenue and operating income are summarized in the and this was mainly attributable to intangible assets in the tables below. Construction business stream. Revenue Construction SEK M 2017 2016 In the Construction business stream, operating income decreased Revenue by business stream according to by 66 percent to SEK 1,205 M (3,546). The operating margin was segment reporting also lower than in the previous year and amounted to 0.8 percent Construction 150,050 138,001 (2.6). Operating income was affected by impairment losses on goodResidential Development 13,237 13,264 will and other tangible and intangible assets of about SEK 1.0 billion relating to the restructuring of construction operations outside the Commercial Property Development 11,440 10,226 Nordic region and by project write downs of about SEK 1.5 billion. Infrastructure Development 81 237 Construction operations in the Nordic region remained strong in Central and eliminations –13,985 –10,421 2017, especially in Sweden. In Poland there were project write downs Total revenue according to segment reporting 160,823 151,307 of SEK 500 M due to cost increases and client claims, mainly within Difference in accounting principles –2,946 –5,942 completed projects. In the UK there were project write downs in the Total revenue according to IFRS 157,877 145,365 amount of SEK 360 M and in the US operations of SEK 640 M. In the case of both Business Units this was driven by delayed projects and a lower than estimated pace of production. In the UK another Revenue according to segment reporting increased in both Swedish cause for this was design changes from clients. Skanska intends to kronor and local currency by 6 percent to SEK 160.8 billion (151.3). restructure the construction units in Poland. In the USA Skanska In the Construction business stream, revenue rose in SEK by 9 perwill exit the power sector and in the UK the focus will be on the cent. SEK 22.8 billion (17.3) of revenue in Construction, equivalent core business. Finally, the operations in the Czech Republic will be to 15 percent (12), was generated by the Group’s project development adapted to the weaker market conditions. operations. To reconcile with IFRS, the revenue is added from the homes and properties sold in previous years but transferred during Residential Development the year. The revenue from the homes and properties that were sold Operating income for Residential Development amounted to during the year but are yet to be occupied by the purchaser is subSEK 1,716 M (1,605) and the operating margin for the business tracted. Of the SEK 13,237 M (13,264) in Residential Development stream increased to 13.0 percent (12.1), driven mainly by strong revenue, SEK 875 M (1,548) is from joint ventures and this has been development in Sweden and Norway. Impairment losses on current included line by line according to the proportional method in assets in Residential Development were charged to earnings in the segment reporting. amount of SEK –14 M (–42). Commercial Property Development Operating income for the Commercial Property Development business stream amounted to SEK 2,714 M (2,336). Properties were sold during the year for a value of SEK 10,867 M (9,555), generating capital gains of SEK 2,879 M (3,111). In addition, three projects developed in joint ventures were sold and reported as income from associated companies. Impairment losses during the year amounted to SEK –6 M (–198). In the previous year there were impairment losses on two projects in the so-called energy corridor in Houston, USA. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Report of the Directors 65 Infrastructure Development Income after financial items Operating income in Infrastructure Development amounted to SEK M 2017 2016 SEK 925 M (1,818). The operating income includes a capital gain for Operating income 4,578 7,220 the sale of the investment in the A1 motorway in Poland. Operating Interest income 89 71 income in the comparison year includes the sale of the investment Pension interest –102 –101 in the M25 motorway around London, UK, was included. Impairment losses were charged to earnings in 2017 in the amount of Interest expense –266 –245 SEK –11 M (–331). The impairment losses in the previous year were Capitalized interest expense 257 176 mainly related to wind power projects in Sweden. Net interest items –22 –99 Change in fair value 24 2 Central Other net ﬁnancial items 43 –22 Central expenses, including operations that are being discontinued, Income after ﬁnancial items 4,623 7,101 amounted to SEK –944 M (–1,140). Restructuring costs increased central expenses during the year in the amount of around SEK 100 M. Operations in Latin America, which as of 1 January 2013 are being Net financial items amounted to SEK 45 M (–119). reported under Central, had no impact on earnings and Skanska Net interest improved to SEK –22 M (–99). Interest income increased has no projects in progress in Latin America. to SEK 89 M (71), mainly due to higher interest rates in the USA market. Interest expense increased to SEK –266 M (–245), explained Elimination of intra-Group profits by an increase in the volume of construction loans in Sweden Reversals/eliminations of intra-Group profits amounted to and new loans in USD. However, interest rate swaps and negative SEK –112 M (34). At the Group level, this included elimination of interest on bank balances made a negative contribution to interest profits relating to property projects in the Construction business expense relative to loan volume. Capitalization of interest expense stream. Eliminations are reversed when the projects are divested. in Skanska’s own ongoing projects amounted to SEK 257 M (176). Net interest on pensions, which is the net amount of interest Return on equity and capital employed expense for pension obligations calculated at the beginning of the according to segment reporting year and the expected return on plan assets, amounted to SEK –102 M Return on equity according to segment reporting amounted to (–101). The change in the market value of financial instruments SEK 18.6 percent (28.3) and return on capital employed in project amounted to SEK 24 M (2) and is mainly due to a positive change in development operations amounted to 14.5 percent (18.4) according the market value of interest rate swap contracts. to segment reporting. Other net financial items amounted to SEK 43 M (–22) and the change is mainly due to positive currency effects. Income according to IFRS Operating income Profit for the year SEK M 2017 2016 SEK M 2017 2016 Revenue 157,877 145,365 Income after ﬁnancial items 4,623 7,101 Cost of production and management –145,103 –131,119 Taxes –512 –1,366 Gross income 12,774 14,246 Proﬁt for the year 4,111 5,735 Selling and administrative expenses –9,851 –9,152 Proﬁt for the year attributable to Income from joint ventures and associated comequity holders 4,095 5,722 panies 1,655 2,126 non-controlling interests 16 13 Operating income 4,578 7,220 Earnings per share for the year, SEK 10.00 13.96 Gross income was SEK 12,774 M (14,246). Gross income includes After subtracting the year’s tax expense of SEK –512 M (–1,366), income from operating activities, including gains on divestments in equivalent to a tax rate of 11 percent (19), profit for the year attribResidential Development and Commercial Property Development. utable to equity holders amounted to SEK 4,095 M (5,722). The Divestments of commercial properties resulted in a capital gain of effective tax rate for 2017 is significantly lower than for 2016. This SEK 2,712 M (3,301). Selling and administrative expenses increased is mainly explained by the lower earnings for operations in USA, to SEK –9,851 (–9,152), which is equivalent to 6 percent (6) of revenue. where the nominal tax rate up to the end of 2017 was significantly The amount includes costs for operations that have been discontinhigher than in Europe. In addition, the effect of reported tax ued or sold. expense from tax-free sales of commercial property projects was Income from joint ventures and associated companies totaling higher in 2017 than in 2016. Remeasurement of deferred taxes at SEK 1,655 M (2,126) is mainly from holdings reported in the Infrathe end of the year due to the tax reform in USA had a negative structure Development business stream and includes gains from the non-recurring effect of around SEK –100 M. Taxes paid for the year divestment of holdings in projects. amounted to SEK –968 M (–1,205). Earnings per share amounted to SEK 10.00 (13.96). 66 Report of the Directors Skanska Annual Report 2017 Earnings per share Remeasurement of the net pension liability including social insurance contributions amounted to SEK –399 M (–1,127). The negative SEK effect is mainly explained by high inflation in Sweden and a lower discount rate for pension plans in the UK. The effect is offset by the 20 actual return on plan assets being greater than the expected return on plan assets. 15 The effect of cash flow hedges amounted to SEK 138 M (31). The positive effect of the reserve for cash flow hedges is largely 10 explained by changed exchange rates where forward contracts are in place for future transactions in foreign currencies and hedge accounting is applied. 5 The share of other comprehensive income for joint ventures and associated companies amounted to SEK 83 M (855) net. Infrastructure 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Development is the business stream in which the effect on the reserve for cash flow is the greatest. The item includes changes in unrealized • Earnings per share IFRS • Earnings per share Segment gains and losses on hedging instruments as well as the effect of realized hedging instruments. The Infrastructure Development business stream uses interest rate swaps for long-term hedging of interest Comprehensive income for the year expense relating to long-term Infrastructure Development projects. SEK M 2017 2016 The item includes fair value measurement of interest rate swaps of this Proﬁt for the year 4,111 5,735 kind from joint ventures in Infrastructure Development. The reserve for cash flow hedges is affected by fair value measurement even if Other comprehensive income Skanska will receive compensation through future client payments. Items that will not be reclassiﬁed to the period’s The positive net effect of the reserve for cash flow hedges is explained proﬁt or loss by the fact that interest rate swaps have matured and been capitalized. Remeasurement of deﬁned-beneﬁt pension plans –399 –1,127 This was partially offset by changed market interest rates. Tax on items that will not be reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or Total comprehensive income for the year amounted to loss for the period 69 189 SEK 3,261 M (6,888). –330 –938 Items that have been or will be reclassiﬁed to Investments/Divestments proﬁt or loss for the period SEK M 2017 2016 Translation differences attributable to equity holders –599 1,165 Operations – investments Translation differences attributable to non-controlIntangible assets –255 –394 ling interests 8 8 Property, plant and equipment –1,876 –1,636 Hedging of exchange rate risk in foreign operations –125 36 Assets in Infrastructure Development –449 –1,336 Effect of cash ﬂow hedges 138 31 Shares –154 –325 Joint ventures’ and associated companies’ share of Current-asset properties –21,451 –17,108 other comprehensive income 83 855 of which Residential Development –10,801 –9,005 Tax on items that have been or will be reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss for the period –25 –4 of which Commercial Property Development –10,650 –8,103 –520 2,091 Operations – investments –24,185 –20,799 Other comprehensive income after tax –850 1,153 Total investments –24,185 –20,799 Total comprehensive income for the year 3,261 6,888 Operations – divestments Comprehensive income for the year attributable to Intangible assets 1 2 Equity holders 3,237 6,867 Property, plant and equipment 213 411 Non-controlling interest 24 21 Assets in Infrastructure Development 1,950 3,102 Shares 458 16 Other comprehensive income after tax for the year amounted to Current-asset properties 20,477 16,549 SEK –850 M (1,153). The change in translation differences attributable of which Residential Development 11,767 7,508 to equity holders amounts to SEK –599 M (1,165). This item, which consists of the change in accumulated translation differences when of which Commercial Property Development 8,710 9,041 translating the financial statements of operations outside Sweden, Operations – divestments 23,099 20,080 mainly consists of negative translation differences in USD (US dolStrategic divestments lars) and NOK (Norwegian kroner) as well as positive translation Divestments of businesses 0 862 differences in the other currencies in which the Group has transacStrategic divestments 0 862 tions. In 2017, the translation reserve was affected by exchange rate differences of SEK –125 M (36) relating to currency hedging. Total divestments 23,099 20,942 Total net investments (+)/divestments (–) –1,086 143 Depreciation/amortization, non-current assets –1,587 –1,439 Skanska Annual Report 2017 Report of the Directors 67 The Group’s investments totaled SEK –24,185 M (–20,799). DivestCash flow from business operations amounted to SEK 2,879 M ments amounted to SEK 23,099 M (20,942) and the Group’s net (–1,154). Net investments in operations amounted to SEK –1,086 M investments amounted to SEK –1,086 M (143). (–719). The change in working capital had a positive impact on cash Investments in property, plant and equipment, which mainly flow and totaled SEK 3,866 M (–1,328). This is a result of the sale of consist of ongoing investments in operations, amounted to the investment in the M25 motorway in the UK, for which the paySEK –1,876 M (–1,636). Divestments of property, plant and equipment of SEK 3.1 billion was received at the beginning of 2017. ment amounted to SEK 213 M (411). Depreciation of property, plant Taxes paid in business operations amounted to SEK –892 M and equipment amounted to SEK –1,411 M (–1,306). (–1,237). Net investments in current–asset properties amounted to The change in interest–bearing receivables and liabilities SEK –974 M (–559). Projects were sold for SEK 20,477 M (16,549), amounted to SEK 2,619 M (–2,400). while investments amounted to SEK –21,451 M (–17,108). In Cash flow for the year of SEK 1,619 M (–6,566) combined with Residential Development investments in current–asset propertranslation differences of SEK –51 M (156) increased cash and cash ties amounted to SEK –10,801 M (–9,005), of which SEK –2,437 M equivalents, which amounted to SEK 6,998 M (5,430). (–1,994) was for land equivalent to 7,215 (5,759) building rights. Commercial Property Development projects that were sold but Finished homes were sold for SEK 11,767 M (7,508). Net divestment not occupied as of December 31, 2017 will have a positive effect on of current–asset properties in Residential Development amounted cash flow of around SEK 6.0 billion in 2018. to SEK 966 M (–1,497). In Commercial Property Development investments in current– Financing and liquidity asset properties amounted to SEK –10,650 M (–8,103), of which At year–end 2017 the Group had interest–bearing net receivables, SEK –1,386 M (–1,936) was for land, and the total investments including provisions, amounting to SEK –1,126 M (1,219). The amounted to SEK –10,716 M (–8,364). Divestments of current–asset Group’s unutilized credit facilities totaled SEK 8,281 M (5,713) at properties amounted to SEK 8,710 M (9,041). Net divestment of the end of the year. Of these, SEK 5,901 M was unutilized long–term current–asset properties in Commercial Property Development credit maturing at the end of June 2022 and SEK 1,967 M was an amounted to SEK –1,940 M (938). unutilized long–term green loan maturing at the end of November Investments in the form of equity and subordinated loans in 2019. Interest–bearing assets decreased to SEK 15,800 M (16,318). Infrastructure Development amounted to SEK –449 M (–1,336) and Receivables in foreign currencies accounted for 79 percent (84) divestments amounted to SEK 1,950 M (3,102). Net divestment in of these. The average fixed interest period for all of the Group’s Infrastructure Development amounted to SEK 1,501 M (1,766). interest–bearing assets was 0.1 (0.1) years and the interest rate was 0.63 percent (0.58) at year–end. Consolidated operating cash flow Change in interest-bearing net receivables/net debt SEK M 2017 2016 SEK M 2017 2016 Cash ﬂow from business operations 1,057 2,302 Interest-bearing net receivables/net debt, January 1 1,219 6,317 Change in working capital 3,866 –1,328 Cash ﬂow from business operations 2,702 –1,078 Net investments (–)/divestments (+) –1,086 –719 Cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities excluding Accrual adjustments –243 –96 changes in interest-bearing receivables/liabilities 177 –76 Taxes paid in business operations –892 –1,237 Cash ﬂow from strategic investments 0 862 Cash ﬂow from business operations including Dividend etc. 1 –3,879 –3,874 taxes paid 2,702 –1,078 Acquired/divested receivables/liabilities 0 –663 Net interest items and other ﬁnancial items 253 –108 Translation differences –941 972 Taxes paid in ﬁnancing activities –76 32 Remeasurement of pension liability, net –334 –1,022 Cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities 177 –76 Other changes –70 –219 Cash ﬂow from operations 2,879 –1,154 Interest-bearing net receivables/net debt, December 31 –1,126 1,219 Strategic net divestments (+) / investments (–) 0 862 1 Of which repurchases of shares –440 –793 Dividend etc1 –3,879 –3,874 Cash ﬂow before change in interest-bearing receivables and liabilities –1,000 –4,166 The Group’s interest-bearing liabilities and provisions increased to Change in interest-bearing receivables and liSEK 16,926 M (15,099), of which pension liabilities and provisions abilities 2,619 –2,400 amounted to SEK 5,603 M (4,927) and construction loans to housing Cash ﬂow for the year 1,619 –6,566 associations totaled SEK 5,961 M (4,839). The average fixed interest Cash and cash equivalents, January 1 5,430 11,840 period for all interest-bearing liabilities, excluding pension liabilities but taking into account derivatives, was 0.5 (0.6) years. The Exchange-rate differences in cash and cash equivalents –51 156 average maturity was 1.8 (1.1) years. Including unutilized credit facilities, the average maturity was 3.5 years. Cash and cash equivalents, December 31 6,998 5,430 1 Of which repurchases of shares –440 –793 Cash flow for the year amounted to SEK 1,619 M (–6,566). 68 Report of the Directors Skanska Annual Report 2017 The interest rate for all Group interest-bearing liabilities, excluding aspects when assessing risk. Skanska works with a variety of compension liabilities, amounted to 1.43 percent (1.0) at year-end. The mercial mechanisms and in many jurisdictions and the degree of percentage of loans in foreign currencies represented 35 percent (23). risk may vary greatly depending on the type of contract. The Group’s total assets increased by SEK 2.9 billion and amounted to Skanska’s project risk management at the operational level is SEK 109.4 billion (106.5). The effect of exchange rate differences on governed by the Operational Risk System. The philosophy for total assets was SEK 3.0 billion. this system is that risk management is aligned with management responsibility. The system establishes how Business Units should organize their risk management process and it serves as a roadmap Return on equity and capital employed for all of the routines, guidelines and templates used by Skanska to manage risks and opportunities. % The Skanska Tender Approval Procedure and Investment 25 Approval Procedure establish the level of authorization required for approval of Construction projects and project development. 20 These procedures also provide project teams with a structured template outlining risks and opportunities. This facilitates scrutiny 15 and approval at the level determined by the size and nature of the 10 project. In the Construction business stream, risks and opportunities 5 are identified, assessed and assigned a price during the project identification and bid phases. They are then actively monitored and 0 managed in the design and execution phases. Typical risks encoun2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 tered during a project’s lifecycle include: sharp increases in prices • Return on equity • Return on capital employed of materials or construction services, especially in long, fixed-price projects; a shortage of human resources or of certain intermediate goods; delays in the design phase or changes in design; delays in the At the end of the year, equity attributable to equity holders amountissuance of the required permits; adverse weather conditions; unexed to SEK 27,064 M (27,350). Apart from comprehensive income for pected underground obstructions or utilities; unexpected geotechthe year of SEK 3,237 M, the change in equity is mainly explained nical conditions; defects in existing structures or work undertaken by dividends of SEK –3,380 M and repurchases of shares totaling by other contractors. Changes and additional work required by SEK –440 M, as well as share-based payments in connection with clients can have a major impact on the scope, design and schedule of long-term employee ownership programs (Seop) totaling SEK 297 M. a project. It is important for such changes to be handled in a formal Return on equity decreased to 15.5 percent (24.9). and structured manner, and for the effects and responsibilities for Capital employed at year-end amounted to SEK 44,111 M (42,605). different parties to be defined as early as possible. Return on capital employed amounted to 11.1 percent (19.2). Another important area of risk management is that certain counterparties such as clients, partners, subcontractors or suppliers may Equity/assets ratio have difficulty living up to their contractual obligations. Skanska The equity/assets ratio amounted to 24.8 percent (25.8). regularly assesses counterparty risk in order to be prepared for this. In the Residential Development business stream, there are risks Parent Company in all phases – from concept to completed project. External factors The Parent Company carries out administrative tasks and includes such as interest rates, customers’ financial security and their willthe Group Leadership Team and management units. ingness to buy homes are of crucial importance to all decisions Profit for the year amounted to SEK 4,321 M (3,429) and mainly made. Homes are produced for successive sale. To minimize risk, consisted of dividends from subsidiaries. The average number of the goal is to complete development and sale of all units in a given employees was 124 (111). project during a single economic cycle when variations in market conditions are small and more predictable. Material risks and uncertainties Greater standardization with shorter lead times reduces expoConstruction and Project development operations are associated sure to the risk of fluctuation in market demand. Due to lengthy with risks and opportunities which must be managed in a systematic, planning and permitting processes, ample lead time is required consistent and efficient way to maximize both quality and profitto ensure the supply of land and building rights in order to meet ability. Almost every project is unique, with size, design, schedule the production demand during favorable market conditions. It is and commercial conditions varying depending on requirements, also important to be ready to scale down or stop production when circumstances and the physical environment of the project. Conmarket conditions are less favorable. New projects are normally struction and Project development thus differ from typical manustarted when a predetermined percentage of homes have been sold facturing industry where companies have permanent facilities and or reserved in advance. Large projects are divided into multiple serial production. phases. In Skanska’s operations, there are multiple types of risk. The tasks Risks associated with external factors, clients’ space needs and of identifying, managing and putting a price on these risks are of the willingness of investors to buy are managed within Commercial fundamental importance for Skanska’s profitability. The risks are Property Development. Through frequent contact with clients and normally of a technical or contract-related nature, but it is also investors, Skanska constantly tracks demand for premises and comimportant to consider political, ethical, social and environmental pleted projects. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Report of the Directors 69 Skanska Group’s risks are mitigated through the limits established by the Commercial Property Development and Residential Development business streams on how much capital may be tied up in projects that have not been pre-leased or sold. There are also limits on how much capital may be employed by each Business Unit. Investments in Infrastructure Development require effective risk management throughout the project lifecycle, which may be up to 50 years or even longer. This begins during the development phase, i.e. before and after contracting and close. During the construction phase the greatest risk is that the asset in question will not be able to be operational on schedule. Depending on the type of asset, there are risks throughout the operational phase, which may extend over decades. Examples of such risks are external factors – political, demographic, environmental and financial – which are managed during the service life of a project. There is also a risk that lifecycle costs and operating and maintenance costs will exceed the forecasts that were made. For a more detailed account of material risks and uncertainties, see Note 2 Key estimates and judgments. Financial risks are described in Note 6 Financial instruments and financial risk management. Significant ongoing litigation is described in Note 33 Assets pledged, contingent liabilities and contingent assets. Disclosure requirements according to the Annual Accounts Act, Chapter 6 Section 2a Disclosures according to the Annual Accounts Act, Chapter 8 Section 2a on disclosures of certain circumstances that may affect the possibility of a takeover of the Company through a public takeover bid for the shares in the Company are presented in Note 64 Disclosures in compliance with the Annual Accounts Act, Chapter 6 Section 2a. 70 Report of the Directors Skanska Annual Report 2017 Sustainability report Another survey is Skanska’s Group-wide employee survey, which was first conducted in 2017. It gives employees an opportunity to Introduction provide input to improve Skanska. Strengths and development Skanska is one of the world’s leading construction and project areas for Skanska’s five sustainability focus areas are assessed. development companies, focused on selected home markets in the Furthermore, Skanska, together with Columbia University, anaNordic region, Europe and USA. Driven by Skanska’s values – Care lyzed sustainability maturity levels across USA. This unique project for Life, Act Ethically and Transparently, Be Better Together and involved assessing market demand for sustainable buildings and Commit to Customers – the Group helps create sustainable futures infrastructure projects. Focus areas in the study are green and safety, for customers, communities and employees. This is integral to including health and well-being. The study continues to be used to Skanska’s purpose of building for a better society, as well as delivering further guide Skanska’s efforts within US markets to enhance susvalue for shareholders. tainability opportunities. Skanska’s sustainability agenda linked to the core values consists of five focus areas: Safety, Ethics, Green, Community Investment, Materiality analysis and Diversity and Inclusion. During 2017, a review was commenced To further cement the Group’s understanding of what should be of how these focus areas best fit into an evolving Skanska and the key focus areas in Skanska’s sustainability strategy, structured society. This started with a comprehensive stakeholder dialog and conversations with a wide range of internal and external stakemateriality assessment. It led to updated strategies now in place at holders were conducted in early 2017. These conversations were Group level for all five sustainability focus areas. tailored around 18 relevant topics inspired by the United Nations This report covers the period January 1, 2017, to December 31, Sustainable Development Goals, the UN Global Compact and the 2017. Global Reporting Initiative, alongside current industry trends and initiatives. Stakeholder dialogue The outcomes of these interviews and an evaluation of Skanska’s Skanska strives for an open and ongoing dialogue with the Group’s sustainability impacts enabled a further assessment of sustainability. stakeholders. Engagement with customers, shareholders, employThis identified 13 material sustainability topics that Skanska can ees, partners, suppliers, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) positively influence. These have been grouped in accordance with and other stakeholders is a key component in day-to-day operations Skanska’s five sustainability focus areas: Safety, Ethics, Green, and long-term planning. This provides important insights regarding Community Investment and Diversity and Inclusion. needs, expectations and challenges. The five sustainability focus areas are strengthened by their conSkanska conducts a brand survey bi-annually, which monitors the nection to the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals Group’s position and perception in relation to main competitors in (SDGs). The SDGs further direct Skanska’s efforts to make the most home markets. The survey includes external stakeholders, as well significant positive contributions to society. as employees. Survey topics include perception of sustainability For the sustainability focus areas, Skanska has been securing a performance. clear governance structure, and establishing appropriate key performance indicators and methods for follow-up. This work will continue during 2018 to ensure all material sustainability topics are covered by a suitable measurement and reporting framework. Materiality analysis Through the materiality analysis, the below sustainability topics were identified as material to Skanska’s external and internal stakeholders. The Group is focusing on the 13 topics located in the blue shaded area. Those selected topics are categorized according to Skanska's five sustainability focus areas. Social requirements for suppliers and business partners High Construction material and Health and safety Skanska's five sustainability Diversity and inclusion resource usage focus areas Material to Skanska’s stakeholders Water Anti-corruption Environmental requirements Safety for suppliers Ethics, culture and values Energy and business Ethics Green products and services partners Human rights Green Carbon impact Waste Community investment Biodiversity Environmental responsibility in projects Diversity and inclusion Public inﬂuencer Community investment Sustainable cities Low Low Skanska’s impact on sustainability topics High Skanska Annual Report 2017 Report of the Directors 71 Skanska’s five sustainability focus areas (with selected sustainability topics from materiality analysis) Community Diversity Safety Ethics Green Investment and Inclusion • Health and safety • Anti-corruption • Carbon impact • Sustainable cities • Diversity • Ethics, culture • Energy (shared with Green) and inclusion and values • Water • Public Inﬂuencer • Human rights • Waste • Environmental responsibility in projects • Green products and services • Sustainable cities (shared with Community Investment) Safety During 2017, the Global Safety Standards were revised and four Skanska aspires to have injury-free workplaces, as part of living the new ones added. These will all be incorporated into Business Unit Group’s Care for Life value. Care for Life was the catalyst for the safety systems by early 2018. These standards are an important part Group to begin developing a health and well-being strategy for all of how Skanska strives for a more consistent safety performance Business Units. Health issues in construction have not been given across all home markets: with injury reduction and also with mindthe same priority as accident injuries, and Skanska is determined set, attitude and behaviors. to balance those efforts. The health and well-being strategy, approved in 2017, is based on ensuring healthy workplaces, helping employees and workers to be physically and mentally fit so they can perform at their best and live full lives. This includes providing improved practices to reduce long-term health hazards, such as noise, dust and poor ergonomics. The intent is to prevent work activities from causing or worsening ill health, both physical and mental. Furthering a caring culture The health and well-being strategy is founded on a health and wellbeing matrix that identifies six topics – leadership, knowledge, physical well-being, mental well-being, metrics and communication – around which new and existing programs will be formed. It will also give clear opportunities for Business Units to develop their own plans and identify specific areas for better knowledge sharing. For example, sharing the range of actions, programs and techniques used across Skanska to mitigate harm from musculoskeletal injuries. Skanska aspires to have injury-free workplaces, as part of living the Group’s Care for Life value. With Skanska's caring culture, everyone is responsible for Raising global safety standards their own safety, and the safety of those around them. At Skanska jobsites, everyday workers are carrying out activities that, if uncontrolled, can expose them to unacceptable safety risks. That is why Skanska introduced Global Safety Standards in 2008 Safety journey and regularly reviews and updates them. These standards are sigThe health and well-being strategy and updated Global Safety nificantly beyond legal requirements to help raise the safety perforStandards represent progress on Skanska’s journey to eliminating mance of Skanska and the Group’s supply chain. injuries. Other steps include developing safety culture programs; conducting thorough safety reviews to identify underlying obstacles to safety improvement; and training senior managers to be role models for demonstrating their safety commitment. 72 Report of the Directors Skanska Annual Report 2017 Safety performance Ethics Skanska’s primary lagging indicator for safety is the lost-time acciIn 2017, Skanska continued to further the Group’s strong ethical dent rate. In 2017, the lost-time accident rate was 3.4 (2.8). Also in culture, which is central to living the Act Ethically and Transpar2017, there were 730 (638) lost-time injuries, in which people were ently value. An ethical breach continues to be among the Group’s not available to work their next shift, and 1,029 (1,058) injuries of top risks, according to the annual Group-wide risk survey. all types. Skanska’s Code of Conduct provides employees with expectations Also during the year, there were three work-related fatalities on for everyday behavior. As a follow-up to the Group’s latest Code of Skanska project sites, two in Poland and one in Sweden. Each fatality Conduct, which was introduced in September 2016, the focus during involved a subcontractor employee. Following each fatality, Skanska 2017 was training on the Code’s principles. Code of Conduct training held a Global Safety Stand Down at every workplace to share learnis consistent in all units, helping align behaviors across Skanska. ings from the accident with colleagues, and to pay respects. Anti-corruption measures Lost Time Accident Rate (LTAR) 2009–2017 In 2016, a new anti-corruption policy was issued to reinforce Skanska’s commitment to anti-corruption, as described in the Number of employee lost-time accidents multiplied by 1,000,000 hours divided by total labor hours. Inclusive of Skanska employees plus subcontractors working Code of Conduct. In 2017, the Board of Directors and the senior on Skanska jobsites. executives completed anti-corruption training. 7 Supporting human rights In construction and project development, Human rights are a 6 significant issue, partly attributable to the transient nature of the 5 4.4 trade workforce. Skanska is proactive as one of the first companies 4.2 3.9 in construction and project development to audit suppliers for eth4 3.5 3.5 3.3 3.3 3.4 ics. The Supplier Code of Conduct includes Human righs issues 2.8 such as fair working conditions and equal treatment. The Supplier 3 Code applies to our supply chain and describes the expected behav2 ior of providers of goods and services in their work with Skanska. 1 Skanska is continually working to improve Group Human rights management and reporting. 0 Skanska’s Code of Conduct Hotline – operated by a third-party 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 provider – provides a mechanism for employees and suppliers’ employees to anonymously report human rights issues. Skanska Fatalities (2005-2017) diligently investigates every allegation of human rights violations related to Group projects, including improper wages, hours and Number of fatalities on Skanska project sites, inclusive of Skanska employees and subcontractor employees. working conditions. Furthermore, many projects have controlled access to ensure only Number verified personnel are on-site. 15 13 12 12 9 9 9 8 8 6 6 5 3 3 3 3 3 2 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Skanska Annual Report 2017 Report of the Directors 73 Values align with customers Green To enable employees to live Skanska’s values and abide by the Code Skanska’s environmental commitment relates to impacts of the of Conduct, the Group only works with customers that do not cause Group’s operations and processes, and the long-term environmental Skanska’s values to be compromised. performance of buildings and infrastructure delivered by the Increasingly, Skanska is awarded contracts based on alignment Group. In keeping with the Care for Life value, Skanska promotes between the Group’s values and customer values or priorities. An green solutions and seeks to conduct operations in green ways. efficient relationship develops when values align because trust Through the Group’s Journey to Deep Green™, Skanska aspires to is higher and energies from all stakeholders can be focused on go beyond compliance and to push toward future-proof projects – delivering the project. projects intended to accommodate future environmental demands and conditions. In 2017, Skanska approved a new green strategy, which will better position the Group to succeed in delivering Profit with Purpose beyond the current 2020 business plan. This strategy focuses on zero/low-carbon solutions, which support the carbon reduction ambitions of many customers and of society. Another part of the strategy is significantly reducing the Group’s carbon emissions footprint by 2030, in line with the Paris international climate agreement. Beyond providing benefits to customers, the environment and society, Skanska’s ambition to minimize carbon emissions also drives improved efficiencies in the Group’s operations. It reduces usage or emissions of energy, carbon, materials and water, lowering costs and requiring smarter and more collaborative ways of working. To further this strategy, during 2017 Skanska conducted carbon analyses and worked on developing carbon roadmaps and action Code of Conduct training is consistent in all units, helping align behaviors plans. This work continues in 2018. across Skanska. Environmental policy and environmental management system Skanska’s environmental policy and Color Palette™ define the Supply chain risks and opportunities Group’s environmental agenda and provide a framework for conSkanska depends upon tens of thousands of suppliers each year to tinually improving the environmental credentials of projects, prodfulfill customer obligations. Suppliers represent both performance ucts and services. Environmental performance is measured and and ethical risks. If a supplier has an ethical breach on a Skanska reported quarterly through Green Strategic Indicators (GSI). project, then Skanska’s brand is jeopardized by association. The environmental policy is converted to day-to-day practice The performance risk of suppliers relates to their ability to perthrough an environmental management system, ensuring effective form, which depends upon financial resources, access to labor, ability management of environmental risks. This system supports the to procure materials, and management skills. For many projects, achievement of Skanska's business objectives and goals. Each office Skanska pre-qualifies suppliers based on set criteria. For the rest of and project site is covered by an environmental management system the projects, Skanska reviews suppliers after they submit a tender, third-party certified to the ISO 14001 international environmental and prior to a contract award. management standard. Skanska has 26 certificates across the The Supplier Code of Conduct describes the behaviors expected Group. Skanska is recertifying to the ISO 14001:2015 standard; this of suppliers. In 2017, Skanska increased due diligence efforts on the has been achieved by five Business Units. Group’s broad network of consultants, partners, suppliers and subIn 2017, Skanska received one major non-conformance (MNC) contractors. This increased scrutiny – done through a risk-based citations from external auditors. It was closed two weeks after the approach – will continue to intensify, further ensuring adherence audit. In the previous five years, the Group received zero major with the Supplier Code of Conduct. non-conformance citations. Skanska actively encourages the Suppliers also represent opportunity. By collaborating with the Group’s auditors to provide suggestions for improvement. Group’s supply chain, Skanska can build for a better society at higher levels. The Group’s sustainability goals depend on the entire supply chain, so it is important that expectations are communicated. Green in action Skanska’s values of Act Ethically and Transparently and Be Better Sustainability responsible sourcing guide Together are especially relevant in regards to working with suppliers. The process to ensure that Skanska’s supply chain is in line with Group sustainability requirements and the Supplier Code of Conduct has differed by country. To align approaches, development of a best practice guide for responsible sourcing was begun in 2017, covering sustainability issues with a comprehensive focus on green. In 2018, the best practice guide will be further developed and implemented. This guide will enable knowledge sharing and will direct the assessment of sustainability risks in procurement. 74 Report of the Directors Skanska Annual Report 2017 Skanska Color Palette™ inventory are carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4) and nitrous Since 2009, the Skanska Color Palette has defined the Group’s oxide (N2O). Skanska applies the financial control approach. Emisvision of Green and Deep Green projects according to four priority sions data is subject to inherent uncertainties due to incomplete opportunities: energy, carbon, materials and water. These areas scientific knowledge used to determine emission factors and resultprovide Skanska with the greatest opportunities to lower project ing effects on measurements and estimations. A limited assurance environmental impacts. The Skanska Color Palette sets the strategic engagement of the Skanska carbon emission inventory is undergreen direction for projects, and is used to define goals and develop taken by Skanska's auditors EY; see more information on page 187. action plans, driving continuous improvement. For further details and data, see https://group.skanska.com/ sustainability/green/carbon/how-we-report-greenhouse-gases. Vanilla Green Deep Green Compliance Beyond Compliance Future Proof Direct (scope 1) and indirect (scope 2) emissions Energy Net zero Primary Energy expressed in tons carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) Carbon Near Zero Carbon Tonnes CO2e 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Construction Scope 1 275,537 312,800 330,758 367,791 386,154 Materials Zero Unsustainable LocationMaterials based Zero Hazardous method 55,464 52,704 49,207 60,494 51,305 Materials Scope 2 MarketZero Waste based Water Net Zero Water method 71,389 73,300 – – – Carbon emission categories The Skanska Color Palette is a tool to measure and strategically guide Scope 1 emissions include direct emissions that occur from sources green activities. owned or controlled by Skanska, such as boilers, furnaces and vehicles. Scope 2 includes indirect emissions from the generation On the Color Palette, the Vanilla zone is the starting point, where of electricity, heating and cooling purchased and consumed by construction processes and/or building and infrastructure perforSkanska. Scope 2 emissions physically occur at the facility where mance are compliant with laws, regulations, codes and standards. the electricity, heat and cooling is generated. In the Green zone, they are beyond compliance, but do not have a near-zero environmental impact. In the Deep Green zone, they have Recognition for environmental leadership a near-zero impact on the environment, ensuring that the project is In 2017, Skanska achieved Leadership level (A-) in the CDP (Carbon future-proof. Disclosure Project) climate change, water and forest/timber rating. This indicates Skanska has implemented actions to manage enviMeasuring green performance ronmental impacts related to climate change, water, and forest and Skanska uses Green Strategic Indicators to measure green perfortimber. mance. These cover three areas: increasing the level of green business; management support and training employees on green subjects; and supporting teams to deliver projects with improved green Green in action profiles. In late 2016, Skanska implemented a database for Business Advancing toward carbon neutrality Units to report Green Strategic Indicators and chart follow-up perSkanska Sweden in 2015 set the ambitious goal of making its formance. In 2017, that database was further developed. operations, including its value chain, carbon neutral by 2050. This target includes emissions from the whole value chain, 2017 green results including production and transportation of construction Green products and services as defined in the Skanska Color Palette, materials, construction processes and customers' end-use Green refers to when construction processes and/or building and operations. infrastructure performance are beyond compliance, but do not To advance toward this goal, Skanska Sweden has worked have a near-zero environmental impact. By 2020, the Group aims intensely to conduct analyses and prepare strategies on how to have all project developments be 100 percent Green, as defined to signiﬁcantly reduce carbon emissions. This knowledge will by the Skanska Color Palette. Internally, Skanska measures Green be used by the Group when all Business Units in 2018 work revenue for Construction Business Units and Green value for Projon setting carbon reduction targets aligned with the Paris ect Development units. climate agreement. Skanska’s Group-wide goal is to signiﬁGreenhouse gas reporting cantly reduce carbon emissions by 2030. Skanska’s greenhouse gas reporting covers all Business Units. We measure carbon emissions in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Activity data is based on invoiced data, real-time meters, models and estimates or data as reported by suppliers. Energy conversions are done using publically available conversion factors and emission factors are sourced from open databases like International Energy Agency (IEA) and Reliable Disclosure Systems for Europe (RE-DISS). Greenhouse gases included in the reported carbon Skanska Annual Report 2017 Report of the Directors 75 Energy Skanska’s approach to energy is focused on what the Group can directly control and influence. Skanska aims to boost energy efficiency in construction operations and in the end use of buildings and infrastructure; substitute fossil fuels with renewable energy where economic conditions are favorable; and prioritize net zero primary energy buildings – buildings that produce as much energy as they consume, on average. Total energy usage (MWh) 2017 2016 2015 2014 Fuel usage (non-renewable) 1,023,242 1,121,646 1,278,787 1,398,823 Diesel/Gas oil 502,832 557,122 658,394 843,483 Residual fuel oil 152,078 196,159 204,464 145,996 At Botanica K, treated water from washbasins, bathtubs and Liqueﬁed showers is used for ﬂushing toilets, helping save water and energy. petroleum gas (LPG) 88,277 59,560 82,609 91,718 Liqueﬁed Natural Gas (LNG) 105,687 97,708 124,475 121,878 Waste Motor gasoline 84,258 112,032 108,876 83,312 The Skanska Color Palette focuses on increased material efficiency: Kerosene 0 0 0 0 reuse and recycling of materials and products. It challenges projects Other: to produce zero self-generated construction waste. Pulverized coal 90,110 99,065 99,969 112,436 Striving to reduce construction waste benefits the environment Fuel usage while enhancing operational efficiency and cost performance. The (renewable) 68,094 54,482 271 1,257 Group’s goal for self-generated waste diverted from landfill exceeds Biogasoline 23 124 271 1,257 95 percent. Biodiesel 68,071 54,358 0 0 In some markets, it is common industry practice to exclude Electricity usage 272 ,979 263,246 259,479 365,087 waste from subcontractor operations when compiling waste data. Non-renewable 154 ,363 143,037 104,502 365,087 That approach does not meet Skanska’s expectations, and efforts Renewable 118,616 120,209 154,977 0 have been undertaken in the relevant Business Units. The Group is District heating usage 11,740 3,721 573 3,851 improving by incorporating more subcontractor waste data. District cooling usage 1,499 2,597 196 195 Total amount of self-generated waste diverted Total energy usage (MWh) 1,377,555 1 445,692 1,539,306 1,769,213 from landfill from Construction units, 2009-2017 (percent) % Water 100 95 94 94 94 95 95 As a construction and project development company, Skanska has 88 90 83 a great impact on water usage, both during the construction phase 80 and with the end use of buildings and infrastructure. Water is recognized as a priority area on the Skanska Color Palette. 60 In 2016, Skanska for the first time collected water data on a Group level. In 2017, Skanska scored Leadership level (A-) in the CDP 40 water questionnaire. Skanska is continually working to improve Group water management and reporting. 20 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Green in action Innovative water efficiency solutions Skanska integrates water efﬁcient solutions into projects. For Green in action example, the Botanica K Residential Development project Re-using waste material in the Czech Republic uses an innovative water solution for At the D4 Skalka – junction II/118 highway project in Czech grey water management. Treated water from washbasins, Republic, Skanska re-used waste material from the nearby bathtubs and showers – along with collected rainwater – is uranium mines as aggregate in the construction process. The used for ﬂushing toilets. This, combined with other water aggregates had excellent mechanical properties, and were efﬁciency solutions, reduces potable water consumption by tested and approved for safe use. This approach provided a about 40 percent. new use for waste materials while minimizing transportation costs and carbon emissions. This demonstrates how Skanska contributes to society by reusing existing materials to minimize environmental impacts and reduce costs. 76 Report of the Directors Skanska Annual Report 2017 Green loans and bonds Community Investment In 2017, Skanska Financial Services collaborated with four banks In 2017, a new Community Investment Guideline was approved by to establish a Green credit line of about SEK 2 billion. This Green the Group. The guideline outlines a new direction to enhance the revolving credit facility – the first in the corporate sector – is a impact of Community Investment activities, and to further embed backup for Skanska’s Green bond, which invests primarily in Green Community Investment into Skanska. Commercial Property Development projects. Skanska’s Green Bond This approach will help better connect Community Investment Framework is endorsed by the Center for International Climate efforts to core operations; strategically identify opportunities and Environmental Research, an independent research center for creating shared value among communities, customers and associated with the University of Oslo, Norway. By the end of 2017, Skanska; and effectively deliver social value within three focus areas: Skanska’s central funding amounted to SEK 4.6 billion, of which education, employability and design for social impact. The three approximately half consisted of Green financing, including Green areas are where Skanska has the greatest possibilities to make posibonds. tive impacts. Sustainable cities Education More than half of the Earth's population lives in urban environments, In supporting education, Skanska partners with schools and other making high-performing urban settings necessary to enable people organizations to provide younger generations with role models. to thrive. Skanska has an important role in this. This is to inspire further study and promote STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) learning, along with encouraging In cooperation with citizens, local communities, authorities and greater diversity in construction and project development. other stakeholders, the Group identifies how to address some of society’s most important social and environmental challenges. Through design, Skanska helps improve neighborhoods, and by Community Investment in action focusing on resilient and low-carbon solutions, the Group creates Award-winning partnership • resource-efficient cities. Some examples are: In Finland, the construction industry has many aging workers Developing offices and residential areas with good access to public and vocational schools have a high dropout rate. Skanska, transportation, and facilitating bicycle and electric car sharing together with partners, developed a program called 2+1 pools • that helps solve both issues. It provides young adults with Utilizing Skanska's patented Deep Green Cooling technology a yearlong paid apprenticeship under the guidance of an – cooling buildings through ground storage – on Commercial experienced mentor, along with two years of study. This Property Development projects in the Nordics and Europe • Supporting environmental certification systems for building and infrastructure projects – including Living Building Challenge, opens opportunities for the younger generation while providing older workers with a special opportunity to share their knowledge. By the end of 2017, 15 young adults had comLEED, Envision and CEEQUAL – to increase efficient uses of pleted the program, and Skanska hired all of them. • resources In 2017, the program received an award for its innovative Establishing integrated movement patterns in residential projects to promote an inclusive society approach from the Finland Ministry of Economic Affairs and • Creating public spaces that enhance trust and promote safety. Employment and Sitra, Finland’s national innovation fund. The awards jury described the program as a practical model replicable in other industries. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Report of the Directors 77 In Finland, the 2+1 program matches the expertise of older workers with Skanska played a key role in creating the Inclusion Academy, which provides students needing training to build a career. It provides employment and builds opportunities on projects like this for those newly arrived to Sweden. a source of skilled construction workers. Design for social impact Employability Skanska uses design to help improve communities and bring them By focusing on employability, Skanska seeks to increase local together. This can involve creating integrated movement patterns employment by supporting diverse groups in gaining the skills to reduce segregation; opening shared spaces to enhance trust, necessary to enter or advance in the job market. This also helps health and safety; producing murals that inspire and explain; and create a diverse pool of potential employees for Skanska. generating inclusiveness by improving accessibility for people with disabilities. Community Investment in action Community Investment in action Pathways to active participation in society Creating buildings accessible to all In Östersund, Sweden, the local housing authority wanted In Poland, Skanska has created a partnership with the Inteto reduce unemployment amoung young adults and provide gration Foundation, which works to ensure that buildings opportunities for people newly arrived to Sweden. To help are accessible to people with different needs, including the create a sustainable solution to those issues, the authority disabled and elderly. Skanska has committed to certifying all included this social sustainability criteria in the procurement new Commercial Property Development projects in Poland for a construction partner for a housing project. with the Building without Barriers certiﬁcation, which the After Skanska was awarded the project, the Group collabfoundation established to recognize highly accessible buildings. orated with the authority and other partners to create a proThe partnership enables Skanska to set the standard for gram called the Inclusion Academy. The Inclusion Academy accessibility with holistic and modern design solutions inteprovides language lessons, social activities, coaching sessions grated early into the design phase. This partnership also proand valuable on-the-job experiences to skilled migrants and vides value to ofﬁce tenants, as those customers appreciate the young unemployed. how the Buildings without Barriers certiﬁcation supports the In 2017, 41 out of 54 participants, 76 percent, secured employdiverse workforces they need to thrive. ment or educational placements, providing a big boost to them becoming active participants in the local society and workforce. 78 Report of the Directors Skanska Annual Report 2017 Diversity and Inclusion in action Innovative recruitment programs Skanska Sweden and Skanska UK have developed innovative approaches for recruiting from groups not traditionally prioritized by the construction industry. Skanska Sweden’s International Leadership Program provides a path and resources for highly skilled immigrant engineers to have fulﬁlling Skanska careers. Through the program, which began in 2014, Skanska Sweden hired 36 immigrant engineers 66 percent of participants to take on leadership roles. Skanska UK's Return to Work program recruits people who have taken career breaks of two years or more from any industry, including those who paused their careers to care for children. It includes a 12-week internship. Through 2017, Skanska has hired 15 people through Return to Work, 10 as permanent hires. Four of those people have been promoted. Ofﬁce tenants value the Building without Barriers certiﬁcate, as it supports the diverse workforces they need to be successful. Outperforming industry benchmarks With the 2017 Group-wide employee survey, responses to diversity Public influencer and inclusion questions were 3 to 6 percentage points higher than Skanska engages with the public to raise awareness of various social the external benchmarks. The survey also established a strong matters, including workforce development and planning for incluinternal correlation between inclusive leadership, retention and sive and safe communities. effectiveness: managers who lead inclusively are also more likely to A great platform for doing this is Almedalen Week, a prominent retain key people and run effective teams. Swedish event at which many thousands of people from political parties, companies and organizations meet to share perspectives. At Diversity progress Almedalen in 2017, Skanska organized various seminars, including At the Group level, headcount statistics show continued positive a session on the importance of making the right demands in public progress with diversity, though the degree of advancement varies procurement regarding social and environmental aspects of susbetween Business Units. One of the more successful units is tainability. Another Skanska-organized session was about creating Skanska Sweden, which increased the share of women in senior line more integrated cities and safer societies. Ministers of the Swedish positions from 10.3 percent in 2015 to 18.1 percent in 2017. In terms Government and members of the Swedish Parliament participated of ethnic diversity, Skanska Sweden continues to improve in mirin Skanska's seminars. roring society’s diversity, such as through the International Leadership Program. Diversity and Inclusion Skanska has set a vision of mirroring society’s diversity at all levels, Employees by gender and encouraging leaders to be excellent in fostering an inclusive 2017, % 2016, % 2015, % culture. In 2017, Skanska continued strategically working to achieve Category Men Women Men Women Men Women this diversity and inclusion vision, which is integrated into the 2020 All employees 83 17 83 17 85 15 Profit with Purpose Business Plan. Skanska sees having a high level of focus on diversity and inclusion as a competitive advantage that Senior executives 67 33 78 22 78 22 also supports society. Skanska AB Board of Directors 71 29 77 23 79 21 The Group-wide Diversity and Inclusion vision and strategy are common to all Business Units. Each Business Unit is responsible for adapting the overall strategy into action plans appropriate for them, and then cascading these plans. Since Business Units are organized differently and there are differences between geographic markets, the specifics of the action plans and process of integrating the actions varies. The two Construction Business Units furthest ahead with diversity and inclusion are Skanska Sweden and Skanska UK. For several years, Skanska Sweden, organized by regions, has had regional diversity and inclusion scorecards and targets. In 2018, regional diversity and inclusion action plans are compulsory and will be integrated into the business planning process. Skanska UK expects all major projects to have diversity and inclusion action plans. Both implementation methods include workshops and assessments. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Report of the Directors 79 Governance for sustainability Skanska has a Group-wide sustainability governance structure. Global commitments Group Leadership Team members have responsibility for the five Skanska became a signatory of the United Nations sustainability focus areas, with each area backed by a Group-level Global Compact in 2001, and continues to support support unit led by Senior Vice Presidents or Global Managers. The the Global Compact’s Ten Principles. This sustainability report heads of each sustainability area meet regularly in the Sustainabilconstitutes Skanska’s Communication on Progress (COP) and ity Umbrella Group to drive and coordinate actions within sustainshows how the Group has continued to implement the Ten Prinability across Business Units. ciples during 2017. The Group support units have regular meetings with representaSkanska supports the rights of all people as described in the tives from all Business Units to share best practices and knowledge. Universal Declaration of Human Rights adopted by the UN, and in Sustainability is also prominent on the agenda at Skanska’s biennial the conventions of the International Labor Organization. Skanska is Management Meetings, reaching 750 senior managers. also committed to the World Economic Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption Initiative, of which Skanska is a founding member. Code of Conduct Skanska is an active participant in international sustainability Skanska’s Code of Conduct is key to bringing the Group’s values initiatives, including United Nations Global Compact Network; to life. The Code of Conduct describes the expected behavior of the International Chambers of Commerce; World Green Building every employee in interactions with fellow employees, customers, Council; World Business Council for Sustainable Development; local communities and other stakeholders. All Skanska employees ChemSec, which works to reduce hazardous chemicals; and Catamust adhere to the principles and requirements contained in the lyst, which promotes women in the workplace. Code of Conduct; this includes part-time, contract and temporary employees. Awards and recognition The current Code of Conduct was introduced in 2016, and during Sustainability-related awards and recognition received by Skanska • 2017 Group-wide training has been conducted covering all employees during 2017 include: in all regions of operations. All employees receive Code of Conduct Skanska topped the Sustainable Brand Index, which ranks pertraining every two years, and new employees are trained within one ceived performance with environmental and social sustainability among large business-to-business companies in the Nordics. • month of starting with Skanska. The Code of Conduct is supplemented by the Supplier Code of The Brock Environmental Center, Virginia Beach, USA, was Conduct, which must be adhered to by all subcontractors, suppliers, recognized at the Green Solutions Awards 2017 in the Health and consultants, intermediaries and agents. The Supplier Code of ConComfort category. This award was presented during the United • duct is included in agreements with these parties as guidance on Nations Climate Change Conference in Bonn, Germany. expectations of them and on what they can expect from Skanska. Skanska UK achieved six external awards for Diversity and IncluThe Supplier Code covers topics such as fair working conditions; sion work. These included ranking in the top 20 of the UK’s most discrimination and harassment; anti-corruption and anti-bribery; inclusive employers in the 2017 Excellence in Diversity Awards. and fair competition. Code of Conduct Hotline Skanska’s Code of Conduct Hotline provides a mechanism for employees, suppliers’ employees and other third parties to anonymously report on breaches or suspected breaches of the Group’s Code of Conduct. The hotline is managed by an independent thirdparty service provider. 80 Report of the Directors Skanska Annual Report 2017 Sustainable Development Goals As a project development and construction company, Skanska has Skanska recognizes the United Nations’ 17 Sustainable Developa significant ability to influence Goal 11, Sustainable Cities and ment Goals, which demonstrate the scale and ambition of the Communities – this directly relates to the Group’s core business. worldwide 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Skanska’s In 2017, Skanska also focused on seven other closely related SDGs. sustainability review commenced during 2017 highlighted strong Through these eight SDGs, the Group seeks to harness interconties between sustainability at Skanska and the United Nations’ Susnected opportunities and risks. tainable Development Goals (SDGs). During 2017, the Group identified the eight SDGs most relevant to Skanska, shown below. Sustainable Development Goals index Skanska’s Sustainable sustainability Development Goal Strategic approach Examples focus areas Skanska’s Diversity and Inclusion vision, strategy, change Skanska is steadily increasing the number of women Diversity and journey map and Business Unit action plans provide in senior positions. All Project Development Business Inclusion a framework for continuous progress with diversity Units and the Construction units in the Nordics and the and inclusion. Recruiting and developing women is UK have women in line positions on their management an important focus area, along with reinforcing a fair teams. Across Skanska, there is zero tolerance for any and inclusive workplace culture. Results are tracked via form of discrimination and harassment. The importance Achieve gender employee statistics, and speciﬁc questions on the annual of an inclusive and fair workplace is strongly emphasized equality and emGroup-wide employee engagement survey. in the Code of Conduct. With Skanska Sweden, gender power all women equality is an important aspect of the regional diversity and girls and inclusion scorecard. Skanska works with water use during the construction of In San Francisco, USA, Skanska designed and built a twoGreen buildings and infrastructure, and through design choices station extension of the Bay Area Rapid Transit light-rail often inﬂuences water usage during the full lifecycle transit system. Ninety percent of water used during of those assets. The Skanska Color Palette, a tool to meaconstruction was from non-potable sources, a reduction sure and strategically guide green activities, deﬁnes the made possible by innovative methods. Also, the stations Group’s ambition for efﬁcient water use. are designed to use around 38 percent less water than Ensure access to water standard solutions, annually saving more than 20,000 and sanitation for all liters. Energy efﬁciency provides signiﬁcant value to customers Skanska has focused on energy efﬁciency for many Green as it reduces their carbon footprints while lowering years. Over the last 15 years, energy consumption fell by operational costs. Energy efﬁciency is a focus area in the an average of 60 percent in Skanska-developed ofﬁce Skanska Color Palette. buildings in the Nordics. Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all Skanska’s Code of Conduct guides employees in how to Skanska has strengthened the Group’s culture of Ethics act in appropriate and ethical ways. The Group’s Supplier reporting alleged breaches of the Code of Conduct and Code of Conduct explains expected behaviors to supply Supplier Code of Conduct. Skanska remains vigilant to chain partners. detect and act on any form of human rights violation and other alleged breaches. Promote inclusive and Skanska is committed to achieving injury-free and transTo help raise industry safety standards, Skanska works Safety sustainable economic parent workplaces. Skanska applies the Group’s Global to improve the supply chain’s understanding and applicagrowth, employment Safety Standards at all project sites and does not tolerate tion of safety requirements. Skanska Safety Week, one and decent work behaviors that fall below Group requirements. of the world’s biggest safety events, includes industry for all partners in several markets. The Group continually looks to improve employees’ knowledge and skills regarding safety. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Report of the Directors 81 Skanska’s Sustainable sustainability Development Goal Strategic approach Examples focus areas Skanska seeks to minimize negative environmental Skanska is a partner in Powerhouse, a Norwegian conGreen impacts, with energy as an important area. The Group sortium that produces pioneering buildings in Norway collaborates with partners to create improved solutions that generate more energy than consumed throughout that lower negative environmental impacts throughout a 60-year life cycle, including construction and building the life cycle of buildings and infrastructure. operation. This is done by applying existing technologies in innovative ways. Build resilient infrastructure, promote The public-private partnership (PPP) business model For the I-4 Ultimate public-private partnership highway sustainable industriuses lifecycle cost analyses to guide decision making – it project in Orlando, USA, Skanska’s consortium has a alization and foster determines what provides the greatest long-term value. 40-year concession that includes operations and maininnovation This approach future-proofs the investments, and also tenance. A life cycle cost approach to asphalt pavement helps minimize environmental impacts. rehabilitation strategies is estimated to save USD 38 M over the concession. Also, to help ensure the highway’s resilience to extreme weather, the road base will be about 1 meter above seasonable high water levels. Reaching high levels of external certiﬁcation – such Skanska had a leading role in guiding the development Green as LEED, BREEAM, CEEQUAL and Envision – has for of the Envision sustainability rating system for civil years been an important way for Skanska to verify that infrastructure, a system increasingly used in the USA. buildings and infrastructure delivered to customers and Skanska designed and built the ﬁrst rail transit project society achieve a high sustainability standard. Also, certiﬁed under Envision, the Expo Line Phase II light rail through the Skanska Color Palette, the Group focuses on in Los Angeles, USA. Make cities inclusive, environmental areas of importance for society. safe, resilient and sustainable Skanska aims to improve communities through holistic In Poland, Skanska, together with partner Integration Community design solutions. This can involve creating integrated Foundation, is setting a higher bar for making buildings investment movement patterns to reduce segregation, opening that are accessible to people with different needs, such shared spaces to enhance trust, promoting health and as the disabled and elderly. Skanska is certifying all new safety in the built environment, and by improving incluCommercial Property Development projects in Poland siveness through increased accessibility for people with to the Building Without Barriers certiﬁcation, which different needs. recognizes highly accessible buildings. Efﬁcient use of resources is important for Skanska to Skanska is designing and constructing the European Green lower negative environmental impacts while lowering Spallation Source in Lund, Sweden. There are high green project costs – beneﬁting the environment and customers. ambitions for this research facility, including zero waste Minimizing waste and responsible use of resources are to landﬁll. Achieving this target is requiring new ways of Skanska Color Palette focus areas. working with materials and suppliers. Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns With climate change, the construction industry is part In Solna, Sweden, New Karolinska Solna is a hospital Green of the problem and part of the solution. Skanska conpublic-private partnership (PPP) with a Skanska contributes to building a better society by striving to reduce sortium handling ﬁnancing, design, construction and carbon emissions from the Group’s operations, as well maintenance. To achieve a low environmental impact, as providing customers with resilient and low-carbon it will produce only minor carbon dioxide emissions from solutions. The aim is reduced carbon footprints, both for energy consumption. Partly due to using geothermal Take urgent action Skanska and customers. heating and cooling installations, the energy consumption to combat climate will be 45 percent less than the Swedish energy code. change and its All electricity will be 100 percent renewable electricity impacts generated on site. 82 Report of the Directors Skanska Annual Report 2017 Sustainability risks Skanska prioritizes understanding the Group’s main sustainability opportunities and risks. For each sustainability risk, comprehensive management and mitigation measures are implemented and regularly updated. Skanska’s Risk area sustainability and description Potential Impacts Mitigation focus area Health and safety Multiple fatalities, life-changing injuries, and injuries Skanska’s safety policy describes the expected roles Safety Injuries and ill health and long-term ill health that reduce life expectancy or of all industry participants to help achieve injury-free regarding people the quality of life. environments. at Skanska sites, or people affected by Skanska’s Global Safety Standards provide minimum Skanska work activiexpected behaviors for all Skanska workplaces. ties. Construction Business Units have safety management systems that comply with the OHSAS 18001 international occupational health and safety management system standard. This provides control over operational safety risks. Anti-corruption Fines, penalties and criminal and civil charges. Delisting The Code of Conduct, anti-corruption policy and other Ethics and bribery matters from public procurement in some markets. Damaged policies provide clear directions to employees, and Bribery, corruption, reputation and lost trust as a responsible company. related training provides instruction on appropriate money launderbehaviors. ing and breach of Skanska’s values and Skanska encourages employees to have everyday ethics. Bribery and discussions around the Group’s values. Short videos corruption are among depicting situations encountered by employees Skanska’s top risks. support this activity. Due diligence deepens Skanska’s knowledge of suppliers, subcontractors and other partners. Particular attention is given to those representing Skanska as intermediaries. Sellers and buyers of land and real property are also scrutinized, including identifying funding sources. Environment Skanska’s Code of Conduct and Environmental Policy, Green Major environmental Damaged reputation and loss of license to operate. enabled by the Group’s environmental management incident in operations system, guide actions relating to environmental risks and or supply chain. secure legal compliance. Environmental specialists at Group and Business Unit levels support line managePollution or ment with their responsibility for securing compliance negative impact on and achieving Group environmental expectations, which the environment. go beyond compliance, and retaining ISO 14001 certiﬁcation. Also, Skanska engages with suppliers to reduce risks of supply chain environmental breaches. Inefﬁcient uses of Operational inefﬁciency, increasing costs and decreasing Employees are trained on proper environmental pracenergy, materials, proﬁts. tices and are immersed in activities that lift Skanska’s waste and water. Care for Life value. Physical risks caused Operational costs or delays due to extreme weather The Skanska Color Palette secures a strategic approach by extreme weather conditions. to future-prooﬁng projects regarding resource efﬁciency due to climate (energy, carbon, materials and water). change. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Report of the Directors 83 Skanska’s Risk area sustainability and description Potential Impacts Mitigation focus area Diversity Difﬁculties attracting, recruiting and/or retaining Diversity and inclusion is integrated in Skanska’s 2020 Diversity and inclusion employees with needed competencies. Proﬁt with Purpose Business Plan, and the Group’s and Inclusion Low diversity among values, sustainability agenda and Code of Conduct. employees and subcontractors – Inability to meet customer and community expectations The Group-wide diversity and inclusion vision and similar backgrounds regarding diversity and inclusion, reducing Skanska’s strategy are activated through a Group-wide network in terms of gender, ability to secure project assignments. with local action groups and action plans. age, ethnicity, family situation, educational Damaged reputation from harassment and Diversity and inclusion is integrated into employee background, work discrimination cases. attraction and recruitment initiatives, and employee experience and perperformance review processes. Also, it is addressed sonality. in employee onboarding programs and leadership development programs. Non-inclusive, even Decreased employee engagement and productivity Skanska’s new Community Investment Guideline is well explicitly excluding, due to non-inclusive behaviors and experiences. aligned with the Group’s Diversity and Inclusion vision workplace culture, reand strategy. Supplier diversity programs support both sulting in exclusionary Community Investment and Diversity and Inclusion. experiences and cases of discrimination and harassment. Human rights Damaged reputation and lost trust as a responsible Skanska Code of Conduct training and the Supplier Ethics Human rights violacompany. Also, ﬁnancial ﬁnes and penalties, civil lawCode of Conduct guide employees and those working tions, such as unfair suits and criminal charges. on behalf of Skanska to act appropriately regarding working conditions, human rights. Other control measures include knowing modern-day slavery the background of suppliers and regulating project site and discrimination. access. Also harassment, both at Skanska sites The Code of Conduct Hotline provides an anonymous and by any of Skanway for employees and external parties to report ska’s subcontractors suspected misconduct. Every allegation is diligently or suppliers. investigated. Supply chain Damaged reputation if suppliers and subcontractors Skanska is increasing due diligence of suppliers and Ethics management act in ways not consistent with Skanska’s values. subcontractors. Actions include prequalifying suppliers Suppliers not complibased on set criteria; having the Supplier Code of Conduct ant with Skanska’s as a contract attachment; and auditing suppliers. requirement to follow Particular attention is given to those representing Supply Chain Code of Skanska as intermediaries. Conduct. Performance risks Failure by a supplier could result in Skanska facing Prequaliﬁcation or qualiﬁcation prior to award of associated with each a ﬁnancial loss, damaged reputation and inability a contract reduces performance risk. supplier’s ﬁnancial to meet project schedule. condition and ability to procure material and labor. 84 Report of the Directors Skanska Annual Report 2017 Employees Remuneration to senior executives The average number of employees in 2017 was 40,759 (42,903), of For information about the most recently approved guidelines for whom 9,304 (10,158) were in Sweden. Skanska prioritizes attracting, determining salaries and other remuneration for the President and recruiting and orientation of new employees to the organization. CEO and other senior executives, see Note 37 Remuneration to The Skanska employee ownership program (Seop) is aimed at senior executives and Board members. attracting employees and retaining them within the Group, and In April 2018 the Board will present a proposal to the Annual creating greater affinity and dedication. All permanent employees General Meeting to retain the current guidelines for salaries and of the Skanska Group are entitled to participate in the program. other remuneration of senior executives. Currently 29 percent (30) of those eligible are participants. The Group uses annual employee surveys to obtain an understanding of job satisfaction, morale and professional development The Board’s proposal for salaries and other remuneration to needs from the employees’ perspective. In 2017 a new Group-wide senior executives for approval by the 2018 Annual General employee survey was launched to follow up and support the Profit Meeting with Purpose business plan. The survey was conducted within Remuneration for senior executives of Skanska AB is to consist of a all Business Units for the first time in April 2017. One of the most fixed salary, possible variable remuneration, other customary benimportant factors in attracting and retaining employees is the efits, and pension. The senior executives include the President and opportunity for continued professional development within the CEO and the other members of the Group Leadership Team. The company. The Group thus strongly emphasizes creating a culture combined remuneration for each executive must be market-based in which managers and other employees provide each other with and competitive in the job market in which the executive is located, mutual feedback, where employees can undertake new, challenging and outstanding performance is to be reflected in the total remuassignments, and where proficiency-raising initiatives are offered. neration package. At the Group level, the Skanska Top Executive Program (STEP) is Fixed salary and variable remuneration are to be linked to the run in collaboration with IMD business school in Switzerland and level of responsibility and authority of the executive. The variable Ivey Business School in Canada. remuneration is to be payable in cash and/or shares, and it is to have Skanska also has a global talent program called Skanska Stretch. a ceiling and be related to the fixed salary. To receive shares a threeIt is aimed at key talents who are at an early stage in their career and year vesting period is required and the shares are to be part of a on their way into a management role. The program has a clear interlong-term incentive program. Variable remuneration is to be based national emphasis and all participants have an opportunity to work on performance in relation to established targets and designed to abroad after completing the program. In addition, all business units achieve better alignment between the interests of the executive and have training programs that match the needs of the respective unit, of the company’s shareholders. The terms of variable remuneration targeting employees at all levels. should be designed so that if exceptional economic conditions exist, The annual Talent Review process provides the basis for succesthe Board has the ability to limit or refrain from paying variable sion planning and professional development for employees. It is remuneration if such payment is deemed unreasonable and incomuniformly implemented in all of the Group’s Business Units in order patible with the company’s general responsibility to shareholders, to obtain a Group-wide picture of competencies and development employees and other stakeholders. With respect to the annual needs at both the individual and Business Unit level. bonus, the Board has the ability to limit or refrain from paying this Skanska uses a Group-wide skills profile – Skanska Leadership variable remuneration if it deems such action reasonable based on Profile – for the purpose of clarifying the expectations the Group other factors. has for all employees and to provide opportunities for continuous If a member of the Board performs work on behalf of the company development. in addition to his or her assignment on the Board, a consultant fee Work on Skanska Unlimited – a program aimed at increasing taland other compensation for such work may be payable. ent exchange within the Group – continued in 2017. Employees are In case of termination or resignation, the normal notice period is given an opportunity to try a 3–6 month assignment at a different six months combined with severance pay equivalent to a maximum Business Unit, internationally or in the same market. of 18 months of fixed salary or, alternatively, a notice period of a For Skanska, diversity is about embracing and utilizing the maximum of 24 months. abilities of every individual. Skanska’s actions are based on the Pension benefits are to be in the form of either defined-benefit or conviction that the company’s competitiveness is enhanced when defined-contribution plans, or a combination of both, and entitle its employees are satisfied with their work situation and have the the executive to receive a pension from the age of 65. In individual opportunity for professional development regardless of gender, cases, however, the retirement age may be as low as 60. To earn full ethnicity or educational background. Currently, a significant number defined-benefit pension, the individual is required to have been of women are active at the project level within the Group, but the employed for as long a period as is required under the company’s percentage of women in management positions is still too low. general pension plan in each respective country. Variable remunerEfforts to increase diversity are under way, both at the Group level ation is not pensionable except in cases where this is stipulated in and at every Business Unit. The Group works continuously to set the rules for a general pension plan (e.g. Sweden’s ITP occupational diversity targets for its Business Units, for example to increase the pension plan.) percentage of new female recruits or to raise the level of knowledge The Board of Directors may deviate from these guidelines if there and awareness about diversity within the organization. are special reasons to do so in an individual case. A proposal for the President and CEO’s salary and other remuneration is prepared by the Compensation Committee and a decision is taken by the Board. The salaries and other remuneration for other senior executives are determined by the Compensation Committee. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Report of the Directors 85 Skanska employee ownership program (Seop) Information on shares The purpose of the Seop is to strengthen the Group’s ability to In order to ensure allotment of shares to the participants in retain and recruit qualified personnel and to align employees more Skanska’s employee ownership programs, the 2017 Annual General closely to the company and its shareholders. Meeting authorized the Board of Directors to repurchase treasury The program provides employees with the opportunity to invest shares. According to this decision the company may buy a maxiin Skanska shares while receiving incentives in the form of possible mum of 3,000,000 Series B shares to ensure allotment of shares to allotment of additional shares. participants in Seop 4. This allotment is predominantly performance-based. Shares During the year, Skanska repurchased a total of 2,350,000 shares are only allotted after a three-year vesting period. To be able to at an average price of SEK 187.25. The average price of all repurearn matching shares and performance shares, a person must be chased shares is SEK 137.31. The quota value of the repurchased employed during the entire lock-up period and have retained the shares is SEK 3.00 per share, totaling SEK 7.0 M, and the shares shares purchased within the framework of the program. Under represent 0.6 percent of the total share capital. The cost of acquirSeop 3, which ran during the period 2014–2016, matching shares ing these shares amounted to SEK 440 M. During the year and performance shares were allotted in 2017 for the shares in 1,754,616 shares were allotted to the employees participating in which employees had invested in 2014 and which they had retained the employee ownership program. The quota value of the repurfor the three-year lock-up period. chased shares is SEK 3.00 per share, totaling SEK 5.3 M, and the In 2017 Seop 4 continued, running for the period 2017–2019. shares represent 0.4 percent of the total share capital. The numSeop 4 is essentially identical to Seop 3. ber of treasury shares held as of December 31, 2017 amounted to The accounting principles applied for the employee ownership 11,190,028. The quota value of these shares is SEK 3.00 per share, programs can be found in Note 1 IFRS 2 Share-based Payment. totaling SEK 33.6 M, and the shares represent 2.7 percent of the total share capital. The cost of acquiring the shares amounted to Employee-related expenses for SEK 1.5 billion. Skanska employee ownership program (Seop) Proposed dividend Total for SEK M Seop 3 Seop 4 programs The Board of Directors proposes a regular dividend of SEK 8.25 Employee-related costs (8.25) per share. The proposal is equivalent to a regular dividend For share-award totaling SEK 3,372 M (3,380). The Board proposes April 17 as the Programs 1 record date for the dividend. The Board has determined that the Investment years 2014–2016 2017–2019 Group’s financial position, the outlook for the coming year and Total estimated cost investment opportunities, as well as circumstances in general, for the programs 2 862 311 1,173 warrant retaining a dividend of SEK 8.25 per share. Expensed at beginning of period –420 0 –420 No dividend is paid for the Parent Company’s holding of Series Cost for the period –234 –63 –297 B treasury shares. The total dividend amount may change by the Total expensed at end of period –654 –63 –717 record date, depending on repurchases of shares and the transfer of Remaining to be expensed 208 248 456 shares to participants in long-term employee ownership programs. Of which expensed in: 2018 155 103 258 The Board’s justification for its proposed dividend 2019 53 102 155 The nature and scale of Skanska’s operations are described in the Articles of Association and this Annual Report. The operations 2020 or later 0 43 43 carried out within the Group do not pose any risks beyond those Total 208 248 456 that occur or can be assumed to occur in the industry, or the risks that are otherwise associated with conducting business activities. Share awards earned through December 2017 The Group’s dependence on the general economic situation does Number of shares 2,146,781 287,989 2,434,770 not deviate from what is otherwise the case in the industry. The Group’s equity/assets ratio amounts to 24.8 percent (25.8). Dilution through December 2017, % 0,52 0,07 0,59 The proposed dividend does not jeopardize the investments that Maximum dilution at end of programs, % 0,79 0,36 1,15 are considered necessary or investments to support the Group’s Share awards earned at end of programs continued development. The Group’s financial position does not Number of shares 5,008,327 1,473,955 6,482,282 give rise to any conclusion other than that the Group can continue Series B shares allotted 1,754,616 0 1,754,616 to develop its operations and that the company can be expected to Total unallocated shares 3,253,711 1,473,955 4,727,666 meet its short-term and long-term obligations. Series B treasury shares 11,190,028 With reference to the above and what has otherwise come to the Board’s attention, the Board has concluded that the dividend is jus1 Excluding social insurance contributions. 2 For investments made up to now and until December 2017. tified based on what is required in terms of the size of the company’s and the Group’s equity and the Group’s consolidation requirements, liquidity and position in general, based on the nature and scale of the Group’s operations. Future profits are expected to cover both the growth of business operations and the growth of the regular dividend. 86 Report of the Directors Skanska Annual Report 2017 Research and innovation The Research & Innovation department is the corporate hub for A main priority over the past year was the development of a new knowledge transfer of technical solutions and innovations between strategy for the Group’s future R&D work and providing technical the various Skanska units. support within the framework of Skanska’s 2016–2020 business It provides technical input to inform Skanska’s risk management plan, with an emphasis on operational efficiency. Skanska’s techniprocess in order to reduce risk exposure arising from complex and cal focus areas in 2017 included BIM, automation and robotics, selfwide-span structures, potential system errors and the use of new, driving vehicles, industrialization, materials, drones, 3D printers, untested materials. It also provides technical support for problem energy, energy storage and other key areas such as climate change, solving and for handling financial claims and disputes, through a sustainability and safety. coordinated internal and external network of experts. Skanska actively collaborates with around 25 universities in the In addition, the department oversees the research and innovation company’s home markets and currently has five associate professors activity within Skanska’s network, working proactively to identify in the fields of construction automation, energy, concrete, tunnelnew technical solutions and improve efficiency in methods and ing and bridge building. In 2017 Skanska ran and supported an iniprocesses. tiative in an entirely new area – construction automation. With several The capacity for innovation is crucial in order for Skanska to stay industry partners and Mälardalen University (MDH), including its competitive and deliver solutions that meet the needs of today and Robotdalen initiative, Skanska applied for and received funding tomorrow. Through innovation, Skanska identifies and develops from the Knowledge Foundation for a new research department new technical products, services and processes, improving the with a total of 20 PhD students at MDH. The research department company’s competitiveness and generating even greater value for provides the possibility of radically changing the construction Skanska and its clients. sector – from a trade to a highly efficient industry. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Report of the Directors 87 Consolidated income statement SEK M Note 2017 2016 Revenue 8, 9 157,877 145,365 Cost of sales 9 –145,103 –131,119 Gross income 12,774 14,246 Selling and administrative expenses 11 –9,851 –9,152 Income from joint ventures and associated companies 20 1,655 2,126 Operating income 10, 12, 13, 22, 36, 38, 40 4,578 7,220 Financial income 170 119 Financial expenses –125 –238 Financial items 14 45 –119 Income after financial items 15 4,623 7,101 Taxes 16 –512 –1,366 Profit for the year 4,111 5,735 Proﬁt for the year attributable to Equity holders 4,095 5,722 Non-controlling interests 16 13 Earnings per share, SEK 26, 43 10,00 13,96 Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 26, 43 9,94 13,88 Proposed regular dividend per share, SEK 8,25 8,25 88 Report of the Directors Skanska Annual Report 2017 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income SEK M 2017 2016 Profit for the year 4,111 5,735 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss or the period Remeasurement of defined-benefit plans 1 –399 –1,127 Tax related to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss for the period 69 189 –330 –938 Items that have been or will be reclassified to profit or loss for the period Translation differences attributable to equity holders –599 1,165 Translation differences attributable to non-controlling interests 8 8 Hedging of exchange rate risk in foreign operations –125 36 Effects of cash flow hedges 138 31 Share of other comprehensive income for joint ventures and associated companies 83 855 Tax related to items that have been or will be reclassified to profit or loss for the period –25 –4 –520 2,091 Other comprehensive income after tax –850 1,153 Total comprehensive income for the year 3,261 6,888 Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to Equity holders 3,237 6,867 Non-controlling interests 24 21 1 Effects of social insurance contributions including special employer’s –65 –105 contribution are included See also Note 26. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Report of the Directors 89 Consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position SEK M Note Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 17, 40 6,874 6,837 Goodwill 18 4,554 5,270 Other intangible assets 19 962 1,034 Investments in joint ventures and associated companies 20 3,314 4,160 Financial non-current assets 21 2,276 1,016 Deferred tax assets 16 1,757 1,649 Total non-current assets 19,737 19,966 Current assets Current-asset properties 22 39,010 33,678 Inventories 23 1,058 1,042 Financial current assets 21 6,671 10,095 Tax assets 16 1,188 784 Gross amount due from customers for contract work 9 6,997 5,751 Other operating receivables 24 27,778 29,759 Cash 25 6,998 5,430 Total current assets 89,700 86,539 TOTAL ASSETS 32 109,437 106,505 of which interest-bearing financial non-current assets 31 2,228 970 of which interest-bearing current assets 31 13,572 15,348 15,800 16,318 90 Report of the Directors Skanska Annual Report 2017 Consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position SEK M Note Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 EQUITY 26 Share capital 1,260 1,260 Paid-in capital 2,528 2,231 Reserves 1,144 1,672 Retained earnings 22,132 22,187 Equity attributable to equity holders 27,064 27,350 Non-controlling interests 121 156 TOTAL EQUITY 27,185 27,506 LIABILITIES Non-current liabilities Financial non-current liabilities 27 3,857 3,656 Pensions 28 5,603 4,901 Deferred tax liabilities 16 1,235 1,491 Non-current provisions 29 0 1 Total non-current liabilities 10,695 10,049 Current liabilities Financial current liabilities 27 7,624 6,681 Tax liabilities 16 312 489 Current provisions 29 8,557 7,227 Gross amount due to customers for contract work 9 16,636 18,473 Other operating liabilities 30 38,428 36,080 Total current liabilities 71,557 68,950 TOTAL LIABILITIES 82,252 78,999 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 32 109,437 106,505 of which interest-bearing financial liabilities 31 11,323 10,172 of which interest-bearing pensions and provisions 31 5,603 4,927 16,926 15,099 Information about the Group’s pledged assets and contingent liabilities can be found in Note 33. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Report of the Directors 91 Consolidated statement of changes in equity Equity attributable to equity holders Cash flow NonPaid-in Translation hedge Retained controlling Total SEK M Share capital capital reserve reserve earnings Total interests equity Equity, December 31, 2016 1,260 1,959 1,282 –1,693 21,271 24,079 127 24,206 Profit for the year 5,722 5,722 13 5,735 Other comprehensive income for the year 1,201 882 –938 1,145 8 1,153 Dividend to shareholders –3,075 –3,075 –6 –3,081 Change in Group structure 14 14 Repurchase of 2,340,000 Series B-shares –793 –793 –793 Change in share-based payments for the year 272 272 272 Equity, December 31, 2016/ Equity, January 1, 2017 1,260 2,231 2,483 –811 22,187 27,350 156 27,506 Profit for the year 4,095 4,095 16 4,111 Other comprehensive income for the year –724 196 –330 –858 8 –850 Dividend to shareholders –3,380 –3,380 –59 –3,439 Repurchase of 4,345,000 Series B shares –440 –440 –440 Change in share-based payments for the year 297 297 297 Equity, December 31, 2017 1,260 2,528 1,759 –615 22,132 27,064 121 27,185 See also Note 26. 92 Report of the Directors Skanska Annual Report 2017 Consolidated cash ﬂow statement Change in interest-bearing net receivables/liabilities SEK M 2017 2016 SEK M 2017 2016 Operating activities Interest-bearing net receivables/net liabilities, January 1 1,219 6,317 Operating income 4,578 7,220 Cash flow from operating activities 2,846 –883 Adjustments for items not included in cash flow –3,521 –4,918 Cash flow from investing activities excluding Income tax paid –860 –1,202 change in interest-bearing receivables –144 667 Cash flow from operating activities before Cash flow from financing activities excluding change in working capital 197 1,100 change in interest-bearing liabilities –3,702 –3,950 Cash flow from change in working capital Change in pension liability –334 –1,022 Investments in current-asset properties –20,792 –17,128 Net receivable/net liability acquired/divested 0 –663 Divestments of current-asset properties 19,575 16,473 Translation differences –941 972 Change in inventories and operating receivables 370 –4,093 Other –70 –219 Change in operating liabilities 3,496 2,765 Interest-bearing net receivables/net liabilities, December 31 –1,126 1,219 Cash flow from change in working capital 2,649 –1,983 Cash flow from operating activities 2,846 –883 See also Note 35. Investing activities Investments in intangible assets –255 –394 Investments in property, plant and equipment –1,876 –1,636 Investments in Infrastructure Development assets –449 –1,336 Investments in shares –154 –325 Increase in interest-bearing receivables, loans provided –1,052 –2,559 Sale of operations 0 862 Divestments of intangible assets 1 2 Divestments of property, plant and equipment 213 411 Divestments of Infrastructure Development assets 1,950 3,102 Divestments of shares 458 16 Decrease in interest-bearing receivables, repayments of loans provided 2,786 299 Income tax paid –32 –35 Cash flow from investing activities 1,590 –1,593 Financing activities Net interest items 80 2 Other financial items 173 –110 Borrowings 2,677 1,302 Repayment of debt –1,792 –1,442 Dividend to shareholders –3,380 –3,075 Shares repurchased –440 –793 Dividend to non-controlling interests –59 –6 Income tax paid –76 32 Cash flow from financing activities –2,817 –4,090 Cash flow for the year 1,619 –6,566 Cash and cash equivalents, January 1 5,430 11,840 Translation differences in cash and cash equivalents –51 156 Cash and cash equivalents, December 31 6,998 5,430 Skanska Annual Report 2017 Report of the Directors 93 Consolidated cash ﬂow statement, speciﬁcation Consolidated operating cash flow statement and change in interest-bearing net receivables/net liabilities SEK M 2017 2016 SEK M 2017 2016 Construction Taxes paid in business operations –892 –1,237 Cash flow from business operations 3,735 4,925 Cash flow from business operations Change in working capital 226 1,051 including taxes paid 2,702 –1,078 Net divestments (+)/investments (–) –1,825 –1,414 Net interest items and other net financial items 253 –108 Cash flow adjustment 1 0 0 Taxes paid in financing operations –76 32 Total Construction 2,136 4,562 Cash flow from financing activities 177 –76 Cash flow from operations 2,879 –1,154 Residential Development Cash flow from business operations –692 –677 Strategic net divestments (+) /investments (–) 0 862 Change in working capital 1,008 1,198 Dividend etc.2 –3,879 –3,874 Net divestments (+) / investments (–) 680 –1,631 Cash flow before change in interest-bearing Cash flow adjustment 1 233 –100 receivables and liabilities –1,000 –4,166 Total Residential Development 1,229 –1,210 Change in interest-bearing receivables and liabilities 2,619 –2,400 Commercial Property Development Cash flow for the year 1,619 –6,566 Cash flow from business operations –868 –706 Cash and cash equivalents, January 1 5,430 11,840 Change in working capital –400 –664 Translation differences in cash and cash equivalents –51 156 Net divestments (+) / investments (–) –1,375 679 Cash and cash equivalents, December 31 6,998 5,430 Cash flow adjustment 1 –476 4 Total Commercial Property Development –3,119 –687 1 Refers to payments made during the year in question related to divestments/investments in prior years, and unpaid divestments/investments related to the Infrastructure Development year in question. 2 Of which repurchases of shares –440 –793 Cash flow from business operations –261 154 Change in working capital 2,856 –2,965 See also Note 35. Net divestments (+) / investments (–) 1,501 1,766 Cash flow adjustment 1 0 0 Total Infrastructure Development 4,096 –1,045 Central and eliminations Cash flow from business operations –857 –1,394 Change in working capital 176 52 Net divestments (+) / investments (–) –67 –119 Cash flow adjustment 1 0 0 Total central and eliminations –748 –1,461 Total cash flow from business operations 1,057 2,302 Total change in working capital 3,866 –1,328 Net divestments (+) / investments (–) –1,086 –719 Total cash flow adjustment 1 –243 –96 Total cash flow from business operations before taxes paid 3,594 159 94 Report of the Directors Skanska Annual Report 2017 Parent Company income statement SEK M Not 2017 2016 Revenue 46 698 674 Gross income 698 674 Selling and administrative expenses –791 –752 Operating income 49,,50,,62 –93 –78 Income from holdings in Group companies 47 4,466 3,597 Income from other financial non-current assets 47 0 0 Interest expense and similar items 47 –63 –75 Income after financial items 4,310 3,444 Tax on profit for the year 48 11 –15 Profit for the year 1 4,321 3,429 1 Coincides with comprehensive income for the year. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Report of the Directors 95 Parent Company balance sheet Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, SEK M Note 2017 2016 SEK M Note 2017 2016 ASSETS EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Intangible non-current assets 49 16 19 Equity 55 Share capital 1 260 1 260 Property, plant and equipment 50 Restricted reserves 598 598 Plant and equipment 2 2 Restricted equity 1 858 1 858 Total property, plant and equipment 2 2 Retained earnings 1 034 1 073 Financial non-current assets 51 Profit for the year 4 321 3 429 Holdings in Group companies 52 11 206 11 094 Unrestricted equity 5 355 4 502 Holdings in joint arrangements 53 2 2 Total equity 7 213 6 360 Other non-current holdings of securities 0 0 Provisions 56 Receivables in Group companies 63 247 253 Provisions for pensions Deferred tax assets 48 77 60 and similar obligations 57 174 172 Other non-current receivables 51 107 95 Other provisions 133 111 Total financial non-current assets 11 639 11 504 Total provisions 307 283 Total non-current assets 11 657 11 525 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 58 Liabilities to Group companies 63 4 177 4 918 Current receivables Total non-current interest-bearing liabilities 4 177 4 918 Current receivables in Group companies 63 18 15 Tax assets 8 15 Current liabilities 58 Other current receivables 124 128 Trade accounts payable 20 28 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 54 13 9 Liabilities to Group companies 63 26 26 Total current receivables 163 167 Other liabilities 5 12 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 72 65 Total current assets 163 167 Total current liabilities 123 131 ASSETS 59 11 820 11 692 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 59 11 820 11 692 96 Report of the Directors Skanska Annual Report 2017 Parent Company statement of changes in equity Statutory Unrestricted SEK M Share capital reserve equity Total equity Equity, January 1, 2016 1,260 598 4,616 6,474 Repurchases of 2 340 000 Series B shares –793 –793 Compensation from subsidiaries for shares issued 53 53 Dividend –3,075 –3,075 Share-based payments 272 272 Profit for 2016 1 3,429 3,429 Equity, December 31, 2016/ Equity, January 1, 2017 1,260 598 4,502 6,360 Repurchases of 4,345,000,Series B shares –440 –440 Compensation from subsidiaries for shares issued under employee ownership programs 55 55 Dividend –3,380 –3,380 Share-based payments 297 297 Profit for 2017 1 4,321 4,321 Equity, December 31, 2017 1,260 598 5,355 7,213 1 Coincides with comprehensive income for the year. See also Note 55. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Report of the Directors 97 Parent Company cash ﬂow statement SEK M 2017 2016 Operating activities Operating income –93 –78 Adjustments for items not included in cash flow 25 26 Paid income tax –14 –18 Cash flow from operating activities before change in working capital –82 –70 Cash flow from change in working capital Change in operating receivables –3 10 Change in operating liabilities 17 –17 Cash flow from change in working capital 14 –7 Cash flow from operating activities –68 –77 Investing activities Acquisition of intangible assets 0 –19 Increase in interest-bearing receivables, loans provided –12 –37 Decrease in interest-bearing receivables, loans provided 6 58 Cash flow from investing activities –6 2 Financing activities Net interest items –63 –75 Dividends received 4,466 3,597 Borrowings 0 149 Repayment of debt –741 0 Dividend paid –3,380 –3,075 Repurchase of shares –440 –793 Paid income tax 14 17 Payments from subsidiaries for employee ownership programs 218 255 Cash flow from financing activities 74 75 Cash flow for the year 0 0 Cash and cash equivalents, January 1 0 0 Cash and cash equivalents, December 31 0 0 See also Note 61. 98 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual Report 2017 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Amounts in millions of Swedish kronor (SEK M) unless otherwise speciﬁed. Income is reported in positive ﬁgures and expenses in negative ﬁgures. Both assets and liabilities are reported in positive ﬁgures. Interest-bearing net receivables/net liabilities are reported in positive ﬁgures if they are receivables and negative ﬁgures if they are liabilities. Accumulated depreciation/amortization and accumulated impairment losses are reported in negative ﬁgures. Table of contents, notes Group Page Group Note 01 Consolidated accounting and valuation principles 99 Foreign exchange rates and effect of changes in foreign Note 34 exchange rates 153 Note 02 Key estimates and judgments 110 Note 35 Cash ﬂow statement 155 Note 03 Effects of changes in accounting principles 111 Note 36 Personnel 157 Note 04 Operating segments 111 Note 37 Senior executive remuneration and Board fees 158 Note 05 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 114 Note 38 Fees and other remuneration to auditors 162 Note 6 Financial instruments and ﬁnancial risk Note 39 Related party disclosures 162 Note 06 management 115 Note 40 Leases 163 Note 07 Business combinations 125 Note 41 Events after the reporting period 163 Note 08 Revenue 125 Note 42 Five-year Group ﬁnancial summary 164 Note 09 Construction contracts 125 Note 43 Deﬁnitions 168 Note 10 Operating expenses by category of expense 126 Note 44 Deﬁnitions – Non-IFRS key performance indicators 170 Note 11 Selling and administrative expenses 126 Note 12 Depreciation/amortization 126 Note 13 Impairment losses/reversals of impairment losses 127 Parent Company Page Note 14 Financial items 128 Note 01 Parent Company accounting and valuation principles 93 Note 15 Borrowing costs 128 Note 45 Financial instruments 155 Note 16 Income taxes 128 Note 46 Revenue 155 Note 17 Property, plant and equipment 131 Note 47 Financial items 155 Note 18 Goodwill 132 Note 48 Income taxes 156 Note 19 Intangible assets 133 Note 49 Intangible assets 156 Note 20 A Subsidiaries 134 Note 50 Property, plant and equipment 156 Note 20 B Investments in joint ventures and associated companies 135 Note 51 Non-current ﬁnancial assets 157 Note 20 C Joint operations 139 Note 52 Holdings in Group companies 157 Note 21 Financial assets 140 Note 53 Holdings in joint arrangements 158 Note 22 Current-asset properties/project development 141 Note 54 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 158 Note 23 Inventories etc. 142 Note 55 Equity 158 Note 24 Other operating receivables 142 Note 56 Provisions 158 Note 25 Cash and bank balances 142 Note 57 Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 159 Note 26 Equity/earnings per share 143 Note 58 Liabilities 159 Note 27 Financial liabilities 145 Expected recovery period of assets, provisions and Note 28 Pensions 145 Note 59 liabilities 160 Note 29 Provisions 149 Note 60 Assets pledged and contingent liabilities 161 Note 30 Other operating liabilities 149 Note 61 Cash ﬂow statement 161 Speciﬁcation of interest-bearing net receivables/net liabiliNote 62 Personnel 161 Note 31 ties per asset and liability 150 Note 63 Related party disclosures 162 Note 32 Expected recovery periods of assets and liabilities 151 Note 64 Disclosures in compliance with the Annual Accounts Act, Note 33 Assets pledged, contingent liabilities and contingent assets 152 Chapter 6, Section 2 a 162 Note 65 Supplementary information 162 Note 66 Events after the reporting period 162 Note 67 Allocation of earnings 163 Skanska Annual Report 2017 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 99 Note 1. Consolidated accounting and valuation principles Conformity with laws and standards been satisﬁed, either over time or at a point in time. Skanska’s client contracts are In compliance with the ordinance approved by the European Union (EU) on the usually of the type that do not require categorization according to the standard application of international accounting standards, the consolidated ﬁnancial into two or more performance obligations. Revenue from construction operations statements have been prepared according to the International Financial Reportwill continue to be recognized according to the percentage-of-completion method. ing Standards (IFRS) and International Accounting Standards (IAS) issued by the As previously, sales of properties are recognized when the purchaser takes International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), as well as the interpretations by possession of the property. IFRS 15 requires more detailed disclosures. Skanska the IFRS Interpretations Committee and its predecessor, the Standing Interpretais implementing the standard with full retrospective effect. There is no material tions Committee (SIC), to the extent these standards and interpretations have effect on revenue and expenses. The only material effect on Skanska’s ﬁnancial been approved by the EU. In addition, the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s statements is a reclassiﬁcation from gross amount due to customers for contract Recommendation RFR 1 “Supplementary Accounting Rules for Groups” has been work from other operating liabilities to loss reserves in the line item “Current applied, as have the Statements of the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. provisions.” The reclassiﬁcations break down by quarter as follows: The Parent Company applies the same accounting principles as the Group, except in the cases indicated below in the section “Parent Company accounting September and valuation principles.” January 1, March 31, June 30, 30, December 2017 2017 2017 2017 31, 2017 The Parent Company’s annual accounts and the consolidated annual accounts were approved for issuance by the Board of Directors on January 31, 2018. The Gross amount due to customers for Parent Company income statement and balance sheet and the consolidated contract work –151 –239 –275 –282 –370 income statement and statement of ﬁnancial position will be subject to adoption Trade and other by the Annual General Meeting on April 13, 2018. payables –236 –244 –256 –244 –204 Provision for losses 387 483 531 526 574 Conditions when preparing the Group’s ﬁnancial reports The functional currency of the Parent Company is Swedish crowns or kronor (SEK), IFRS 15 does not require any change to segment reporting for Residential Develwhich is also the reporting currency of the Parent Company and of the Group. opment and Commercial Property Development. The ﬁnancial reports are therefore presented in Swedish kronor. All amounts are The standard IFRS 9 Financial Instruments replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: rounded off to the nearest million, unless otherwise stated. Recognition and Measurement. The new standard is more principle-based and Preparing the ﬁnancial reports in compliance with IFRS requires management contains new principles for classiﬁcation and measurement of ﬁnancial instruments, to make judgments and estimates, and to make assumptions that affect the a forward-looking impairment model for ﬁnancial instruments and a revised application of the accounting principles and the recognized amounts of assets, approach to hedge accounting. In the same way as in IAS 39, the new rules for liabilities, revenue and expenses. Actual outcomes may deviate from these esticlassiﬁcation and measurement require ﬁnancial assets to be classiﬁed in different mates and judgments. categories, so that some are measured at amortized cost and some at fair value. Estimates and assumptions are reviewed regularly. Changes in estimates are IFRS 9 introduces other categories than those in IAS 39. The classiﬁcation in IFRS recognized in the period the change is made if the change only affects this period, 9 is based on the instrument’s contractual cash ﬂow and on the entity’s business or in the period the change is made and future periods if the change affects both model. With respect to ﬁnancial liabilities, IFRS 9 largely corresponds to IAS 39. the period in question and future periods. The model for classiﬁcation and measurement does not involve any signiﬁcant Judgments made by management when applying IFRS with a substantial change compared to today’s standard. The new impairment model brings forward impact on the ﬁnancial reports and estimates that may lead to signiﬁcant adjustthe timing of reserves for credit losses. In general Skanska’s credit risk arising ments in the ﬁnancial reports of subsequent years are described in more detail in from trade receivables is limited, since construction project work is invoiced on a Note 2. continuous basis over the course of the project, and within Commercial Property The accounting principles for the Group described below have been applied Development and Residential Development payment is made when the property consistently for all periods that are presented in the Group’s ﬁnancial reports, or home is handed over. Skanska applies hedge accounting to a limited extent. unless otherwise indicated below. The accounting principles for the Group have The standard does not have any effects on the ﬁnancial statements other than been applied consistently in reporting and consolidation of the Parent Company, the new impairment model for expected credit losses due to the possible future subsidiaries, associated companies and joint arrangements. inability of clients to pay, which is reported following the standard’s implementation on January 1, 2018. The reserve for credit losses relating to ﬁnancial instruNew standards and interpretations ments will increase initially by SEK 180 M, with an immediate effect on equity in The disclosure requirements in IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows have changed and the amount of SEK 140 M after taking deferred tax into account. Comparison data now include information on changes in liabilities relating to ﬁnancing activities. is not restated. Information on this is provided in Note 35. In January 2016 the IASB published the new standard IFRS 16 Leases, which IAS 12 Income Taxes has been changed and clariﬁes that when an entity recwas adopted by the EU in 2017 and will be applied with effect from January 1, ognizes deferred tax assets it must take into account any limitation on the ability 2019. In contrast to the present IAS 17 Leases, under the new standard Skanska, to utilize deductible temporary differences, and provides guidance on how to as the lessee in operating leases as well, must recognize operating leases in the estimate future taxable proﬁt. This is not expected to have any material effect on statement of ﬁnancial position, except for limited or shorter leases. The effect Skanska’s ﬁnancial statements. of the new standard is expected to result in an increase in total assets of around SEK 5 to 7 billion. Lines will be added to the balance sheet for property, plant and Early adoption of new or revised IFRS and interpretations equipment right-of-use assets, current-asset properties right-of-use land as well There has been no early adoption of new or revised IFRS or interpretations. as interest-bearing liabilities. See Note 40 on future minimum lease payments for non-cancellable operating leases. Skanska has chosen to implement the standard New standards and amendments of standards that have not yet retroactively with cumulative effect, i.e. without restating the comparison begun to be applied periods. Two new standards IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 are effective from January 1, 2018. The standard IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers mainly concerns IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements how revenue from contracts with customers, excluding leases, is to be reported Income statement and how payment from customers is to be measured. If a customer contract conItems recognized as revenue are: project revenue, compensation for other services tains more than one performance obligation, the price for each performance obperformed, divestment of current-asset properties, deliveries of materials and ligation is to be determined and the revenue recognized when the obligation has 100 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual Report 2017 merchandise, rental income and other operating revenue. Revenue from the sale Equity of machinery, equipment, non-current-asset properties and intangible assets is The Group’s equity is allocated between “Share capital,” “Paid-in capital,” not included, but is instead recognized on a net basis among operating expenses “Reserves,” “Retained earnings” and “Non-controlling interests.” against the carrying amounts of the assets. Acquisitions of treasury shares are are recognized as a deduction from equity. Items reported as cost of production include: direct and indirect manufacturing Proceeds from the divestment of shares are recognized as an increase in equity. expenses, loss risk provisions, the carrying amounts of divested current-asset Any transaction costs are recognized directly in equity. properties, bad debt losses and warranty expenses. Also included is depreciation Dividends are recognized as a liability once the Annual General Meeting has on property, plant and equipment used in construction and property management. approved the dividend. Changes in the fair value of derivatives related to operations are recognized in A description of equity, the year’s changes and disclosures concerning capital operating income. management are provided in Note 26. Selling and administrative expenses include customary administrative expenses, technical expenses and selling expenses, as well as depreciation of Liabilities machinery and equipment that have been used in selling and administration proLiabilities are allocated between current liabilities and non-current liabilities. cesses. Goodwill impairment losses are also reported as selling and administrative Recognized as current liabilities are liabilities that are either supposed to be paid expenses. within 12 months of the closing day or – in the case of business-related liabilities Proﬁt/loss from joint ventures and associated companies is recognized sepaonly – are expected to be paid within the operating cycle. Since the operating rately in the income statement, allocated between operating income (share of cycle is taken into account, no non-interest-bearing liabilities, such as trade income after ﬁnancial items) and taxes. accounts payable and accrued employee expenses, are recognized as non-current. Financial income and expense are recognized divided into two items: “Financial Liabilities that are recognized as interest-bearing due to discounting are included income” and “Financial expenses.” Among items recognized under ﬁnancial among current liabilities, since they are paid within the operating cycle. Interestincome are interest income, dividends, gains on divestments of shares and other bearing liabilities can be recognized as non-current even if they fall due for payﬁnancial items. Financial expenses include interest expense and other ﬁnancial ment within 12 months of the closing day if the original maturity was longer than items. Changes in the fair value of ﬁnancial instruments, primarily derivatives 12 months and the company reaches an agreement on long-term reﬁnancing of linked to ﬁnancing activities, are recognized as a separate sub-item allocated bethe obligation before the end of the reporting period. Information on liabilities is tween ﬁnancial income and ﬁnancial expenses. The net amount of exchange rate provided in Notes 27 and 30. differences is recognized either as ﬁnancial income or ﬁnancial expenses. Financial In Note 32, liabilities are allocated between amounts for liabilities to be paid income and expenses are described in more detail in Note 6 and in Note 14. within 12 months of the closing day and liabilities to be paid later than 12 months from the closing day. Note 31 also provides information about the allocation Comprehensive income between interest-bearing and non-interest-bearing liabilities. Aside from proﬁt for the year, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income includes the items that are included under “Other comprehensive income.” IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements These include translation differences, hedging of exchange rate risks in foreign The consolidated ﬁnancial statements cover the accounts of the Parent Company operations, remeasurement related to pension-linked assets and liabilities, effects and the companies in which the Parent Company has a direct or indirect controlof cash ﬂow hedges and tax on these items. ling interest. Under IFRS 10 a controlling interest exists when the investor has power over the business, or when it has rights to or is exposed to variable returns Statement of ﬁnancial position from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns Assets through its power over the investee. If, on the acquisition date, a subsidiary meets Assets are allocated between current assets and non-current assets. An asset is the conditions to be classiﬁed as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5, it is regarded as a current asset if it is expected to be realized within 12 months of the reported according to that accounting standard. closing day or within the company’s operating cycle. The operating cycle is the The sale of a portion of a subsidiary is recognized as a separate equity transaction period from the signing of a contract until the company receives cash payment when the transaction does not result in a loss of controlling interest. If control of following a ﬁnal inspection or delivery of goods (including properties). Since the an operating Group company ceases, any remaining holding is to be recognized at Group executes large contracting projects and project development, the operating fair value. Non-controlling interests may be recognized as a negative amount if a cycle criterion means that many more assets are designated as current assets than partly-owned subsidiary is operating at a loss. if the only criterion were within 12 months. Acquired companies are consolidated from the quarter within which the acquiCash and cash equivalents consist of cash and immediately available deposits at sition takes place. In a corresponding manner, divested companies are consolibanks and equivalent institutions, plus short-term liquid investments with a madated up to and including the ﬁnal quarter before the divestment date. turity from the acquisition date of less than three months that are subject to only Intra-Group receivables, liabilities, revenue and expenses are eliminated in an insigniﬁcant risk of ﬂuctuation in value. Checks that have been issued reduce their entirety when the consolidated ﬁnancial statements are prepared. liquid assets only when cashed. Cash and cash equivalents that cannot be used Gains that arise from intra-Group transactions and that are unrealized from freely are reported as current assets (current receivables) if the restriction will cease the standpoint of the Group on the closing day are eliminated in their entirety. within 12 months from the closing day. In other cases, cash and cash equivalents Unrealized losses on intra-Group transactions are also eliminated in the same are reported as non-current assets. Cash and cash equivalents belonging to joint way as unrealized gains, to the extent that the loss does not correspond to an operations are cash and cash equivalents with restrictions if they are only permitted impairment loss. to be used to settle the joint operations’ debts. Goodwill attributable to foreign operations is expressed in local currency. Assets that meet the requirements in IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale Translation to SEK is in accordance with IAS 21. and Discontinued Operations are accounted for as a separate item among current assets. IFRS 3 Business Combinations Note 31 shows the allocation between interest-bearing and non-interestThis accounting standard deals with business combinations, which are mergers bearing assets. of separate entities or operations. If the acquisition does not relate to business In Note 32, assets are allocated between amounts for assets that are expected operations, as is normally the case when acquiring properties, IFRS 3 is not applied. to be recovered within 12 months of the closing day and assets that are expected In such cases, the acquisition cost is instead allocated among the individual to be recovered later than 12 months of the closing day. The allocation between identiﬁable assets and liabilities based on their fair values on the acquisition date, non-current non-ﬁnancial assets is based on expected annual depreciation. The without recognizing goodwill and any deferred tax assets/liability resulting from division for current-asset properties is mainly based on outcomes during the past the acquisition. three years. This division is even more uncertain than for other assets, since the Acquisitions of businesses, regardless of whether the acquisitions are of outcome during the coming year is strongly inﬂuenced by the dates when large holdings in another company or a direct acquisition of assets and liabilities, are individual properties are handed over. recognized according to the purchase method of accounting. If the acquisition Skanska Annual Report 2017 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 101 is of holdings in a company, the method involves regarding the acquisition as a If a non-current asset or disposal group is to be classiﬁed as held for sale, the asset transaction through which the Group indirectly acquires the assets of the subsidiary (disposal group) must be available for sale in its present condition. It must also be and assumes its liabilities and contingent liabilities. The cost of the acquisition highly probable that the sale will occur. In order for a sale to be highly probable, a recognized in the consolidated accounts is determined by means of an acquisition decision must have been made at management level, and active efforts to locate analysis in conjunction with the business combination transaction. The analysis a buyer and complete the plan must have been initiated. The asset or disposal establishes both the cost of the holdings or the business and the fair value of group must also be actively marketed at a price that is reasonable in relation to acquired identiﬁable assets plus the liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed. its fair value, and it must be probable that the sale will occur within one year. The difference between the cost of acquiring holdings in a subsidiary and the Skanska also applies the principle that with regard to a single non-current asset, net fair value of acquired assets and of the liabilities and contingent liabilities its value must exceed EUR 100 M. assumed is goodwill on consolidation. If non-controlling interests remain after No depreciation or amortization of a non-current asset takes place as long as it the acquisition, the calculation of goodwill is normally carried out based only on is classiﬁed as held for sale. the Group’s stake in the acquired business. Non-current assets classiﬁed as held for sale as well as disposal groups and Transaction costs relating to business combinations are expensed immediately. liabilities attributable to them are presented separately in the statement of In the case of step acquisitions, previous holdings are remeasured at fair value and ﬁnancial position. recognized in proﬁt or loss when a controlling interest is achieved. Contingent consideration is recognized on the acquisition date at fair value. If the amount of IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures the contingent consideration changes in subsequent ﬁnancial statements, the Companies in which the Skanska Group exercises a signiﬁcant but not a controlling change is recognized in proﬁt or loss. inﬂuence, which is presumed to be the case when the Group’s holding is between Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is 20 and 50 percent of the voting power, are reported as associates. In addition, it is allocated among cash-generating units and subject to annual impairment testing presumed that this ownership is one element of a long-term connection and that in compliance with IAS 36. the holding will not be reported as a joint arrangement. In the case of business combinations where the cost of acquisition is below the Associated companies are recognized according to the equity method, as are net value of acquired assets and the liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed, joint ventures. See IFRS 11 on joint ventures. the difference is recognized directly in proﬁt or loss. The equity method IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates From the date when Skanska gains a signiﬁcant inﬂuence in an associated Foreign currency transactions company, or a joint controlling interest in a joint venture, holdings in associated Foreign currency transactions are translated into an entity’s functional currency companies and joint ventures are recognized in the consolidated ﬁnancial stateat the exchange rate in effect on the transaction date. Monetary assets and ments according to the equity method. Any difference upon acquisition between liabilities in foreign currency are translated to the functional currency at the the cost of the holding and Skanska’s share of the net fair value of the associated exchange rate in effect on the closing day. Exchange rate differences that arise company’s or joint venture’s identiﬁable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities in remeasurement are recognized in proﬁt or loss. Non-monetary assets and is recognized in compliance with IFRS 3. Under the equity method, the recognized liabilities recognized at historic cost are translated at the exchange rate in effect carrying amount of the Group’s interest in associated companies and joint venon the transaction date. tures is equivalent to the Group’s share of the associated company’s share capital, Functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment as well as goodwill on consolidation and any other remaining consolidated where the companies in the Group conduct their business. surpluses and deductions of internal proﬁts. The Group’s share of the associated company’s or joint venture’s income after ﬁnancial items is recognized as “Income Financial statements of foreign operations from joint ventures and associated companies” in the income statement. Any deAssets and liabilities in foreign operations, including goodwill and other consolipreciation, amortization and impairment losses on acquired surpluses have been dated surpluses and deﬁcits, are translated to Swedish kronor at the exchange taken into account. The Group’s share of the tax expense of an associated comrate in effect on the closing day. Revenue and expenses in foreign operations are pany or joint venture is included in “Taxes.” Dividends received from an associated translated to Swedish kronor at the average exchange rate. company or joint venture reduce the carrying amount of the investment. When the Group’s share of recognized losses in an associated company or joint Net investment in foreign operations venture exceeds the carrying amount of the holdings in the consolidated ﬁnancial Translation differences that arise in connection with translation of a foreign net statements, the value of the holding is reduced to zero. Settlement of losses also investment are recognized under “Other comprehensive income.” Foreign currency occurs against long-term unsecured ﬁnancial assets (subordinated loans), which, loans and currency derivatives for hedging of translation exposure are carried at in substance, form part of Skanska’s net investment in the associated company the exchange rate on the closing day. Exchange rate differences are recognized, or joint venture and are thus recognized as shares. Continued losses are only taking into account the tax effect, under “Other comprehensive income.” recognized if the Group has provided guarantees to cover losses arising in the Hedging of translation exposure reduces the exchange rate effect when transassociated company or joint venture, and then as a provision. lating the ﬁnancial statements of foreign operations to SEK. Any forward contract premium is accrued until maturity and is recognized as interest income or interest Elimination of intra-Group proﬁts expense. When proﬁts arise from transactions between the Group and an associated When divesting a foreign operation, the related accumulated translation company or a joint venture, the portion equivalent to the Group’s share of ownerdifferences and accumulated exchange rate differences from any currency hedges ship is eliminated. If the carrying amount of the Group’s holding in the associated are transferred to the Group’s proﬁt or loss. company is less than the elimination of internal proﬁt, the excess portion of the elimination is recognized as prepaid income. The elimination of the internal IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations proﬁt is adjusted in later ﬁnancial statements based on how the asset is used or Discontinued operations constitute a portion of an entity’s operations that when it is divested. If a loss arises from a transaction between the Group and an represent a separate line of business or major operations in a geographical area associated company or a joint venture, the loss is eliminated only if it does not and which are part of a single coordinated plan to dispose of a separate line of correspond to an impairment loss on the asset. business or major operations in a geographical area, or constitute a subsidiary If a proﬁt or loss has arisen in the associated company or joint venture, the acquired exclusively with a view to resale. elimination affects the income recognized under “Income from joint ventures and Classiﬁcation as discontinued operations occurs upon divestment, or at an earassociated companies.” lier date when the operations meet the criteria to be classiﬁed as held for sale. A The equity method is applied until the date when the signiﬁcant inﬂuence in an disposal group that is to be shut down can also qualify as discontinued operations associated company or the joint controlling interest in a joint venture ceases. The if it meets the above size criteria. sale of an interest in an associated company or in a joint venture is recognized on the date that the Group no longer has control over the holding. Note 20 B provides information about associated companies and joint ventures. 102 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual Report 2017 IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements Forward contracts related to hedging of operating transaction exposure are recA joint arrangement exists when the co-owners are bound by a contractual ognized at fair value on the closing day. If hedge accounting is not applicable, the arrangement, and the contractual arrangement gives those parties joint control of liquidity effect when extending a forward contract that meets future cash ﬂow is the arrangement. The joint arrangement may be either a joint operation or a joint included among operating expenses. If the amount has a signiﬁcant impact, it is venture. A joint operation exists where the co-owners have rights to the assets to be excluded when determining stage of completion. of the arrangement and obligations for the liabilities of the arrangement. A joint Most construction contracts contain clauses concerning warranty obligations arrangement that is not structured through the formation of a separate company on the part of the contractor, with the contractor being obliged to remedy errors is a joint operation. Contracting projects executed in cooperation with outside and omissions discovered within a certain period after the contracted object has contracting companies, with joint and several liability, are reported by Skanska been handed over to the customer. Such obligations may also be required by law. as joint operations. If the joint arrangement is a separate company but the vast The main principle is that a provision for warranty obligations must be calculated majority of the company’s production is acquired by the co-owners and there is no for each individual project. Provisions must be made continuously during the obstacle to its sale to an external party, the joint arrangement is often considcourse of the project and the estimated total provision must be included in the ered to be a joint operation. In other cases the arrangement is a joint venture. If project’s expected ﬁnal expenses. For units with similar projects, the provision the co-owners of the joint arrangement only have rights to the net assets of the may be made in a joint account instead and be calculated for the unit as a whole arrangement, it is a joint venture. Classiﬁcation of a joint arrangement requires with the help of ratios that have historically constituted a satisfactory provision for a determination of its legal form, the terms of the contractual arrangement these obligations. between the co-owners and other circumstances. The proportional method is applied for joint operations, which means that the IAS 18 Revenue revenue, costs, assets and liabilities of the joint operation are included line by line Revenue other than project revenue is recognized in accordance with IAS 18. In in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements according to Skanska’s interest in the joint the case of rental income, the revenue is divided evenly over the period of the operation. Joint operations are described in Note 20 C. lease. The total cost of beneﬁts provided upon signing of a lease is recognized as The equity method is used for joint ventures when preparing the consolidated a reduction in lease income on a straight-line basis over the lease period. Compenﬁnancial statements. This method is described under the heading IAS 28. sation for services performed that does not constitute project revenue is recogIn connection with infrastructure projects, the Group’s investment may include nized as revenue based on the degree of completion on the closing day, which is either holdings in or subordinated loans to a joint venture. Both are treated in the normally determined as services performed as of the closing day in proportion to accounts as holdings. the total to be performed. The difference that may then arise between services inNote 20 B provides information about joint ventures and a speciﬁcation of voiced and services performed is recognized in the statement of ﬁnancial position signiﬁcant holdings in joint operations is given in Note 20 C. among “Other operating receivables” (or “Other operating liabilities”). Deliveries of merchandise are reported as revenue when the essential risks and rewards asIAS 11 Construction Contracts sociated with ownership of the merchandise have been transferred to the buyer. Project revenues are reported in accordance with IAS 11. This means that the inA dividend is recognized as revenue when the right to receive payment has come from a construction project is reported successively as the project progresses been established. towards completion. The stage of completion is mainly determined on the basis Income from the sale of ﬁnancial investments is recognized when the signiﬁof accumulated project expenses in relation to estimated accumulated project cant risks and rewards associated with ownership of the instruments have been expenses upon completion. If the outcome cannot be estimated in a satisfactory transferred to the buyer and the Group no longer controls the instruments. way, revenue is reported equivalent to accumulated expenses on the closing day Interest is recognized using an interest rate that provides a uniform return on (zero recognition). Anticipated losses are immediately expensed. the asset in question, which is achieved by applying the effective interest method. The original contract amount as well as additional work, claims for special Effective interest is the interest rate at which the present value of all future paycompensation and incentive payments are recognized as project revenue, but ments is equal to the carrying amount of the receivable. normally only to the extent that the latter have been approved by the customer. Revenue is carried at the fair value of what is received or will be received. This All services that are directly related to the construction project are covered by IAS means that receivables arising at the time of divestments are regarded as having 11. Other services are covered by IAS 18. For projects related to construction of been acquired at fair value (discounted present value of future incoming payreal estate, IFRIC 15 provides guidance about in which cases IAS 11 or IAS 18 are ments) if the interest rate on the date of the purchase is below the market interest to be applied. rate and the difference in absolute terms is signiﬁcant. If substantial non-interest-bearing advance payments have been received, the Revenue is recognized only if it is probable that the economic beneﬁts will ﬂow advance payment is discounted and recognized as an interest-bearing liability. to the Group. If uncertainty later arises with regard to the possibility of receiving The difference between a nominal amount and a discounted amount constitutes payment for an amount that has already been recognized as revenue, the amount project revenue and is recognized as revenue according to the percentage-offor which payment is no longer probable is recognized as an expense instead of as completion method. The upward adjustment in the present value of the advance an adjustment of the revenue amount that was originally recognized. payment in subsequent ﬁnancial statements is reported as an interest expense. The difference between accrued project revenue and an amount not yet IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements invoiced is recognized as an asset (receivables due from clients for contract work) IFRIC 12, which affects Skanska Infrastructure Development, deals with the quesaccording to the percentage-of-completion method. Correspondingly, the diftion of how the operator of a service concession should account for the infrastrucference between an invoiced amount and yet-to-be-accrued project revenue is ture, as well as the rights it receives and the obligations it undertakes under the reported as a liability (liabilities to clients for contract work). Major machinery puragreement. The operator constructs or upgrades infrastructure (construction or chases that are intended only for an individual project as well as signiﬁcant startupgrade services) used to provide a public service and maintains the infrastructure up expenses are included to the extent they can be attributed to future activities (operation services) for a speciﬁed period of time. The consideration (payment) as receivables from the client and are included in the asset or liability amount as that the operator receives is allocated between construction or upgrade services indicated in this paragraph, but without affecting accrued project revenue. and operation services according to the relative fair values of the respective Tendering expenses are not capitalized, but instead are charged against services. Construction or upgrade services are reported in compliance with IAS earnings on a continuous basis. Tendering expenses that arose during the same 11 and operation services in compliance with IAS 18. For construction or upgrade quarter that the order was received, and that are attributable to the project, may services, the consideration may be rights to a ﬁnancial asset or an intangible asset. be treated as project expenditures. Instead of the quarter when the order was reIf the operator has an unconditional right in speciﬁed or determinable amounts, it ceived, the quarter when the Group receives the status of preferred bidder applies is a ﬁnancial asset. If the operator instead has the right to charge the users of the in the case of infrastructure projects, provided that it is considered highly probable public service, it is an intangible asset. that a ﬁnal agreement will be reached. Tendering expenses that were recognized in prior closing, interim or annual reporting periods may not be recognized as project expenses in later periods. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 103 IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate The revenue/transaction price is allocated in step four over the separate perforIFRIC 15 is applied to accounting for revenue and expenses when a company mance obligations in the contract if more than one obligation exists. The allocated undertakes the construction of real estate. The interpretation addresses the issue transaction price for each individual obligation is to reﬂect the consideration that of whether accounting for construction of real estate should be in accordance the company is expecting to have the right to in exchange for the transfer of the with IAS 11 or IAS 18, and when the revenue from the construction of real estate promised goods or services to the customer, based on a relative, stand-alone should be recognized. It assumes that the company retains neither an involvement selling price. nor effective control over the real estate to an extent that would preclude Revenue is recognized in step ﬁve when the performance obligation is satisﬁed, recognition of the consideration as revenue. IAS 11 is to be applied when the either over time or at a point in time and when the customer obtains control of buyer can specify the structural elements of the design of the real estate before the asset. Revenue is recognized over time when the customer simultaneously construction begins, or specify major changes once construction is in progress. receives and consumes the beneﬁts provided through the entity’s performance, Otherwise IAS 18 is to be applied. If IAS 11 is applied, the percentage-of-completion when the entity’s performance creates or enhances an asset that the customer method is used. If IAS 18 is applied, it must ﬁrst be determined whether the controls, or when the entity’s performance does not create an asset with an agreement involves the rendering of services or the sale of goods. If the company alternative use for the entity and the entity also has the right to payment for its is not required to acquire or supply construction materials, it is an agreement for performance completed to date. If a performance obligation is not satisﬁed over rendering of services and revenue is recognized according to the percentagetime as stated above, the entity fulﬁlls the obligation at a certain point in time. of-completion method. If the company is required to provide services as well as This takes place at the point when the customer gains control of the promised asconstruction materials, it is an agreement for the sale of goods. Revenue is then set. Indicators for determining control can be that the entity has the right to recognized when, among other things, the company has transferred to the buyer receive payment for the asset, the customer has the legal right of ownership of the signiﬁcant risks and rewards associated with ownership, which normally the asset, the entity has transferred the physical possession of the asset, the cusoccurs upon the transfer of legal ownership, which often coincides with the date tomer has the material risks and rewards associated with ownership of the asset the purchaser takes possession of the property. or the customer has accepted the asset. For Residential Development and Commercial Property Development, the Revenue for Skanska’s construction contracts is recognized over time according implications of IFRIC 15 are that revenue recognition of a property divestment to the percentage-of-completion method. Revenue from the sale of properties is occurs only when the purchaser assumes legal ownership of the property, which recognized on the handover date. normally coincides with taking possession of the property. For residential projects For each performance obligation that is satisﬁed over time, revenue is to be in Finland and Sweden that are initiated by Skanska, housing corporations and recognized over time by measuring the time passed in relation to full satisfaction cooperative housing associations are often used to reach individual home buyers. of the obligation. Skanska applies the input method which is used consistently In these cases revenue recognition occurs when the home buyer takes possession for similar performance obligations and under similar circumstances. In the input of the home. method revenue is recognized on the basis of the entity’s input in fulﬁlling the performance obligation (e.g. resources consumed, hours spent on work, costs IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers – Effective from incurred) in relation to the total expected input to fulﬁll the performance obligation. January 1, 2018 An exception from this cost-based input method might be costs attributable to The new standard IFRS 15 went into effect on 1 January 2018 and replaces IAS 11, signiﬁcant ineffectiveness in the entity’s performance or where costs incurred are IAS 18 and IFRIC 15. References in other standards to IAS 11 and IAS 18 will be not in proportion to the passage of time to fulﬁll the obligation. replaced by references to IFRS 15. Expenses relating to obtaining a contract, i.e. expenses the entity would have Under IFRS 15 revenue is recognized based on a ﬁve-step model. Step one had if it had not won the contract, are recognized as an asset only if the entity involves identifying the contract with a customer. If two or more contracts are is expecting to have those expenses covered. Expenses to complete a contract entered into with a customer at the same time and the price of one contract is that does not fall under a standard other than IFRS 15 are recognized as an asset dependent on the other contract, the contracts are combined. A contract modiﬁif the expenses have a direct link to a contract or to an expected contract, if the cation involves a change to the scope or price (or both) of a contract that has been expenses create or enhance resources that will be used to fulﬁll the performance approved by the contracting parties. A contract modiﬁcation exists when the obligation in the future and that are also expected to be recovered. parties approve a change that either creates new or changes existing rights and Loss contracts are expensed immediately and provisions for losses are made for responsibilities for the contracting parties. A contract modiﬁcation is treated as a the remaining work to be done and recognized according to IAS 37. separate contract when the scope of the contract increases due to the addition of promised goods or services which are distinct and where the price of the contract IAS 17 Leases is raised by an amount reﬂecting the company’s stand-alone selling price for the The accounting standard distinguishes between ﬁnance and operating leases. A additional goods or services promised. If the parties have not approved a contract ﬁnance lease is characterized by the fact that the economic risks and rewards incimodiﬁcation the entity is to continue applying the standard for the existing contract dental to ownership of the asset have substantially been transferred to the lessee. until such time as the contract modiﬁcation is approved. If this is not the case, the agreement is regarded as an operating lease. Step two involves identifying the separate performance obligations in the contract. A performance obligation is a promise to the customer to transfer goods Finance leases or services that are distinct, or a series of distinct goods or services that are essenAssets that are leased under a ﬁnance lease, as a lessee, are recognized as assets. tially the same and follow the same model for transfer to the customer. Goods or The obligation to make future lease payments is recognized as a non-current or services are distinct if the customer can beneﬁt from the goods or services either current liability. The leased assets are depreciated during their respective useful on their own or in combination with other resources that are readily available lives. When making payments on a ﬁnance lease, the minimum lease payment to the customer and if the entity’s promise to transfer the goods or services to is divided between interest expense and reduction of the outstanding liability. the customer is separately identiﬁable from the other promises in the contract. Interest expense is allocated over the lease period in such a way that each reporting Skanska’s client contracts are usually of the type that do not require categorization period is charged an amount equivalent to a ﬁxed interest rate for the liability according to the standard into two or more performance obligations. recognized during each respective period. Variable payments are recognized In step three the transaction price is determined. This determination involves among expenses in the periods when they arise. establishing a ﬁxed agreed price, variable revenue, any contingent considerations, Assets leased under ﬁnance leases, as a lessor, are not recognized as property, bonuses and penalties. If there is variable revenue an estimate is made of the plant and equipment, since the risks incidental to ownership have been transhighest amount of revenue that will likely not require a reversal of accumulated ferred to the lessee. Instead a ﬁnancial receivable is recognized for the future revenue in the future. If the contract includes a signiﬁcant ﬁnancing component, minimum lease payments. the transaction price is to be adjusted for the effect of the time value of the money. Changes to and supplementary orders in contracts that have not yet been approved by the client do not require an increase in the transaction price in the project’s estimated income upon completion. 104 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual Report 2017 Operating leases Research expenses are recognized in the income statement as they arise. DevelopAs for operating leases, the lease payment is recognized as an expense over the ment expenses, which are expenses for designing new or improved materials, lease term on the basis of utilization, and taking into account the beneﬁts that structures, products, processes, systems and services by applying research ﬁndings have been provided or received when signing the lease. or other knowledge, are recognized as assets if it is probable that the asset will The Commercial Property Development business stream carries out operating generate future revenue. Other development expenses are expensed directly. lease transactions. Information on future minimum lease payments (rents) is Expenses for regular maintenance and modiﬁcations of existing products, provided in Note 40, which also contains other information about leases. processes and systems are not recognized as development expenses. Nor is work performed on behalf of a customer recognized as development expenses. IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment Intangible assets other than goodwill are recognized at cost minus accumulated Property, plant and equipment are recognized as assets if it is probable that the amortization and impairment losses. Impairment losses are applied in compliance Group will derive future economic beneﬁts from them and the cost of the assets with IAS 36. can be reliably calculated. Property, plant and equipment are recognized at cost Amortization is recognized in the income statement on a straight-line basis, or minus accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses. Cost includes the based on the degree of use, over the useful life of intangible assets, to the extent purchase price plus expenses directly attributable to the asset in order to bring such a period can be determined. Consideration is given to any residual value at it to the location and condition to be used in the intended manner. Examples of the end of the period. Acquired service contracts are amortized over the remaining directly attributable expenses are delivery and handling costs, installation, ownercontract term (three to six years, as applicable), acquired customer contracts are ship documents, consultant fees and legal services. Borrowing costs are included amortized at the pace of completion and patents are amortized over 10 years. in the cost of property, plant and equipment produced by the Group. Impairment Investments in major computer systems are amortized over a maximum of seven losses are applied in compliance with IAS 36. years. The cost of property, plant and equipment produced by the Group includes Further expenditures for capitalized intangible assets are recognized as an expenditures for materials and remuneration to employees, plus other applicable asset only when they increase the future economic beneﬁts of the speciﬁc asset to manufacturing costs that are considered attributable to the asset. which they are attributable. Further expenditures are added to cost only if it is probable that the Group will derive future economic beneﬁts from the asset and the cost can be reliably IAS 36 Impairment of Assets calculated. All other further expenditures are recognized as expenses in the Assets covered by IAS 36 are tested on every closing day for indications of impairperiod when they arise. ment. Exempted assets, for example inventories (including current-asset properThe decisive factor in determining when a further expenditure is added to cost ties), assets arising when construction contracts are carried out and ﬁnancial is whether the expenditure is related to replacement of identiﬁed components, or assets included within the scope of IAS 39, are measured according to the respective parts thereof, at which time such expenditures are capitalized. In cases where a accounting standard. new component is created, this expenditure is also added to cost. Any undepreciImpairment losses are determined on the basis of the recoverable amount of ated carrying amounts for replaced components, or parts thereof, are disposed assets, which is the higher of fair value less cost to sell and value in use. In calcuof and recognized as an expense at the time of replacement. If the cost of the lating value in use, future cash ﬂows are discounted using a discounting factor removed component cannot be determined directly, its cost may be estimated as that takes into account risk-free interest and the risk associated with the asset. the cost of the new component adjusted by a suitable price index to take into Estimated residual value at the end of the asset’s useful life is included as part of account inﬂation. Repairs are recognized as expenses on a continuous basis. value in use. For assets that do not generate cash ﬂows that are essentially indeProperty, plant and equipment that consist of parts with different periods of pendent of other assets, the recovery value is calculated for the cash-generating service are treated as separate components of property, plant and equipment. unit to which the asset belongs. A cash-generating unit is the smallest group of Depreciation occurs on a straight-line basis during the estimated useful life, or assets that generates cash inﬂows that are independent of other assets or groups based on degree of use, taking into account any residual value at the end of the of assets. For goodwill, the cash-generating unit is mainly the same as the Group’s period. Ofﬁce buildings are divided into foundation and frame, with a depreciation Business Unit or other unit reporting to the Parent Company. Operations that are period of 50 years, installations of 35 years, and non-weight-bearing parts of not integrated into the Business Unit’s other operations are exempted from the 15 years. In general, industrial buildings are depreciated over a 20-year period main rule. The same Business Unit may also contain a number of cash-generating without allocation into different parts. Stone crushing and asphalt plants as well units if it operates in more than one business stream. as concrete mixing plants are depreciated over 10 to 25 years depending on their In Construction and Residential Development, the recoverable amount of condition when acquired and without being divided into different parts. For other goodwill is based on value in use, which is calculated by discounting expected buildings and equipment, division into different components occurs only if major future cash ﬂows. The discounting factor is the weighted average cost of capital components with different useful lives can be identiﬁed. For other machinery and (WACC) applicable to the operation. See Note 18. equipment, the depreciation period is normally between ﬁve and 10 years. Minor Impairment of assets attributable to a cash-generating unit is allocated mainly equipment is depreciated immediately. Gravel pits and stone quarries are deprecito goodwill. After that, a proportionate impairment loss is applied to other assets ated as materials are removed. Land is not depreciated. Assessments of an asset’s included in the unit. residual value and period of service are performed annually. Goodwill impairment is not reversed. A goodwill-related impairment loss The carrying amount of a property, plant and equipment item is removed from recognized in a previous interim report is not reversed in a later full-year report or the statement of ﬁnancial position when it is disposed of or divested, or when no interim report. further economic beneﬁts are expected from the use or disposal/divestment of Impairment losses on other assets are reversed if there has been a change in the asset. the assumptions on which the estimate of the recoverable amount was based. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the carrying amount of IAS 38 Intangible Assets the asset after the reversal does not exceed the carrying amount that the asset This accounting standard deals with intangible assets. Goodwill that arises upon would have had if no impairment loss had occurred, taking into account the amoracquisition of companies is recognized in accordance with the rules in IFRS 3. tization that would then have occurred. An intangible asset is an identiﬁable non-monetary asset without physical substance that is used for producing or supplying goods or services or for leasing IAS 23 Borrowing Costs and administration. To be recognized as an asset, it is necessary both that it be Borrowing costs are capitalized provided that it is probable that they will result in probable that future economic beneﬁts attributable to the asset will ﬂow to the future economic beneﬁts and the costs can be measured reliably. Generally speakentity and that the cost can be reliably calculated. It is especially worth noting ing, capitalization of borrowing costs is limited to assets that take a substantial that expenditures recognized in prior annual or interim reporting periods may not period of time for completion, which in the Group’s case mainly means the subsequently be recognized as an asset. construction of current-asset properties and properties for the Group’s own use Skanska Annual Report 2017 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 105 (non-current-asset properties). Capitalization occurs when expenditures included IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets in acquisition cost have arisen and activities to complete the building have begun. Provisions Capitalization ceases when the building is completed. Borrowing costs during A provision is recognized when the Group has a legal or informal obligation as a an extended period when work to complete the building is interrupted are not result of a past event, and it is probable that an outﬂow of economic resources capitalized. If separate borrowing has occurred for the project, the actual borrowing will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount can cost is used. In other cases, the cost of the loan is calculated on the basis of the be made. Group’s borrowing cost. Skanska makes provisions for future expenses relating to warranty obligations according to construction contracts that involve a liability for the contractor to IAS 12 Income Taxes remedy errors and omissions that are discovered within a certain period after the Income taxes consist of current tax and deferred tax. Income taxes are recognized contractor has handed over the property to the client. Such obligations may also in the income statement except when the underlying transaction is recognized be required by law. More about the accounting principle applied can be found in directly under “Other comprehensive income,” in which case the accompanying the section on IAS 11 in this note. tax effect is also recognized there. Current tax is tax to be paid or received that is A provision is made for disputes related to completed projects if it is probable related to the year in question, applying the tax rates that have been decided or that a dispute will result in an outﬂow of resources from the Group. Disputes have effectively been decided as of the closing day; this also includes adjustment related to ongoing projects are taken into consideration in the valuation of the of current tax attributable to earlier periods. project and are thus not included in the item “Reserve for legal disputes,” as Deferred tax is calculated according to the balance sheet method based on described in Note 29. temporary differences arising between reported and ﬁscal values of assets and Provisions for restructuring expenses are recognized when a detailed restrucliabilities. The amounts are calculated based on how the temporary differences turing plan has been adopted and the restructuring has either begun or been are expected to be settled and by applying the tax rates and tax rules that have publicly announced. been decided or announced as of the closing day. The following temporary differWhen accounting for interests in joint ventures and associated companies, a ences are not taken into account: for a temporary difference that has arisen upon provision is made when a loss exceeds the carrying amount of the holding and the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial recognition of assets and liabilities that Group has a payment obligation. are not business combinations and which, on the transaction date, affect neither recognized proﬁt nor taxable proﬁt. Also not taken into account are temporary Contingent liabilities differences attributable to shares in subsidiaries and associated companies that Contingent liabilities are possible obligations arising from past events and whose are not expected to be reversed in the foreseeable future. Offsetting of deferred existence will be conﬁrmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or tax assets against deferred tax liabilities occurs when there is a right to settle curmore future events not wholly within the control of the company. Also reported rent taxes between companies. as contingent liabilities are obligations arising from past events that have not Deferred tax assets related to deductible temporary differences and loss carrybeen recognized as a liability because it is not likely that an outﬂow of resources forwards are recognized only to the extent it is likely that they can be utilized. The will be required to settle the obligation, or the size of the obligation cannot be value of deferred tax assets is reduced when it is no longer considered probable estimated with sufﬁcient reliability. that they can be utilized. The amounts of contract fulﬁllment guarantees are included until the contracted work has been transferred to the customer, which normally occurs IAS 2 Inventories upon its approval in a ﬁnal inspection. If the guarantee covers all or most of the Aside from customary inventories of goods, the Group’s current-asset properties contract sum, the amount of the contingent liability is calculated as the contract are also encompassed by this accounting standard. Both current-asset properties sum minus the value of the portion performed. In cases where the guarantee and inventories of goods are measured item by item in accordance with the lowest only covers a small portion of the contract sum, the guarantee amount remains cost principle, which means that a property or item is measured either by its acquiunchanged until the contracted work is handed over to the customer. The guarsition cost or net realizable value, whichever is lower. Net realizable value is the antee amount is not reduced by being offset against payments not yet received estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less the estimated cost of from the customer. Guarantees that have been received from subcontractors and completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale. suppliers of materials are not taken into account, either. If the Group receives When item-by-item measurement cannot be applied, the cost of inventories is reciprocal guarantees related to external consortium members’ share of joint and assigned by using the ﬁrst-in, ﬁrst-out (FIFO) formula and includes expenditures several liability, these are not taken into account. Tax cases, court proceedings and that have arisen from acquisition of inventory assets and from bringing them to arbitration are not included in contingent liability amounts. Instead, a separate their present location and condition. For manufactured goods, cost includes a description is provided. reasonable share of indirect costs based on normal capacity utilization. Materials In connection with contracting assignments, security is often provided in the not yet installed at construction sites are not recognized as inventories, but are form of a completion guarantee from a bank or insurance institution. The issuer included among project expenses. of the guarantee, in turn, normally receives an indemnity from the contracting Except for properties that are used in Skanska’s own business, the Group’s company or other Group company. Such indemnities related to the Group’s own property holdings are reported as current assets, since these holdings are included contracting assignments are not reported as contingent liabilities, since they do in the Group’s operating cycle. The operating cycle for current-asset properties is not involve any increased liability compared to the contracting assignment. around three to ﬁve years. Note 33 presents information about contingent liabilities. Acquisitions of properties are recognized in their entirety only upon the transfer of legal ownership, which normally occurs on completion of the purchase. Property Contingent assets acquisitions through purchases of property-owning companies are recognized Contingent assets are possible assets arising from past events and whose exiswhen the shares have been taken over by Skanska. tence will be conﬁrmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more Current-asset properties are divided up between Commercial Property Develuncertain future events not wholly within the control of the company. opment and Residential Development. They are also categorized as “Development In the Group’s construction operations, claims for additional compensation properties,” “Properties under construction” or “Completed properties.” Note 22 from the customer are not uncommon. If the right to additional compensation provides information about these properties. is conﬁrmed, this affects the valuation of the project when reporting according Before impairment losses, properties both completed and under construction to IAS 11. As for claims that have not yet been conﬁrmed, it is not practicable to are valued based on costs paid directly, a reasonable proportion of indirect costs provide information about these, unless there is an individual claim of substantial and interest expenses during the construction period. Information on market importance to the Group. appraisal of properties is provided at the end of this note. Information on customary inventories of goods is found in Note 23. 106 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual Report 2017 Assets pledged tions are reported as a deﬁned-contribution plan. Since the same conditions apply Shares in joint ventures within the Infrastructure Development business stream to the new AFP plan in Norway, this is also reported as a deﬁned-contribution are reported as assets pledged when the shares in the project company, which plan. may be directly owned by Skanska or owned via an intermediate holding company, are pledged as collateral for loans from banks or lenders other than the IFRS 2 Share-based Payment co-owners. The Seop 3 and Seop 4 employee ownership programs are recognized as shareNote 33 provides information about assets pledged. based payment settled with equity instruments, in compliance with IFRS 2. This means that the fair value is calculated on the basis of expected fulﬁllment of IAS 19 Employee Beneﬁts targets. This value is allocated over the respective vesting period. After the fair This accounting standard makes a distinction between deﬁned-contribution and value is established, there is no reappraisal during the remainder of the vesting deﬁned-beneﬁt pension plans. Deﬁned-contribution pension plans are deﬁned as period, except in the case of changes in the number of shares because the condiplans in which the company pays ﬁxed contributions into a separate legal entity tion of continued employment during the vesting period is no longer met. and has no obligation to pay further contributions, even if the legal entity does not have sufﬁcient assets to pay all employee beneﬁts relating to their service Social insurance contributions until the closing day. Other pension plans are deﬁned-beneﬁt plans. Calculation Social insurance contributions that are payable in connection with share-based of deﬁned-beneﬁt pension plans according to IAS 19 is carried out in a way that payments are reported in compliance with statement UFR 7 from the Swedish often deviates from local rules in each country. Obligations and costs are to be calFinancial Reporting Board. The cost of social insurance contributions is allocated culated according to the projected unit credit method. The purpose is to recognize over the period when the services are performed. The provision that arises is reapexpected future pension disbursements as expenses in a way that yields more unipraised on each ﬁnancial reporting date to correspond to the estimated contribuform expenses over the employee’s period of employment. Actuarial assumptions tions that are due at the end of the vesting period. about the discount rate, wage or salary increases, inﬂation and life expectancy are taken into account in the calculation. Pension obligations for post-employment IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows beneﬁts are discounted to present value. Discounts are calculated for all three In preparing its cash ﬂow statement, Skanska applies the indirect method in countries where Skanska has deﬁned-beneﬁt pension plans using an interest rate compliance with the accounting standard. Aside from cash and bank balance based on the market return on high quality corporate bonds including mortgage ﬂows, cash and cash equivalents are to include short-term investments whose bonds, with maturities matching the pension obligations. Pension plan assets are conversion into bank balances may occur in an amount most of which is known recognized at fair value on the closing day. In the statement of ﬁnancial position, in advance. Short-term investments with maturities of less than three months the present value of pension obligations is recognized after subtracting the fair are regarded as cash and cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents that are value of plan assets. The pension expense and the return on plan assets recognized subject to restrictions are reported either as current receivables or as non-current in the income statement refer to the pension expense and return estimated on receivables. January 1. The return on plan assets is calculated using the same interest rate as In addition to the cash ﬂow statement prepared in compliance with the standard, is used to discount the pension obligations. Any differences compared to actual the Report of the Directors presents an operating cash ﬂow statement that does pension expense and actual return, as well as effects of changed assumptions, not conform to the structure speciﬁed in the standard. The operating cash ﬂow together constitute remeasurement and are reported in “Other comprehensive statement was prepared on the basis of the operations that the different business income.” streams carry out. If the terms of a deﬁned-beneﬁt plan are signiﬁcantly amended, or the number of employees covered by a plan is signiﬁcantly reduced, a curtailment occurs. IAS 33 Earnings per Share Obligations are recalculated according to the new conditions. The effect of the Earnings per share are reported directly below the consolidated income statement curtailment is recognized in proﬁt or loss. and are calculated by dividing the portion of proﬁt for the year that is attributable When there is a difference between how pension expense is determined in a to the Parent Company’s equity holders (shareholders) by the average number of legal entity and the Group, a provision or receivable is recognized for the differshares outstanding during the period. ence for taxes and social insurance contributions based on the company’s pension For Sop 3 and Seop 4 employee ownership programs, the dilution effect is expenses. The provision or receivable is not calculated at present value, since it is calculated by adding potential ordinary shares to the number of ordinary shares based on present-value ﬁgures. before dilution. The calculation of potential ordinary shares occurs in two stages. Deferred taxes and social insurance contributions on remeasurements are First there is an assessment of the number of shares that may be issued when recognized under “Other comprehensive income.” established targets are reached. The number of shares for the respective program Obligations related to contributions to deﬁned-contribution plans are recogyear is then determined the following year, provided that the condition of continued nized as expenses in the income statement as they arise. employment is met. In the next step, the number of potential ordinary shares is The Group’s net obligation related to other long-term employee beneﬁts, reduced by the value of the consideration that Skanska is expected to receive, aside from pensions, amounts to the value of future beneﬁts that employees have divided by the average market price of a share during the period. earned as compensation for the services they have performed during the current and prior periods. The obligation is calculated using the projected unit credit IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures method and is discounted to present value, and the fair value of any plan assets is According to this accounting standard, information must be provided about subtracted. The discount rate is again based on the yield on high quality corporate transactions and agreements with related companies and physical persons. In the bonds including mortgage bonds, or government bonds, with a maturity matchconsolidated ﬁnancial statements, intra-Group transactions fall outside this ing the maturity of the obligations. reporting requirement. Notes 36, 37 and 39 provide disclosures in accordance A provision is recognized in connection with termination of employees’ with the accounting standard. With respect to the Parent Company, this informaemployment only if the company is obligated through its own detailed formal tion is provided in Notes 62 and 63. termination plan – and there is no realistic possibility of annulling the plan – to end employment before the normal date, or when beneﬁts are offered in order to IAS 40 Investment Property encourage voluntary resignation. In cases where the company terminates employSkanska is not reporting any investment properties. Properties that are used in ees’ employment, the provision is calculated on the basis of a detailed plan that the Group’s own operations are reported in compliance with IAS 16. The Group’s includes at least the location, function and approximate number of employees holdings of current-asset properties are covered by IAS 2 and thus fall outside the affected, as well as the beneﬁts for each job category or position and the time at application of IAS 40. which the plan will be implemented. Only an insigniﬁcant percentage of the Group’s deﬁned-beneﬁt pension obligaIFRS 8 Operating Segments tions were ﬁnanced by premiums to the retirement insurance company Alecta. According to this standard, an operating segment is a component of the Group Since the required ﬁgures cannot be obtained from Alecta, these pension obligacarrying out business operations whose operating income is evaluated regularly Skanska Annual Report 2017 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 107 by the highest executive decision-maker and about which separate ﬁnancial All ﬁnancial instruments covered by this standard, including all derivatives, are information is available. reported in the statement of ﬁnancial position. Skanska’s operating segments consist of its business streams: Construction, A derivative is a ﬁnancial instrument whose value changes in response to Residential Development, Commercial Property Development and Infrastructure changes in an underlying variable and that requires no initial investment, or Development. one that is small and that is settled at a future date. An embedded derivative is The Group Leadership Team (called the Senior Executive Team until the end of a contract condition that causes the value of the contract to be affected in the 2017) is the Group’s highest executive decision-maker. same way as if the condition were an independent derivative. This is the case, The principle for segment reporting of Residential Development and Commercial for example, when a construction contract is expressed in a currency that is a Property Development in the income statement deviates from IFRS on two points. foreign currency for both parties. If it is customary for the foreign currency to be In segment reporting, a divestment gain is recognized on the date a binding used for this type of contract, the embedded derivative will not be separated. A sales contract is signed. Segment reporting accounts for all joint ventures within reassessment of whether embedded derivatives are to be separated from the host Residential Development using the proportional method. Note 4 presents a reccontract is carried out only if the host contract is changed. onciliation between segment reporting and the income statement in compliance A ﬁnancial asset or ﬁnancial liability is recognized in the statement of ﬁnancial with IFRS. position when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the Note 4 provides information about operating segments. Financial reporting instrument. Trade accounts receivable are recognized in the statement of ﬁnancial to the Group Leadership Team focuses on the areas for which each respective position when an invoice has been sent. A liability is recognized when the counoperating segment is operationally responsible: operating income in the income terparty has performed and there is a contractual obligation to pay, even if the statement and capital employed. For each respective operating segment, the note invoice has not yet been received. Trade accounts payable are recognized when an thus reports external and internal revenue, cost of production and management, invoice has been received. selling and administrative expenses and capital employed. Capital employed reA ﬁnancial asset is derecognized from the statement of ﬁnancial position when fers to total assets minus tax assets and receivables invested in Skanska’s treasury the contractual rights are realized or expire, or the Group loses control of them. unit (“internal bank”) less non-interest-bearing liabilities excluding tax liabilities. The same applies to a portion of a ﬁnancial asset. A ﬁnancial liability is derecogIn the calculation of capital employed, a capitalized interest expense is removed nized from the statement of ﬁnancial position when the contractual obligation from total assets for the Residential Development and Commercial Property is fulﬁlled or otherwise extinguished. The same applies to a portion of a ﬁnancial Development segments. Acquisition goodwill has been reported in the operating liability. segment to which it relates. Acquisitions and divestments of ﬁnancial assets are recognized on the transacIn transactions between operating segments, pricing occurs on market terms. tion date, which is the date the company undertakes to acquire or divest the asset. Certain parts of the Group do not belong to any operating segment. These are Financial instruments are initially recognized at cost, equivalent to the instrureported in Note 4 under the heading “Central and eliminations.” This includes ment’s fair value plus transaction costs, except instruments in the category the Latin American operations, where there are no longer any ongoing projects. “assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss,” which are recognized exclusive of Operating segment income includes intra-Group proﬁts and, consequently, these transaction costs. Recognition then occurs depending on how they are classiﬁed, are eliminated during reconciliation with the consolidated income statement and as described below. the consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position. Financial assets are classiﬁed as “assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss,” In addition to information about operating segments, Note 4 provides disclo“held-to-maturity investments,” “loans and receivables” and “available-for-sale sures on external revenue for the entire Group, broken down into Sweden, USA assets.” An asset is classiﬁed among “available-for-sale assets” if the asset is not and other countries, and disclosures on the allocation of certain assets between a derivative and the asset has not been classiﬁed in any of the other categories. Sweden and other countries. Derivatives are classiﬁed under “assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss” unless they are included in hedge accounting. Equity instruments with unlimited IAS 10 Events After the Reporting Period useful lives are classiﬁed either as “assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss” or Events after the end of the reporting period may, in certain cases, conﬁrm a situa“available-for-sale assets.” tion that existed on the closing day. Such events are taken into account when the “Assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss” and “available-for-sale assets” are ﬁnancial reports are prepared. Information is provided about other events that measured at fair value in the statement of ﬁnancial position. Changes in the value occur after the closing day and before the ﬁnancial report is signed if the omission of “assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss” are recognized in the income stateof such information would affect the ability of a reader to make an accurate ment, while changes in the value of “available-for-sale assets” are recognized assessment and a sound investment decision. under “Other comprehensive income.” When the latter assets are divested, Information on this is provided in Note 41 and Note 66. accumulated gains or losses are transferred to the income statement. Investments in holdings of companies other than Group companies, joint ventures and IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation associated companies are included in “available-for-sale assets,” but are meaOffsetting of ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities occurs when an entity has sured at cost, unless the fair value can be reliably established. Impairment losses a legal right to offset items against each other and intends to either settle these on “available-for-sale assets,” as well as interest and dividends on instruments items on a net basis or simultaneously divest the asset and settle the liability. in this category, are recognized directly in the income statement. Changes in Prepaid income and expenses are not ﬁnancial instruments. Accrued income exchange rates for monetary “available-for-sale assets” are also recognized and expenses that are related to the business are not recognized as ﬁnancial directly in the income statement, while changes in exchange rates for non-moninstruments. Thus, receivables due from (or payables to) customers for contract etary “available-for-sale assets” are recognized in other comprehensive income. work are not included under ﬁnancial instruments. Obligations for employee “Held-to-maturity investments” and “loans and receivables” are measured at beneﬁt plans in compliance with IAS 19, such as pension plans, are exempt from amortized cost. Impairment losses on “held-to-maturity investments,” “loans and IAS 32 and are thus not recognized as ﬁnancial instruments. Assets and liabilities receivables” and “available-for-sale assets” occur when the expected discounted that are not based on contracts, such as income taxes, are not considered ﬁnancial cash ﬂow from the ﬁnancial asset is less than the carrying amount. instruments. Financial liabilities are classiﬁed as “liabilities at fair value through proﬁt or Information in compliance with the accounting standard is provided mainly in loss” and “other ﬁnancial liabilities.” Derivatives are classiﬁed under “liabilities at Notes 6, 21 and 27. fair value through proﬁt or loss” unless included in hedge accounting. “Liabilities at fair value through proﬁt or loss” are measured at fair value in the statement of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement ﬁnancial position, with the change in value recognized in the income statement. The accounting standard deals with measurement and recognition of ﬁnancial “Other ﬁnancial liabilities” are measured initially at the amount borrowed less instruments. Categories exempt from application according to IAS 39 include any transaction costs. The liabilities are thereafter measured at amortized cost. holdings in subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures, leases, the Any differences between the amount borrowed and the repayment amount are rights under employment contracts, treasury shares, and ﬁnancial instruments as recognized in proﬁt for the year, allocated over the loan period and applying the described in IFRS 2. effective interest method. This method involves calculating the effective interest 108 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual Report 2017 rate, which is the interest rate that exactly discounts estimated future receipts statement of ﬁnancial position when the contractual rights to cash ﬂows from the and payments over the term of the instrument to the recognized net value of the ﬁnancial asset expire or when the entity transfers the contractual rights to receive ﬁnancial asset or liability. cash ﬂows from the ﬁnancial asset or retains the contractual rights to receive cash In reporting both ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities in Note 6, Skanska has ﬂows, but assumes a contractual obligation to pay cash ﬂows to one or more chosen to report “hedge-accounted derivatives” separately. recipients. A ﬁnancial liability is derecognized from the statement of ﬁnancial Skanska uses hedge accounting for cash ﬂow hedging and hedging of net position only when the contractual obligation is fulﬁlled, cancelled or expires. investment in foreign operations. In hedge accounting for cash ﬂow hedges and Presentation of ﬁnancial assets is based on the entity’s business model and the hedging of net investments in foreign operations, the effectiveness of hedging contractual cash ﬂows of the asset. A ﬁnancial asset is measured at amortized is assessed regularly, and hedge accounting is applied only where hedging is cost if the asset is held within the framework of a business model the objective of deemed effective. Information on hedging and hedge accounting is provided in which is to hold ﬁnancial assets in order to collect contractual cash ﬂows, and the Note 6. cash ﬂows on speciﬁed dates are solely payments of principal and interest on the Skanska uses currency derivatives and foreign currency loans to hedge against principal amount outstanding. ﬂuctuations in exchange rates. Recognition of derivatives varies depending on A ﬁnancial asset is measured at fair value through other comprehensive income whether hedge accounting in compliance with IAS 39 is applied or not. if the asset is held according to a business model the objective of which can be Unrealized gains and losses on currency derivatives related to hedging of achieved both by collecting contractual cash ﬂows and selling ﬁnancial assets, operational transaction exposure (cash ﬂow hedging) are measured on market and the cash ﬂows are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal terms and recognized at fair value in the statement of ﬁnancial position. The amount outstanding. A ﬁnancial asset is measured at fair value though proﬁt or entire change in value is recognized directly in operating income, except in cases loss if it is not measured at amortized cost or at fair value through other comprewhere hedge accounting is applied. In hedge accounting, unrealized gains or hensive income. losses are recognized under “Other comprehensive income.” When the hedged All ﬁnancial assets are measured at amortized cost with the exception of: transaction occurs and is recognized in the income statement, accumulated a) ﬁnancial liabilities measured at fair value through proﬁt or loss (such liabilities, changes in value are transferred from other comprehensive income to operating including derivatives that are liabilities, are thereafter to be measured at fair income. value); b) ﬁnancial liabilities arising when a transfer of a ﬁnancial asset does not Embedded currency derivatives in commercial contracts expressed in a currency meet the criteria for derecognition from the statement of ﬁnancial position or which is a foreign currency for both parties are measured at fair value, provided where a continued commitment is appropriate; c) ﬁnancial guarantee contracts; that the currency is not customary for this type of contract. d) a loan commitment with interest that is below the market interest rate; and e) Unrealized gains and losses when assessing the fair value of these embedded a contingent consideration acknowledged by an acquiring party in connection currency derivatives are recognized at fair value in the statement of ﬁnancial posiwith a business combination covered by IFRS 3 (such contingent consideration is tion. Changes in value are recognized in operating income. thereafter measured at fair value with changes recognized through proﬁt or loss). Currency derivatives for hedging translation exposure are measured at fair An entity is only entitled to reclassify all relevant ﬁnancial assets when the value in the statement of ﬁnancial position. Foreign currency loans for hedging entity changes its business model for managing ﬁnancial assets. Reclassiﬁcation translation exposure are measured at the closing day exchange rate. Due to the of ﬁnancial liabilities is not permitted. application of hedge accounting, exchange rate differences after taking into Financial assets and liabilities are initially measured at fair value plus or minus account the tax effect are recognized under “Other comprehensive income.” transaction costs upon acquisition of a ﬁnancial asset or ﬁnancial liability for a If foreign operations are divested, accumulated exchange rate differences ﬁnancial asset or ﬁnancial liability that is not measured at fair value through proﬁt attributable to the operations are transferred from other comprehensive income or loss. Trade receivables that do not contain a signiﬁcant ﬁnancing component to the income statement. The interest component and changes in the value of the are measured upon initial recognition at their transaction price (as deﬁned in interest component of currency derivatives are recognized as ﬁnancial income or IFRS 15). After initial recognition, ﬁnancial assets are measured at amortized cost, expenses. fair value through other comprehensive income or fair value through proﬁt or In Infrastructure Development projects interest rate derivatives are used in order loss. Subsequent measurement of ﬁnancial liabilities is at amortized cost or fair to achieve ﬁxed interest on long-term ﬁnancing. Hedge accounting is applied to value through proﬁt or loss. these interest rate derivatives. An entity is to apply the impairment requirement to expected credit losses on Skanska also uses interest rate derivatives to hedge against ﬂuctuations in ﬁnancial assets and a loss provision for these is to be recognized as a deduction interest rates. from the asset. On every closing day the loss provision is to be equivalent to an Hedge accounting in compliance with IAS 39 is applied to some of these derivaamount reﬂecting the expected credit losses for the remaining time until maturity tives. if the credit risk has increased signiﬁcantly since it was initially recognized. If the Unrealized gains and losses on interest rate derivatives are recognized at fair credit risk has not increased signiﬁcantly since it was ﬁrst recognized, the loss provalue in the statement of ﬁnancial position. Where hedge accounting is applied, vision is to be equivalent to 12 months of expected credit losses. For trade receivchanges in value are recognized in other comprehensive income. In cases where ables, contractual assets and lease receivables, the loss provision is always to be at hedge accounting is not applied, changes in value are directly recognized as ﬁnanan amount equivalent to the remaining time to maturity. An entity is to measure cial income or expenses in the income statement. The ongoing current interest expected credit losses taking into account an objective and probability-weighted coupon portion is recognized as interest income or an interest expense. amount, the time value of money, reasonable and supportable information about past events, current conditions and forecasts of future economic conditions. IFRS 9 Financial Instruments – Effective from January 1, 2018 The purpose of hedge accounting is so that, in its ﬁnancial statements, an The new standard IFRS 9 went into effect on January 1, 2018 and replaces the entity can report the effect of its risk management where ﬁnancial instruments old standard IAS 39. References in other standards to IAS 39 will be replaced by are used to manage exposure from speciﬁc risks that would impact results. A dereferences to IFRS 9. rivative that is measured at fair value through proﬁt or loss can be identiﬁed as a IFRS 9 Financial Instruments addresses the recognition of ﬁnancial assets hedging instrument. A ﬁnancial asset or liability that is not a derivative measured and liabilities. Categories exempt from application according to IFRS 9 include at fair value through proﬁt or loss can be identiﬁed as a hedging instrument unholdings in subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures, leases, rights less it is a ﬁnancial liability identiﬁed as measured through proﬁt or loss, for which under employment contracts, treasury shares, ﬁnancial instruments as described the amount of the change in fair value arising from changes in credit risk for the in IFRS 2, and rights and responsibilities within IFRS 15 except for the rights in IFRS liability are recognized in other comprehensive income. In hedge accounting, only 15 where an impairment requirement according to IFRS 9 applies. All ﬁnancial contracts with an external party outside the Group can be identiﬁed as hedging instruments, including derivatives, are recognized as a ﬁnancial asset or ﬁnancial instruments. A hedged item may be a recognized asset or liability, an unrecogliability in the statement of ﬁnancial position when the entity becomes a party to nized binding commitment, a highly likely forecast transaction or a net investment the contractual provisions of the instrument. A regular way purchase or sale of a in foreign operations. A hedging relationship only qualiﬁes for hedge accounting ﬁnancial asset is recognized in and derecognized from the statement of ﬁnancial when the following criteria have been met: the hedging relationship consists only position using trade date accounting. A ﬁnancial asset is derecognized from the of eligible hedging instruments and eligible hedged items, where there is a formal Skanska Annual Report 2017 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 109 designation and documentation for the hedging relationship and the entity’s risk IAS 20 Accounting for Government Grants and Disclosure of Governmanagement objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge, and where the ment Assistance effectiveness requirement for hedges has been met. The effectiveness require“Government assistance” refers to action by the government designed to provide ment is met when there is an economic relationship between the hedged item an economic beneﬁt speciﬁc to one company or a category of companies that and the hedging instrument, the effect of credit risk does not dominate the value qualify based on certain criteria. Government grants are assistance from the changes that result from the economic relationship, and the hedge ratio of the government in the form of transfers of resources to a company in return for past hedging relationship is the same as that actually used in the economic hedge, and or future compliance with certain conditions relating to its operations. the quantity the entity actually uses to hedge the amount of the hedged item. Government grants are recognized as prepaid income or a reduction of an Skanska uses hedge accounting for cash ﬂow hedging and hedging of net investment when there is reasonable assurance that the grants will be received investment in foreign operations. Hedge accounting is used for cash ﬂow hedges and that the Group will meet the criteria for receiving the grant. when a future cash ﬂow is attributable to a recognized asset or liability or a highly probably future transaction. Hedge accounting for hedging of net investments in The Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 1 foreign operations is applied when the net investment is in line with IAS 21. Supplementary Accounting Rules for Groups A cash ﬂow hedge is recognized as follows: The recommendation speciﬁes what further disclosures must be provided in order a) the separate component in equity which is linked to the hedged item is to be for the annual accounts to comply with Sweden’s Annual Accounts Act. The adadjusted to the lower of the following: the cumulative gains or losses from ditional information mainly relates to disclosures on employees. the hedging instrument from the date the hedge was entered into or the Disclosures on the number of employees, gender distribution and distribution cumulative change in fair value for the hedged item from the date the hedge among countries are provided in Note 36. The number of employees during the was entered into; year was calculated as an average of the average number of employees during b) the portion of the gain or loss for a hedging instrument that has been the quarters in the year. In this calculation, part-time employment is equivalent to determined to be an effective hedge is recognized in other comprehensive 60 percent of full-time employment. Operations divested during the year are not income; included. c) the remaining gain or loss for the hedge instrument is hedging ineffectiveInformation on the gender distribution among senior executives refers to the ness that is to be recognized through proﬁt or loss; situation on the closing day. “Senior executives” in the various subsidiaries refers d) the amount accumulated in the provision derived from the cash ﬂow hedged to the members of the management teams of the respective Business Units. This in accordance with a) is to be recognized as follows: information is provided in Notes 36 and 37. i) if a hedged forecast transaction subsequently leads to recognition of In addition to Board members and the President and CEO, all other persons in a non-ﬁnancial asset or liability, or a hedged forecast transaction for a the Group Leadership Team must be included in the group for which a separate non-ﬁnancial asset or liability becomes a binding commitment for which account is to be provided of the total amounts of salaries and other remunerahedge accounting of fair value is used, the entity is to deduct this from the tion, as well as expenses and obligations related to pensions and similar beneﬁts. provision originating from the cash ﬂow hedge and include it directly in Furthermore, the same disclosures must be provided individually for each of the the initial cost or other recognized value for the asset or liability; Board members and for the President and CEO, as well as individuals previously ii) for all cash ﬂow hedges except those covered by i) this amount is to be reholding these positions. Employee representatives are exempted. classiﬁed from the provision originating from the cash ﬂow hedge to proﬁt Note 36 provides information about loans, assets pledged and contingent or loss as a reclassiﬁcation adjustment in the same period or periods during liabilities on behalf of Board members and of Presidents and CEOs within the which the hedged expected future cash ﬂows affect proﬁt or loss; Group. iii) if this amount is a loss and an entity is expecting all or part of the loss to be Information must also be provided on fees to auditors and the accounting ﬁrms recovered during one or more future periods, the amount expected to be where the auditors work. See Note 38. recovered is to be immediately reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss as a reclassiﬁcation adjustment. Order bookings and order backlog Hedging of net investments in foreign operations, including a hedge of a monIn contracting assignments, an order booking refers to a written order conﬁrmaetary item that is recognized as part of a net investment, is to be recognized in a tion or signed contract, provided that ﬁnancing has been arranged and construcsimilar way to cash ﬂow hedges: the portion of the gain or loss for the hedging intion is expected to commence within 12 months. If a previously received order strument that is determined to be an effective hedge is to be recognized through is canceled in a subsequent quarter, the cancellation is recognized as a negative other comprehensive income, and the ineffective portion is to be recognized item when reporting order bookings for the quarter when the cancellation through proﬁt or loss. The cumulative gain or loss for the hedging instrument that occurs. Reported order bookings also include orders from Residential Developis attributable to the effective portion of the hedge and that has accumulated in ment and Commercial Property Development, which presupposes that building the currency translation reserve is to be reclassiﬁed from equity to proﬁt or loss permits are in place and construction is expected to begin within three months. upon disposal or partial disposal of the foreign operations. For services related to ﬁxed-price work, the order booking is recorded when the contract is signed, and for services related to cost-plus work, the order booking IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures corresponds to revenue. For service agreements, a maximum of 24 months of The company provides disclosures that enable the evaluation of the signiﬁcance future revenue is included. of ﬁnancial instruments for the entity’s ﬁnancial position and performance. The No order bookings are reported in Residential Development and Commercial disclosures also enable an evaluation of the nature of ﬁnancial instruments and Property Development. risks associated with them to which the company has been exposed during the Order backlog refers to the difference between order bookings for a period period and is exposed to at the end of the reporting period. These disclosures also and accrued revenue (accrued project expenses plus accrued project revenue provide a basis for assessing how these risks are managed by the company. This adjusted for loss provisions) plus order backlog at the beginning of the period. standard supplements the principles for recognizing, measuring and classifying The order backlog in the accounts of acquired subsidiaries on the date of acquiﬁnancial assets and liabilities in IAS 32 and IAS 39. sition is not reported as order bookings, but is included in order backlog amounts. The standard applies to all types of ﬁnancial instruments, with the primary exception of holdings in subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures, as Market appraisal well as obligations for employee beneﬁt plans in compliance with IAS 19, such as Commercial Property Development pension plans. The disclosures that are provided thus include accrued interest inNote 22 provides the estimated market value of Skanska’s current-asset propercome, deposits and accrued interest expense. Accrued income relating to contract ties. For completed commercial properties and for development properties, the clients is not a ﬁnancial instrument. market value for the majority of properties has been calculated in cooperation The disclosures provided are supplemented by reconciliation with other items with external appraisers. The value of ongoing projects is measured internally. in the income statement and in the statement of ﬁnancial position. The calculated market value of ongoing projects refers to each property once it is Disclosures in compliance with this accounting standard are presented in Note 6. completed and fully occupied. 110 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual Report 2017 Note 1. Continued Note 1. Parent Company accounting and valuation principles Residential Development The Parent Company has prepared its annual accounts in compliance with the AnIn appraising properties in Residential Development, estimates of market value nual Accounts Act and the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s Recommendation take into account the value that can be obtained within the usual economic cycle RFR 2, “Accounting for Legal Entities.” According to RFR 2, the annual accounts and refers to properties once they are completed. of the legal entity must apply the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and International Accounting Standards (IAS) issued by the International Infrastructure Development Accounting Standards Board (IASB), to the extent these have been approved by Skanska obtains an estimated value for infrastructure projects by discounting the EU, as well as the interpretations by the IFRS Interpretations Committee and estimated future cash ﬂows in the form of dividends and repayments of loans and its predecessor the Standing Interpretations Committee (SIC), as far as this is posequity by a discount rate based on country, risk model and project phase for varisible within the framework of the Annual Accounts Act and taking into account ous projects. The discount rate chosen is applied to all future cash ﬂows starting the connection between accounting and taxation. A presentation of the various on the appraisal date. This is based on the most recently updated ﬁnancial model. accounting standards can be found in the Group Note 1. The statements of the This ﬁnancial model describes all cash ﬂows in the project and serves as the Swedish Financial Reporting Board must also be applied. ultimate basis for ﬁnancing, which is carried out with full project risk and without In accordance with RFR 2, IAS 39 is not applied to ﬁnancial guarantee agreeguarantees from Skanska. ments beneﬁting subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures. Instead, An estimated value is stated solely for projects that have reached contractual IAS 37 is applied, which normally means that provisions for these measures are and ﬁnancial close. All ﬂows are appraised: investments in the project (equity and not recognized since it is unlikely that an outﬂow of resources will be required to subordinated debenture loans), interest on repayments of subordinated loans, as settle the obligation. well as dividends to and from the project company. Today all investments except Group contributions are recognized in accordance with the general rule in RFR 2. New Karolinska Solna are denominated in currencies other than Swedish kronor, The Seop 3 and Seop 4 employee ownership programs are recognized as and there is thus also an exchange rate risk. share-based payment settled with equity instruments, in compliance with IFRS Estimated values have in part been calculated in cooperation with external 2. The portion of the Group’s expense for these employee ownership programs appraisers and are stated in Note 20. that relates to employees of subsidiaries is recognized in the Parent Company as an increase in the carrying amount of holdings in subsidiaries and an increase in equity. When the amount to be debited to the subsidiary is established, a transfer of receivables to subsidiaries takes place. Where compensation from subsidiaries for shares that have been allocated deviates from the previously reported increase in the carrying amount of holdings in subsidiaries, the carrying amount of holdings in subsidiaries is reduced to the portion of the amount that does not exceed the previously reported increase. Any remaining portion of the compensation is recognized directly as equity. Important differences compared to consolidated accounting principles The income statement and balance sheet conform to the presentation formats in the Annual Accounts Act. Deﬁned-beneﬁt pension plans are reported according to the regulations in the Pension Obligations Vesting Act. Pension obligations secured by assets in pension funds are not recognized in the balance sheet. Similar to holdings in subsidiaries, holdings in associated companies and joint arrangements are also carried at cost before any impairment losses. Note 2. Key estimates and judgements Key estimates and judgments The Group Leadership Team has discussed with the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee the developments and disclosures relating to the Group’s important accounting principles and estimates, as well as the application of these principles and estimates. Some important accounting-related estimates that were made when applying the Group’s accounting principles are described below. Goodwill impairment testing When calculating the recoverable amount of cash-generating units to determine if there is any goodwill impairment, several assumptions about future conditions and estimates of parameters have been made. These are presented in Note 18 Goodwill. As understood from the description in this note, important changes in the basis for these assumptions and estimates might have a substantial effect on the value of goodwill. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 111 Note 2. Continued Note 3. Effects of changes in accounting principles Pension assumptions No changed accounting principles in 2017. Skanska has deﬁned-beneﬁt pension plans in a number of countries. The plans are recognized according to IAS 19, which means that pension commitments Note 4. Operating segments are calculated using actuarial assumptions and that plan assets are measured at market value on the closing day. The effects of changed actuarial assumptions and changes in the market value of plan assets are recognized as remeasurements in other comprehensive income. The remeasurements impact interest-bearing pension liabilities and equity. Skanska’s business streams – Construction, Residential Development, CommerThe assumptions and prerequisites that provide the basis for recognition of cial Property Development and Infrastructure Development – are recognized as pension liability, including a sensitivity analysis, are presented in Note 28 Pensions. operating segments. These business streams coincide with Skanska’s operational organization, used by the Group Leadership Team to monitor operations. The Percentage-of-completion method Group Leadership Team is also Skanska’s “chief operating decision maker.” Skanska applies the percentage-of-completion method. This means that, based Each business stream carries out distinct types of operations with different on a prognosis of ﬁnal project results, income is recognized successively during risks. Construction includes both building construction and civil construction. the course of the project according to degree of completion. In order to do this, Residential Development develops residential projects for immediate sale. Homes the amount of project revenue and project expenses must be able to be reliably are adapted for selected customer categories. The units in this segment are determined. This in turn requires that the Group has efﬁcient, coordinated responsible for planning and selling their projects. The construction assignments systems for calculation, forecasting and revenue/expense reporting. The method are performed by construction units in the Construction business stream in also requires consistent assessment (forecasts) of the ﬁnal outcome of the project, each respective market. Commercial Property Development initiates, develops, including analysis of deviations from earlier assessments. This critical assessment leases and divests commercial property projects. Project Development focuses is performed at least once every quarter. However, actual future project outcomes on ofﬁce buildings, retail and logistics properties. Construction assignments are may deviate, either positively or negatively, from this assessment. performed in most markets by Skanska’s Construction segment. Infrastructure Development specializes in identifying, developing and investing in privately Disputes ﬁnanced infrastructure projects, such as highways, hospitals and airports. The Although management’s best judgment is used in reporting disputed amounts, business stream focuses on creating new potential projects, mainly in the markets the actual future outcomes may deviate from the judgments made. See Note 33 where the Group has operations. Construction assignments are performed by Assets pledged, contingent liabilities and contingent assets, and Note 29 Provithe construction units where Skanska has construction operations. Intra-Group sions. pricing between operating segments occurs on market terms. “Central” includes the cost of Group headquarters, earnings of central companies and operations Investments in Infrastructure Development that are being discontinued. Eliminations consist mainly of proﬁts in Construction The estimated investment amounts are provided in Note 20 B. Estimated market operations related to property projects. See also Note 1 Consolidated accounting value is based on discounting anticipated cash ﬂows for each respective investand valuation principles, IFRS 8, Operating Segments. ment. Estimated yield requirements on investments of this type have been used as discount rates. Changes in anticipated cash ﬂows, which in a number of cases Revenue and expenses by operating segment extend 20 to 30 years into the future, and/or changes in yield requirements, may Each business stream has operating responsibility for its income statement down materially affect both estimated values and carrying amounts for each investthrough “operating income.” ment. Assets and liabilities by operating segment Current-asset properties Each business stream has operating responsibility for its capital employed. The The stated combined market value in Note 22 is calculated on the basis of prevailcapital employed by each business stream consists of its total assets minus tax ing price levels in the respective location of the individual properties. Changes in assets and intra-Group receivables invested in Skanska’s treasury unit (“internal the supply of similar properties, as well as changes in demand due to new yield bank”) less non-interest-bearing liabilities excluding tax liabilities. In the calcularequirements, may materially affect both estimated market values and carrying tion of capital employed, a capitalized interest expense is removed from total amounts for each property. assets for the Residential Development and Commercial Property Development In Commercial Property Development, the estimated market value for ongoing segments. Acquisition goodwill has been reported in the business stream to projects is assessed for each property once it is completed and fully occupied. which it belongs. In Residential Development the supply of capital and the price of capital for Cash ﬂow by segment is presented as a separate statement: Consolidated operﬁnancing home buyers’ investments are critical factors. Here too, the market ating cash ﬂow statement and change in interest-bearing net receivables. value assessed is the value of the properties once they are completed and taking into account the value that may be added in a normal economic cycle. Prices of goods and services In the Skanska Group’s operations, there are many different forms of contractual mechanisms. The degree of risk associated with the price of goods and services varies greatly depending on the contract type. Sharp increases in material prices may pose a risk, particularly to long-term projects with ﬁxed-price commitments. A shortage of human resources and certain input goods may also adversely impact operations. Delays in the design phase or changes in design are other circumstances that may adversely affect projects. 112 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual Report 2017 Note 4. Continued Commercial Residential Property InfrastrucTotal ReconciliConstrucDevelopDevelopture Developoperating EliminaTotal ation with 2017 tion ment ment ment segments Central tions segments IFRSs Total IFRS External revenue 135,997 13,158 11,255 81 160,491 332 0 160,823 –2,946 157,877 Intra-Group revenue 14,053 79 185 0 14,317 1,032 –15,349 0 0 0 Total revenue 150,050 13,237 11,440 81 174,808 1,364 –15,349 160,823 –2,946 157,877 Cost of sales –141,751 –10,855 –8,451 –177 –161,234 –1,275 15,209 –147,300 2,197 –145,103 Gross income 8,299 2,382 2,989 –96 13,574 89 –140 13,523 –749 12,774 Selling and administrative expenses –7,132 –666 –899 –121 –8,818 –1,033 0 –9,851 0 –9,851 Income from joint ventures and associated companies 38 0 624 1,142 1,804 0 28 1,832 –177 1,655 Operating income 1,205 1,716 2,714 925 6,560 –944 –112 5,504 –926 4,578 of which depreciation/amortization –1,478 –1 –6 –3 –1,488 –99 –1,587 0 –1,587 of which impairment losses/reversals of impairment losses Goodwill –592 –592 –592 0 –592 Other assets –265 –14 –6 –11 –296 13 –283 0 –283 of which gains from commercial property divestments 2,879 2,879 197 3,076 –370 2,706 of which gains from infrastructure project divestments 985 985 985 0 985 Employees 39,002 482 389 94 39,967 792 40,759 Gross margin, % 5,5 18,0 Selling and administrative expenses, % –4,8 –5,0 Operating margin, % 0,8 13,0 Assets, of which Property, plant and equipment 6,771 5 19 9 6,804 86 –16 6,874 0 6,874 Intangible assets 4,770 409 7 5,186 330 5,516 0 5,516 Investments in joint ventures and associated companies 218 527 658 1,944 3,347 3 –36 3,314 0 3,314 Current-asset properties 11 15,505 24,043 39,559 –91 –458 39,010 0 39,010 Capital employed –2,761 12,652 24,481 1,809 36,181 7,930 44,111 0 44,111 Investments –2,062 –11,093 –10,716 –449 –24,320 45 90 –24,185 0 –24,185 Divestments 237 11,773 9,341 1,950 23,301 0 –202 23,099 0 23,099 Net investments –1,825 680 –1,375 1,501 –1,019 45 –112 –1,086 0 –1,086 Reconciliation from segment reporting to IFRS Revenue according to segment reporting – binding agreement 150,050 13,237 11,440 81 174,808 1,364 –15,349 160,823 Plus properties sold before the period 14,070 3,120 17,190 17,190 Less properties not yet occupied by the buyer on closing day –14,646 –5,116 –19,762 79 –19,683 Proportional method for joint ventures –875 –875 313 –562 Exchange-rate differences 37 72 109 109 Revenue according to IFRS – handover 150,050 11,823 9,516 81 171,470 1,364 –14,957 157,877 Operating income according to segment reporting – binding agreement 1,205 1,716 2,714 925 6,560 –944 –112 5,504 Plus properties sold before the period 2,237 627 2,864 2 2,866 Less properties not yet occupied by the buyer on closing day –2,316 –951 –3,267 –12 –3,279 Adjustment, income from joint ventures and associated companies –78 –338 –416 –18 –434 New intra-Group proﬁts –47 –47 Exchange-rate differences –51 15 –36 1 3 –32 Operating income according to IFRS – handover 1,205 1,508 2,067 925 5,705 –943 –184 4,578 Skanska Annual Report 2017 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 113 Note 4. Continued Commercial Residential Property InfrastrucTotal ReconConstrucDevelopDevelopture Developoperating EliminaTotal ciliation with 2016 tion ment ment ment segments Central tions segments IFRSs Total IFRS External revenue 127,113 13,255 10,208 237 150,813 494 0 151,307 –5,942 145,365 Intra-Group revenue 10,888 9 18 0 10,915 943 –11,858 0 0 0 Total revenue 138,001 13,264 10,226 237 161,728 1,437 –11,858 151,307 –5,942 145,365 Cost of sales –127,921 –11,100 –7,159 –181 –146,361 –1,449 11,892 –135,918 4,799 –131,119 Gross income 10,080 2,164 3,067 56 15,367 –12 34 15,389 –1,143 14,246 Selling and administrative expenses –6,567 –559 –751 –147 –8,024 –1,128 0 –9,152 0 –9,152 Income from joint ventures and associated companies 33 0 20 1,909 1,962 0 0 1,962 164 2,126 Operating income 3,546 1,605 2,336 1,818 9,305 –1,140 34 8,199 –979 7,220 of which depreciation/amortization –1,348 –1 –3 –4 –1,356 –83 –1,439 0 –1,439 of which impairment losses/reversals of impairment losses Goodwill 0 0 0 0 Other assets 8 –42 –198 –331 –563 29 –534 0 –534 of which gains from commercial property divestments 3,111 3,111 173 3,284 17 3,301 of which gains from infrastructure project divestments 1,729 1,729 1,729 0 1,729 Employees 40,991 434 364 102 41,891 1,012 42,903 Gross margin, % 7,3 16,3 Selling and administrative expenses, % –4,8 –4,2 Operating margin, % 2,6 12,1 Assets, of which Property, plant and equipment 6,691 23 12 13 6,739 98 6,837 0 6,837 Intangible assets 5,494 429 5,923 381 6,304 0 6,304 Investments in joint ventures and associated companies 205 440 847 2,701 4,193 4 –37 4,160 0 4,160 Current-asset properties 47 14,011 20,000 34,058 –93 –287 33,678 0 33,678 Capital employed –53 11,607 19,936 5,434 36,924 5,681 42,605 0 42,605 Investments –1,829 –9,148 –8,364 –1,336 –20,677 –122 0 –20,799 0 –20,799 Divestments 595 7,517 9,043 3,102 20,257 694 –9 20,942 0 20,942 Net investments –1,234 –1,631 679 1,766 –420 572 –9 143 0 143 Reconciliation from segment reporting to IFRS Revenue according to segment reporting – binding agreement 138,001 13,264 10,226 237 161,728 1,437 –11,858 151,307 Plus properties sold before the period 9,704 2,561 12,265 0 12,265 Less properties not yet occupied by the buyer on closing day –14,070 –3,120 –17,190 –17,190 Proportional method for joint ventures –1,548 –1,548 266 –1,282 Exchange-rate differences 221 44 265 265 Revenue according to IFRS – handover 138,001 7,571 9,711 237 155,520 1,437 –11,592 145,365 Operating income according to segment reporting – binding agreement 3,546 1,605 2,336 1,818 9,305 –1,140 34 8,199 Plus properties sold before the period 1,480 482 1,962 9 1,971 Less properties not yet occupied by the buyer on closing day –2,237 –627 –2,864 –2 –2,866 Adjustment, income from joint ventures and associated companies –133 0 –133 –133 New intra-Group proﬁts 14 14 Exchange-rate differences 31 8 39 –1 –3 35 Operating income according to IFRS – handover 3,546 746 2,199 1,818 8,309 –1,141 52 7,220 114 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual Report 2017 Note 4. Continued External revenue according to IFRS by geographical area Sweden USA Other areas Total 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Construction 27,801 26,321 58,781 52,457 49,728 48,601 136,310 127,379 Residential Development 7,291 4,007 4,533 3,555 11,824 7,562 Commercial Property Development 5,010 3,481 103 4,022 4,218 2,190 9,331 9,693 Infrastructure Development 12 17 41 174 28 46 81 237 Central and eliminations 331 494 331 494 Total operating segments 40,114 33,826 58,925 56,653 58,838 54,886 157,877 145,365 The Group has no customers that account for 10 percent or more of its revenue. Non-current assets and current-asset properties by geographical area Investments in joint ventures Property plant and equipment Intangible assets 1 and associated companies Current-asset properties 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Sweden 2,084 1,962 635 590 1,312 1,210 12,704 13,124 USA 2,320 2,451 984 1,514 1,765 2,338 7,383 4,932 Other 2,470 2,424 3,897 4,200 237 612 18,923 15,622 6,874 6,837 5,516 6,304 3,314 4,160 39,010 33,678 1 Of the “Other areas” item for intangible assets, SEK 1,344 M (1,415) was from Norwegian operations and SEK 1,503 M (1,585) from UK operations. Note 5. Non-current discontinued operation assets held for sale and Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations are recognized in compliance with IFRS 5. See Note 1 Accounting and valuation principles. No operations were recognized as discontinued in 2017 or 2016. At the end of 2017, there were no non-current assets that were recognized in compliance with IFRS 5 as current assets and speciﬁed as assets held for sale. Neither were there any such non-current assets in 2016. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 115 Note 6. Financial instruments and ﬁnancial risk management Financial instruments are reported in compliance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: diversiﬁcation. As of the end of the year the surplus funds were primarily invested Recognition and Measurement, IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and with larger banks with a global presence , mainly from the Nordic region, Europe IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures. and USA. Skanska currently uses around 10 banks for derivative transactions. Skanska’s receivables from and liabilities to customers for contract work are Maximum exposure is equivalent to the fair value of the assets and amounts to not recognized as a ﬁnancial instrument and the risk associated with these receivSEK 15,903 M (16,497). The average maturity of interest-bearing assets amounted ables and liabilities is thus not reported in this note. to 0.3 (0.2) years as of December 31, 2017. Risks in partly-owned joint venture companies in Infrastructure Development are managed in each respective company. Skanska’s aim is to ensure that ﬁnancial Customer credit risk risk in trade accounts receivable risk management within these companies is equivalent to that which applies to Customer credit risk is managed through Skanska Group’s common procedures the Group’s wholly owned companies. Management of the interest rate risk in for identifying and managing risk: the Skanska Tender Approval Procedure (STAP) ﬁnancing is essential in each respective company, because the contract period in and the Operational Risk Assessment (ORA) of varying sizes and types with numany cases amounts to decades. This risk is managed with the help of long-term merous customer categories in a large number of geographical markets. interest rate swaps. These holdings are reported according to the equity method The part of Skanska’s operations related to construction projects extends only of accounting. As a result, the ﬁnancial instruments in each company are included limited credit, since projects are invoiced in advance as much as possible. In other under the item “Income from joint ventures and associated companies.” Informaoperations, the extension of credit is limited to customary invoicing periods. tion on ﬁnancial instruments in associated companies and joint ventures is not included in the following disclosures. Trade accounts receivable Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Outstanding receivables 20,684 24,360 Financial Risk Management Impairment losses –435 –545 Through its operations, aside from business risk, Skanska is exposed to various ﬁnancial risks such as credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk. These risks arise Carrying amount 20,249 23,815 in the Group’s reported ﬁnancial instruments such as cash and cash equivalents, interest-bearing receivables, trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable, Change in impairment losses, trade accounts receivable 2017 2016 borrowings and derivatives. January 1 545 1,071 Impairment loss/reversal of impairment loss Objectives and policy for the year 170 –373 The Group endeavors to achieve a systematic assessment of both ﬁnancial and Impairment losses settled –287 –187 business risks. To do this a common risk management model is used. The risk management model does not involve avoidance of risk, but is instead aimed at Exchange-rate differences 7 34 identifying and managing these risks. December 31 435 545 Through the Group’s Financial Policy, each year the Board of Directors establishes guidelines, objectives and limits for ﬁnancial management and adminisRisk in other receivables including shares tration of ﬁnancial risk within the Group. This policy document regulates the Other ﬁnancial operating receivables consist of receivables for properties didistribution of responsibility among Skanska’s Board, the Group Leadership Team, vested, accrued interest income, deposits etc. Skanska Financial Services (Skanska’s internal ﬁnancial unit) and the Business On the closing day no operating receivables were past due and there were no Units. Within the Group, Skanska Financial Services has operational responsibilimpairment losses. ity for securing Group ﬁnancing and for managing liquidity, ﬁnancial assets and Other ﬁnancial operating receivables are reported by time interval with respect ﬁnancial liabilities. A centralized ﬁnancial unit enables Skanska to take advantage to when the amounts fall due in the future. of economies of scale and synergies. The objectives and policy for each type of risk are described in the respective sections below. 2017 2016 Due within 30 days 22 9 Credit risk Due in over 30 days but within one year 1,028 83 Credit risk describes the Group’s risk from ﬁnancial assets and arises if a counterparty does not fulﬁll its contractual payment obligations to Skanska. Credit risk Due after one year 14 5 is divided into ﬁnancial credit risk, which is risk associated with interest-bearing Total 1,064 97 assets, and customer credit risk, which is risk relating to trade accounts receivable. Holdings with less than 20 percent of voting power in a company are reported as Financial credit risk – risk in interest-bearing assets shares. Their carrying amount is SEK 42 M (44). Financial credit risk is the risk that the Group is exposed to in its relationships The shares are recognized at the lower of cost and fair value. No impairment with ﬁnancial counterparties when investing surplus funds and with respect to losses were recognized on shares in either 2017 or 2016. bank account balances and investments in ﬁnancial assets. Credit risk also arises when using derivative instruments and is the risk that a potential gain will not Liquidity and reﬁnancing risk be realized if the counterparty does not fulﬁll its part of the contract. In order to Liquidity and reﬁnancing risk is deﬁned as the risk of Skanska not being able reduce the credit risk related to derivatives, Skanska has signed standardized netto meet its payment obligations due to lack of liquidity or due to difﬁculties in ting (ISDA) agreements with all ﬁnancial counterparties with which it enters into obtaining or rolling over external loans. derivative contracts. The Group uses liquidity forecasting as a means of managing the ﬂuctuations Skanska must, according to the policy, limit its exposure to ﬁnancial counterin short-term liquidity. Surplus liquidity is, if possible, to be used primarily to repay parties by using banks and ﬁnancial institutions assigned a satisfactory rating the principal on loan liabilities. by Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s or Fitch. The permitted exposure volume per counterparty is dependent on the counterparty’s credit rating and the maturity of Funding the exposure. To reduce the credit risk associated with derivative instruments, the Skanska has several borrowing programs, both committed bank credit facilities Group has also signed standardized netting agreements (ISDA agreements) with and market funding programs, which provide good preparedness for temporary all ﬁnancial counterparties with whom Skanska has entered into derivative conﬂuctuations in the Group’s short-term liquidity requirements and ensure longtracts. When investing in surplus funds the objective is to always achieve good risk term funding. 116 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual Report 2017 Note 6. Continued In 2017 Skanska reﬁnanced the syndicated bank loan. The new EUR 600 M Credit Facility has a term of ﬁve years with an option to extend it twice, for one year in each case, after the ﬁrst and second years respectively. In addition, a syndicated credit facility with a green proﬁle was established. The EUR 200 M facility has a term of two years with an option to extend it for a further one year. To extend the maturity proﬁle of the debt portfolio and secure access to USD, a bilateral loan was taken during the year from Svensk Exportkredit (SEK) of USD 100 million maturing in 2024 as well as two bilateral loans from Nordiska Investeringsbanken (NIB) of USD 50 million each maturing in 2023 and 2024 respectively. No new MTN loans were issued in 2017. Short-term liquidity requirements due to seasonal variation in cash ﬂow were covered by borrowing via the certiﬁcate program. There were no certiﬁcates outstanding as of December 31, 2017. At the end of the year the central debt portfolio amounted to SEK 4.6 (4.2) billion. The unutilized credit facilities of just over SEK 8 (5.7) billion combined with the operating ﬁnancial net assets of SEK 9.7 (10.6) billion ensure that the Group has sufﬁcient ﬁnancial capacity. 2017 2016 Maturity Currency Limit Nominal Utilized Nominal Utilized Market funding programs Commercial paper (CP) program, maturities 0–1 years SEK/EUR SEK 6,000 M 6,000 6,000 1,315 Medium Term Note (MTN) program, maturities 1–10 years SEK/EUR SEK 8,000 M 8,000 2,350 8,000 2,349 14,000 2,350 14,000 3,664 Committed credit facilities Green syndicated bank loan 2019 SEK/EUR/USD SEK 200 M 1,967 Syndicated bank loan 2022 SEK/EUR/USD EUR 600 M 5,901 5,312 Bilateral loan agreement 2020 EUR EUR 60 M 590 590 574 574 Bilateral loan agreements 2023/2024 USD USD 200 M 1,638 1,638 Other credit facilities 413 401 10,509 2,228 6,287 574 At year-end 2017, the Group’s unutilized credit facilities totaled SEK 8,281 M (5,713). Skanska Annual Report 2017 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 117 Note 6. Continued Liquidity reserve and maturity structure The objective is to have a liquidity reserve of at least SEK 4 billion available within one week in the form of cash liquidity or committed credit facilities. At year-end 2017, cash and cash equivalents and committed credit facilities amounted to about SEK 15 (11) billion, of which about SEK 12 (10) billion is available within one week. The Group’s policy is for the central borrowing portfolio’s maturity structure to be distributed over time and for the portfolio to have a weighted average residual term of three years, including unutilized committed credit facilities, with authorization to deviate within a two to four year interval. On December 31, 2017 the average maturity of the borrowing portfolio was 3.5 (2.0) years, if unutilized credit facilities are taken into account. Including interest payments, the maturity structure of the Group’s ﬁnancial interest-bearing liabilities and derivatives related to borrowing is distributed over the next few years according to the following table. 2017 Maturity 2016 Maturity After After After After Future 3 months 1 year Future 3 months 1 year Carrying payment Within within within After Carrying payment Within within within After Maturity period amount amount 3 months 1 years 5 years 5 years Maturity period amount amount 3 months 1 years 5 years 5 years Interest-bearing Interest-bearing ﬁnancial liﬁnancial liabilities 11,323 11,800 1,046 6,743 2,269 1,742 abilities 10,172 10,309 1,689 5,041 3,572 7 Derivatives: Derivatives: Currency forward Currency forward contracts contracts Inﬂow –99 –10,296 –9,924 –330 –42 Inﬂow –177 –4,342 –4,085 –255 –2 Outﬂow 97 10,292 9,920 331 41 Outﬂow 48 4,295 4,046 247 2 Derivatives: InterDerivatives: Interest rate swaps est rate swaps Inﬂow –1 –5 4 –9 Inﬂow 10 8 2 Outﬂow 59 63 24 25 14 Outﬂow 116 108 24 32 52 Total 11,379 11,854 1,066 6,773 2,273 1,742 Total 10,159 10,380 1,674 5,073 3,626 7 The average maturity of interest-bearing liabilities amounted to 1.8 (1.1) years. 118 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual Report 2017 Note 6.Continued On December 31, 2017 there were outstanding interest rate swap contracts Other operating liabilities amounting to a nominal value of SEK 3,585 M (3,836). All of the contracts were Other operating liabilities that consist of ﬁnancial instruments fall due for payentered into in order to swap the Group’s borrowing from variable to ﬁxed interment according to the table below. est. Skanska applies hedge accounting for half of these interest rate swaps. The hedges fulﬁll effectiveness requirements, which means that unrealized gains or Other operating liabilities 2017 2016 losses are recognized under “Other comprehensive income.” The fair value of Due within 30 days 494 569 these hedges totaled SEK –36 M (–68) as of December 31, 2017. The fair value of Due in over 30 days but within one year 112 interest rate swaps for which hedge accounting is not applied totaled SEK –22 M Due after one year 2 13 (–48) on December 31, 2017. For these interest rate swaps, changes in fair value are recognized through proﬁt or loss. There were also interest rate swap contracts Total 496 694 in partly owned joint venture companies. Market risk Market risk is the Group’s risk that the fair value of ﬁnancial instruments or future Foreign exchange rate risk cash ﬂows from ﬁnancial instruments will ﬂuctuate due to changes in market Foreign exchange rate risk is deﬁned as the risk of a negative impact on the prices. The main market risks in the consolidated accounts are interest rate risk Group’s income statement and statement of ﬁnancial position due to ﬂuctuations and foreign exchange rate risk. in exchange rates. This risk can be divided into transaction exposure, i.e. net operating and ﬁnancial (interest/principal payment) ﬂows, and translation exposure Interest rate risk related to net investments in foreign subsidiaries. Interest rate risk is the risk that changes in interest rates will adversely affect the Group’s ﬁnancial items and cash ﬂow (cash ﬂow risk) or the fair value of ﬁnancial Transaction exposure assets and liabilities (fair value interest risk). Transaction exposure arises in a local unit when the unit’s inﬂows and outﬂows of For the Group, exposure to fair value interest risk arises primarily from interestforeign currencies are not matched. Although the Group has a large international bearing borrowing. To limit the risk, interest rate maturities are to be distributed presence, its operations are mainly of a local nature in terms of foreign exchange over time and have a weighted average remaining ﬁxed interest period of two rate risks, because project revenue and costs are mainly denominated in the same years, with authorization to deviate in +/–1 year. Change in fair value is measured currency. If this is not the case, the objective is for each respective Business Unit on interest-bearing assets and liabilities including derivatives, partly by increasing to hedge its exposure in contracted cash ﬂows against its functional currency in the interest rate by one percentage point across all maturities and partly through order to minimize the effect on earnings caused by shifts in exchange rates. The a positive or negative change in the interest rate by half a percentage point. The main tool for this purpose is currency forward contracts. change in fair value may not exceed SEK 150 M for any of these interest rate The foreign exchange rate risk for the Group may amount to a total of SEK 50 M, scenarios measured as relative deviation against a comparative portfolio with a with risk calculated as the effect on earnings of a ﬁve percentage point shift in weighted average ﬁxed interest period of two years, which has been identiﬁed as exchange rates. As of December 31, 2017 foreign exchange rate risk accounted a risk-neutral maturity. for SEK 35 M (35) of transaction exposure before tax, which would affect other In the interest rate scenarios described above, the fair value of interest-bearing comprehensive income in the amount of SEK 27 M (27) after tax. ﬁnancial assets and liabilities, plus derivatives, would change within the range of Contracted net ﬂows in currencies that are foreign for the respective Group SEK 38–61 M, assuming that the volume and ﬁxed interest period is the same as company break down in currencies and maturities as follows: of December 31, 2017. The relative interest rate risk is SEK 8–9 M lower than in a comparative portOn Dec 31, 2017 On Dec 31, 2016 folio with a risk of around SEK 46–70 M and is attributable to the fact that the The Group’s ﬁxed interest period is shorter than the comparative portfolio’s two years. The contracted net foreign change in fair value would impact net ﬁnancial items in the amount of around currency SEK 20–24 M and other comprehensive income by around SEK 18–37 M, where ﬂow 2020 2019 SEK M 1 2018 2019 and later 2017 2018 and later hedge accounting is applied. All amounts are stated before tax. Equity would those be affected by around SEK 30–48 M taking tax into account. PLN –2,729 –102 –1,446 –155 –283 The Group’s cash ﬂow risk must not exceed SEK 150 M over a 12-month period EUR –504 –135 19 –413 54 –33 in the event of an increase of one percentage point in market interest rates. AsCZK –308 –82 –184 –58 suming the volume and ﬁxed interest period are the same as of year-end, an averUSD –19 –6 –42 –1 age increase in the market interest rate of one percentage point from the level RON –10 –9 –2 –6 at the end of the year would result in an estimated positive effect on the Group’s ﬁnancial items of around SEK 41 M for 2018. HUF 123 –417 –217 The deviation of cash ﬂow risk, fair value interest rate risk and the ﬁxed interest GBP 225 –1 –107 –23 –1 period are all within the authorized limits for the Group as of December 31, 2017. Other The average ﬁxed interest period for all of the Group’s interest-bearing assets currencies –8 4 –10 –1 was 0.1 (0.1) years, taking derivatives into account. The interest rate for these was Total 0.63 (0.58) percent at year-end. Of the Group’s total interest-bearing ﬁnancial equivalent assets, 23 (7) percent carry ﬁxed interest rates and 77 (93) percent variable interest value –3,231 –332 19 –2,621 –407 –317 rates. 1 Flows in PLN, CZK, HUF and RON are mainly related to property development project exThe average ﬁxed interest period for all interest-bearing liabilities, taking into penses. Flows in EUR are mainly attributable to Construction operations in Sweden, Poland, the Czech Republic and Norway. Flows in GBP are mainly related to a dividend as well as the account derivatives but excluding pension liabilities, was 0.5 (0.6) years. ﬂows attributable to the New Karolinska Hospital (NKS) and the construction of the panThe interest rate for interest-bearing liabilities amounted to 1.43 (1.03) percent European research facility European Spallation Source (ESS). at year-end. Taking into account derivatives, the interest rate was 1.75 (1.25) percent. Of total interest-bearing ﬁnancial liabilities, after taking into account derivatives, 33 (52) percent carry ﬁxed interest rates and 67 (48) percent variable interest rates. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 119 Note 6. Continued Skanska mainly uses hedge accounting to hedge expenses in currencies other than EUR in its European property development operations. The fair value of these hedges totaled SEK 70 M (-4) on December 31, 2017. The hedges fulﬁll effectiveness requirements, which means that unrealized gains or losses are recognized under “Other comprehensive income.” The fair value of currency hedges for which hedge accounting is not applied totaled SEK 31 M (8) on December 31, 2017, including the fair value of embedded derivatives. Changes in fair value are recognized through proﬁt or loss. Information on the changes recognized in the consolidated income statement and in other comprehensive income during the period can be found in the table “Impact of ﬁnancial instruments on the consolidated income statement, other comprehensive income and equity”. Translation exposure Skanska’s policy stipulates that net investments in Commercial Property Development and Infrastructure Development operations are to be currency-hedged since the intention is to sell these assets over time. These hedges consist of currency forward contracts and foreign currency loans. The positive fair value of the currency forward contracts amounts to SEK 14 M (105) and their negative fair value to SEK 0 M (0). The fair value of foreign currency loans is SEK 607 M (590). Net investments in other foreign subsidiaries are not normally hedged, unless the Board of Directors of Skanska AB decides otherwise. At year-end 2017, nearly 20 percent of net investments in foreign currency was currency hedged. A change in the exchange rate where the Swedish krona falls/ rises by 10 percent against other currencies would have an effect of SEK +/– 2.2 billion on other comprehensive income after tax and taking hedges into account. Hedging of net investments outside Sweden 2017 2016 Net Hedged Net Net Net Hedged Net Net Currency investments Hedges 1 portion, % investments 2 investments, % 2 investments Hedges 1 portion, % investments 2 investments, % 2 CZK 2,505 2,505 9 2,560 2,560 9 EUR 6,868 –4,324 63 2,544 9 5,843 –3,041 52 2,802 10 GBP 1,679 –255 15 1,424 5 3,577 –2,220 62 1,358 5 NOK 4,149 4,149 15 3,688 3,688 13 PLN 615 615 2 1,726 1,726 6 USD 8,912 –204 2 8,708 32 10,806 –120 1 10,686 39 Other foreign 614 613 2 618 618 2 Total foreign currencies 25,341 –4,783 19 20,558 76 28,817 –5,380 19 23,437 86 SEK and eliminations 6,506 24 3,913 14 Total 27,064 100 27,350 100 1 Hedged amount before subtracting hedged portion. 2 After subtracting hedged portion. Hedge accounting is applied when hedging net investments outside Sweden. The hedges fulﬁll effectiveness requirements, which means that gains or losses on hedges are recognized in other comprehensive income until the hedged transaction takes place, at which point the accumulated change in value is transferred to the income statement. See also Note 34 Foreign-exchange rates and effect of changes in foreign exchange rates. 120 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual Report 2017 Note 6.Continued The signiﬁcance of ﬁnancial instruments to the Group’s ﬁnancial position and income Financial instruments in the statement of ﬁnancial position The following table presents the carrying amount of ﬁnancial instruments allocated by category as well as a reconciliation with total assets and liabilities in the statement of ﬁnancial position. Derivatives subject to hedge accounting are presented separately both as ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities. See also Note 21 Financial assets, Note 24 Other operating receivables, Note 27 Financial liabilities and Note 30 Operating liabilities. At fair value through Hedge-accounted Held-to-maturity Available-for-sale Loans and Total carrying Assets proﬁt/loss derivatives investments assets receivables amount 2017 Financial instruments Interest-bearing assets and derivatives Financial assets 1 Financial investments at fair value 86 17 103 Financial investments at amortized cost 1,240 1,240 Financial interest-bearing receivables 7,562 7,562 86 17 1,240 0 7,562 8,905 Cash 6,998 6,998 86 17 1,240 0 14,560 15,903 Trade accounts receivable 2 20,249 20,249 Other operating receivables including shares Shares recognized as available-for-sale assets 3 42 42 Other operating receivables 2, 4 1,064 1,064 0 0 0 42 1,064 1,106 Total ﬁnancial instruments 86 17 1,240 42 35,873 37,258 2016 Financial instruments Interest-bearing assets and derivatives Financial assets 1 Financial investments at fair value 74 105 179 Financial investments at amortized cost 1,295 1,295 Financial interest-bearing receivables 9,593 9,593 74 105 1,295 0 9,593 11,067 Cash 5,430 5,430 74 105 1,295 0 15,023 16,497 Trade accounts receivable2 23,815 23,815 Other operating receivables including shares Shares recognized as available-for-sale assets 3 44 44 Other operating receivables 2, 4 97 97 44 97 141 Total ﬁnancial instruments 74 105 1,295 44 38,935 40,453 The difference between fair value and carrying amount for ﬁnancial assets is marginal. 1 The carrying amount of ﬁnancial assets excluding shares, totaling SEK 8,905 M (11,067), can be seen in Note 21 Financial assets. 2 See Note 24 Other operating receivables. 3 The shares are recognized at the lower of cost and fair value. Shares are reported in the consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position among ﬁnancial assets. See also Note 21 Financial assets. 4 In the consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position, SEK 27,778 M (29,759) was reported as other operating receivables. See Note 24 Other operating receivables. Of this amount, trade accounts receivable accounted for SEK 20,249 M (23,815). These were reported as ﬁnancial instruments. The remaining amount is SEK 7,529 M (5,944) and breaks down as SEK 1,064 M (97) for ﬁnancial instruments and SEK 6,465 M (5,847) for non-ﬁnancial instruments. The amount reported as ﬁnancial instruments includes accrued interest income, deposits etc. Amounts reported as nonﬁnancial items include, for example, interim items other than accrued interest, VAT receivables, pension-related receivables and other employee-related receivables. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 121 Note 6. Continued Reconciliation with statement of ﬁnancial position Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Assets Financial instruments 37,258 40,453 Other assets Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 12,390 13,141 Investments in joint ventures and associated companies 3,314 4,160 Tax assets 2,945 2,433 Current-asset properties 39,010 33,678 Inventories 1,058 1,042 Gross amount due from customers for contract work 6,997 5,751 Other operating receivables 1 6,465 5,847 Total assets 109,437 106,505 1)In the consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position, SEK 27,778 M (29,759) was reported as other operating receivables. See Note 24 Other operating receivables. Of this amount, trade accounts receivable accounted for SEK 20,249 M (23,815). These were reported as ﬁnancial instruments. The remaining amount is SEK 7,529 M (5,944) and breaks down as SEK 1,064 M (97) for ﬁnancial instruments and SEK 6,465 M (5,847) for non-ﬁnancial instruments. The amount reported as ﬁnancial instruments includes accrued interest income, deposits etc. Amounts reported as non-ﬁnancial items include, for example, interim items other than accrued interest, VAT receivables, pension-related receivables and other employee-related receivables. At fair value Hedge-accounted Total carrying Liabilities through proﬁt/loss derivatives At amortized cost amount 2017 Financial instruments Interest-bearing liabilities and derivatives Financial liabilities 1 Financial liabilities at fair value 120 38 158 Financial liabilities at amortized cost 12,161 12,161 120 38 12,161 12,319 Operating liabilities Trade accounts payable 15,638 15,638 Other operating liabilities 2 496 496 16,134 16,134 Total ﬁnancial instruments 120 38 28,295 28,453 2016 Financial instruments Interest-bearing liabilities and derivatives Financial liabilities 1 Financial liabilities at fair value 96 69 165 Financial liabilities at amortized cost 10,705 10,705 96 69 10,705 10,870 Operating liabilities Trade accounts payable 15,520 15,520 Other operating liabilities 2 694 694 0 0 16,214 16,214 Total ﬁnancial instruments 96 69 26,919 27,084 The fair value is SEK 82 M (47) higher than the carrying amount for ﬁnancial liabilities. 1 The carrying amount for ﬁnancial liabilities totaling SEK 12,319 M (10,870) is reported in the statement of ﬁnancial position along with ﬁnancial liabilities of SEK 11,481 M (10,337) from Note 27 and contingent consideration of SEK 838 M (533) from Note 29. Contingent consideration is included in ﬁnancial liabilities measured at fair value at SEK 0 M (0) and in ﬁnancial liabilities measured at amortized cost at SEK 838 M (533). During the year SEK 9 (16) M of the contingent consideration was paid out, and SEK 49 (0) M accrued as interest expense. A further SEK 265 M (0) accrued as contingent consideration. 2 Other ﬁnancial operating liabilities, totaling SEK 16,134 M (16,214), are reported in the statement of ﬁnancial position together with trade accounts payable of SEK 15,638 M (15,520) and other ﬁnancial instruments of SEK 496 M (694). The total item in the statement of ﬁnancial position amounts to SEK 38,428 M (36,080). See Note 30. Accrued interest expense, checks issued but not cashed, liabilities for unpaid properties etc. are recognized as other ﬁnancial operating liabilities. Other non-ﬁnancial operating liabilities are, for example, interim items other than accrued interest, VAT liabilities, pension-related liabilities and other employee-related liabilities. Operating liabilities are measured at amortized cost. 122 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual Report 2017 Note 6. Continued Reconciliation with statement of ﬁnancial position Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Equity and liabilities Financial instruments 28,453 27,084 Other liabilities Equity 27,185 27,506 Pensions 5,603 4,901 Tax liabilities 1,547 1,980 Provisions 7,719 6,695 Liabilities to clients for contract work 16,636 18,473 Other operating liabilities 1 22,294 19,866 Total equity and liabilities 109,437 106,505 1 Other ﬁnancial operating liabilities, totaling SEK 16,134 M (16,214), are reported in the statement of ﬁnancial position together with trade accounts payable of SEK 15,638 M (15,520) and other ﬁnancial instruments of SEK 496 M (694). The total item in the statement of ﬁnancial position amounts to SEK 38,428 M (36,080). See Note 30. Accrued interest expense, checks issued but not cashed, liabilities for unpaid properties etc. are recognized as other ﬁnancial operating liabilities. Other non-ﬁnancial operating liabilities are, for example, interim items other than accrued interest, VAT liabilities, pensionrelated liabilities and other employee-related liabilities. Operating liabilities are measured at amortized cost. Financial instruments – carrying amount 2017 2016 Assets at fair value 103 179 Assets at amortized cost 37,155 40,274 Total ﬁnancial assets 37,258 40,453 Liabilities at fair value 158 165 Liabilities at amortized cost 28,295 26,919 Total ﬁnancial liabilities 28 453 27 084 Financial instruments are measured at fair value or amortized cost in the balance sheet depending on classiﬁcation. Financial instruments measured at fair value in the balance sheet belong to level two of the hierarchy in IFRS 13. The difference between fair value and carrying amount is marginal. Disclosures on offsetting of ﬁnancial instruments 2017 2016 Financial assets Financial liabilities Financial assets Financial liabilities Gross amounts 37,258 28,453 40,453 27,084 Amounts offset 0 0 0 0 Recognized in balance sheet 37,258 28,453 40,453 27,084 Amounts covered by netting arrangements –53 –53 –61 –61 Net amount after netting arrangements 37,205 28,400 40,392 27,023 Skanska Annual Report 2017 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 123 Note 6.Continued Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value through proﬁt or loss Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through proﬁt or loss belong to the category that has been identiﬁed as such on the ﬁrst recognition date or consist of derivatives. The amounts for 2017 and 2016 are attributable to derivatives. Hedge-accounted derivatives Derivatives belong to the category “Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through proﬁt or loss.” Skanska separately reports hedge-accounted derivatives. The amounts for 2017 and 2016 are related to currency forward contracts for hedging of net investments outside Sweden, as well as interest rate swaps for loan hedges with variable interest rates. Fair value relating to hedged transaction exposure is reported under “Gross amount due to/from customers for contract work” or according to construction contracts under “Other operating receivables/liabilities.” Fair value There are three different levels for establishing fair value. The ﬁrst level uses the ofﬁcial price quotation in an active market. The second level, which is used when a price quotation in an active market does not exist, calculates fair value by remeasuring at observable exchange rates and discounting future cash ﬂows based on observable market interest rates for each respective maturity and currency. The third level uses substantial elements of input data that are not observable in the market. Fair values for the categories “At fair value through proﬁt or loss” and “Hedgeaccounted derivatives” have been set according to the second level above. In calculating fair value in the borrowing portfolio, Skanska takes into account current market interest rates, which include the credit risk premium that Skanska is estimated to pay for its borrowing. In total, assets amounting to SEK 103 M (179) and liabilities amounting to SEK 158 M (165) have been measured according to this level. The fair value of ﬁnancial instruments with option elements is calculated using the Black-Scholes model. As of December 31, 2017, Skanska had no instruments with option elements. The fair value of liabilities for contingent considerations is measured according to level three. All other ﬁnancial assets and liabilities are measured according to level two. Impact of financial instruments on the consolidated income statement, other comprehensive income and equity Revenue and expenses from ﬁnancial instruments recognized in the income statement 2017 2016 Recognized in operating income Interest income on loan receivables 6 Interest expense on ﬁnancial liabilities at cost –1 –3 Cash ﬂow hedges removed from equity and recognized in the income statement 226 1,851 Total income and expenses in operating income 225 1,854 124 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual Report 2017 Note 6. Continued Recognized in ﬁnancial items Interest income on held-to-maturity investments 10 2 Interest income on loan receivables 24 39 Interest income on cash and bank balances 55 30 Dividends 33 43 Changes in market value of ﬁnancial assets measured at fair value through proﬁt or loss 1 5 Changes in market value of ﬁnancial liabilities measured at fair value through proﬁt or loss 25 Total income in ﬁnancial items 148 119 Interest expense on ﬁnancial liabilities measured at fair value through proﬁt or loss –47 –84 Interest expense on ﬁnancial liabilities measured at amortized cost –219 –161 Changes in market value of ﬁnancial liabilities measured at fair value through proﬁt or loss –2 –3 Net exchange rate differences 23 –24 Expenses for borrowing programs –15 –17 Bank-related expenses and other 2 –24 Total expenses in ﬁnancial items –258 –313 Net income and expenses from ﬁnancial instruments recognized in the income statement 115 1,660 of which interest income on ﬁnancial assets not measured at fair value through proﬁt or loss 89 77 of which interest expense on ﬁnancial liabilities not measured at fair value through proﬁt or loss –220 –164 Reconciliation with ﬁnancial items 2017 2016 Total income from ﬁnancial instruments in ﬁnancial items 148 119 Total expense from ﬁnancial instruments in ﬁnancial items –258 –313 Net interest income on pensions –102 –101 Other interest expense 257 176 Total ﬁnancial items 45 –119 See also Note 14 Financial items. Income and expenses from ﬁnancial instruments recognized under other comprehensive income 2017 2016 Cash ﬂow hedges recognized directly in equity –5 –965 Cash ﬂow hedges removed from equity and recognized in the income statement 226 1,851 Translation differences –599 1,165 Hedging on foreign exchange rate risk in operations outside Sweden –125 36 Total –503 2,087 of which recognized in cash ﬂow hedge reserve 221 886 of which recognized in translation reserve –724 1,201 –503 2,087 Collateral The Group has provided collateral (assets pledged) in the form of ﬁnancial receivables amounting to SEK 940 M (1,021). Also see Note 33 Assets pledged, contingent liabilities and contingent assets. These assets may be utilized by customers if Skanska does not fulﬁll its obligations according to the respective construction contract. To a varying extent, the Group has obtained collateral for trade accounts receivable in the form of guarantees issued by banks and insurance companies and, in some cases, in the form of guarantees from the parent companies of customers. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 125 Note 7. Business combinations Note 9. Construction contracts Business combinations (acquisitions of businesses) are reported in compliance Construction contracts are recognized as revenue as projects progress to complewith IFRS 3 Business Combinations. See Note 1 Accounting and valuation printion. See Note 1 Accounting and valuation principles. ciples. For risks in ongoing assignments, see Note 2 Key estimates and judgments, and the Report of the Directors. Acquisitions of Group companies/operations No acquisitions were made in 2017 or 2016. Information from the income statement Revenue recognized during the year amounted to SEK 131,510 M (123,095). Note 8. Revenue Information from the statement of financial position Gross amount due from customers for contract work Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Accrued revenue 152,713 184,109 Projects within Skanska’s contracting operations are reported in compliance with IAS 11 Construction Contracts. See Note 9. Invoiced revenue –145,716 –178,358 Revenue other than project revenue is recognized in compliance with IAS 18 Total assets 6,997 5,751 Revenue. See Note 1 Accounting and valuation principles. Gross amount to customers for contract work Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Revenue by business stream Invoiced revenue 327,530 301,316 2017 2016 Accrued revenue –310,894 –282,843 Construction 150,050 138,001 Total liabilities 16,636 18,473 Residential Development 11,823 7,571 Accrued revenue in ongoing projects including recognized gains minus recognized Commercial Property Development 9,516 9,711 loss provisions amounted to SEK 463,607 M (466,952). Infrastructure Development 81 237 Advance payments received totaled SEK 2,150 M (1,771). Other Amounts retained by clients, which have been partly invoiced according to an Central 1,364 1,437 established plan and which the client is retaining in accordance with contractual terms until all the conditions speciﬁed in the contract are met, amounted to Eliminations, see below –14,957 –11,592 SEK 3,682 M (4,404). Total 157,877 145,365 Reported as eliminations 2017 2016 Intra-Group construction for Construction –317 –516 Residential Development –5,817 –4,678 Commercial Property Development –7,603 –5,426 Infrastructure Development 1 Intra-Group property divestments –179 –9 Other –1,041 –963 –14 957 –11 592 1 Construction includes SEK 9,405 M (7,220) in intra-Group construction for Infrastructure Development. Elimination does not occur since this revenue consists of invoices issued to joint ventures, which are recognized according to the equity method of accounting. Revenue by category 2017 2016 Construction contracts 131,510 123,095 Services 3,043 3,066 Sales of goods 2,296 2,061 Rental income 551 594 Property divestments 20,477 16,549 Total 157,877 145,365 As for other types of revenue, dividends and interest income are recognized in ﬁnancial items. See Note 14 Financial items. Other matters Invoices issued to associated companies and joint ventures amounted to SEK 9,454 M (7,310). For other related party transactions, see Note 39 Related party disclosures. 126 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual Report 2017 Note 10. Operating category of expense expenses by Note 11. Selling expenses and administrative In 2017, revenue increased by SEK 12,512 M to SEK 157,877 M (145,365). OperatSelling and administrative expenses are recognized as one item. See Note 1 Acing income decreased by SEK 2,642 M, to SEK 4,578 M (7,220). Personnel expenses counting and valuation principles. for the year amounted to SEK –27,933 M (–27,879). Other operating expenses adjusted for current-asset properties divested and Selling and administrative expenses 2017 2016 income in joint ventures and associated companies amounted to SEK –109,283 M Construction –7,132 –6,567 (–98,652). Residential Development –666 –559 Commercial Property Development –899 –751 2017 2016 Infrastructure Development –121 –147 Revenue 157,877 145,365 Central expenses 1 –1,033 –1,128 Personnel expenses 1 –27,933 –27,879 Total –9,851 –9,152 Depreciation/amortization –1,587 –1,439 Impairment losses –875 –534 1 Including eliminations. Carrying amount of current-asset properties divested –15,276 –11,767 Income from joint ventures and associated companies 1,655 2,126 Other 2 –109,283 –98,652 Total expenses –153,299 –138,145 Operating income 4,578 7,220 1 Personnel expenses include salaries and other remuneration of SEK 22,022 M (21,778), social insurance contributions of SEK 5,415 M (5,531) recognized according to Note 36 Personnel, as well as non-monetary remuneration such as company car beneﬁts and shares received under Seop amounting to SEK 516 M (570). 2 Other includes purchased materials, machinery rentals and subcontractors. Note 12. Depreciation/amortization Depreciation and amortization are carried out in compliance with IAS 16 Property, Depreciation and amortization are presented below by business stream. Plant and Equipment, and IAS 38 Intangible Assets. See Note 1 Accounting and For further information on depreciation and amortization, see Note 17 Property, valuation principles. plant and equipment, and Note 19 Intangible assets. Depreciation/amortization by asset class and business stream Residential Commercial Property Infrastructure Central and Construction Development Development Development eliminations Total 2017 Intangible assets –103 –73 –176 Property, plant and equipment Property (buildings and land) –88 –1 –89 Plant and equipment –1,287 –1 –6 –3 –25 –1,322 Total –1,478 –1 –6 –3 –99 –1,587 2016 Intangible assets –77 –56 –133 Property, plant and equipment Property (buildings and land) –77 –1 –78 Plant and equipment –1,194 –1 –3 –4 –26 –1,228 Total –1,348 –1 –3 –4 –83 –1,439 Skanska Annual Report 2017 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 127 Note 13. Impairment losses/reversals of impairment losses Impairment losses are recognized in compliance with IAS 36 Impairment of AsFor further information on impairment losses/reversals of impairment losses, see sets. See Note 1 Accounting and valuation principles. Note 17 Property, plant and equipment, Note 18 Goodwill, Note 19 Intangible Impairment losses on current-asset properties are recognized in compliance assets and Note 22 Current-asset properties/Project development. with IAS 2 Inventories. Impairment losses/reversals of impairment losses are presented below by business stream. Impairment losses/reversals of impairment losses by asset class and business stream Commercial Residential Property Infrastructure Central and Construction Development Development Development eliminations Total 2017 Recognized in operating income Intangible assets Goodwill –592 –592 Other intangible assets –129 –129 Property, plant and equipment Property (buildings and land) –106 –106 Plant and equipment –12 –12 Investments in joint ventures and associated companies –2 –6 –11 –19 Current-asset properties Commercial Property Development –16 13 –3 Residential Development –14 –14 Total –857 –14 –6 –11 13 –875 2016 Recognized in operating income Property, plant and equipment Property (buildings and land) 8 8 Plant and equipment Investments in joint ventures and associated companies –331 –331 Current-asset properties Commercial Property Development –198 29 –169 Residential Development –42 –42 Total 8 –42 –198 –331 29 –534 128 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual Report 2017 Note 14. Financial items Note 15. Borrowing costs 2017 2016 Borrowing costs related to investments that require a substantial period for completion are capitalized. See Note 1 Accounting and valuation principles. Financial income In 2017, borrowing costs were capitalized at an interest rate of around Interest income 89 71 1.7 percent (1.5). Income from sale of shares 2 12 Dividends 31 31 Change in market value 25 5 Capitalized interest Total accumulated capitalized during the year interest included in Net exchange rate differences 23 – 2017 2016 2017 2016 170 119 Current-asset properties 257 176 366 245 Financial expense Total 257 176 366 245 Interest expense –266 –245 Net interest income on pensions –102 –101 Capitalized interest expense 257 176 Change in market value Net exchange rate differences –1 – –3 –24 Note 16. Income taxes Other ﬁnancial items –13 –41 –125 –238 Income taxes are reported in compliance with IAS 12 Income Taxes. See Note 1 Total 45 –119 Accounting and valuation principles. Disclosures on the portion of income and expenses in ﬁnancial items that comes Tax expense from ﬁnancial instruments are presented in Note 6 Financial instruments and 2017 2016 ﬁnancial risk management. Current taxes –519 –969 Deferred tax expenses from change in temporary Net interest items differences –43 –385 Financial items amounted to SEK 45 M (–119). Net interest items improved to Deferred tax income from change in loss SEK –22 M (–99). carryforwards 68 82 Interest income increased to SEK 89 M (71), mainly due to higher market interest Taxes in joint ventures –17 –94 rates in the US market. Interest expense before capitalized interest decreased to SEK –266 M (–245), which is attributable to an increase in the volume of construcTaxes in associated companies –1 tion loans in Sweden. During the year, Skanska capitalized interest expense of Total –512 –1 366 SEK 257 M (176) in ongoing projects for its own account. Interest income was received at an average interest rate of 0.63 percent (0.49). Tax items recognized under other comprehensive income Interest expense, excluding interest on pension liabilities, was paid at an average 2017 2016 interest rate of 1.26 percent (1.21) during the year. Taking into account derivatives, Deferred taxes attributable to cash ﬂow hedges –25 –4 the average interest rate was 1.60 percent (2.04). Deferred taxes attributable to pensions 69 189 Net interest on pensions, which refers to the estimated net amount of interest Total 44 185 expense related to deﬁned–beneﬁt pension obligations and return on pension plan assets at the beginning of the year, based on the outcome in 2017, increased There was no deferred tax attributable to the category “available-for-sale ﬁnanto SEK –102 M (–101). See also Note 28 Pensions. cial assets.” The Group had net interest items of SEK –1 M (3) that were recognized in operating income. See Note 1 Accounting and valuation principles. Relationship between taxes calculated after aggregating nominal tax rates and recognized taxes Change in market value The Group’s recognized tax rate amounted to 11 percent (19). The change in market value amounted to SEK 24 M (2) and the increase is mainly The Group’s aggregated nominal tax rate was estimated at 20 percent (26). due to a positive change in the market value of interest rate swap contracts. The average nominal tax rate in Skanska’s home markets in Europe amounted to about 21 percent (21), and in USA, just over 40 percent (40), depending on the allocaOther ﬁnancial items tion of income between the different states. Other ﬁnancial items totaled SEK –13 M (–41) and mainly related to various fees The relationship between taxes calculated after aggregating nominal tax rates of for credit facilities and bank guarantees. 20 percent (26) and recognized taxes of 11 percent (19) is explained in the following table. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 129 Note 16. Continued 2017 2016 Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities Income after ﬁnancial items 4,623 7,101 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Tax according to aggregation of nominal Deferred tax assets according to the statement of tax rates, 20 (26) percent –925 –1,846 ﬁnancial position 1,757 1,649 Deferred tax liabilities according to the Tax effect of: statement of ﬁnancial position 1,235 1,491 Property divestments 1 663 366 Net deferred tax assets (+), deferred Divestment of infrastructure projects 2 219 269 tax liabilities (–) 522 158 Losses in Poland 3 –190 Change in U.S. tax rate 4 –121 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Other –158 –155 Deferred tax assets for loss carryforwards 237 167 Recognized tax expense –512 –1,366 Deferred tax assets for other assets 271 272 1 In a number of the markets where Skanska operates, the sale of real estate projects via the Deferred tax assets for provisions for pensions 1,297 1,140 divestment of companies is tax-free. Deferred tax assets for ongoing projects 713 647 2 In a number of the markets where Skanska operates, the sale of infrastructure projects via the divestment of companies is tax-free. Other deferred tax assets 1,253 1,633 3 The possibility of utilizing loss carryforwards in Poland is limited, as regards both amounts and time. Since it is uncertain whether Skanska will be able to utilize the losses within the Total before net accounting 3,771 3,859 construction operations in Poland, SEK 190 M has been charged to tax expense for the year. 4 The federal tax rate in USA was reduced from 35 percent to 21 percent at the end of 2017. Net accounting of offsettable deferred tax Deferred tax assets exceed deferred tax liabilities for Skanska in USA. The net effect of the assets/liabilities –2,014 –2,210 adjusted carrying amount for deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities resulting from Deferred tax assets according to the statement the reduced federal tax rate in USA has been charged to tax expense for the year in the amount of SEK 121 M. of ﬁnancial position 1,757 1,649 Income taxes paid in 2017 amounted to SEK –968 M (–1,205). Deferred tax liabilities for non-current assets 207 432 Income taxes paid can vary greatly from year to year for the countries where Deferred tax liabilities for ongoing projects 1,769 1,596 the Group operates. Deferred tax liabilities for other current assets 200 202 Income taxes are often calculated based on different principles to those that apply to the preparation of the consolidated income statement. If the ﬁnal income Other deferred tax liabilities 1,073 1,471 tax is less than the amount provisionally withdrawn in previous years, income Total before net accounting 3,249 3,701 taxes paid for the year may be substantially reduced. Net accounting of offsettable deferred tax The table below shows a breakdown by country of income taxes paid: assets/liabilities –2,014 –2,210 Deferred tax liabilities according to the statement of ﬁnancial position 1,235 1,491 Land 2017 Land 2016 Sweden 736 Sweden 630 Change in net deferred tax assets (+), liabilities (–) Norway 140 USA 292 2017 2016 Finland 57 Norway 79 Net deferred tax assets, January 1 158 98 Czech Republic 27 Finland 59 Divestments of companies 221 UK 24 Czech Republic 52 Recognized under other comprehensive income 44 185 Other –16 Other 93 Deferred tax income/expenses 25 -303 968 1,205 Reclassiﬁcations 290 -19 Tax assets and tax liabilities Exchange rate differences 5 -24 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Net deferred tax assets, December 31 522 158 Tax assets 1,188 784 Deferred tax assets other than for loss carryforwards refer to temporary differences Tax liabilities 312 489 between carrying amounts for tax purposes and carrying amounts recognized in Net tax assets (+), tax liabilities (–) 876 295 the statement of ﬁnancial position. These differences arise, for example, when the Group’s valuation principles diverge from those applied locally by a Group Tax assets and tax liabilities refer to the difference between estimated income company. These deferred tax assets are mostly expected to be realized within ﬁve tax for the year and preliminary tax paid, as well as income taxes for prior years years. that have not yet been paid. 130 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual Report 2017 Note 16. Continued Deferred tax assets arise, for example, when a recognized depreciation/amortization/impairment loss on assets becomes tax-deductible only in a later period, when eliminating intra-Group proﬁts, when the provisions for deﬁned-beneﬁt pensions differ between local rules and IAS 19, when the required provisions become tax-deductible in a later period and when advance payments for ongoing projects are taxed on a cash basis. Deferred tax liabilities for other assets and other deferred tax liabilities refer to temporary differences between carrying amounts for tax purposes and carrying amounts in the statement of ﬁnancial position. These differences arise, for example, when the Group’s valuation principles deviate from those applied locally by a Group company. These deferred tax liabilities are expected to be mostly realized within ﬁve years. For example, deferred tax liabilities arise when depreciation/amortization for tax purposes in the current period is larger than the required economic depreciation/amortization and when accrued proﬁts in ongoing projects are taxed only when the project is completed. Temporary differences attributable to investments in Group companies, branches, associated companies and joint ventures for which deferred tax liabilities were not recognized amount to SEK 0 M (0). In Sweden and a number of other countries, divestments of holdings in limited companies are tax-exempt under certain circumstances. Temporary differences thus do not normally exist for shareholdings of the Group’s companies in these countries. Deferred tax liabilities for future dividends from subsidiaries amount to 0 (0) because dividends from subsidiaries in the markets where Skanska is currently active do not have any consequences with respect to taxes. Temporary differences and loss carryforwards that are not recognized as deferred tax assets Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Loss carryforwards that expire within one year 1 Loss carryforwards that expire in more than one year but within three years 523 13 Loss carryforwards that expire in more than three years 2,241 1,799 Total 2,765 1,812 Skanska has loss carryforwards in a number of countries. In some of these countries the likelihood that a loss carryforward will be able to be used is difﬁcult to assess, and therefore no deferred tax asset is reported. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 131 Note 17. Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are reported in compliance with IAS 16 Property, Impairment losses/reversals of impairment losses on property, plant Plant and Equipment. See Note 1 Accounting and valuation principles. and equipment Office buildings and other buildings used in the Group’s operations are In 2017, gross reversals of impairment losses in the amount of SEK 0 M (8) were recognized as property, plant and equipment. Machinery and equipment are recognized. Impairment losses during the year and reversals of the impairment recognized as a single item (“Plant and equipment”). losses in the comparative year were recognized in Poland. All impairment losses/ reversals of impairment losses were recognized as production and management Property, plant and equipment by asset class costs. 2017 2016 Property (buildings and land) 1,610 1,855 Property (buildPlant and ings and land) equipment Total Plant and equipment 5,126 4,865 Impairment losses/reversals Property, plant and equipment under of impairment losses 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 construction 138 117 Impairment losses –106 –12 –118 0 Total 6,874 6,837 Reversals of impairment losses 8 0 8 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment Total –106 8 –12 0 –118 8 by asset class and function Selling and Amount of impairment Cost of sales administration Total losses/reversals of impair2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 ment losses based on 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Property (buildings and Fair value less selling exland) –57 –54 –32 –24 –89 –78 penses/costs of disposal –106 –12 –118 0 Plant and equipment –1,176 –1,077 –146 –151 –1,322 –1,228 Value in use 8 0 8 Total –1,233 –1,131 –178 –175 –1,411 –1,306 Total –106 8 –12 0 –118 8 Information about cost, accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses Property, plant and equipment Property (buildings and land) Plant and equipment under construction 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Accumulated depreciation according to plan January 1 3,597 3,490 21,472 21,022 117 85 Investments 27 42 1,764 1,472 85 122 Acquisitions of companies Divestments –51 –74 –97 –755 –11 –36 Reclassifications 43 29 323 37 –58 –56 Exchange rate differences for the year 17 110 –254 –304 5 2 3,633 3,597 23,208 21,472 138 117 Accumulated depreciation according to plan January 1 –1,458 –1,369 –16,424 –16,260 Divestments and disposals 0 18 55 550 Reclassifications –59 –260 Amortization of the year –89 –78 –1,322 –1,228 Exchange rate differences for the year –26 –29 63 514 –1,632 –1,458 –17,888 –16,424 Accumulated impairment losses January 1 –284 –284 –183 –180 Divestments 12 –1 0 Reclassifications 0 0 Impairment losses/reversals of impairment losses for the year –106 8 –12 Exchange rate differences for the year –13 –7 1 –3 –391 –284 –194 –183 Carrying amount, December 31 1,610 1,855 5,126 4,865 138 117 Carrying amount, January 1 1,855 1,837 4,865 4,582 117 85 Other items Skanska has obligations to acquire property, plant and equipment in the amount Information about capitalized interest is presented in Note 15 Borrowing costs. of SEK 0 M (0). Skanska did not receive any significant compensation from third For information on finance leases, see Note 40 Leases. parties for property, plant and equipment that was damaged or lost during the year or in the comparative year. 132 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual Report 2017 Note 18.Goodwill Goodwill is recognized in compliance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations. See Note 1 Accounting and valuation principles. For key judgments, see Note 2. Goodwill amounted to SEK 4,554 M (5,270). In 2017 goodwill decreased by SEK 716 M net due to exchange rate differences and impairment losses During the comparative year, goodwill increased by SEK 14 M. Goodwill amounts by cash-generating units Change during Of which Of which exchange 2017 2016 the year impairment losses rate differences Construction Sweden 49 49 0 0 Norway 947 996 –49 –49 Finland 431 419 12 12 Poland 0 46 –46 –48 2 Czech Republic/Slovakia 519 535 –16 –59 43 UK 1,468 1,578 –110 –100 –10 USA Building 333 368 –35 –35 USA Civil 400 850 –450 –385 –65 Residential Development Norway 397 419 –22 –22 Finland 10 10 0 0 Total 4,554 5,270 –716 –592 –124 The goodwill recoverable amount is based exclusively on value in use. The Czech USA amounts of goodwill together with other non-current assets, current-asset propNorway Finland Republic UK Civil erties and net working capital are tested annually. Recoverable amount, 100 100 100 100 100 100 Expected cash ﬂows are based on forecasts for the development of the conCarrying amount 1 49 21 24 7 n.a struction investments and residential development in each market in the countries where the Group has operations. Carrying amount, previous year 40 21 8 5 n.a The forecasts are based on the units’ two-year forecasts and the established Interest rate, percent (WACC), ﬁve-year business plan. Future macroeconomic development and changes in before taxes 10 8 7 8 9 interest rates are also important variables. Interest rate, percent (WACC), The forecast period is 10 years, which is the period used in models for measureafter taxes 8 7 7 7 8 ment of other types of assets, for example commercial projects. Expected growth, % 2 2 3 2 3 Using 10-year models it is easier to make assumptions concerning cycles, and there is less reliance on residual values. Interest rate, percent (WACC), The growth rate used to extrapolate cash ﬂow forecasts beyond the period previous year (before taxes) 12 8 9 10 10 covered by the 10-year forecasts is the normal growth rate for the industry in each Interest rate, percent (WACC), respective country. previous year (after taxes) 8 7 8 9 7 Each Business Unit uses a unique discount factor based on the weighted average Expected growth, %, previous year 2 2 3 3 2 cost of capital (WACC). Parameters that affect the WACC are interest rates for borrowing, market risks Carrying amount in relation to and the ratio between borrowed funds and equity. The WACC interest rate is recoverable amount, 100 in case of stated both before and after taxes. increase in interest rate by The following table shows how the carrying amount relates to the recoverable + 1 percentage point 61 26 29 8 n.a amount for the respective Business Units for Skanska’s largest goodwill items. The + 5 percentage points 122 52 49 14 n.a recoverable amount is expressed as 100. The tests are based on an assessment of development over the next 10-year period. Carrying amount, previous year, in relation to recoverable amount 100 in case of increase in interest rate by + 1 percentage point 48 26 9 6 n.a + 5 percentage points 81 49 15 8 n.a 1 Value > 100 indicates that the recoverable amount is less than the carrying amount and an impairment loss needs to be recognized. For Skanska’s operations in USA, the carrying amount was negative due to negative working capital exceeding the value of non-current assets. Goodwill impairment losses Changed market conditions for the operations in Poland, Czech Republic, the UK and in USA Civil have resulted in decisions on restructuring and impairment of goodwill in the amount of SEK 592 million (0). Skanska Annual Report 2017 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 133 Note 19. Intangible assets Intangible assets are recognized in compliance with IAS 38 Intangible Assets. See Information about cost, accumulated depreciation and accumulated Note 1 Accounting and valuation principles. impairment losses Intangible assets, Intangible assets, Intangible assets and useful life applied externally acquired internally generated 1 Dec 31, Dec 31, Useful life 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 applied Accumulated cost Intangible assets, internally generated 438 567 3–10 years January 1 1,594 1,407 552 391 Intangible assets, externally acquired 524 467 3–7 years Other investments 131 232 124 162 Total 962 1,034 Divestments –30 –1 Reclassiﬁcations –99 –78 7 0 Internally generated intangible assets consist of business systems. Externally acquired intangible assets include acquired software in USA and Finland, and Exchange rate differences for the year –19 34 0 –1 licenses in Sweden. Business systems are amortized over a maximum of seven years. Service 1,577 1,594 683 552 contracts are amortized over a period of three to six years, customer contracts are Accumulated amortization amortized at the pace of completion and patents are amortized over 10 years. January 1 –977 –948 –85 –42 Divestments 29 Amortization of other intangible assets by function Amortization for the year –108 –89 –68 –44 All intangible assets are amortized as they have a limited useful life. Reclassiﬁcations 97 78 –4 Exchange rate differences for the year 6 –18 –2 1 Amortization by function 2017 2016 –953 –977 –159 –85 Cost of sales –58 –53 Accumulated impairment Selling and administration –118 –80 losses Total –176 –133 January 1 –50 –54 0 0 Impairment losses for the year –129 Impairment losses/reversals of impairment losses on other intangible assets Exchange rate differences for the year –7 4 In 2017 impairment losses in the amount of SEK 129 M (0) were recognized. Impairment losses were applied in Poland during the year. –186 –50 0 0 Carrying amount, December 31 438 567 524 467 Carrying amount, January 1 567 405 467 349 1 Internally generated intangible assets consist of business systems. Other items Information about capitalized interest is presented in Note 15 Borrowing costs. Direct research and development expenses amounted to SEK 253 M (231). 134 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual Report 2017 Note 20 A. Subsidiaries The Parent Company Skanska AB holds 100 percent of the shares in Skanska All subsidiaries are independent limited companies, partnerships or equivalent legal Financial Services AB and Skanska Kraft AB. Skanska Kraft AB in turn directly or forms in each country. Regarding the companies’ domicile, see the Parent Company indirectly owns the subsidiaries in the countries in which Skanska has operations. notes, Note 52 Holdings in Group companies. Skanska’s Company Structure Skanska AB Skanska Kraft AB Skanska Financial Services Construction Residential Commercial Property Infrastructure Central Development Development Development Sweden Sweden Sweden Norway Norway Norway Finland Finland Finland Poland Poland Denmark Czech Republic Czech Republic Poland and Slovakia Czech Republic UK Hungary USA Building Romania USA Civil UK USA According to Note 26, there are only minor interests in non-controlling interests. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 135 Note 20 B. Investments in joint ventures and associated companies For all joint arrangements an assessment is made of their legal form, agreements between the owning parties and other circumstances. In compliance with IFRS 11, the joint arrangement is reported as a joint venture if the owning parties only have rights to the net assets. See also Note 1. Investments in joint ventures and associated companies are reported according to the equity method of accounting. Income from joint ventures and associated companies is reported on a separate line in operating income. This income consists of the Group’s share of the income in joint ventures and associated companies after ﬁnancial items, adjusted for any impairment losses on consolidated goodwill and intra-Group proﬁts. Income from joint ventures and associated companies is presented in the following table. 2017 2016 Share of income in joint ventures according to the equity method 1 386 724 Share of income in associated companies according to the equity method 1 2 4 Divestments of joint ventures 1,286 1,729 Impairment losses in joint ventures –19 –331 Total 1,655 2,126 1 When calculating the income of joint ventures and associated companies according to the equity method, the Group’s share of taxes is recognized on the “Taxes” line in the income statement. The Group’s share of taxes in joint ventures amounts to SEK –17 M (–94) and its share of associated companies’ taxes amounts to SEK –1 M (0). See also Note 16 Income taxes. The carrying amount according to the statement of ﬁnancial position and the change that occurred can be seen in the following table. 2017 2016 Joint AssociatedJoint Associatedventures companies Total ventures companies Total January 1 4,137 23 4,160 2,833 19 2,852 New acquisitions 603 603 1,661 1,661 Divestments –1,019 –1,019 –1,328 –1,328 Reclassiﬁcations –376 –376 40 40 Exchange rate differences for the year –223 –1 –224 146 1 147 The year’s provision/reversal for intra-Group proﬁt on contracting work –9 –9 –11 –11 Changes in fair value of derivatives 83 83 855 855 Impairment losses for the year –19 –19 –331 –331 The year’s change in share of income in joint ventures and associated companies after subtracting dividends received 114 1 115 272 3 275 Carrying amount, December 31 3,291 23 3,314 4,137 23 4,160 Joint ventures Joint ventures are reported in compliance with IFRS 11 Interests in joint ventures. See Note 1 Accounting and valuation principles. The Group has holdings in joint ventures with a carrying amount of SEK 3,291 M (4,137). Infrastructure Development includes carrying amounts in joint ventures totaling SEK 1,944 M (2,701). Income from joint ventures The share of income in joint ventures, excluding tax expense, is reported in operating income, because these holdings are an element of Skanska’s business. The share of income in joint ventures according to the equity method comes mainly from Infrastructure Development operations. 136 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual Report 2017 Note 20 B. Continued Infrastructure Development Infrastructure Development specializes in identifying, developing and investing The type of payment for the investments may either be based on market risk, for in privately ﬁnanced infrastructure projects, such as roads, hospitals and airports. example road fees, or based on accessibility. The concession periods for current The business stream focuses on creating new potential projects, mainly in the investments vary between 30 and 58 years and the portions owned in the current markets where the Group has operations. This business stream is focused on creportfolio are between 23 and 80 percent. At this time Infrastructure Development ating new project opportunities, mainly in the markets where the Group already has investments in Sweden, the UK and USA. has operations. Public-private partnerships (PPP) are a type of public procurement where a project company,owned by a private company, has overall responsibility for developing, ﬁnancing, building, operating and maintaining public facilities. Specification of major holdings of shares and participations in joint ventures Consolidated Percentage Percentage carrying amount 1 of share of voting Company Type Country capital power Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Joint ventures in Infrastructure Development 1 Bristol LEP Ltd 3 Education UK 80 80 6 6 Elizabeth River Crossings LLC Highway/tunnel USA 50 50 0 0 Elizabeth River Crossings Holdco LLC Highway/tunnel USA 50 50 1,236 1,703 Essex LEP Ltd 3 Education UK 70 70 12 13 Gdansk Transport Company S.A 4 Highway Poland 30 30 – 401 I-4 Mobility Partners Holdco LLC Highway USA 50 50 0 11 Mullbergs Vindpark AB 4 Wind power Sweden 50 50 – 0 NPH Healthcare (Holdings) Limited shares Healthcare UK 50 50 0 0 Sjisjka Vind AB 4 Wind power Sweden 67 67 – 138 Swedish Hospital Partners Holding AB Healthcare Sweden 50 50 677 427 LaGuardia Gateway Partners LLC Airport USA 32 32 13 2 Total joint ventures in Infrastructure Development 1,944 2,701 AB Sydsten Construction Sweden 50 50 112 102 Alley 111 Owner LLC 4 Commercial Property Development USA 20 20 – 62 SKPR 1350 Boylston LP Commercial Property Development USA 50 50 210 234 SKPR Watermark Seaport Operating Company LLC Commercial Property Development USA 50 50 184 193 Sundtkvartalet Holding AS 3 Commercial Property Development Norway 50 50 – 94 T-C/SK 400 Fairview Holding LLC Commercial Property Development USA 10 10 122 133 Tiedemannsbyen DA Residential Development Norway 50 50 79 104 Botkyrka Södra Porten Holding AB Construction Sweden 50 50 102 103 Nacka 13:79 JV AB Residential Development Sweden 50 50 98 93 Sjöstadsbo AB Residential Development Sweden 50 50 131 142 Järvastaden AB Residential Development Sweden 50 50 119 0 Other joint ventures 190 176 Total joint ventures, Group 3,291 4,137 1 Consolidated carrying amounts represent the Group’s share of the equity including results achieved, Group adjustments and deductions for dividends provided. 2 Carrying amounts for joint ventures in Infrastructure Development are affected by cash ﬂow hedges. The value of these cash ﬂow hedges amounts to SEK –552 M (–640). When joint ventures where the carrying amount is affected by cash ﬂow hedges are sold, the income from the sale will be affected as the effect of the cash ﬂow hedges is rebooked against income. 3 For the companies Bristol LEP Ltd and Essex LEP Ltd shareholder agreements exist between the co-owners stating, among other things, that key issues such as budgets and investments must be determined jointly; Skanska has concluded that this means Skanska does not have a controlling interest, despite having a high percentage of the capital and voting rights. 4 Holding divested in 2017. Unrealized development gain in Infrastructure Development SEK bn Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Present value of cash ﬂow from projects 3.8 5.2 Present value of remaining investments –0.8 –0.9 Present value of projects 3.0 4.3 Carrying amount before cash ﬂow hedging –2.5 –2.9 Unrealized development gain 0.5 1.4 Cash ﬂow hedges 0.6 0.6 Effect on unrealized equity 1 1.1 2.0 1 Tax effects not included. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 137 Note 20 B. Continued Details of Skanska’s signiﬁcant joint ventures All signiﬁcant joint ventures are within Infrastructure Development. Major joint ventures in which Skanska participates are reported below. The amounts correspond to 100 percent of each joint venture’s income statement and statement of ﬁnancial position. NPH Healthcare Elizabeth (Holdings) River Gdansk Limited Swedish Crossings Transport shares/ Hospital All joint Connect Plus Holdings Company Paworth Partners LaGuardia Other joint ventures, I4 Ultimate Holdings Ltd LLC S.A. Hospital Holdings AB Airport ventures total Income statement 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 Revenue 3,567 675 213 1,411 5,841 1,925 13,632 Depreciation/amortization 0 –79 –79 Impairment losses –17 –17 Other operating expenses –3,706 –444 –169 –1,381 –5,803 –1,446 –12,949 Operating income –139 0 231 0 44 30 38 383 587 Interest income 428 844 21 41 1,334 Interest expense –288 –313 –39 –559 –64 –1,263 Financial items 5 5 Income after ﬁnancial items 1 1 0 –82 0 5 315 59 365 663 Taxes –19 –75 –14 –108 Proﬁt for the year 1 0 –82 0 –14 240 59 351 555 Comprehensive Income for the year 1 0 –82 0 –14 240 59 351 555 Statement of ﬁnancial position Non-current assets 8,618 12,269 0 1,116 5,108 4,614 31,725 Current assets 266 386 29 10,479 3,756 2,472 17,388 Cash 380 35 797 14,518 605 16,335 Total assets 9,264 0 12,690 0 1,145 11,276 23,382 7,691 65,448 Equity attributable to equity holders 2 25 2,738 –51 1,352 55 4,300 8,419 Non-controlling interests 0 Financial non-current liabilities 8,259 9,943 1,196 9,770 21,706 647 51,521 Other non-current liabilities 584 584 Financial current liabilities 1,528 1,528 Other current liabilities 980 9 154 1,621 632 3,396 Total equity and liabilities 9,264 0 12,690 0 1,145 11,276 23,382 7,691 65,448 Skanska received the following dividend 3 15 241 256 Reconciliation with participations in joint ventures Equity attributable to the investors in joint ventures 25 0 2,738 0 –51 1,352 55 4,300 8,419 Less equity attributable to investors other than Skanska –20 0 –1,502 0 26 –675 –42 –2,920 –5,133 Skanska’s portion of equity in joint ventures, adjusted for surplus value and goodwill 5 0 1,236 0 –25 677 13 1,380 3,286 + Losses recognized as provisions 6 25 29 60 – Impairment losses –11 –8 –19 + Elimination of intra-Group proﬁt –36 –36 Carrying amount of participations 0 0 1,236 0 0 677 13 1,365 3,291 1 The amount includes impairment losses in the consolidated accounts. 2 Equity includes subordinated loans from the owners. 3 Dividend include interest paid on the subordinated loans. 138 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual Report 2017 Note 20 B. Continued Details of Skanska’s signiﬁcant joint ventures All signiﬁcant joint ventures are within Infrastructure Development. Major joint ventures in which Skanska participates are reported below. The amounts correspond to 100 percent of each joint venture’s income statement and statement of ﬁnancial position. NPH Healthcare Elizabeth (Holdings) River Gdansk Limited Swedish Connect Plus Crossings Transport shares/ Hospital All joint Holdings Holdings Company Paworth Partners LaGuardia Other joint ventures, I4 Ultimate Ltd LLC S.A. Hospital Holdings AB Airport ventures total Income statement 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 Revenue 1,845 1,238 3,009 364 306 2,317 4,607 1,595 15,281 Depreciation/amortization –47 –24 –71 Impairment losses –79 –79 Other operating expenses –1,935 –1,064 –2,547 –180 –287 –2,284 –4,601 –1,470 –14,368 Operating income –90 174 415 184 19 33 6 22 763 Interest income 300 1,007 606 738 8 2,659 Interest expense –179 –729 –448 –13 –481 –48 –1,898 Financial items 0 –558 –558 Income after ﬁnancial items 1 31 452 415 342 6 290 6 –576 966 Taxes –50 –65 –1 –37 –24 –177 Proﬁt for the year 31 402 415 277 5 253 6 –600 789 Comprehensive Income for the year 31 402 415 277 5 253 6 –600 789 Statement of ﬁnancial position Non-current assets 7,047 13,066 15,095 969 9,925 23,572 8,645 78,319 Current assets 681 513 63 900 2,164 4,321 Cash 148 76 608 720 482 2,034 Total assets 7,876 0 13,655 15,766 969 9,925 25,192 11,291 84,674 Equity attributable to equity holders 2 –38 3,406 1,337 –60 855 7 5,188 10,695 Non-controlling interests 0 Financial non-current liabilities 7,641 10,216 12,721 984 8,611 23,737 2,208 66,118 Other non-current liabilities 509 459 968 Financial current liabilities 2,629 2,629 Other current liabilities 273 33 1,199 45 459 1,448 807 4,264 Total equity and liabilities 7,876 0 13,655 15,766 969 9,925 25,192 11,291 84,674 Skanska received the following dividend 3 28 90 240 358 Reconciliation with participations in joint ventures Equity attributable to the investors in joint ventures –38 0 3,406 1,337 –60 855 7 5,188 10,695 Less equity attributable to investors other than Skanska 19 0 –1,703 –936 30 –429 –5 –3,306 –6,329 Skanska’s portion of equity in joint ventures, adjusted for surplus value and goodwill –19 0 1,703 401 –30 427 2 1,882 4,366 + Losses recognized as provisions 30 30 79 139 – Impairment losses –331 –331 + Elimination of intra-Group proﬁt –37 –37 Carrying amount of participations 11 0 1,703 401 0 427 2 1,593 4,137 1 The amount includes impairment losses in the consolidated accounts. 2 Equity includes subordinated loans from the owners. 3 Dividend include interest paid on the subordinated loans. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 139 Note 20 B. Continued Assets pledged Information on the Group’s share of revenue, income, assets, liabilities Shares in joint ventures pledged as collateral for loans and other obligations and equity in associated companies amount to SEK 1,925 M (2,682). 2017 2016 Other items Revenue 26 30 Skanska’s joint ventures are owned by Skanska and other investors. Each are Earnings 2 3 capital-intensive projects and are financed in part by capital from the owning Assets 25 25 parties, but the majority are financed via banks or financial institutions. The assets of the respective joint ventures are used as collateral for the liabilities. According Equity 1 23 23 to agreements with the banks, the ability to access bank account funds from these Liabilities 2 2 joint ventures is restricted. Skanska’s portion of the total investment obligations of partly owned joint 25 25 ventures amounts to SEK 2,677 M (3,849), of which Skanska has remaining obliga1 Reconciliation between equity and carrying amount of holdings, in accordance with the tions to invest SEK 1,183 M (1,402) in Infrastructure Development in the form equity method of accounting.. of equity holdings and loans. The remaining portion is expected to be financed 2017 2016 mainly in the form of bank loans or bonds in the respective joint ventures and in the form of participations and loans from other co-owners. Equity in associated companies 23 23 Contingent liabilities for joint ventures amounted to SEK 814 M (1,379). Adjustment for losses not recognized 0 0 Carrying amount 23 23 Associated companies Associated companies are reported in compliance with IAS 28 Investments in Other items Associates. See Note 1 Accounting and valuation principles. The associated companies have no liabilities or contingent liabilities which the The carrying amount of associated companies is SEK 23 M (23). Group may become responsible for paying. Nor are there any obligations for further investments. Note 20 C. Joint operations Skanska executes certain projects with a joint party without a separate legal company being formed for the purpose. These projects are then classified as joint operations in compliance with IFRS 11. Joint operations without the formation of a separate company are found mainly in USA. Skanska also executes certain projects with a joint party where a separate company is formed for the purpose. These projects are classified as joint operations provided that the other criteria in IFRS 11 are fulfilled. Specification of significant holdings in joint operations, according to sales in current year Percentage of share Name of joint operation Type Country capital A14 Highway UK 33 AMP6 Thames water Water maintenance UK 33 Mid-Coast Transit Constructors Public transit USA 33 Regional Connector Constructors Public transit USA 63 Skanska Burns & McDonnell ECCO III Power plant USA 55 Skanska Koch Kiewit Highway/bridges USA 54 Skanska Morrison Gas maintenance UK 50 Skanska/Walsh Airport USA 70 Skanska Ames Highway USA 60 Skanska Closner Hospital USA 85 Skanska-Granite-Lane Highway/bridge USA 40 Skanska-Traylor-Shea Public transit USA 50 SKW Constructors Tunnel USA 45 There are around 150 other small joint operations in the above countries, as well as in Sweden, Norway and the Czech Republic. 140 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual Report 2017 Note 21. Financial assets Financial investments, financial receivables and shareholdings where ownership is less than 20 percent and the Group has no significant influence are recognized as non-current financial assets. Financial investments and financial receivables are recognized as current financial assets. See also Note 6 Financial instruments and financial risk management. Financial non-current assets Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Financial investments Financial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss Derivatives 4 0 Hedge-accounted derivatives 2 2 Financial assets available for sale 1 42 44 48 46 Financial receivables, interest-bearing Receivables from joint ventures 98 204 Restricted cash 361 355 Net assets in funded pension plans 693 364 Other interest-bearing receivables 1,076 47 2,228 970 Total 2,276 1,016 of which interest-bearing non-current financial assets 2,228 970 of which non-interest-bearing non-current financial assets 48 46 Current financial assets Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Financial investments Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Derivatives 83 170 Hedge-accounted derivatives 14 7 Held-to-maturity investments 1,240 1,295 1,337 1,472 Financial receivables, interest-bearing Restricted cash and cash equivalents 4,748 7,938 Receivables from joint ventures 86 189 Other interest-bearing receivables 500 496 5,334 8,623 Total 6,671 10,095 of which interest-bearing current financial assets 6,574 9,918 of which non-interest-bearing current financial assets 97 177 Total carrying amount, financial assets 8,947 11,111 of which financial assets excluding shares 8,905 11,067 1 Shares recognized at the lower of cost and fair value are included in the amount of SEK 42 M (44). In 2017, shareholdings were affected by impairment losses of SEK 0 M (0). Skanska Annual Report 2017 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 141 Note 22. Current-asset properties/project development Current-asset properties are recognized in compliance with IAS 2 Inventories. Impairment losses/reversals of impairment losses See Note 1 Accounting and valuation principles. Current-asset properties are valued in compliance with IAS 2 Inventories, and are The allocation of items in the statement of ﬁnancial position by business thus carried at cost or net realizable value, whichever is lower. Adjustment to net stream is presented below. realizable value via an impairment loss is recognized, as are reversals of previous impairment losses, in the income statement under “Cost of production and Business stream Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 management.” Net realizable value is affected by the type and location of the property and by Commercial Property Development 23,615 19,728 the yield requirement in the market. The following table shows that impairment losses totaling SEK 0 M (0) were Residential Development 15,395 13,950 reversed during the year. Total 39,010 33,678 Reversals of For a further description of the respective business streams, see Note 4 Operating Impairment impairment segments. losses losses Total Current-asset properties are divided into completed properties, properties 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 under construction and development properties. Commercial Property Development –3 –169 0 0 –3 –169 Residential Development –14 –42 0 0 –14 –42 Total –17 –211 0 0 –17 –211 Carrying amount Completed properties Properties under construction Development properties Current-asset properties Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Commercial Property Development 3,255 3,955 13,097 7,861 7,263 7,912 23,615 19,728 Residential Development 655 631 7,750 6,955 6,990 6,364 15,395 13,950 Total 3,910 4,586 20,847 14,816 14,253 14,276 39,010 33,678 Commercial Property Development Residential Development Total current-asset properties 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Carrying amount January 1 19,728 16,650 13,950 10,370 33,678 27,020 Investments 10,650 8,103 10,801 9,005 21,451 17,108 Carrying amount sold properties –5,862 –5,740 –9,414 –6,027 –15,276 –11,767 Impairment losses/reversals of impairment losses –3 –169 –14 –42 –17 –211 The year’s provision for intra-Group proﬁts in contracting work –340 –166 –104 –30 –444 -196 Reclassiﬁcations –164 496 43 337 –121 833 Exchange rate differences for the year –394 554 133 337 –261 891 December 31 23,615 19,728 15,395 13,950 39,010 33,678 The carrying amount of current-asset properties is allocated between properties carried at cost and properties carried at net realizable value as shown in the following table. Cost Net realizable value Total Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Commercial Property Development 22,893 19,646 722 82 23,615 19,728 Residential Development 15,123 13,942 272 8 15,395 13,950 Total 38,016 33,588 994 90 39,010 33,678 142 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual Report 2017 Note 22. Continued Note 24. Other operating receivables Difference between fair value and carrying amount for Non-interest-bearing business receivables are reported as “Other operating current-asset properties receivables.” Other operating receivables are part of the Group’s operating cycle and are recognized as current assets. Surplus value Surplus value SEK bn Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Commercial Property Development Trade accounts receivable, joint ventures 0 139 Completed projects 0.8 1.3 Trade accounts receivable, others 20,249 23,676 Undeveloped land and development properties 0.6 0.3 Other operating receivables 4,558 3,122 Ongoing projects 1 7.4 5.0 Prepaid costs and accrued income 2,971 2,822 8.8 6.6 Total 27,778 29,759 Residential Development Of which ﬁnancial instruments reported in Note 6 FinanUndeveloped land and development properties 3.6 1.0 cial instruments and ﬁnancial risk management Total 12.4 7.6 Trade accounts receivable 20,249 23,815 1 Estimated market value. Internal appraisal, with valuation on respective completion dates. Other operating receivables including accrued interest income 1,064 97 Assets pledged 21,313 23,912 Current-asset properties pledged as collateral for loans and other obligations Of which non-ﬁnancial instruments 6,465 5,847 amount to SEK 0 M (445). See Note 33 Assets pledged,contingent liabilities and contingent assets. Other items Information about capitalized interest is presented in Note 15 Borrowing costs. Skanska has committed to investing SEK 1,330 M (1,173) in current-asset properties. Note 25. Cash and bank balances “Cash and bank balances” consists of cash and available funds at banks and Note 23. Inventories etc. equivalent credit institutions. Cash and bank balances totaled SEK 6,998 M (5,430). The Group had no current investments on the closing day, or on the yearearlier closing day. Inventories are reported in compliance with IAS 2 Inventories. See Note 1 Accounting and valuation principles. Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Raw materials and supplies 392 420 Products being manufactured 114 128 Finished products and merchandise 552 494 Total 1,058 1,042 There are no signiﬁcant differences between the carrying amount for inventories and their fair value. No portion of inventories was adjusted due to an increase in net realizable value. No merchandise was used as collateral for loans and other obligations. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 143 Note 26. Equity/earnings per share In the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, equity is allocated between equity Equity attributable to equity holders is allocated as follows: attributable to equity holders (shareholders) and non-controlling interests Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 (minority interests). Non-controlling interests account for about one percent Share capital 1,260 1,260 of total equity. Equity changed during the year as follows: Paid-in capital 2,528 2,231 Reserves 1,144 1,672 2017 2016 Retained earnings 22,132 22,187 January 1 27,506 24,206 Total 27,064 27,350 of which non-controlling interests 156 127 Paid-in capital Paid-in capital in excess of quota (par) value from historical issues of new shares is recognized as “Paid-in capital.” The change in 2017 and 2016 was attributable to Total comprehensive income for the year share-based payments and amounted to SEK 297 M (272). Proﬁt for the year attributable to Equity holders 4,095 5,722 Reserves 2017 2016 Non-controlling interests 16 13 Translation reserve 1,759 2,483 Cash ﬂow hedge reserve –615 –811 Other comprehensive income Total 1,144 1,672 Items that will not be reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss for the period Remeasurement of deﬁned beneﬁt plans 1 –399 –1,127 Reconciliation of reserves 2017 2016 Tax related to items that will not be reclassiﬁed to proﬁt Translation reserve or loss for the period 69 189 January 1 2,483 1,282 Total –330 –938 Translation differences for the year –599 1,165 Items that have been or will be reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss for the period –599 1,165 Less hedging on foreign exchange rate risk in operations outside Sweden –125 36 Translation differences attributable to equity holders 2 8 8 December 31 1,759 2,483 Translation differences attributable to non-controlling interests –125 36 Cash ﬂow hedge reserve Hedging of exchange rate risk in foreign operations 2 221 886 January 1 –811 –1,693 3 Effect of cash ﬂow hedges Cash ﬂow hedges recognized in other Tax related to items that have been or will be reclassiﬁed comprehensive income to proﬁt or loss –25 –4 Hedges for the year –5 –965 Total –520 2,091 Transferred to the income statement 226 1,851 Other comprehensive income for the year after tax –850 1,153 Taxes attributable to hedging for the year –25 –4 December 31 –615 –811 Comprehensive income for the year 3,261 6,888 Total reserves 1,144 1,672 of which attributable to equity holders 3,237 6,867 of which attributable to non-controlling interests 24 21 Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises accumulated translation differences from the Other changes in equity not included in comprehensive translation of ﬁnancial reports for foreign operations. The translation reserve also income for the year includes exchange rate differences that have arisen when hedging net investDividend to equity holders –3,380 –3,075 ments in foreign operations. The translation reserve was reset at zero upon the Dividend to non-controlling interests –59 –6 transition to IFRS on January 1, 2004. Change in Group structure 0 14 Translation differences for the year amount to SEK -599 M (1,165) and consist of negative translation differences mainly in USD and NOK, and of positive translation Effect of share-based remuneration 297 272 differences in the other currencies in which the Group does business. Shares repurchased –440 –793 (For currency abbreviations, refer to Note 34 Foreign exchange rates and effect Total –3,582 –3,588 of changes in foreign exchange rates.) In 2017 the translation reserve was affected by exchange rate differences of Equity, December 31 27,185 27,506 SEK –125 M (36) due to currency hedging. of which non-controlling interests 121 156 The Group has currency hedges against net investments mainly in EUR, GBP 1 Remeasurement of deﬁned–beneﬁt pension plans, SEK –399 M (–1,127), together with tax, and USD. SEK 69 M (189), totaling SEK –330 M (–938), constitutes the Group’s total effect on other The accumulated translation reserve totaled SEK 1,759 M (2,483). comprehensive income from the remeasurement of pensions recognized in compliance with IAS 19 and is recognized in retained earnings. 2 Translation differences attributable to equity holders, SEK –599 M (1,165), plus hedging of exchange rate risk in foreign operations, SEK –125 M (36), totaling SEK –724 M (1,201), constitute the change in the Group’s translation reserve. 3 The effect of cash ﬂow hedges, SEK 221 M (886), together with taxes, SEK –25 M (–4), totaling SEK 196 M (882), constitutes the change in the Group’s cash ﬂow hedge reserve. 144 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual Report 2017 Note 26. Continued Cash ﬂow hedge reserve Shares Hedge accounting is applied mainly to Infrastructure Development. Information on the number of shares as well as earnings and equity per share is Recognized in the cash ﬂow hedge reserve are unrealized gains and losses on presented in the table below. hedging instruments. The change during the year amounts to SEK 196 M (882), which is explained by 2017 2016 changes in exchange rates where forward contracts have been entered into for Number of shares at year-end 419,903,072 419,903,072 future transactions in foreign currency and hedge accounting is applied, as well of which Series A shares 19,755,414 19,793,202 as the fact that interest rate swaps have matured and been realized, which to a certain extent is countered by changes in market interest rates. of which Series B shares 400,147,658 400,109,870 The reserve at year-end amounted to SEK –615 M (–811). Average price, repurchased shares, SEK 137.31 132.18 of which repurchased during the year 2,350,000 4,345,000 Retained earnings Number of Series B treasury shares, December 31 11,190,028 10,594,644 Retained earnings include the proﬁt for the year plus undistributed Group proﬁts earned in prior years. The Parent Company’s statutory reserve is part of retained Number of shares outstanding, December 31 408,713,044 409,308,428 earnings, along with remeasurements of pension liabilities, which in compliance Average number of shares outstanding 409,447,407 409,896,419 with IAS 19 are recognized only under “Other comprehensive income.” Average number of shares outstanding after dilution 411,905,245 412,174,095 Remeasurement of deﬁned-beneﬁt pension plans Average dilution, % 0.60 0.55 In 2017 equity was affected by remeasurement of deﬁned–beneﬁt plans in the amount of SEK –330 M (–938) after taking into account social insurance Earnings per share, SEK 10.00 13.96 contributions and taxes. Remeasurement of pension obligations amounted to Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 9.94 13.88 SEK –1,024 M (–2,325) and is largely due to increased inﬂation assumptions for the pension plans in Sweden and a reduced discount rate for the pension plans in Equity per share, SEK 66.22 66.82 the UK. Remeasurement of plan assets amounted to SEK 690 M (1,303), which is Change in number of shares mainly due to the return on shares in 2017 exceeding the expected income – see Number on January 1 409,308,428 411,036,849 also Note 28 Pensions. Number of Series B shares repurchased –2,350,000 –4,345,000 Number of shares transferred to employees 1,754,616 2,616,579 2017 2016 Number on December 31 408,713,044 409,308,428 Remeasurement of pension obligations –1,024 –2,325 Dilution effect Difference between expected and actual In the employee ownership programs introduced in 2014 and 2017 the number of return on plan assets 690 1,303 potential ordinary shares is calculated during the measurement period based on Social insurance contributions including the estimated number of shares that will be issued upon fulﬁllment of the estabspecial payroll tax –65 –105 lished targets. After the end of the measurement period, Skanska establishes the Taxes 69 189 number of shares that may be issued provided that the requirement of continued Total –330 –938 employment is fulﬁlled. The number of potential ordinary shares thus calculated is then reduced by the difference between the payment Skanska is expected to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment receive and the average share price during the period. The share incentive programs introduced in 2014 and 2017 respectively are Excluding social insurance contributions, the cost of both employee ownership recognized as share-based payment, which is settled with an equity instrument programs is estimated at a total of about SEK 1,173 M, allocated over three years, in compliance with IFRS 2. This means that fair value is calculated on the basis of corresponding to 6,482,282 shares. The maximum dilution at the end of the vestestimated fulﬁllment of established ﬁnancial targets during the measurement ing period is estimated at 1.15 percent. period. After the end of the measurement period the fair value is established. This In 2017 the cost of both programs amounted to SEK 297 M, excluding social value is allocated over the three-year vesting period. There is no reappraisal after insurance contributions. Share awards earned but not yet allocated by the end fair value is established during the remainder of the vesting period, aside from of 2017 totaled 2,434,770 shares. The dilution effect up to and including 2017 changes in the number of shares because the condition of continued employment totaled 0.60 percent. during the vesting period is no longer fulﬁlled. Capital management Dividend Capital requirements vary between business streams. Skanska’s construction After the closing day, the Board of Directors proposed a regular dividend of projects are mainly based on customer funding. As a result, in its Construction SEK 8.25 (8.25) per share for the 2017 ﬁnancial year. business stream, the company can operate with negative (free) working capital. The dividend for 2017 is expected to amount to SEK 3,372 M (3,380). The free working capital within the Construction business stream together No dividend is paid for the Parent Company’s holding of Series B shares. The total with proﬁts from the Group’s operations, as well as the possibility of increasing dividend amount may change by the record date, depending on repurchases of shares borrowing through credit ﬁnancing, make it possible for Skanska to ﬁnance and transfers of Series B shares to participants in Skanska’s long-term employee investments in its own project development. In light of the Construction business ownership programs. The dividend is subject to the approval of the Annual General stream’s large volumes with differentiated risk in various types of assignments Meeting on April 13, 2018. and client demands for guarantees, such as performance guarantees in publicly procured projects in USA market, the equity requirement is signiﬁcant. It is also necessary to take into account ﬁnancing of goodwill and future investments in project development. A number of ﬁnancial targets have been established that are judged to best reﬂect the proﬁtability of the operations and best demonstrate the ﬁnancial Skanska Annual Report 2017 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 145 Note 26. Continued Note 28. Pensions scope for investments and growth. The return on equity and on capital employed Pension provisions are recognized in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Beneﬁts. is a measure of how well the capital provided by the shareholders and lenders is See Note 1 Accounting and valuation principles. being used. The target for 2016–2020 is a return on the Group’s equity of at least 18 perPension liability according to the statement of ﬁnancial position cent and a return on capital employed, calculated jointly for the business streams According to the statement of ﬁnancial position, interest-bearing pension liabiliwithin Project Development, of at least 10 percent Skanska’s dividend policy is ties amounted to SEK 5,603 M (4,901) and interest-bearing pension receivables to pay out 40–70 percent of net proﬁt for the year after tax to the shareholders, amounted to SEK 693 M (364). The net amount of interest-bearing pension liabiliprovided that the company’s overall ﬁnancial situation is stable. ties and interest-bearing pension receivables was SEK 4,910 M (4,537). The Board has determined that the Group’s equity is at a reasonable level Skanska has deﬁned-beneﬁt pension plans in Sweden, Norway and the UK. The based on what Skanska’s ﬁnancial position and market circumstances require. pension in these plans is mainly based on ﬁnal salary or average earnings during the term of employment. The plans include a large number of employees, but Skanska also has deﬁned-contribution plans in these countries. Group companies Note 27. Financial liabilities in other countries have pension plans reported as deﬁned-contribution plans. Deﬁned-beneﬁt plans The pension plans mainly consist of retirement pensions. Each respective employer Financial liabilities are allocated between non-current and current liabilities. usually has an obligation to pay a lifetime pension. Beneﬁts are based on the numNormally, a maturity date within one year is required if a liability is to be treated ber of years of employment. The employee must belong to the plan for a certain as current. This does not apply to discounted operating liabilities, which are part number of years to earn a full retirement pension entitlement. For each year, the of Skanska’s operating cycle and are therefore recognized as current liabilities employee earns increased pension entitlements, which are reported as pension regardless of their maturity date. earned during the period plus an increase in pension obligation. For information on ﬁnancial risks and ﬁnancial policy, see Note 6 Financial Pension plans are funded by securing pension obligations with assets in peninstruments and ﬁnancial risk management. sion funds and provisions in the accounts. The plan assets in Sweden and the UK are smaller than the pension obligations. Non-current ﬁnancial liabilities Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 The difference is therefore recognized as a liability in the statement of ﬁnancial Financial liabilities at fair value through proﬁt or loss position. The plan assets in Norway exceed the pension obligations. The difference is therefore recognized as a receivable. The ceiling rule which, in some cases, Derivatives 5 48 limits the value of these assets in the accounts does not apply according to the Hedge-accounted derivatives 16 68 existing pension foundation statutes, with the exception of one of the plans in Other ﬁnancial liabilities Norway and one of the smaller plans in the UK. The carrying amount of the plan Liabilities to credit institutions 2,265 611 assets was reduced by SEK 20 M (48) due to the limit in the ceiling rule. Liabilities to joint ventures 0 10 On the closing day the pension obligation amounted to SEK 23,271 M (21,803). The obligation for pensions increased mainly due to remeasurements of pension Other liabilities 1,571 2,919 obligations as a result of increased inﬂation assumptions for the pension plans Total 3,857 3,656 in Sweden and a reduced discount rate for the pension plans in the UK. The remeasurements are included in other comprehensive income and for 2017 the of which interest-bearing non-current ﬁnancial liabilities 3,836 3,540 net result was SEK 1,024 M (2,325). Pension obligations have also increased due to the costs for vested pensions and interest expense exceeding pensions paid, which of which non-interest-bearing non-current ﬁnancial liabilities 21 116 was partially offset by lower exchange rates for Norwegian kroner. Plan assets amounted to SEK 18,361 M (17,266). The plan assets increased in value due to paid-in funds and the actual return on plan assets exceeding beneﬁts Current ﬁnancial liabilities paid, which was to some extent offset by lower exchange rates for Norwegian Financial liabilities at fair value through proﬁt or loss kroner. The result of remeasurement of plan assets via other comprehensive Derivatives 115 48 income in 2017 was SEK 690 M (1,303), which is mainly due to the real return on Hedge-accounted derivatives 22 1 shares in 2017 exceeding the expected return. Other ﬁnancial liabilities The return on plan assets recognized in the income statement amounted to Construction loans to cooperative housing associations 5,961 4,839 SEK 472 M (518), while the actual return amounted to SEK 1,162 M (1,821). The higher return was mainly attributable to the pension plans in Norway and the UK. Liabilities to credit institutions 0 110 The plan assets mainly consist of equities, interest-bearing securities, mutual Other liabilities 1,526 1,683 fund units and investments in properties and infrastructure projects. No assets are Total 7,624 6,681 used in Skanska’s operations. The number of directly owned shares in Skanska AB totaled 370,000 (370,000) Series B shares. There is also an insigniﬁcant percentof which interest-bearing current ﬁnancial liabilities 7,487 6,632 age of indirectly owned shares in Skanska AB via investments in various mutual of which non-interest-bearing current ﬁnancial funds. liabilities 137 49 There are various types of risk inherent in the company’s deﬁned-beneﬁt pension plans. Pension obligations are mainly affected by the relevant discount rate, wage increases, inﬂation and life expectancy. The risk inherent in the plan assets Total carrying amount for ﬁnancial liabilities 11,481 10,337 is mainly market risk. Overall, these risks may result in volatility in the company’s equity and in increased future pension expenses and higher than estimated pension disbursements. Skanska continually monitors changes in its pension commitments and updates assumptions at least quarterly. Pension commitments are calculated by independent actuaries. The company has prepared policy documents for the management of plan assets in the form of investment guidelines regulating permitted investments and allocation frameworks for these. In addi146 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual Report 2017 Note 28. Continued tion, the company uses external investment advisors who continually monitor Interest-bearing pension liability, net development of the plan assets. The long duration of the pension commitments is 2017 2016 partly matched by long-term investments in infrastructure projects and property investments and investments in long-term interest-bearing securities. Net pension liability, January 1 4,537 3,740 The largest deﬁned-beneﬁt plan for Skanska in Sweden is the ITP 2 plan, in Pension expenses 861 763 which pensions are based on ﬁnal salary on retirement. ITP 2 covers salaried Beneﬁts paid by employers –226 –226 employees born in 1978 or earlier. The pension commitments are secured through Funds contributed by employers –571 –464 assets in a pension foundation and through insurance with PRI Pensionsgaranti. Remeasurements 1 334 1,022 The pension commitment is lifelong and sensitive to changes in the discount rate, pay increases, inﬂation and life span. Divestments 0 –123 A small portion of the ITP 2 plan is secured by insurance from the retirement Curtailments and settlements –49 –62 insurance company Alecta. This is a multi-employer insurance plan, and there is Exchange rate differences 24 –113 insufﬁcient information to report these obligations as a deﬁned-beneﬁt plan. Net liability according to the statement of Pensions secured by insurance from Alecta are therefore reported as deﬁned-conﬁnancial position 4,910 4,537 tribution plans. Contributions paid in 2017 amounted to about SEK 3 (3) M. At the 1 See also Note 26, which shows the tax portion and social insurance contributions recogend of 2017, the collective consolidated level of deﬁned-beneﬁt plans in Alecta nized in other comprehensive income. totaled preliminary 154 percent (149). The collective consolidated level consists of assets as a percentage of actuarial obligations. Within Skanska Norway, the largest deﬁned-beneﬁt pension plan is the Pension obligations Skanska Norge Pensionskassa pension fund. This plan covered almost all employ2017 2016 ees of Skanska in Norway and the pension is based on ﬁnal salary and number January 1 21,803 19,646 of years of employment with Skanska. The pension commitments are secured Pensions earned during the year 768 671 through assets in the pension fund. The pension commitment is lifelong and sensiInterest on obligations 574 619 tive to changes in the discount rate, pay increases, inﬂation and life expectancy. The largest of Skanska’s deﬁned-beneﬁt pension plans in the UK is the Skanska Beneﬁts paid by employers –226 –226 Pension Fund. The plan covers salaried employees and is based on average earnBeneﬁts paid from plan assets –364 –340 ings over the period of employment. The pension is remeasured following changRemeasurements: es in inﬂation (index-linked). The pension commitments are secured through – Actuarial gains (–), losses (+) changed ﬁnancial assets in the pension fund. The pension commitment is sensitive to changes in the assumptions 1,123 2,860 discount rate, inﬂation and life span. – Actuarial gains (–), losses (+) changed demographic assumptions –97 –155 Net liability related to employee benefits, defined-benefit plans – Experience-based changes –2 –380 2017 2016 Divestments 0 –205 Pension obligations, funded plans, present value, Curtailments and settlements 1 –49 –62 December 31 23,271 21,803 Exchange-rate differences –259 –625 Plan assets, fair value, December 31 –18,361 –17,266 Pension obligations, present value 23,271 21,803 Net pension liability according to the statement of ﬁnancial position 4,910 4,537 1 For 2017: relates to curtailments in Norway. Pension obligations and plan assets by country Distribution of pension obligations and average duration by country Sweden Norway UK Total Sweden Norway UK 2017 2017 Pension obligations 8,781 3,941 10,549 23,271 Active members’ portion of obligations 37% 48% 17% Plan assets –4,392 –4,634 –9,335 –18,361 Dormant pension rights 25% 11% 48% Net pension liability according to Pensioners’ portion of obligations 38% 41% 35% the statement of ﬁnancial position 4,389 –693 1,214 4,910 Weighted average duration 19 years 20 years 21 years 2016 2016 Pension obligations 8,086 3,984 9,733 21,803 Active members’ portion of obligations 38% 53% 16% Plan assets –4,290 –4,348 –8,628 –17,266 Dormant pension rights 24% 5% 50% Net pension liability according to Pensioners’ portion of obligations 38% 42% 34% the statement of ﬁnancial position 3,796 –364 1,105 4,537 Weighted average duration 19 years 20 years 21 years Skanska Annual Report 2017 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 147 Note 28. Continued Plan assets Total plan assets by asset class 2017 2016 Equities and mutual funds: 2017 2016 January 1 17,266 15,906 Swedish equities and mutual funds 408 379 Estimated Interest income on plan assets 472 518 Norwegian equities and mutual funds 692 682 Funds contributed by employers 571 464 UK equities and mutual funds 840 956 Funds contributed by employees 9 9 Global mutual funds 3,825 3,277 Benefits paid –364 –340 Total equities and mutual funds 5,765 5,294 Difference between actual return and estimated Interest income 690 1,303 Interest-bearing securities: Swedish bonds 925 958 Divestments 0 –82 Norwegian bonds 907 952 Exchange rate differences –283 –512 UK bonds 2,934 3,297 Plan assets, fair value 18,361 17,266 Bonds in other countries 2,197 1,180 Amounts contributed are expected to total about SEK 400 M in 2018. Total interest-bearing securities 6,963 6,387 Alternative investments: Plan assets not included in carrying amount due to the limit in the ceilHedge funds 385 970 ing rule Property investments 1,573 1,531 2017 2016 Infrastructure projects 1,844 1,626 January 1 48 1 Other 1,831 1,458 Change for the year –28 47 Total alternative investments 5,633 5,585 Plan assets not included in carrying amount 20 48 Total plan assets 18,361 17,266 Plan assets and return by country Equities and mutual funds, interest-bearing securities and hedge funds were meaSweden Norway UK sured at current market prices. Property investments and infrastructure projects 2017 were measured by discounting future cash flow. About 75 percent of total plan Equities 29% 39% 29% assets have a quoted price on an active market. Interest-bearing securities 28% 42% 41% Actuarial assumptions Alternative investments 43% 19% 30% Sweden Norway UK Estimated return 2.50% 3.00% 2.75% 2017 Actual return 4.20% 9.40% 6.40% Financial assumptions 2016 Discount rate, January 1 2.50% 3.00% 2.75% Equities 26% 38% 29% Discount rate, December 31 2.50% 2.75% 2.50% Interest-bearing securities 29% 42% 38% Estimated return on plan assets for the year 2.50% 2.75% 2.50% Alternative investments 45% 20% 33% Expected pay increase, December 31 3.00% 2.25% 3.50% Expected inflation, December 31 2.00% 1.75% 3.25% Estimated return 3.00% 2.75% 3.75% Actual return 7.90% 7.10% 15.60% Demographic assumptions Life expectancy after age 65, men 23 years 21 years 24 years Life expectancy after age 65, women 25 years 24 years 25 years Life expectancy table PRI K2013 S2 2016 Financial assumptions Discount rate, January 1 3.00% 2.75% 3.75% Discount rate, December 31 2.50% 3.00% 2.75% Estimated return on plan assets for the year 3.00% 2.75% 3.75% Expected pay increase, December 31 3.00% 2.50% 3.50% Expected inflation, December 31 1.50% 2.00% 3.25% Demographic assumptions Life expectancy after age 65, men 23 years 21 years 24 years Life expectancy after age 65, women 25 years 24 years 25 years Life expectancy table PRI K2013 S2 148 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual Report 2017 Note 28. Continued All three countries where Skanska has deﬁned-beneﬁt plans have an extensive market for high-grade long-term corporate bonds, including mortgage bonds. The discount rate is established on the basis of the market yield for these bonds Total pension expenses in the income statement for defined-benefit on the closing day. plans and defined-contribution plans 2017 2016 Sensitivity of pension obligations to changes in assumptions Deﬁned-beneﬁt pensions vested during the year –768 –671 Sweden Norway UK Total 1 Less: Funds contributed by employees 9 9 Pension obligations, December 31, 2017 8,781 3,941 10,549 23,271 Interest on obligations –574 –619 Discount rate increase of 0.25% –400 –200 –550 –1,150 Estimated return on plan assets 472 518 Discount rate decrease of 0.25% 400 200 550 1,150 Curtailments and settlements 49 62 Increase of 0.25% in expected pay increase 100 75 0 175 Pension expenses, deﬁned-beneﬁt plans –812 –701 Reduction of 0.25% in expected pay Pension expenses, deﬁned-contribution plans –1,393 –1,413 increase –100 –75 0 –175 Social insurance contributions, deﬁned-beneﬁt Increase of 0.25% in expected inﬂation 325 150 350 825 and deﬁned-contribution plans 1 –139 –131 Decrease of 0.25% in expected inﬂation –325 –150 –350 –825 Total pension expenses –2,344 –2,245 Life expectancy increase of 1 year 350 175 325 850 1 Refers to special payroll tax in Sweden and employer fee in Norway. 1 Estimated change in pension obligation/pension liability in the event of a change in the assumption for all three countries. If pension liability increases, the Group’s equity is reduced by about 90 percent of the increase in pension liability, after taking into account deferred tax Allocation of pension expenses in the income statement and social insurance contributions. 2017 2016 Cost of production and management –1,731 –1,711 Sensitivity of plan assets to changes in estimated return Selling and administrative expenses –511 –433 Sweden Norway UK Total 1 Financial items –102 –101 Plan assets, December 31, 2017 4,392 4,634 9,335 18,361 Total pension expenses –2,344 –2,245 Return increase of 5% 220 230 470 920 Return decrease of 5% –220 –230 –470 –920 1 If actual return exceeds the estimated return by 5 percent, the gain upon remeasurement is expected to amount to around SEK 920 M. If actual return falls below the estimated return by 5 percent, the loss upon remeasurement is expected to amount to around SEK 920 M. The sensitivity analysis is based on existing circumstances, assumptions and populations. Application at other levels may produce different effects of changes. Deﬁned-contribution plans These plans mainly cover retirement pension, disability pension and family pension. The premiums are paid regularly during the year by the respective Group company to separate legal entities, for example insurance companies. The size of the premium is based on salary. The pension expense for the period is included in the income statement. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 149 Note 29. Provisions Provisions are reported in compliance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets. See Note 1 Accounting and valuation principles. Provisions are allocated in the statement of ﬁnancial position between noncurrent liabilities and current liabilities. Provisions are both interest-bearing and non-interest-bearing. Provisions that are part of Skanska’s operating cycle are recognized as current. Interest-bearing provisions that fall due within a year are treated as current. Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Non-current provisions Interest-bearing 0 1 Current provisions Interest-bearing 0 25 Non-interest-bearing 8,557 7,202 Total 8,557 7,228 The change in provisions broken down into reserve for legal disputes, provisions for warranty obligations and other provisions is presented in the following table. Provision for Reserve for legal disputes warranty obligations Other provisions Total 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 January 1 950 1,085 2,938 2,678 3,340 2,669 7,228 6,432 Divested provisions 0 0 0 –4 0 –4 0 –8 Provisions for the year 600 731 1248 944 1,393 1,669 3,241 3,344 Provisions utilized –394 –547 –660 –510 –380 –859 –1,434 –1,916 Unutilized amounts that were reversed, change in value –180 –422 –309 –226 –71 –80 –560 –728 Exchange rate differences 7 19 39 –1 –5 69 41 87 Reclassiﬁcations –42 84 44 57 39 –124 41 17 December 31 941 950 3,300 2,938 4,316 3,340 8,557 7,228 Specification of “Other provisions” 2017 2016 Provisions for restructuring measures 603 470 Employee-related provisions 334 350 Environmental obligations 108 126 Provision for social insurance contributions on pensions 1 909 752 Note 30. Other operating liabilities Contingent considerations 838 533 Non-interest-bearing liabilities in business operations are recognized as “Other Provisions for commitments in i joint ventures 60 139 operating liabilities.” Such liabilities are part of the Group’s operating cycle and Other provisions 1,464 970 are recognized as current liabilities. Total 4,316 3,340 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 1 Of which SEK 838 M (533) is from acquisitions of current-asset properties. These are reported as ﬁnancial instruments. See Note 6. Trade accounts payable 15,638 15,520 Other operating liabilities to associated companies 15 0 The normal cycle time for “Other provisions” is about one to three years. Other operating liabilities 1 7,454 6,439 Provisions for warranty obligations are for expenses that may arise during Accrued expenses and prepaid income 15,321 14,121 the warranty period. Such provisions in Construction are based on individual assessments of each project or average experience-based cost, expressed as a Total 38,428 36,080 percentage of sales during a ﬁve-year period. The expenses are charged to each Of which ﬁnancial instruments reported in Note 6 project on a continuous basis. Provisions for warranty obligations in other busiFinancial instruments and ﬁnancial risk management ness streams are based on individual assessments of each project. The change in Trade accounts payable 15,638 15,520 2017 was mainly related to Construction. Other operating liabilities including accrued interest Provisions for legal disputes refer to provisions in the Construction business expense 496 694 stream for projects that have been completed. 16,134 16,214 Provisions for restructuring measures mainly include items related to Poland Of which non-ﬁnancial instruments 22,294 19,866 and the discontinuation of operations in Latin America. Employee-related provisions include such items as the cost of proﬁt-sharing, 1 “Other operating liabilities” includes SEK 491 M (538) for checks issued but not yet cashed in certain bonus programs and other obligations to employees. USA. See Note 1 Accounting and valuation principles. Provisions for environmental obligations include the costs of restoring gravel pits to their natural state in Swedish operations. . 150 Notes including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual Report 2017 Note 31. Speciﬁcation of interest-bearing net receivables/liabilities per asset and liability The following table shows the breakdown of ﬁnancial current and non-current assets as well as liabilities between interest-bearing and non-interest-bearing items. Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Non interestNon interestInterest-bearing bearing Total Interest-bearing bearing Total ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 6,874 6,874 6,837 6,837 Goodwill 4,554 4,554 5,270 5,270 Other intangible assets 962 962 1,034 1,034 Investments in joint ventures and associated companies 3,314 3,314 4,160 4,160 Financial non-current assets 2,228 48 2,276 970 46 1,016 Deferred tax assets 1,757 1,757 1,649 1,649 Total non-current assets 2,228 17,509 19,737 970 18,996 19,966 Current assets Current-asset properties 39,010 39,010 33,678 33,678 Inventories 1,058 1,058 1,042 1,042 Financial current assets 6,574 97 6,671 9,918 177 10,095 Tax assets 1,188 1,188 784 784 Gross amount due from customers for contract work 6,997 6,997 5,751 5,751 Other operating receivables 27,778 27,778 29,759 29,759 Cash 6,998 6,998 5,430 5,430 Total current assets 13,572 76,128 89,700 15,348 71,191 86,539 TOTAL ASSETS 15,800 93,637 109,437 16,318 90,187 106,505 LIABILITIES Non-current liabilities Financial non-current liabilities 3,836 21 3,857 3,540 116 3,656 Pensions 5,603 5,603 4,901 4,901 Deferred tax liabilities 1,235 1,235 1,491 1,491 Non-current provisions 0 0 1 1 Total non-current liabilities 9,439 1,256 10,695 8,442 1,607 10,049 Current liabilities Financial current liabilities 7,487 137 7,624 6,632 49 6,681 Tax liabilities 312 312 489 489 Current provisions 0 8,557 8,557 25 7,202 7,227 Liabilities to clients for contract work 16,636 16,636 18,473 18,473 Other operating liabilities 38,428 38,428 36,080 36,080 Total current liabilities 7,487 64,070 71,557 6,657 62,293 68,950 TOTAL LIABILITIES 16,926 65,326 82,252 15,099 63,900 78,999 Total equity 27,185 27,506 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 109,437 106,505 Interest-bearing net receivables/net debt –1,126 1,219 Skanska Annual Report 2017 Notes including accounting and valuation principles 151 Note 32. Expected recovery periods of assets and liabilities Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Amounts expected to be recovered Within 12 months After 12 months Total Within 12 months After 12 months Total ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 1 1,415 5,459 6,874 1,305 5,532 6,837 Goodwill 4,554 4,554 5,270 5,270 Other intangible assets 1 175 787 962 135 899 1,034 Investments in joint ventures and associated companies 2 3,314 3,314 4,160 4,160 Financial non-current assets 2,276 2,276 1,016 1,016 Deferred tax assets 3 1,757 1,757 1,649 1,649 Total non-current assets 1,590 18,147 19,737 1,440 18,526 19,966 Current assets Current-asset properties 4 19,000 20,010 39,010 17,000 16,678 33,678 Inventories 474 584 1,058 484 558 1,042 Financial current assets 6,671 6,671 10,095 10,095 Tax assets 1,188 1,188 784 784 Receivables from clients for contract work 5 5,909 1,088 6,997 4,457 1,294 5,751 Other operating receivables 5 23,843 3,935 27,778 28,110 1,649 29,759 Cash 6,998 6,998 5,430 5,430 Total current assets 64,083 25,617 89,700 66,360 20,179 86,539 TOTAL ASSETS 65,673 43,764 109,437 67,800 38,705 106,505 LIABILITIES Non-current liabilities Financial non-current liabilities 180 3,677 3,857 227 3,429 3,656 Pensions 6 249 5,354 5,603 251 4,650 4,901 Deferred tax liabilities 1,235 1,235 1,491 1,491 Non-current provisions 0 0 1 1 Total non-current liabilities 429 10,266 10,695 478 9,571 10,049 Current liabilities Financial current liabilities 5,636 1,988 7,624 4,869 1,812 6,681 Tax liabilities 312 312 489 489 Current provisions 3,409 5,148 8,557 2,791 4,436 7,227 Liabilities to clients for contract work 14,187 2,449 16,636 15,328 3,145 18,473 Other operating liabilities 36,922 1,506 38,428 35,314 766 36,080 Total current liabilities 60,466 11,091 71,557 58,791 10,159 68,950 TOTAL LIABILITIES 60,895 21,357 82,252 59,269 19,730 78,999 Total equity 27,185 27,506 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 109,437 106,505 1 In the case of amounts expected to be recovered within 12 months, expected annual depreciation/amortization has been recognized. 2 The breakdown cannot be estimated. 3 Deferred tax assets are expected to be recovered in their entirety after 12 months. 4 Recovery of current-asset properties within one year is based on a historical assessment from the past three years. 5 Current receivables that fall due in more than 12 months’ time are part of the operating cycle and are thus recognized as current. 6 “Within 12 months” refers to expected beneﬁt payments (payments from funded plans are not included). 152 Notes, including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual Report 2017 Note 33. Assets pledged, contingent liabilities and contingent assets Assets pledged The Group’s contingent liabilities related to contracting work executed jointly 2017 2016 with other contractors totaled SEK 46.8 billion (59.9). This amount refers to the Mortgages, current-asset properties 0 445 portion of the joint and several liability relating to the obligations of the joint operation in question that affect other participants in the joint operation. Such Shares and participations 1,925 2,682 liability is often required by the customer. To the extent it is deemed likely that Receivables 940 1,021 Skanska will be subject to liability claims, the obligation is reported as a liability. Total 2,865 4,148 Contingent liabilities related to joint ventures refer mainly to guarantees issued for joint ventures belonging to the Residential Development and Commercial Joint ventures within the Infrastructure Development business stream are Property Development business streams. reported as pledged assets when the holdings in the project company, which may In the Group’s other contingent liabilities, nearly SEK 1.3 billion (0.6) relates be owned directly by Skanska or owned through intermediary holding companies, mainly to obligations for residential projects. are provided as security for loans from banks or lenders other than the coSkanska selectively forms joint operations and joint ventures when beneﬁcial in owners. The comparative year has been restated according to this principle. view of project size and/or the type of commitments involved in the project. Combining expertise and resources with other construction companies is then a means Assets pledged for liabilities of optimizing project planning and execution as well as managing speciﬁc project Property Shares and risks. External partners in these arrangements are scrutinized in accordance with mortgage receivables Total the tender approval process. For more information regarding joint operations and 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 joint ventures, see Note 20 B and Note 20 C. Own obligations In December 2016 Skanska received a claim from the Maltese government regarding defective concrete in the Mater Dei hospital, a hospital in Malta that Liabilities to credit institutions 0 445 0 44 0 489 Skanska International was involved in starting in 1995. Skanska is contesting this Other liabilities 940 977 940 977 claim in its entirety, on both formal and material grounds. Arbitration proceedTotal own obligations 0 445 940 1,021 940 1,466 ings have been initiated, but Skanska has not yet formally been served with the writ calling for arbitration. Other obligations 1,925 2,682 1,925 2,682 In October 2016, Helsinki Court of Appeal in Finland ruled on the damages Total 0 445 2,865 3,703 2,865 4,148 claim relating to the asphalt cartel. The Court of Appeal denied parts of the municipalities’ claim against Skanska. One municipality was given leave to appeal Assets pledged for other liabilities, SEK 1.0 billion (1.0), relate predominantly to by the Supreme Court, while two municipalities’ petitions for leave to appeal ﬁnancial instruments pledged as collateral to clients in conjunction with contracthave been stayed. The Supreme Court has referred the case for a ruling by the ing work in USA. European Court of Justice, which is likely to delay the proceedings for one to two years. Contingent liabilities As Skanska announced in March 2015, the Administrative Council of Economic Contingent liabilities are reported in compliance with IAS 37 Provisions, ConDefence (CADE) and the Comptroller General (CGU) in Brazil included Skanska tingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets. See Note 1 Accounting and valuation Brazil in their investigation into corruption and cartels linked to speciﬁc Petrobas principles. projects. At the end of 2015 two administrative legal proceedings were initiated aimed at Skanska Brazil and twenty other companies. In June 2016 the CGU (now the Ministry of Transparency, Inspection and Control) excluded Skanska from par2017 2016 ticipating in public procurement negotiations in Brazil for a period of no less than two years. CADE’s legal proceedings are still in their early stages and are expected Contingent liabilities related to joint construction operations 46,830 59,857 to last for several years. Other authorities in Brazil have initiated legal proceedings based on the same Contingent liabilities related to other joint operations 28 28 investigations. As Skanska announced in April 2016 the Brazilian government (AGU) has ﬁled a lawsuit against seven companies, one of which is Skanska Brazil, Contingent liabilities related to joint ventures 814 1,379 and seven individuals unconnected to Skanska. The lawsuit focuses on alleged Other contingent liabilities 1,260 631 payments made by a joint venture partner of Skanska Brazil. The ﬁrst and second Total 48,932 61,895 instance courts dismissed the case against Skanska. The decision was appealed by the AGU to the highest instance and leave to appeal was granted. There is great uncertainty about how these proceedings will develop and when they will be concluded. From time to time, disputes arise with clients about contractual terms related to both ongoing and completed projects. Their outcomes are often difﬁcult to predict. To the extent it is probable that a dispute will lead to an expense for the Group, this is taken into account in the ﬁnancial statements. Contingent assets The Group has no contingent assets of signiﬁcant importance in assessing the position of the Group. See Note 1 Accounting and valuation principles. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Notes, including accounting and valuation principles 153 Not 34. Foreign-exchange rates and effect of changes in foreign exchange rates Exchange rates are dealt with in compliance with IAS 21 The Effect of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates. See Note 1 Accounting and valuation principles. Exchange rates In 2017 the Swedish krona ﬂuctuated against currencies in countries which the Group does business. Average exchange rate Change, percent Currency Country 2017 2016 2015 2016–2017 2015–2016 CZK Czech Republic 0.366 0.350 0.343 5 2 DKK Denmark 1.296 1.272 1.254 2 1 EUR EU 9.638 9.468 9.357 2 1 GBP UK 11.002 11.587 12.890 –5 –10 NOK Norway 1.033 1.019 1.048 1 –3 PLN Poland 2.265 2.170 2.238 4 –3 USD USA 8.549 8.559 8.435 0 1 Average exchange rate Change, percent Currency Country 2017 2016 2015 2016–2017 2015–2016 CZK Czech Republic 0.384 0.354 0.339 9 4 DKK Denmark 1.321 1.287 1.229 3 5 EUR EU 9.834 9.571 9.171 3 4 GBP UK 11.081 11.150 12.433 –1 –10 NOK Norway 1.000 1.053 0.956 –5 10 PLN Poland 2.355 2.168 2.159 9 0 USD USA 8.204 9.064 8.395 –9 8 Income statement In 2017 the average exchange rate of the SEK against the Group’s other currencies strengthened against GBP and weakened against the currencies CZK, DKK, EUR, NOK, PLN and USD. The stronger SEK against GBP had a negative effect on revenue in the amount of SEK –1.1 billion. The total exchange rate effect on the Group’s revenue was SEK –198 M (–1,728), equivalent to –0.1 percent (–1.1). The total exchange rate effect on the Group’s operating income was SEK –33 M (6), equivalent to –0.5 percent (0.1). See the table below. . Exchange rate effect by currency 2017 USD EUR GBP NOK CZK PLN Other Total Revenue –74 189 –1,113 196 235 370 –1 –198 Operating income 0 13 –12 8 4 –44 –2 –33 Income after ﬁnancial items 0 12 –13 9 4 –44 –1 –33 Proﬁt for the year 0 10 –11 7 0 –48 –1 –43 2016 USD EUR GBP NOK CZK PLN Other Total Revenue 846 111 –2,183 –353 115 –258 –6 –1,728 Operating income 31 6 –38 –14 5 10 6 6 Income after ﬁnancial items 25 5 –37 –16 5 10 6 –2 Proﬁt for the year 15 5 –26 –12 4 10 6 2 154 Notes, including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual Report 2017 Note 34. Continued Consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position by currency Consolidated total assets increased by SEK 2.9 billion, from SEK 106.5 billion to SEK 109.4 billion. Changes in foreign exchange rates had a negative impact of SEK –3.0 billion. The closing exchange rate of the Swedish krona appreciated against GBP, NOK and USD. Other foreign currenHedge Dec 31, 2017, SEK billion USD GBP EUR NOK CZK PLN DKK cies1 loans 2 SEK Total Assets Property, plant and equipment 2.3 0.2 0.4 1.1 0.5 0.2 0.0 0.1 2.1 6.9 Intangible assets 1.0 1.5 0.5 1.3 0.5 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.6 5.5 Shares and participations 1.8 0.0 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.0 0.0 –0.2 1.3 3.3 Interest-bearing receivables 21.1 3.4 2.2 3.8 1.1 2.1 0.0 –26.8 –0.4 2.3 8.8 Current-asset properties 7.4 0.3 11.1 3.4 1.7 0.9 1.5 0.0 12.7 39.0 Non-interest-bearing receivables 17.3 4.9 2.5 4.0 1.2 2.1 0.0 0.4 6.5 38.9 Cash and cash equivalents 1.1 0.0 0.1 0.1 0.7 0.1 0.1 0.1 4.7 7.0 Total 52.0 10.3 16.9 13.9 5.8 5.4 1.6 –26.3 –0.4 30.2 109.4 Equity and liabilities Equity attributable to equity holders 3 8.9 1.7 6.9 4.1 2.5 0.6 0.5 0.1 –4.8 6.6 27.1 Non-controlling interests 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 Interest-bearing liabilities 17.1 2.4 4.7 2.7 0.6 1.1 0.7 –26.8 4.4 10.0 16.9 Non-interest-bearing liabilities 26.0 6.2 5.3 7.1 2.6 3.7 0.4 0.4 13.6 65.3 Total 52.0 10.3 16.9 13.9 5.8 5.4 1.6 –26.3 –0.4 30.2 109.4 Other foreign currenHedge Dec 31, 2016, SEK billion USD GBP EUR NOK CZK PLN DKK cies1 loans 2 SEK Total Assets Property, plant and equipment 2.5 0.2 0.4 1.0 0.5 0.4 0.0 –0.1 1.9 6.8 Intangible assets 1.5 1.6 0.5 1.4 0.5 0.1 0.0 0.1 0.6 6.3 Shares and participations 2.3 0.0 0.4 0.3 0.1 0.0 0.0 –0.1 1.2 4.2 Interest-bearing receivables 20.1 3.0 1.8 4.1 1.9 2.3 0.1 –24.0 -2.6 4.2 10.9 Current-asset properties 4.9 0.9 9.4 2.8 1.0 0.7 0.8 0.0 13.2 33.7 Non-interest-bearing receivables 16.0 6.6 2.3 3.9 1.1 2.6 0.0 0.3 6.4 39.2 Cash and cash equivalents 0.6 0.0 0.3 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.3 4.1 5.4 Total 47.9 12.3 15.1 13.5 5.2 6.1 0.9 –23.5 –2.6 31.6 106.5 Equity and liabilities Equity attributable to equity holders 3 11.7 3.6 5.8 3.7 2.6 1.7 0.5 0.0 –5.4 3.2 27.4 Non-controlling interests 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.2 Interest-bearing liabilities 10.1 3.2 4.5 2.5 0.1 0.8 0.1 –24.0 2.8 15.0 15.1 Non-interest-bearing liabilities 26.1 5.5 4.8 7.3 2.4 3.6 0.3 0.4 13.4 63.8 Total 47.9 12.3 15.1 13.5 5.2 6.1 0.9 –23.5 –2.6 31.6 106.5 1 Including elimination of intra-Group receivables and liabilities. 2 Amounts refer to hedges before tax deduction. Net investments abroad are currency-hedged to a certain extent through foreign currency loans and currency forward contracts – see also Note 6. Hedging of net investments through foreign currency loans in EUR and GBP amounts to 4.4 billion (2.8). Hedging of net investments through currency forward contracts amounts to SEK 0.4 billion (2.6), which breaks down as USD 0.2 (0.1), EUR 0.0 (0.3) and GBP 0.2 (2.2). 3 The respective currencies are calculated including goodwill on consolidation and the net amount of Group surpluses after deducting deferred taxes. Effect on the Group of a change in SEK against other currencies and change in USD against SEK Of which USD The following sensitivity analysis, based on the 2017 income statement and SEK bn +/– 10% +/– 10% statement of ﬁnancial position, shows the sensitivity of the Group to a unilateral Revenue +/– 12.2 +/– 6.2 10 percent change in SEK against all currencies, as well as a unilateral 10 percent Operating income +/– 0.0 +/– 0.0 change in USD against SEK (+ indicates a weakening of the Swedish krona, – indiEquity +/– 2.2 +/– 0.9 cates a strengthening of the Swedish krona). Net receivables/net liabilities +/– 0.2 +/– 0.5 Other items For information on the change in the translation reserve in equity, see Note 26 Equity/earnings per share. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Notes, including accounting and valuation principles 155 Note 35. Cash ﬂow statement Aside from the cash ﬂow statement prepared in compliance with IAS 7 Statement Information about assets and liabilities in divested Group companies/ of Cash Flows, Skanska prepares a cash ﬂow statement based on the operations businesses carried out by the respective business streams. This cash ﬂow statement is called 2017 2016 the “Consolidated operating cash ﬂow statement.” The connection between the Assets respective cash ﬂow statements is explained below. Intangible assets –67 Property, plant and equipment –39 Adjustments for items not included in cash flow Shares and participations –22 2017 2016 Interest-bearing assets –689 Depreciation/amortization and impairment losses/reversals of impairment losses 2,462 1,973 Non-interest-bearing assets –698 Income from divestments of non-current assets Total 0 –1,515 and current-asset properties –5,323 –4,936 Income after ﬁnancial items from joint ventures Liabilities and associated companies –388 –728 Interest-bearing liabilities –26 Dividends from joint ventures and associated Non-interest-bearing liabilities –905 companies 256 358 Total 0 –931 Provision for the year, intra-Group proﬁts on contracting work 452 207 Consideration 961 Pensions recognized as expenses but not related Cash and cash equivalents in divested companies –99 to payments 710 600 Effect on cash and cash equivalents, divestment 0 862 Pensions paid –590 –566 Cost of Seop 297 272 No Group companies were divested in 2017. Group companies divested in 2016 Gain on joint ventures divested –1,362 –1,774 provided a proﬁt of SEK 268 M. This is recognized under costs of production and Other items that have not affected cash ﬂow management. In 2016 the divestments constituted 100 percent of the holdings in from operating activities –35 –324 the respective Group companies. Total –3,521 –4,918 Relation between consolidated operating cash ﬂow statement and Taxes paid consolidated cash ﬂow statement Taxes paid are divided into operating activities, investing activities and ﬁnancing The difference between the consolidated operating cash ﬂow statement and the activities. consolidated cash ﬂow statement in compliance with IAS 7 Total taxes paid for the Group during the year amounted to SEK –968 M Statement of Cash Flows is presented below. (–1,205). The consolidated cash ﬂow statement prepared in compliance with IAS 7 recognizes cash ﬂow divided into: Information about interest and dividends Cash ﬂow from operating activities 2017 2016 Cash ﬂow from investing activities Interest income received during the year 87 69 Cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities Interest payments made during the year –237 –243 Dividend received during the year 287 389 The consolidated operating cash ﬂow statement recognizes cash ﬂow divided into: Cash and cash equivalents Cash ﬂow from business operations Cash and cash equivalents in the cash ﬂow statement consist of cash and bank Cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities balances as well as short-term investments. The deﬁnition of cash and bank balCash ﬂow from strategic investments ances in the statement of ﬁnancial position can be found in Note 1 Accounting Dividend etc. and valuation principles. Change in interest-bearing receivables and liabilities The same rule that has been used in determining cash and cash equivalents in the statement of ﬁnancial position has been used in determining cash and cash The consolidated operating cash ﬂow statement refers to operating activities as equivalents according to the cash ﬂow statement. Only amounts that can be used “business operations.” Unlike the cash ﬂow statement in compliance with IAS 7, without restrictions are recognized as cash and bank balances. “business operations” also includes net investments, which are regarded as an element of business operations together with tax payments on these. Such net investments are net investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible 2017 2016 non-current assets as well as net investments in Infrastructure Development. Cash and bank balances 6,998 5,430 Investments of a strategic nature are recognized under cash ﬂow from strategic Total 6,998 5,430 investments. Under cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities, the operating cash ﬂow statement Other items recognizes only interest and other ﬁnancial items as well as taxes paid on these. At year-end, the Group’s unutilized credit facilities amounted to SEK 8,281 M Dividends are recognized separately. Loans provided and repayment of loans are (5,713). also recognized separately along with changes in interest-bearing receivables at the bottom of the operating cash ﬂow statement, resulting in a subtotal in that statement that shows cash ﬂow before changes in interest-bearing receivables and liabilities. 156 Notes, including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual Report 2017 Note 35. Continued Cash flow for the year Relation between the Group’s investments in the cash ﬂow statement and investments in the operating cash ﬂow statement 2017 2016 Total net investments are recognized in the cash ﬂow statement divided into Cash ﬂow from business operations including operating activities and investing activities, taking into account the settlement of taxes paid according to operating cash ﬂow 2,702 –1,078 payments for investments and divestments. Less net investments in property, plant and Purchases and sales of current-asset properties are recognized under operating equipment and intangible assets 112 160 activities, while other net investments are recognized under investing activities. Less tax payments on property, plant and equipment and intangible assets divested and divestment of assets in Infrastructure Development 32 35 2017 2016 Cash ﬂow from operating activities 2,846 –883 Net investments in operating activities –1,217 –655 Net investments in investing activities –112 702 Cash ﬂow from strategic investments according to operating cash ﬂow 0 862 –1,329 47 Net investments in property, plant and equipLess accrual adjustments, cash ﬂow effect of ment and intangible assets –112 –160 investments 243 96 Increase and decrease in interest-bearing Total net investments –1,086 143 receivables 1,734 –2,260 The consolidated operating cash ﬂow statement recognizes net investments Taxes paid on property, plant and equipment and divided into net investments in operations and strategic net investments as folintangible assets divested and assets in Infrastruclows. ture Development –32 –35 Cash ﬂow from investing activities 1,590 –1,593 Investments/divestments 2017 2016 Cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities according to operating cash ﬂow statement, including Operations – investments changes in interest-bearing receivables and Intangible assets –255 –394 liabilities 2,796 –2,476 Property, plant and equipment –1,876 –1,636 Increase and decrease in interest-bearing liabilities –1,734 2,260 Assets in Infrastructure Development –449 –1,336 Dividend etc. 1 –3,879 –3,874 Shares –154 –325 Cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities –2,817 –4,090 Current-asset properties –21,451 –17,108 Cash ﬂow for the year 1,619 –6,566 of which Residential Development –10,801 –9,005 1 Of which repurchases of shares –440 –793 of which Commercial Property Development –10,650 –8,103 –24,185 –20,799 Operations – divestments Intangible assets 1 2 Property, plant and equipment 213 411 Assets in Infrastructure Development 1,950 3,102 Shares 458 16 Current-asset properties 20,477 16,549 of which Residential Development 11,767 7,508 of which Commercial Property Development 8,710 9,041 23,099 20,080 Net investments in operations –1,086 –719 Strategic divestments Divestments of businesses 0 862 Net strategic investments 0 862 Total net investments –1,086 143 The change in interest-bearing liabilities belonging to ﬁnancing activities is presented in the following table. Interest-bearing liabilities 2017 2016 January 1 10,172 10,184 Items affecting cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities 885 –140 Exchange rate differences 266 128 December 31 11,323 10,172 Skanska Annual Report 2017 Notes, including accounting and valuation principles 157 Note 36. Personnel Wages, salaries, other remuneration and social insurance contributions 2017 2016 Wages, salaries and other remuneration Board members, Presidents, Executive Vice Presidents and other executive team members 1 554 588 of which variable remuneration 213 223 Other employees 21,448 21,190 Total wages, salary and other remuneration 22,002 21,778 Social insurance contributions 5,415 5,531 of which pension expenses 2,130 2,144 1 The amount related to Board members, Presidents, Executive Vice Presidents and other executive team members includes remuneration to former Board members, Presidents and Executive Vice Presidents in all Group companies during the ﬁnancial year. Of the Group’s total pension expenses, SEK 49 M (52) relates to Board members, Presidents, Executive Vice Presidents and other executive team members. The amount includes remuneration to former Board members, Presidents and Executive Vice Presidents. Average number of employees Personnel is calculated as the average number of employees. See Note 1 Accounting and valuation principles of whom of whom of whom of whom 2017 men % women % 2016 men % women % Sweden 9,304 7,500 81 1,804 19 10,158 8,476 83 1,682 17 Norway 3,867 3,472 90 395 10 3,864 3,482 90 382 10 Denmark 15 10 67 5 33 18 11 61 7 39 Finland 2,091 1,740 83 351 17 2,056 1,760 86 296 14 UK 5,813 4,586 79 1,227 21 5,617 4,387 78 1,230 22 Poland 5,598 4,378 78 1,220 22 6,892 5,396 78 1,496 22 Czech Republic 3,039 2,528 83 511 17 3,141 2,626 84 515 16 Slovakia 838 718 86 120 14 790 656 83 134 17 USA 9,350 7,975 85 1,375 15 9,276 7,941 86 1,335 14 Other countries 844 775 92 69 8 1,091 1,023 94 68 6 Total 40,759 33,682 83 7,077 17 42,903 35,758 83 7,145 17 The number of employees as of December 31, 2017 was 40,400 (40,642). Men and women on Boards of Directors and in executive teams on closing day of whom of whom of whom of whom 2017 men women 2016 men women Number of Board members 193 84% 16% 206 86% 14% Number of Presidents and members of executive teams in Business Units 191 77% 23% 189 80% 20% Other items No loans, assets pledged or contingent liabilities have been provided for the beneﬁt of any Board member or President within the Group. 158 Notes, including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual Report 2017 Note 37. Remuneration to senior executives and Board members alignment between the interests of the executive and of the company’s shareThe Senior Executive Team consisted of the President and CEO and the eight holders. The terms of variable remuneration should be designed in such a way Executive Vice Presidents. Of these nine individuals at the end of 2017, three were that if exceptional economic conditions exist, the Board has the ability to limit or women and six were men. refrain from paying variable remuneration if such payment is deemed unreasonSenior executives are deﬁned as the members of the Senior Executive Team. able and incompatible with the company’s general responsibility to shareholders, employees and other stakeholders. With respect to the annual bonus, the Board Preparation and decision-making processes has the possibility of limiting or refraining from paying this variable remuneration Principles for senior executive remuneration are established annually by the Anif it deems such action reasonable for other reasons. nual General Meeting. Salary and other beneﬁts for the President and CEO are If a Board member performs work on behalf of the company in addition to his established by the Board of Directors of Skanska AB following recommendations or her Board duties, a consultant fee and other compensation for such work may from the Board’s Compensation Committee. The Committee sets salaries, variable be payable. remuneration and other beneﬁts for the senior executives. The President and CEO In case of termination or resignation, the normal notice period is six months regularly informs the Compensation Committee about the salaries, variable remucombined with severance pay equivalent to a maximum of 18 months of ﬁxed salneration and other beneﬁts of the heads of Group Staff Units and Business Units. ary or, alternatively, a notice period of a maximum of 24 months. In 2017 the Compensation Committee consisted of Hans Biörck, Chairman of the Pension beneﬁts are to be either deﬁned-beneﬁt or deﬁned-contribution plans, Board, and Board members Pär Boman, Jayne McGivern and John Carrig. The or a combination of both, and entitle the executive to receive an occupational Compensation Committee met seven times during the year. The Annual General pension from the age of 65. In individual cases, however, the retirement age may Meeting approves the directors’ fees and remuneration for committee work for be as low as 60. To earn full deﬁned-beneﬁt pension, the individual is required members of the Board, following recommendations from the Nomination Comto have been employed for as long a period as is required under the company’s mittee. general pension plan in each respective country. Variable remuneration is not pensionable except in cases where this is stipulated in the rules for a general Senior executive remuneration pension plan (e.g. Sweden’s ITP occupational pension plan.) Principles for remuneration The Board of Directors may deviate from these guidelines if there are special The 2017 Annual General Meeting approved the following guidelines for salaries reasons to do so in an individual case. and other remuneration for senior executives: The President and CEO’s salary and other remuneration are reviewed by the Remuneration for senior executives of Skanska AB is to consist of a ﬁxed salary, Compensation Committee in preparation for decisions by the Board. The salary possible variable remuneration, other customary beneﬁts and pension. The senior and other remuneration for other senior executives are determined by the executives include the President and CEO and the other members of the Senior Compensation Committee. Executive Team. The combined remuneration for each executive must be market-based and competitive in the job market in which the executive works, and outstanding Targets and performance relating to variable remuneration Variable remuneration may consist of two parts: annual variable salary, which is performance should be reﬂected in the total remuneration package. cash based, and the share incentive program, which provides compensation in the Fixed salary and variable remuneration are to be linked to the level of responform of shares. sibility and authority of the senior executive. The variable remuneration is to be The long-term share programs are described in the sections under the headings payable in cash and/or shares, and it is to have a ceiling and be related to the ﬁxed “Long-term share programs” and “Previous long-term share programs” in this salary. To receive shares a three-year vesting period is required and the shares are note. The table below presents, by business stream, the starting point and outto be part of a long-term incentive program. Variable remuneration is to be based perform targets that were decided by the Board for the 2017 cash-based variable on performance in relation to established targets and designed to achieve better remuneration. Financial targets for variable salary components 2017 Percentage Measure of earnings Starting Point Outperform Outcome fulﬁlled 2 Group Income after ﬁnancial items, SEK bn1 4.9 7.1 5.7 33% Construction Operating income, SEK bn 2.8 4.7 1.2 50% Skanska Value Added, SEK bn 3 3.5 5.2 2.3 58% Residential Development 4 Operating income, SEK bn 0.9 1.4 1.7 98% Return on capital employed, % 8 12 18 100% Commercial Property Development Operating income, SEK bn 1.2 1.9 2.7 98% Return on capital employed, %5 7 11 15 92% Leasing, thousands of sq m 168 331 434 100% Infrastructure Development Operating income, SEK bn 0.8 0.9 0.9 100% Project development, %6 0 100 63 63% 1 The income excludes eliminations at the Group level. The outperform target at the Group level constitutes 95 percent of the Business stream’s total outperform target and the starting point target constitutes 105 percent of the Business stream’s total starting point target. 2 Percentage fulﬁlled is based on the outcomes for the respective Business Units, which are weighed together. As the amount fulﬁlled per Business Unit must be at least 0 percent, negative earnings from the Business Units may affect the comparison with the Business stream’s total earnings. 3 The Skanska Value Added (SVA) target corresponds to operating income less cost of capital employed. Cost of capital refers to the estimated cost of borrowed capital and equity before tax. 4 Residential Development in Central Europe as well as BoKlok are also measured according to the number of sold units. Rental properties are also measured according to the number of units started. 5 Including unrealized development gains and changes in market value. Encompasses the Commercial Property Development Business Units in the Nordics, Europe and USA. 6 Includes targets for project development in Europe and USA as well as asset management and divestments. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Notes, including accounting and valuation principles 159 Not 37. Continued In addition to the ﬁnancial performance targets, the senior executives have nonPension beneﬁts ﬁnancial targets that may reduce the outcome measured only according to the The retirement age of the senior executives is 62 to 65 years. Employees in Sweﬁnancial targets. The non-ﬁnancial targets mainly relate to strategic initiatives den are entitled to pension benefits according to the ITP occupational pension linked to the business plan. The outcome is reduced in cases where the operations plan. The ITP plan encompasses the defined-contribution ITP 1 pension system for which the person is responsible have not reached the non-ﬁnancial targets. and the deﬁned-beneﬁt ITP 2 pension system. Employees outside Sweden are Annual variable remuneration for the senior executives, excluding the Presicovered by local pension plans. The ITP 1 contribution is 4.5 percent of gross cash dent and CEO, is mainly tied to the Group targets and/or to the Business Units salary up to 7.5 base amounts of income per year and 30 percent of gross cash salthey are directly responsible for. The non-ﬁnancial targets are connected to the ary above that. The deﬁned-beneﬁt ITP 2 plan guarantees a lifetime pension from Business Units and/or operations for which the senior executives are responsible age 55. The pension amount is a certain percentage of the employee’s final salary, for. The preliminary outcome for the other senior executives averaged and the service period to qualify for a full pension is 30 years. The pension entitle47 percent (83) of fixed annual salary. This calculation is preliminary insofar as any ment is 10 percent for salary components up to 7.5 base amounts, 65 percent deductions as a consequence of non-financial targets have not yet been taken for components between 7.5 and 20 base amounts and 32.5 percent for salary into account. The Board will determine the final outcome of variable remuneracomponents between 20 and 30 base amounts. For salary components exceeding tion in the first quarter of 2018 after reviewing operational performance. 30 base amounts, this ITP 2 group is covered by a supplementary pension entitlement, with a premium of 20 percent. Targets and performance related to variable remuneration for the President and CEO Severance pay The ﬁnancial targets for the President and CEO were the same as the Group The notice period for the senior executives, in the case of termination by the targets according to the table below. The Board of Directors has the option of company, is six months with retention of fixed salary and benefits, excluding varireducing the ﬁnal outcome of variable remuneration measured solely on the able remuneration. After the notice period, severance pay is disbursed for 12 to 18 ﬁnancial targets by a maximum of 50 percent, based on the outcome of the months. When payments are disbursed after the notice period other income must Group’s non-ﬁnancial targets. The preliminary outcome for the President and normally be subtracted from the amount payable. CEO’s variable remuneration (i.e., excluding the employee ownership program) A mutual notice period of 24 months applies between Skanska and the President shows an outcome of 33 percent (100) of fixed salary, based on financial targets and CEO, with retention of fixed salary and benefits, excluding variable remunerawith a target fulfillment of 33 percent (100). This calculation is preliminary insofar tion. No severance pay will be disbursed in the case of termination. as any deductions as a consequence of non-financial targets have not yet been taken into account. The Board will determine the ﬁnal outcome in the first quarter Remuneration and benefits recognized as expenses in 2017 of 2018 after reviewing operational performance. Directors’ fees The 2017 Annual General Meeting resolved that fees would be paid to the Board members elected by the Meeting, with the exception of the President and CEO, totaling SEK 9,715,000 (8,485,000), including a special allowance for committee work. See the table below. Board of Directors Audit Compensation Project Review SEK thousand Director’s fee Committee Committee Committee Total 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Chairman of the Board Hans Biörck 2,040 1,995 158 150 110 100 205 200 2,513 2,445 Other Board members John Carrig 680 665 158 150 105 100 205 200 1,148 1,115 Nina Linander 680 665 158 150 0 0 205 200 1,043 1,015 Fredrik Lundberg 680 665 0 0 0 0 205 200 885 865 Charlotte Strömberg 680 665 220 200 0 100 205 200 1,105 1,165 Pär Boman 680 665 158 150 105 0 205 200 1,148 1,015 Jayne McGivern 680 665 0 0 105 0 205 200 990 865 Catherine Marcus 680 – 0 – 0 – 205 – 885 – . Board of Directors 6,800 5,985 850 800 425 300 1,640 1,400 9,715 8,485 Chairman of the Board For Board members appointed by the employees, no disclosures are made During the 2017 ﬁnancial year the Chairman of the Board, Hans Biörck, received a concerning salaries and remuneration or pensions as they do not receive these director’s fee totaling SEK 2,513,000, (2,445,000) of which SEK 473,000 (450,000) in their capacity as Board members. For Board members who were employees was for committee work. of the company before the beginning of the ﬁnancial year, disclosures are made concerning pension obligations in their former role as employees. Board members In addition to regular directors’ fees and remuneration for committee work, Board member John Carrig received a consulting fee of SEK 239,000. Other members of the Board did not receive any remuneration for their role as Board members beyond their regular directors’ fees and remuneration for committee work. 160 Notes, including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual Report 2017 Not 37. Continued Senior executives Allocated value of employee ownership Other remuneration and SEK thousand Annual salary Variable remuneration 1 programs 2 beneﬁts 3 Pension expense Total 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 President and CEO Johan Karlström 12,670 12,360 4,243 12,360 1,988 8,645 84 73 6,335 6,180 25,320 39,618 Other senior executives (8 individuals) 4 40,854 39,779 15,216 28,792 5,408 27,440 42,914 1,172 17,018 13,250 121,409 110,432 Total 53,524 52,139 19,459 41,152 7,396 36,085 42,998 1,245 23,353 19,430 146,729 150,050 1 Variable remuneration relating to the 2017 ﬁnancial year is preliminary and will be ﬁnally determined and disbursed after the outcome is established in the ﬁrst quarter of 2018. The amounts included under the heading “Variable remuneration” in the table above refer to the 2017 ﬁnancial year. The variable remuneration agreements include a general clause stipulating that the Board of Directors and the Compensation Committee are entitled to wholly or partly reduce variable remuneration. 2 The value stated refers to a preliminary allotment of matching shares and performance shares for 2017, at the share price on December 29, 2017 (SEK 170). The senior executives will receive an estimated 6,445 (6,990) matching shares and 37,062 (160,768) performance shares. The Board will determine the ﬁnal outcome in the ﬁrst quarter of 2018 after reviewing operational performance. In order to receive matching shares and performance shares, an additional three years of service are required. The total cost has not yet been expensed as the cost is allocated over three years in accordance with IFRS 2. See the section under the heading “Long-term share programs.” The President and CEO as well as some other senior executives received remuneration related to the 2014 ﬁnancial year. After a three-year lock-up period as part of the previous employee ownership program, Seop 3, the President and CEO received 38,860 (35,302) shares, equivalent to SEK 6,606,000 (7,594,000) in 2017, for shares acquired for the ﬁnancial year 2014. In 2017, as part of Seop 3, the other senior executives, after a three-year lock-up period, received 80,403 (86,998) Series B Skanska shares, equivalent to SEK 13,669,000 (18,713,000), for shares allotted for the 2014 ﬁnancial year. 3 The amount includes the cost of salaries during the notice period and severance pay for ﬁve individuals who left the company in 2017 and 2018. These costs are charged to the accounts in 2017 but the amounts will be disbursed in 2018–2020. 4 During the period January 16 – March 31 this group consisted of nine individuals. President and CEO Disbursement of the cash-based variable remuneration normally occurs in May of In 2017 the President and CEO, Johan Karlström, received a ﬁxed salary of the year following the performance year. SEK 12,670,000 (12,360,000) plus an estimated variable salary component of All above-mentioned remuneration and beneﬁts were charged to Skanska AB, SEK 4,243,000 (12,360,000) based on ﬁnancial targets being 33 percent fulﬁlled. except for SEK 10,739,000 (31,157,000) to senior executives, which was charged Variable remuneration is maximized at 100 percent (100) of ﬁxed annual salary. to other Group companies. The ﬁnal outcome of variable remuneration for the President and CEO will be established by the Board in the ﬁrst quarter of 2018 following a review of operaPension obligations to current and former senior executives tional performance. The preliminary outcome was equivalent to 33 percent (100) In 2017, outstanding pension obligations to Presidents and CEOs, including of ﬁxed annual salary. Disbursement normally occurs in May of the year following former Presidents and CEOs, amounted to SEK 151,393,000 (149,947,000). Outthe performance year. standing obligations to other current and former senior executives amounted to The President and CEO is also participating in the Group’s ongoing employee SEK 109,782,000 (112,085,000). ownership program, Seop 4, which involves an allocation of matching shares and performance shares. See the section under the heading “Long-term share Long-term share programs programs” in this note. Within the framework of Seop 4, Johan Karlström Share incentive program – Skanska employee ownership program, Seop 4 acquired 6,931 (6,698) Series B Skanska shares, which is expected to result in the (2017–2019) allocation of 1,733 (1,675) matching shares equivalent to SEK 295,000 (360,000). In 2016 the Annual General Meeting approved the introduction of the Seop 4 An estimated 9,964 (38,515) performance shares are expected to be allocated, for long-term employee ownership program for employees of the Group. This is esa value of SEK 1,694,000 (8,285,000), since the outperform targets were prelimisentially an extension of the earlier Seop 3 employee ownership program that ran narily 25 percent (100) fulﬁlled. The amount stated is based on the share price on from 2014–2016. The terms and conditions are the same in all material respects as December 29, 2017 (SEK 170). The allocation of performance shares will be ﬁnally those of the earlier Seop 3 program. determined in the ﬁrst quarter of 2018 after reviewing operational performance. The program is aimed at about 40,000 permanent employees of the Skanska Annual pension provisions will total 50 percent of ﬁxed annual salary. The cost Group, of whom some 2,000 are key employees and about 300 are executives, in 2017 amounted to SEK 6,335,000 (6,180,000). Johan Karlström left his position including the President and CEO and other senior executives. as CEO and member of the Senior Executive Team on December 31, 2017. He will The program offers employees, key employees and executives the opportunity continue to serve as a senior advisor until January 31, 2019. – provided they have made their own investment in Series B Skanska shares during a given ﬁnancial year – to receive Series B Skanska shares from Skanska free of Other senior executives charge. For each four Series B investment shares purchased, the employee will be In 2017 one individual joined and one individual left the Senior Executive Team. At entitled, after a three-year lock-up period, to receive one Series B Skanska share the end of 2017 the other senior executives consisted of eight individuals. free of charge. In addition, after the lock-up period, the employee will be able The senior executives received a ﬁxed salary and variable remuneration based to receive additional Series B Skanska shares free of charge contingent upon the on the Group’s earnings and/or the earnings of the Business Units for which they fulﬁllment of certain earnings-based performance criteria during the purchase are directly responsible. In addition, the senior executives were covered by the period. Group’s ongoing employee ownership program, Seop 4, involving an allocation The purchase period covers the years 2017–2019 and the lock-up period runs of matching shares and performance shares. See the section under the heading for three years from the month in which the investment shares are acquired. “Long-term share programs” in this note. A total of 18,851 (21,261) Series B For each four investment shares purchased, employees may, in addition to one Skanska shares were purchased by the senior executives in 2017 under the Seop matching share, receive a maximum of three performance shares. For each four 4 program, which resulted in 4,713 (5,315) matching shares, equivalent to SEK investment shares, key employees may, in addition to one matching share, receive 801,000 (1,143,000). An estimated 27,098 (122,252) performance shares may be a maximum of seven performance shares. For each four investment shares, allocated, at a value of SEK 4,607,000 (29,296,000), since the outperform targets executives (split into three subcategories) may, in addition to one matching were preliminarily 25 percent (100) fulﬁlled. The amount stated is based on the share, receive a maximum of 15, 19 or 23 performance shares respectively. The share price on December 29, 2017 (SEK 170). Variable remuneration and the outmaximum number of investment shares that each employee participating in the come of performance shares for 2017 are preliminary. The ﬁnal outcome will be program may acquire, through monthly saving, depends on the employee’s salary established in the ﬁrst quarter of 2018 after a review of operational performance. and whether the employee is participating in the program as an employee, a key employee or an executive. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Notes, including accounting and valuation principles 161 Not 37. Continued Financial targets for the employee ownership program, Seop 4, 2017 1 Measure of earnings Starting Point Outperform Outcome Percentage fulﬁlled 2 Group Earnings per share, SEK 3 11.3 14.2 12.0 25% Construction Operating income, SEK bn 3.0 4.8 1.2 45% Residential Development4 Operating income, SEK bn 1.1 1.5 1.7 98% Commercial Property Development Operating income, SEK bn 1.4 1.9 2.7 97% Leasing, thousands of sq m 161 323 427 100% Infrastructure Development Operating income, SEK bn 0.8 0.9 0.9 100% Project development, % 0 100 63 63% 1 For further information, see the table “Financial targets for variable salary components” in Note 37 on page 158. 2 Percentage fulﬁlled is based on outcomes in the respective Business Units, which are weighed together. 3 Proﬁt for the period attributable to equity holders, divided by the average number of outstanding shares during the year. 4 The units for housing development in Central Europe as well as BoKlok are also measured on return on capital employed. Rental properties are also measured according to the number of units started. To qualify to receive matching and performance shares, a participant must be emstanding. Maximum dilution for the program in 2017 is expected to be 1,473,955 ployed within the Group throughout the vesting period and must have retained shares or 0.36 percent. his or her investment shares during this lock-up period. The number of issued shares will not change; instead the matching and perThe program has two cost ceilings. The ﬁrst ceiling depends on the extent to formance shares will be allocated from repurchased shares. Repurchasing will be which ﬁnancial Seop-speciﬁc outperform targets are met, which limits Skanska’s evenly distributed over time. There will therefore be essentially no dilution effect. total cost per year to SEK 208–655 M, related to fulﬁllment of the ﬁnancial Seopspeciﬁc outperform targets at the Group level. The ﬁrst cost ceiling is adjusted Previous long-term share programs in accordance with the Consumer Price Index, with 2016 as the base year for Share incentive program – Skanska employee ownership program, Seop 3 Seop 4. The other cost ceiling is that Skanska’s total cost per year may not exceed (2014–2016) 15 percent of earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) at the Group level. The Shares for the previous Skanska employee ownership program, which ran from actual cost ceiling will be the lower of these two cost ceilings. The cost for the 2014 to 2016, were distributed in 2017. These were shares that were earned in outcomes of stock purchase programs from previous years is included in annually 2014, which, after a three-year lock-up period, were distributed to those who established performance targets. In addition to the cost ceilings, the number of had been employed by the Group throughout the lock-up period and who had shares that may be repurchased as part of the three-year program is also limited retained their investment shares during this lock-up period. to 13,500,000 shares. A preliminary assessment of the outcome for 2017 indicates Excluding social insurance contributions, the cost of Seop 3 totaled SEK 862 M, that the ﬁrst cost ceiling was exceeded, which means that the allotment level of which SEK 420 M was expensed in 2014–2016, while the cost for 2017 amounts will be preliminarily reduced proportionately for the program participants. The to around SEK 234 M. The remaining cost of Seop 3 up to and including 2019 is outcome is ﬁnally established by the Board after reviewing the business in the ﬁrst estimated at about SEK 208 M. quarter of 2018. The dilution effect through 2017 for Seop 3 is estimated at 2,146,781 shares or The table above shows Seop 4 target fulﬁllment in 2017 for each business 0.52 percent of the number of Series B Skanska shares outstanding. The maximum stream. dilution for the program at the end of the vesting period in 2019 is expected to be In the Skanska Group, a total of 32 percent (30) of permanent employees 3,253,711 shares or 0.79 percent. participated in Seop 4 in 2017. Excluding social insurance contributions, the cost of Seop 4 is estimated at Local incentive programs around SEK 311 M, of which the cost for 2017 amounts to around SEK 63 M. The Salaries and other remuneration are established taking into account conditions remaining cost of Seop 4 up to and including 2022 is estimated at about SEK 248 M. prevailing in the rest of the construction industry and customary practices in each The dilution effect through 2017 of Seop 4 for the 2017 program is estimated local market. The Skanska Group applies a remuneration model for the relevant at 287,989 shares or 0.07 percent of the number of Series B Skanska shares outexecutives and managers that consists of a ﬁxed annual salary plus variable remuneration based on ﬁnancial targets reached. 162 Notes, including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual Report 2017 Fees and other remuneration to Not 38. auditors Not 39. Related party disclosures Ernst & Young KPMG Joint ventures and associated companies are companies related to Skanska. Information on transactions with these is presented in the following tables. 2017 2016 2017 2016 Information on remuneration and transactions with senior executives is found Audit assignments 49 46 8 in Note 36 Personnel, and Note 37 Remuneration to senior executives and Board Audit work in admembers. dition to the audit assignment 5 0 Transactions with joint ventures 2017 2016 Tax advisory services 1 3 1 Other services 3 1 2 Sales to joint ventures 9,454 7,310 Total 58 50 0 11 Purchases from joint ventures 38 57 Dividends from joint ventures 256 358 In 2017 Ernst & Young’s audit assignment was for the ﬁrst time done solely by Receivables from joint ventures 184 532 Ernst & Young for the whole Group, as the audit of Skanska Sweden for the comLiabilities to joint ventures 0 10 parison year 2016 was conducted jointly with KPMG. Contingent liabilities for joint ventures 814 1,379 For the Parent Company, fees for audit assignments during the year amounted to SEK 6 M. Transactions with associated companies 2017 2016 “Audit assignments” refers to the statutory audit of the annual accounts and accounting documents as well as the administration of the company by the Purchases from associated companies 0 0 Board of Directors and the President and CEO, along with audit and other review Receivables from associated companies 0 0 work conducted according to agreements or contracts. This includes other tasks Liabilities to associated companies 15 0 that are incumbent upon the company’s auditors as well as advisory services or other assistance as a result of observations made during such review work or the L E Lundbergföretagen AB group has assigned Skanska to undertake four completion of such other tasks. construction contracts for a total order backlog of SEK 246 M (465). Sales in 2017 “Other services” refers to advisory services related to accounting issues, amounted to SEK 236 M (91) and order bookings were SEK 17 M (0). advisory services concerning the divestment and acquisition of businesses and Skanska’s pension fund directly owns 370,000 (370,000) Series B shares in advisory services relating to processes and internal control. Skanska. There is also an insigniﬁcant percentage of indirectly owned shares via investments in various mutual funds. No transactions took place between Skanska’s pension funds and the company in 2017, other than Skanska receiving recompense from the pension funds and charging for other services performed by Skanska. . Skanska Annual Report 2017 Notes, including accounting and valuation principles 163 Not 40. Leasing Skanska is a lessee in both ﬁnance and operating leases. When Skanska is a lessee, ﬁnance lease assets are recognized as a non-current Expenses, due date 2017 2016 asset in the statement of ﬁnancial position, while the future obligation to the Within one year –1,183 –532 lessor is recognized as a liability in the statement of ﬁnancial position. Skanska is not a ﬁnancial lessor. Later than one year but within ﬁve years –2,626 –1,256 As an operating lessor, Skanska leases properties to tenants mainly via its Later than ﬁve years –2,168 –2,119 Commercial Property Development business stream. Total –5,977 –3,907 A. Skanska as a lessee Of this amount, SEK 34 M (53) relates to properties that were subleased. Finance leases Leased property, plant and equipment including buildings and land (“Property”) B. Skanska as lessor as well as machinery and equipment (“Plant and equipment”) are recognized in Finance leases the consolidated ﬁnancial statements as ﬁnance leases. Skanska is not a ﬁnancial lessor. Of the amount in the statement of ﬁnancial position for ﬁnance leases, most relates to car leases in Sweden. Operating leases Agreements with lease companies in other countries are operating leases. Operating leases in the form of property leases are mainly entered into by the Commercial Property Development business stream. These properties are Financial leases, carrying amount 2017 2016 recognized as current assets in the statement of ﬁnancial position. See Note 4 Property, plant and equipment Operating segments. Property (buildings and land) 0 0 Lease income for Commercial Property Development in 2017 amounted Plant and equipment 274 266 to SEK 510 M (571). The Group’s variable lease income related to operating leases amounted Total 274 266 to SEK 88 M (139) during the year. Acquisition cost 1,215 1,098 The due dates of future minimum lease payments for non-cancellable operating leases break down as follows: Depreciation for the year –88 –80 Accumulated depreciation, January 1 –853 –752 Revenue, due date 2017 2016 Carrying amount 274 266 Within one year 171 425 Variable fees for ﬁnance leases included in 2017 income amounted to SEK 0 M (0). Later than one year but within ﬁve years 2,040 632 No property leased to Skanska has been subleased to others. Later than ﬁve years 3,748 674 Future minimum lease payments and their present value are presented in the Total 5,959 1,731 following table. The carrying amount for current-asset properties in Commercial Property DevelFuture Present value of minimum lease future minimum lease opment was SEK 23,615 M (19,728). payments payments Expenses, due date 2017 2016 2017 2016 Within one year Later than one year but within –65 –50 –52 –38 Not 41. Events after the reporting period ﬁve years –209 –196 –163 –152 The Board of Directors for Skanska AB decided in January 2018 to restructure Later than ﬁve years 0 0 0 0 operations in several market outside the Nordic region, and also to review Group Total –274 –246 –215 –190 governance. The cost of these measures will be taken in 2018 and is expected to Reconciliation, future minimum lease be around SEK 600 million. The main cost will be termination of employment for payments and their present value around 3,000 employees, most of them in Poland. Future minimum lease payments –274 –246 Less interest charges 59 56 Present value of future minimum lease payments –215 –190 Operating leases Most of the amounts for future minimum lease payments are related to leased cars and ofﬁce space in Sweden, the UK, Poland and USA. Also included are site leasehold agreements for land. The Group’s lease expenses related to operating leases in 2017 totaled SEK –994 M (–638), of which SEK –967 M (–615) relates to minimum lease payments and SEK –27 M (–23) to variable payments. The Group had SEK 12 M (13) in lease income related to subleasing of operating leases. The due dates of future minimum lease payments for non-cancellable operating leases break down as follows: 164 Notes, including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual Report 2017 Note 42. Five-year Group ﬁnancial summary Income statements, in compliance with IFRS 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Revenue 157,877 145,365 153,049 143,325 136,589 Cost of sales –145,103 –131,119 –139,160 –130,215 –124,161 Gross income 12,774 14,246 13,889 13,110 12,428 Selling and administrative expenses –9,851 –9,152 –8,869 –8,370 –7,681 Income from joint ventures and associated companies 1,655 2,126 1,270 669 813 Operating income 4,578 7,220 6,290 5,409 5,560 Financial items 45 –119 –314 –280 –241 Income after ﬁnancial items 4,623 7,101 5,976 5,129 5,319 Taxes –512 –1,366 –1,185 –1,279 –1,551 Proﬁt for the year 4,111 5,735 4,791 3,850 3,768 Proﬁt for the year attributable to Equity holders 4,095 5,722 4,780 3,843 3,765 Non-controlling interests 16 13 11 7 3 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss for the period Remeasurement of deﬁned-beneﬁt pension plans –399 –1,127 785 –2,299 723 Tax related to items that will not be reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss for the period 69 189 –175 509 –183 –330 –938 610 –1,790 540 Items that have been or will be reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss for the period Translation differences attributable to equity holders –599 1,165 71 1,817 –560 Translation differences attributable to non-controlling interests 8 8 –3 6 –9 Hedging of exchange rate risk in foreign operations –125 36 –21 –325 201 Effects of cash ﬂow hedges 138 31 54 –75 –87 Tax related to items that have been or will be reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss for the period 83 855 281 –748 613 Tax related to items that have been or will be reclassiﬁed to proﬁt for the period –25 –4 –15 23 17 –520 2,091 367 698 175 Other comprehensive income after tax –850 1,153 977 –1,092 715 Comprehensive income for the year 3,261 6,888 5,768 2,758 4,483 Comprehensive income for the year attributable to Equity holders 3,237 6,867 5,760 2,745 4,489 Non-controlling interests 24 21 8 13 –6 Cash ﬂow Cash ﬂow from operating activities 2,846 –883 8,584 4,756 6,252 Cash ﬂow from investing activities 1,590 –1,593 –1,385 238 –1,447 Cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities –2,817 –4,090 –4,544 –3,615 –3,238 Cash ﬂow for the year 1,619 –6,566 2,655 1,379 1,567 Skanska Annual Report 2017 Notes, including accounting and valuation principles 165 Not 42. Continued Income statement, in compliance with Segment Reporting 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Revenue Construction 150,050 138,001 140,648 128,663 118,976 Residential Development 13,237 13,264 12,298 9,558 9,234 Commercial Property Development 11,440 10,226 9,034 10,228 6,206 Infrastructure Development 81 237 106 163 87 Central and eliminations –13,985 –10,421 –7,151 –3,583 1,943 Group 160,823 151,307 154,935 145,029 136,446 Operating income Construction 1,205 3,546 3,874 4,508 3,880 Residential Development 1,716 1,605 1,174 683 573 Commercial Property Development 2,714 2,336 1,947 1,700 1,068 Infrastructure Development 925 1,818 863 463 401 Central –944 –1,140 –1,346 –1,604 –732 Eliminations –112 34 –51 16 –46 Operating income 5,504 8,199 6,461 5,766 5,144 Financial items 45 –118 –313 –293 –241 Income after ﬁnancial items 5,549 8,081 6,148 5,473 4,903 Taxes –615 –1,555 –1,219 –1,365 –1,430 Proﬁt for the year 4,934 6,526 4,929 4,108 3,473 Earnings per share, segment, SEK 12.01 15.89 11.96 9.98 8.43 Earnings per share after dilution, segment, SEK 11.94 15.80 11.87 9.88 8.39 166 Notes, including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual Report 2017 Not 42. Continued Statements of financial position Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2014 Dec 31, 2013 ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 6,874 6,837 6,504 7,122 7,449 Goodwill 4,554 5,270 5,256 5,276 4,849 Intangible assets 962 1,034 754 464 346 Investments in joint ventures and associated companies 3,314 4,160 2,852 2,618 2,734 Financial non-current assets 1, 3 2,276 1,016 1,357 1,302 1,892 Deferred tax assets 1,757 1,649 1,384 1,225 1,059 Total non-current assets 19,737 19,966 18,107 18,007 18,329 Current assets Current-asset properties 2 39,010 33,678 27,020 26,115 25,757 Inventories 1,058 1,042 944 1,017 944 Financial current assets 3 6,671 10,095 7,496 5,839 5,955 Tax assets 1,188 784 691 929 984 Gross amount due from customers for contract work 6,997 5,751 5,692 5,472 6,232 Other operating receivables 27,778 29,759 25,877 26,288 22,227 Cash 6,998 5,430 11,840 9,107 7,303 Total current assets 89,700 86,539 79,560 74,767 69,402 TOTAL ASSETS 109,437 106,505 97,667 92,774 87,731 of which interest-bearing 15,800 16,318 20,511 16,049 14,997 EQUITY Equity attributable to equity holders 27,064 27,350 24,079 21,251 21,177 Non-controlling interests 121 156 127 154 187 Total equity 27,185 27,506 24,206 21,405 21,364 LIABILITIES Non-current liabilities Financial non-current liabilities 3 3,857 3,656 3,874 7,112 6,556 Pensions 5,603 4,901 3,969 4,655 3,411 Deferred tax liabilities 1,235 1,491 1,286 966 1,002 Non-current provisions 0 1 0 0 2 Total non-current liabilities 10,695 10,049 9,129 12,733 10,971 Current liabilities Financial current liabilities 3 7,624 6,681 6,555 4,086 4,118 Tax liabilities 312 489 560 504 622 Current provisions 8,557 7,227 6,432 6,005 5,649 Gross amount due to customers for contract work 16,636 18,473 15,821 14,545 15,013 Other operating liabilities 38,428 36,080 34,964 33,496 29,994 Total current liabilities 71,557 68,950 64,332 58,636 55,396 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 109,437 106,505 97,667 92,774 87,731 of whom interest-bearing 16,926 15,099 14,194 15,351 14,025 1 Of which shares 42 44 61 35 32 2 Current-asset properties Commercial Property Development 23,615 19,728 16,650 14,956 13,700 Residential Development 15,395 13,950 10,370 11,159 11,257 Central 800 Total 39,010 33,678 27,020 26,115 25,757 3 Items related to non-interest-bearing unrealized changes in the value of derivatives/securities are included as follows. Financial non-current assets 6 2 1 0 6 Financial current assets 97 177 120 164 115 Financial non-current liabilities 21 116 173 202 49 Financial current liabilities 137 49 72 335 55 Skanska Annual Report 2017 Notes, including accounting and valuation principles 167 Note 42. Continued Financial ratios 4 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 31 dec 2015 31 dec 2014 31 dec 2013 5 Order bookings 151,811 170,244 122,104 146,939 113,944 Order backlog 5 188,411 196,254 158,248 170,498 134,532 Average number of employees 40,759 42,903 48,470 57,858 57,105 Regular dividend per share, SEK 6 8.25 8.25 7.50 6.75 6.25 Earnings per share, SEK 10.00 13.96 11.63 9.35 9.14 Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 9.94 13.88 11.53 9.25 9.11 Operating ﬁnancial assets 9,745 10,595 13,818 8,356 6,718 Capital employed 44,111 42,605 38,400 36,756 35,389 Interest-bearing net receivables /net debt –1,126 1,219 6,317 698 972 Equity per share, SEK 66.22 66.82 58.58 51.73 51.49 Equity/assets ratio, % 24.8 25.8 24.8 23.1 24.4 Debt/equity ratio 0.0 0.0 –0.3 0.0 0.0 Interest cover 288.0 88.7 57.9 59.5 40.5 Return on equity, % 15.5 24.9 21.9 18.8 18.8 Return on capital employed, % 11.1 19.2 17.4 15.5 16.1 Return on equity, segments, % 18.6 28.3 22.5 20.1 17.4 Consolidated return on capital employed in project development units, segments, % 14.5 18.4 14.9 10.4 10.1 Operating margin, % 2.9 5.0 4.1 3.8 4.1 Operating margin, Construction, % 0.8 2.6 2.8 3.5 3.3 Cash ﬂow per share, SEK –2.44 –10.16 11.90 2.20 4.94 Number of shares at year-end 419,903,072 419,903,072 419,903,072 419,903,072 419,903,072 of which Series A shares 19,755,414 19,793,202 19,859,200 19,901,355 19,923,597 of which Series B shares 400,147,658 400,109,870 400,043,872 400,001,717 399,979,475 Average price, repurchased shares 137.31 132.18 121.02 113.81 107.85 Number of repurchased Series B shares 2,350,000 4,345,000 2,340,000 2,484,648 2,392,580 Number of Series B treasury shares, December 31 11,190,028 10,594,644 8,866,223 9,113,814 8,625,005 Number of shares outstanding, December 31 408,713,044 409,308,428 411,036,849 410,789,258 411,278,067 Average number of shares outstanding 409,447,407 409,896,419 411,059,056 411,088,591 411,721,772 Average number of shares outstanding after dilution 411,905,245 412,174,095 414,445,854 415,286,339 413,426,939 Average dilution, percent 0.60 0.55 0.82 1.01 0.41 4 For deﬁnitions, refer to Note 43 and 44. 5 Refers to Construction. 6 Proposed by the Board of Directors: Regular dividend of SEK 8.25 per share. 168 Notes, including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual Report 2017 Note 43. Deﬁnitions Average capital employed Calculated on the basis of ﬁve measuring points: half of capital employed on January 1 plus capital employed at the end of the ﬁrst, second and third quarters plus half of capital employed at year-end, divided by four. Average visible equity Calculated on the basis of ﬁve measurement points: half of equity attributable to equity holders on January 1 plus equity attributable to equity holders at the end of the ﬁrst, second and third quarters plus half of equity attributable to equity holders at year-end, divided by four. Capital employed in business streams, Total assets less tax assets and deposits in Skanska’s treasury unit minus nonmarkets and Business Units/reporting interest-bearing liabilities excluding tax liabilities. Capitalized interest expense units is removed from total assets for the Residential Development and Commercial Property Development segments. Cash ﬂow per share Cash ﬂow before change in interest-bearing receivables and liabilities divided by the average number of shares outstanding. Comprehensive income Change in equity not attributable to transactions with owners. Consolidated capital employed Total assets minus non-interest-bearing liabilities. Consolidated operating cash ﬂow In the consolidated operating cash ﬂow statement, which includes taxes paid, investments are recognized both in cash ﬂow from business operations and in cash ﬂow from strategic investments. See also Note 35. Consolidated return on capital employed Operating income plus ﬁnancial income as a percentage of average capital employed. Debt/equity ratio Interest-bearing net liabilities divided by visible equity including non-controlling interests. Earnings per share Proﬁt for the period attributable to equity holders divided by the average number of shares outstanding. Earnings per share after dilution Proﬁt for the year attributable to equity holders divided by the average number of shares outstanding after dilution. Equity/assets ratio Equity including non-controlling interests as a percentage of total assets. Equity per share Visible equity attributable to equity holders divided by the number of shares outstanding at year-end. Interest-bearing net receivables/net debt Interest-bearing assets minus interest-bearing liabilities. Interest cover Operating income and ﬁnancial income plus depreciation/amortization divided by net interest items. Negative/free working capital Non-interest-bearing receivables less non-interest-bearing liabilities excluding taxes. Operating cash ﬂow Cash ﬂow from operations before taxes and before ﬁnancial activities. See also Note 35. Operating ﬁnancial assets/liabilities net Interest-bearing net receivables/liabilities excluding construction loans to cooperative housing associations and interest-bearing pension liabilities. Order backlog Contracting assignments: The difference between order bookings for the period and accrued revenue (accrued project costs plus accrued project income adjusted for loss provisions) plus order backlog at the beginning of the period. Services: The difference between order bookings and accrued revenue plus order backlog. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Notes, including accounting and valuation principles 169 Note 43. Continued Order bookings Contracting assignments: Upon written order conﬁrmation or signed contract, where ﬁnancing has been arranged and construction is expected to begin within 12 months. If a previously received order is canceled in a subsequent quarter, the cancellation is recognized as a negative item when reporting order bookings for the quarter when the cancellation occurs. Reported order bookings also include orders from Residential Development and Commercial Property Development, which assumes that a building permit has been obtained and construction is expected to begin within three months. Services: For ﬁxed-price assignments, upon signing of contract. For cost-plus assignments, order bookings coincide with revenue. For service agreements, a maximum of 24 months of future revenue is included. No order bookings are reported in Residential Development and Commercial Property Development. Other comprehensive income Comprehensive income minus proﬁt according to the income statement. The item includes translation differences, hedging of exchange-rate risk in foreign operations, remeasurements of deﬁned-beneﬁt pension plans, effects of cash ﬂow hedges and tax attributable to other comprehensive income. Return on equity Proﬁt attributable to equity holders as a percentage of average visible equity attributable to equity holders. Return on equity, segments Revenue according to segment reporting attributable to equity holders as a percentage of average visible equity attributable to equity holders. Return on capital employed, business Operating income, ﬁnancial income minus interest income from Skanska’s treasury streams, markets and business/reportunit (internal bank) and other ﬁnancial items as a percentage of average capital ing units employed. For the Residential Development and Commercial Property Development segments, capitalized interest expense is removed from operating income so that the return reﬂects the return before mortgages. Return on capital employed Operating income, ﬁnancial income minus interest income from Skanska’s treasury in project development units, segments unit (internal bank) and other ﬁnancial items as a percentage of average capital employed. For the Residential Development and Commercial Property Development segments, capitalized interest expense is removed from operating income so that the return reﬂects the return before mortgages. For Commercial Property Development and Infrastructure Development, the proﬁt is adjusted so that the change in value of projects in progress is added and the difference between the market value and selling price for the year is added. 170 Notes, including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual Report 2017 Note 44. Deﬁnitions – Non-IFRS key performance indicators Non-IFRS key performance indicators Definition Reason for use The following key performance indicators are used because they are deemed to optimally and correctly show Skanska’s operations reﬂected in the business model and strategy. They also help investors and management to analyze trends and results for Skanska. Adjusted equity attributable to equity Equity attributable to equity holders 27.1 Measures ﬁnancial position adjusted for potential holders, SEK bn future development gains in development units Unrealized surplus value in land in Residential Development 3.6 after tax. Unrealized development gain in Commercial Property The standard tax rate represents an estimate of the average corporate tax rate within the Group. Development 9.3 Effect on unrealized equity in Infrastructure Development 1.1 Less standard tax of 10% –1.3 Adjusted equity 39.8 Average capital employed Calculated on the basis of ﬁve measuring points, see page 172–173. Average free working capital in Calculated on the basis of ﬁve measuring points. Construction operations, SEK M Q4 2017 –21,849 x 0.5 –10,924 Q3 2017 –19,414 –19,414 Q2 2017 –19,571 –19,571 Q1 2017 –20,694 –20,694 Q4 2016 –22,460 x 0.5 –11,230 –81,833 / 4 –20,458 Average equity attributable to Calculated on the basis of ﬁve measuring points. equity holders, SEK M Q4 2017 27,064 x 0.5 13,532 Q3 2017 25,185 25,185 Q2 2017 24,342 24,342 Q1 2017 28,866 28,866 Q4 2016 27,350 x 0.5 13,675 105,600 / 4 26,400 Capital employed, business streams, Total assets less tax assets, receivables from Skanska’s internal Measures capital use and efﬁciency in business markets and business/reporting units. bank and pension receivables minus non-interest-bearing liabilities, streams. excluding tax liabilities. For Residential Development and Commercial Property Development, capitalized interest expense is also deducted from total assets. Capital employed Commercial Total assets 27,677 Measures capital use and efﬁciency in Property Development, SEK M Commercial Property Development. — tax assets –335 — receivables from internal bank 0 — pension receivables 0 — non—interest—bearing liabilities (excluding tax liabilities) –2,590 — capitalized interest expense –271 24,481 Skanska Annual Report 2017 Notes, including accounting and valuation principles 171 Note 44 Continued Non-IFRS key performance indicators Definitions Reason for use Capital employed Infrastructure Total assets 2,476 Measures capital use and efﬁciency in Development, SEK M Infrastructure Development. — tax assets –495 — receivables from internal bank 0 — pension receivables 0 — non—interest—bearing liabilities (excluding tax liabilities) –172 1,809 Capital employed Residential Total assets 19,357 Measures capital use and efﬁciency in Development, SEK M Residential Development. — tax assets –331 — receivables from internal bank –99 — pension receivables –13 — non—interest—bearing liabilities (excluding tax liabilities) –6,167 — capitalized interest expense –95 12,652 Consolidated capital employed Total assets minus non-interest-bearing liabilities. Measures capital use and efﬁciency. Debt/equity ratio Interest-bearing net liabilities divided by visible equity including nonMeasures debt equity ratio/leverage effect in controlling interests. ﬁnancial position. Earnings per share, segments Proﬁt for the period, segments attributable to equity holders divided Measures earnings per share, segments by average number of shares outstanding Equity/assets ratio Equity including non-controlling interests as a percentage of total Measures ﬁnancial position. assets. Financial items Net of interest income, pension interest, interest expense, capitalized Measures net ﬁnancial activities. interest expense, change in market value and other ﬁnancial items. Free working capital in construction Non-interest-bearing receivables less non-interest-bearing liabilities Measures ﬁnancial capacity generated from excluding taxes. negative working capital in Construction. Gross income Revenue minus the cost of production and management. Measures income generated by the projects. Gross margin Gross income divided by revenue. Measures proﬁtability of the projects. Income after ﬁnancial items Operating income minus net of ﬁnancial items. Measures pre-tax proﬁt Interest-bearing net receivables/net debt Interest-bearing assets minus interest-bearing liabilities. Measures ﬁnancial position. Net divestments/investments Total investments minus total divestments. Measures the balance between investments and divestments. Net operating ﬁnancial assets/liabilities Interest-bearing net receivables/liabilities excluding construction Measures ﬁnancial position and investment (ONFAL) loans to cooperative housing associations and interest-bearing net capacity. The latter is determined in a comparison pension liabilities. with ONFAL against limits set by the Board of Directors. Operating cash ﬂow from business Cash ﬂow from business operations including taxes paid and cash Measures ﬁnancial capacity generated from operations ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities. negative working capital in Construction. Operating income Revenue minus the cost of production and management, sales and Measures income in operations. administrative expenses and income from joint ventures and associated companies. Operating income, segments Revenue minus the cost of production and management, sales and Measures income in operations in the prevailing administrative expenses and income from joint ventures and associated market situation. companies, according to segment reporting and where Residential Development uses the proportional method for joint ventures. Operating income, Revenue minus the cost of production and management, sales and Measures income in operations. rolling 12-month basis administrative expenses and income from joint ventures and associated companies, rolling 12-month basis. 172 Notes, including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual Report 2017 Note 44. Continued Non-IFRS key performance indicators Definitions Reason for use Return on capital employed in Operating income 1,716 Measures earnings (proﬁtability and capital Residential Development segment, efﬁciency) in Residential Development. rolling 12-month basis excluding + capitalized interest expense 118 Residential Development in the UK +/— ﬁnancial income and other (as these operations have been ﬁnancial items 12 discontinued), SEK M — interest income from the internal bank –4 Adjusted earnings 1,842 Average capital employed 1 11,993 Return on capital employed in Residential Development 15.4% 1 Average capital employed Q4 2017 12,686 x 0.5 6,343 Q3 2017 12,026 12,026 Q2 2017 11,728 11,728 Q1 2017 12,054 12,054 Q4 2016 11,642 x 0.5 5,821 47,972 / 4 11,993 Return on capital employed in For Infrastructure Development earnings are adjusted so that Measures earnings (proﬁtability and capital Infrastructure Development changes in value in ongoing projects and the difference between efﬁciency) Infrastructure Development. segment, rolling 12-month basis, the market value and selling price in the current year are reﬂected. SEK M Operating income 925 +/– adjustments according to the above –824 Adjusted earnings 101 Average capital employed 1 2,551 +/– adjustments according to the above 228 Adjusted average capital employed 2,779 Return on capital employed in Infrastructure Development 3.6% 1 Average capital employed Q4 2017 1,809 x 0.5 904 Q3 2017 2,211 2,211 Q2 2017 2,227 2,227 Q1 2017 2,147 2,147 Q4 2016 5,434 x 0.5 2,717 10,206 / 4 2,551 Unrealized development gains, Market value minus invested capital upon completion for ongoing Measures potential future development gains in Commercial Property Development projects, completed projects, and undeveloped land and development Commercial Property Development. properties. Excludes projects sold according to segment reporting. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Notes, including accounting and valuation principles 173 Note 44. Continued Non-IFRS key performance indicators Definitions Reason for use Return on capital employed in For Commercial Property Development earnings are adjusted so that Measures earnings (proﬁtability and capital Commercial Property Development changes in value in ongoing projects and the difference between the efﬁciency) in Commercial Property Development. segment, rolling 12-month basis, market value and selling price in the current year are reﬂected. SEK M Operating income 2,714 +/– adjustments according to the above 633 + capitalized interest expense 59 +/– ﬁnancial income and other ﬁnancial items 14 – interest income from the internal bank 0 Adjusted earnings 3,420 Average capital employed 1 22,109 Return on capital employed in CPD 15.5% 1 Average capital employed Q4 2017 24,481 x 0.5 12,240 Q3 2017 23,558 23,558 Q2 2017 22,012 22,012 Q1 2017 20,657 20,657 Q4 2016 19,936 x 0.5 9,968 88,435 / 4 22,109 Return on capital employed in Calculated as the sum of the adjusted earnings in Residential DeMeasures earnings (proﬁtability and capital Project Development units, velopment, Commercial Property Development and Infrastructure efﬁciency) in the project development units. segments SEK M Development divided by the sum of capital employed, average, for Residential Development, Commercial Property Development and Infrastructure Development. Total return on capital employed in Residential Development, Commercial Property Development and Infrastructure Development. Adjusted Average capital Return on capital earnings employed employed Residential Development 1,842 11,993 15.4% Commercial Property Development 3,420 22,109 15.5% Infrastructure Development 101 2,779 3.6% 5,363 36,881 14.5% Return on equity, segments, Proﬁt attributable to equity holders as a percentage of average Measures proﬁtability in invested capital. rolling 12-month basis, SEK M equity attributable to equity holders. 4,918 / 26,400= 18.6% Revenue, segments Revenue, segments, is the same as revenue IFRS in all business Measures revenue generated in the existing streams except Residential Development and Commercial Property market situation. Development, where revenue is recognized when binding contracts are signed for the sale of homes and properties. In segment reporting Residential Development uses the proportional method for joint ventures, which also impacts revenue segments. Sales and administrative expenses, % Selling and administrative expenses divided by revenue. Measures cost effectiveness in sales and administrative expenses 174 Notes, including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual Report 2017 Parent company notes Note 45. Financial instruments, Parent Company The Parent Company has no income or expense from ﬁnancial instruments that Financial instruments are presented in compliance with IFRS 7 Financial Instruare recognized directly in equity. ments: Disclosures. This note contains ﬁgures for the Parent Company’s ﬁnancial instruments. See also Note 1 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, Accounting Risks attributable to ﬁnancial instruments and valuation principles, and Note 6 Financial instruments and ﬁnancial risk The Parent Company holds ﬁnancial instruments almost exclusively in the form of management. intra-Group receivables and liabilities. All external management of lending, borrowing, interest and currencies is handled by the Group’s treasury unit (internal Financial instruments in the balance sheet bank), the subsidiary Skanska Financial Services AB. See also Note 6 to the consoli2017 2016 dated ﬁnancial statements, Financial instruments and ﬁnancial risk management. Assets Credit risk Non-current receivables in Group companies 247 253 The carrying amount of ﬁnancial instruments, assets, corresponded to the Current receivables in Group companies 18 15 maximum credit exposure on the closing day. There were no impairment losses on Total ﬁnancial instruments, assets 265 268 ﬁnancial instruments as of the closing day. Liabilities Non-current liabilities to Group companies 4,177 4,918 Trade accounts payable and current liabilities to Group companies 46 54 Note 46. Revenue, Parent Company Total ﬁnancial instruments, liabilities 4,223 4,972 The Parent Company’s revenue consists mainly of amounts billed to Group The fair value of the Parent Company’s ﬁnancial instruments does not deviate sigcompanies. niﬁcantly in any case from the carrying amount. All assets belong to the category The amount includes SEK 693 M (668) in sales to subsidiaries. For other related “Loans and trade accounts receivable.” No assets have been carried at fair value party transactions, see Note 63 Related party disclosures. through proﬁt or loss. All ﬁnancial liabilities belong to the category “Carried at amortized cost.” Reconciliation with the balance sheet 2017 2016 Note 47. Financial items, Parent Company Assets Earnings from Earnings from Financial instruments 265 268 holdings in other ﬁnancial Interest Group non-current expenses and Other assets companies assets similar items Total Property, plant and equipment and intangible 2017 assets 18 21 Dividend paid 4,466 4,466 Holdings in Group companies, joint ventures and other securities 11,208 11,096 Interest income 0 0 Other non-current receivables 107 95 Interest expense –63 –63 Tax assets 85 75 Total 4,466 0 –63 4,403 Other current receivables and accrued receivables 137 137 2016 Total assets 11,820 11,692 Dividend paid 3,597 3,597 Equity and liabilities Interest income 0 0 Financial instruments 4,223 4,972 Interest expense –75 –75 Other liabilities Total 3,597 0 –75 3,522 Equity 7,213 6,360 Dividends Provisions 307 283 The amount for dividends consists of dividends in accordance with a decision Other current liabilities and accrued liabilities 77 77 by the Annual General Meeting, SEK 4,400 M ( 3,500 ) and Group contributions received, SEK 66 M (97). Total equity and liabilities 11,820 11,692 Net interest income/expense Impact of financial instruments on the Parent Company income Of interest expense, SEK –63 M (–75) relates to Group companies. statement Financial income and expense recognized in ﬁnancial items 2017 2016 Interest income on receivables 0 0 Interest expense on ﬁnancial liabilities carried at amortized cost –63 –75 Total –63 –75 Skanska Annual Report 2017 Notes, including accounting and valuation principles 175 Note 48. Income taxes, Parent Company Note 49. Intangible Parent Company assets, 2017 2016 Intangible assets are reported in compliance with IAS 38 Intangible assets. See Note 1 Accounting and valuation principles. Current taxes 0 0 Amortization of intangible assets for the year according to plan amounts to SEK –3 M (–1) and is included in selling and administrative expenses. Tax due to changed taxation –6 In determining the amortization amount, the Parent Company has paid parDeferred tax expenses/income from change in ticular attention to estimated residual value at the end of useful life. temporary differences 17 –15 Total 11 –15 The Swedish tax rate of 22.0 percent in relation to taxes recognized is explained in Intangible assets the table below. 2017 2016 Accumulated cost 2017 2016 January 1 27 13 Income after ﬁnancial items 4,310 3,444 Acquisitions 0 19 Tax at tax rate of 22.0 percent (22.0) –948 –758 Disposals/divestments 0 –5 Tax effect of: 27 27 Dividends from subsidiaries 968 770 Accumulated amortization according to plan Other non-deductible expenses –9 –27 January 1 –8 –12 Recognized tax expense/income 11 –15 Amortization for the year –3 –1 Non-deductible expenses refers mainly to costs related to the Group’s foreign Disposals/divestments for the year 0 5 operations. –11 –8 Deferred tax assets Accumulated impairment losses 2017 2016 January 1 0 0 Deferred tax assets for employee-related 0 0 provisions 78 61 Carrying amount, December 31 16 19 Minus deferred tax liabilities for holdings –1 –1 Carrying amount, January 1 19 1 Total 77 60 Change in deferred taxes in balance sheet 2017 2016 Deferred tax assets, January 1 Deferred tax expense/income 60 17 75 -15 Note 50. Property, Parent Company plant and equipment, Deferred tax assets, December 31 77 60 Property, plant and equipment are reported in compliance with IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment. See Note 1. The Parent Company expects to be able to utilize deferred tax assets to offset Group contributions from Swedish operating subsidiaries. Machinery and equipment owned by the Parent Company are recognized as property, plant and equipment. Depreciation on property, plant and equipment for the year according to plan amounts to SEK 0 M (–1). Plant and equipment 2017 2016 Accumulated cost January 1 7 7 Additions 0 0 Disposals 0 0 7 7 Accumulated depreciation according to plan January 1 –5 –4 Depreciation for the year 0 –1 Disposals for the year –5 –5 Carrying amount, December 31 2 2 Carrying amount, January 1 2 3 176 Notes, including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual Report 2017 Note 51. Financial non-current assets, Parent Company Holdings and receivables are reported as ﬁnancial non-current assets. Holdings are allocated between holdings in Group companies and joint arrangements. See Note 52 Holdings in Group companies and Note 53 Holdings in joint arrangements. Receivables are allocated between receivables from Group companies, deferred tax assets and other non-current receivables. Tax assets are described in Note 48 Income taxes. All receivables except deferred tax assets are interest-bearing. Other non-current holdings of Holdings in Group companies Holdings in joint arrangements securities Holdings 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Accumulated cost January 1 11,094 11,049 2 2 0 0 Share-based payments to employees of subsidiaries 1 112 45 Share of income 0 0 0 0 11,206 11,094 2 2 0 0 Accumulated impairment losses January 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Carrying amount, December 31 11,206 11,094 2 2 0 0 Carrying amount, January 1 11,094 11,049 2 2 0 0 1 Equivalent to the portion of the Group’s cost for Seop 2 and Seop 3 related to employees of subsidiaries and recognized in the Parent Company accounts as an increase in the carrying amount of holdings in Group companies and an increase in equity. If a decision is later made requiring a subsidiary to compensate the Parent Company for the value of the shares issued, receivables are transferred to the Group company. The amount for 2016 was thus reduced by SEK 163 M (203). Other non-current receivables Receivables from Group companies and deferred tax assets Receivables 2017 2016 2017 2016 Accumulated cost January 1 253 216 155 228 Receivables added/settled –6 37 29 –73 247 253 184 155 Carrying amount, December 31 247 253 184 155 Carrying amount, January 1 253 216 155 228 Note 52. Holdings in Group companies, Parent Company Skanska AB owns shares in two subsidiaries. The subsidiary Skanska Kraft AB is a holding company that owns the Group’s shareholdings in Skanska Group operating companies. Skanska Financial Services AB is the Group’s treasury unit (internal bank). Carrying amount Company Corp. ID No. Registered ofﬁce No. of shares 2017 2016 Swedish subsidiaries Skanska Financial Services AB 556106-3834 Stockholm 500 000 67 68 Skanska Kraft AB 556118-0943 Stockholm 4 000 000 11,139 11,026 Total 11,206 11,094 Both subsidiaries are 100-percent owned by the Parent Company. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Notes, including accounting and valuation principles 177 Note 53. Holdings in joint arrangements, Parent Company Holdings in joint arrangements are reported in compliance with IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements. See Note 1 Accounting and valuation principles. Carrying amount Percentage of Company Corp. ID No. Registered ofﬁce capital and votes 2017 2016 Swedish joint arrangements Sundlink Contractors HB 969620-7134 Malmö, Sweden 37 2 2 Total 2 2 The company has no operations other than fulﬁlling guarantee undertakings. Note 54. Prepaid expenses and accrued income, Parent Company Note 56. Provisions, Parent Company The Parent Company has prepaid expenses and accrued income of SEK 13 M (9). Provisions are reported in compliance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities This amount consists of SEK 2 M (2) in prepaid insurance premiums and SEK 11 M and Contingent Assets. (7) in other accrued receivables. See Note 1 Accounting and valuation principles. Provisions for pensions and similar obligations Other provisions Note 55. Equity, Parent Company January 1 2017 172 2016 224 2017 111 2016 86 Restricted and unrestricted equity Provisions for the year 15 36 95 95 According to Swedish law, equity must be allocated between restricted and unreProvisions utilized –13 –88 –73 –70 stricted equity. Share capital and the statutory reserve constitute restricted equity. December 31 174 172 133 111 Unrestricted equity consists of retained earnings and proﬁt for the year. The equity of the Parent Company was allocated among SEK 1,260 M (1,260) “Other provisions” consists of employee-related provisions. in share capital, SEK 598 M (598) in the statutory reserve, SEK 1,034 M 1,073) in The normal cycle time for “Other provisions” is about one to three years retained earnings and SEK 4,321 M (3,429) in proﬁt for the year. Employee-related provisions includes such items as social insurance contriThe Board of Directors proposes a dividend of SEK 8.25 (8.25) per share for the butions for share investment programs, bonus programs and obligations to 2016 ﬁnancial year. employees. The dividend for the year is expected to amount to SEK 3,377 M (3,075). No dividend is paid for the Parent Company’s holding of Series B shares. The total dividend amount may change by the record date, depending on repurchases of shares and the transfer of Series B shares to participants in Skanska employee ownership programs. Number of shares 2017 2016 Average number of shares outstanding after repurchases and conversion 409,447,407 409,896,419 after repurchases, conversion and dilution 411,905,245 412,174,095 Total number of shares 419,903,072 419,903,072 The number of shares amounted to 419,903,072 (419,903,072), divided into 19,793,202 (19,793,202) Series A shares and 400,147,658 (400,109,870) Series B shares. During the year 37,788 (65 998) ) Series A shares were converted into the same number of Series B shares. 2,350,000 (4,345,000) Series B shares were repurchased. After distribution of 1,754,616 (2,616,579)shares, there were 11,190,028 (10 594 644) Series B treasury shares remaining. The quota value per share amounts to SEK 3.00 (3.00). All shares are fully paid up. Each Series A share carries 10 votes and each Series B share carries one vote. Series B shares are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. According to the Articles of Association, Skanska’s share capital may not fall below SEK 1,200 M nor exceed SEK 4,800 M. 178 Notes, including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual Report 2017 Note 57. Provisions for pensions and similar obligations, Parent Company Provisions for pensions are reported in compliance with the Pension Obligations Vesting Act. Pension liabilities according to the balance sheet 2017 2016 Interest-bearing pension liabilities 1 119 108 Other pension obligations 55 64 Total 174 172 1 Liabilities in compliance with the Pension Obligations Vesting Act. 2017 2016 The company’s total pension obligations 909 946 Less pension obligations secured through pension funds –735 –774 Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 1 174 172 1 Of which SEK 12 M (13) is secured through credit insurance. Other pension obligations are largely secured through pledged endowment policies Of the company’s total pension obligations SEK 657 (691) is for ITP plans. No payments to pensions funds are expected to be made in 2017. Reconciliation, provisions for pensions 2017 2016 January 1 108 168 Pension expenses 15 22 Beneﬁts paid –4 –82 Provisions for pensions according to the balance sheet 119 108 Note 58. Liabilities, Parent Company Liabilities are allocated between non-current and current liabilities in compliance with IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements. See Note 1 Accounting and valuation principles. Accrued expenses and prepaid income The Parent Company has accrued expenses and prepaid income of SEK 72 (65). This relates to accrued vacation pay of SEK 30 M (28), accrued special payroll tax on pensions of SEK 22 M (21), accrued social insurance contributions of SEK 10 M (9) and other accrued expenses of SEK 10 M (7). Skanska Annual Report 2017 Notes, including accounting and valuation principles 179 Note 59. Expected recovery period of assets, provisions and liabilities, Parent Company 2017 2016 after after within 12 after 12 ﬁve years within 12 after 12 ﬁve years Amounts expected to be recovered months months (liabilities) Total months months (liabilities) Total Intangible non-current assets 1 3 13 16 3 16 19 Property, plant and equipment 1 2 2 2 2 Financial non-current assets Holdings in Group companies and joint arrangements 2 11,208 11,208 11,096 11,096 Receivables in Group companies 3 247 247 253 253 Other non-current receivables 107 107 95 95 Deferred tax assets 77 77 60 60 11,639 11,639 11,504 11,504 Current receivables Current receivables in Group companies 18 18 15 15 Tax assets 8 8 15 15 Other current receivables 124 124 128 128 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 13 13 9 9 163 0 163 167 0 167 Total assets 166 11,654 11,820 170 11,522 11,692 2017 2016 after after within 12 after 12 ﬁve years within 12 after 12 ﬁve years Amounts expected to be paid months months (liabilities) Total months months (liabilities) Total Provisions Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 13 161 174 24 148 172 Other provisions 77 56 133 84 27 111 90 217 307 108 175 283 Liabilities Non-current liabilities Liabilities to Group companies 4 4,177 4,177 4,918 4,918 0 0 4,177 4,177 0 0 4,918 4,918 Current liabilities Trade accounts payable 20 20 28 28 Liabilities to Group companies 26 26 26 26 Tax liabilities 0 0 0 0 Other liabilities 5 5 12 12 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 72 72 65 65 123 0 0 123 131 0 0 131 Total liabilities and provisions 213 217 4,177 4,607 239 175 4,918 5,332 Total equity 7,213 6,360 Equity and liabilities 11,820 11,692 1 In case of amounts expected to be recovered within 12 months, expected annual depreciation/amortization has been recognized. 2 No portion of the amount is expected to be recovered within 12 months. 3 No portion of the amount is expected to be recovered within 12 months, since the lending is considered to be non-current. 4 Intra-Group non-current interest-bearing liabilities are treated as having a maturity of more than ﬁve years from the closing day. 180 Notes, including accounting and valuation principles Skanska Annual Report 2017 Note 60. Assets pledged and contingent liabilities, Parent Company Note 62. Personnel, Parent Company Assets pledged Wages, salaries, other remuneration and social insurance contributions Assets pledged by the Parent Company totaled SEK 107 M (95), which relates 2017 2016 to assets in the form of non-current receivables. These assets were pledged as Salaries and Pension Salaries and Pension collateral for some of the Parent Company’s pension obligations. SEK M remuneration expenses remuneration expenses Total salaries and remuneraContingent liabilities tion, Board, President and Contingent liabilities are reported in compliance with IAS 37 Provisions, other senior executives 148.8 23.1 104.1 19.1 Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets. Note 1 Accounting and valuation of which variable principles, section IAS 37, describes the accounting principles remuneration 12.2 34.0 of which severance related compensation 50.5 2017 2016 Other employees 94.6 90.9 92.3 103.9 Contingent liabilities on behalf of Group companies 129,318 131,926 Less indemniﬁcation from pension fund –99.0 –101.0 Other contingent liabilities 26,435 30,260 Total 243.4 15.0 196.4 22.0 155,753 162,186 Social insurance contributions 102.0 110.0 Of the Parent Company’s contingent liabilities on behalf of Group companies, almost SEK 113 billion (117) relates to obligations for construction operations, of which pension expenses 15.0 22.0 mainly guarantees provided when Group companies were awarded contracts. For disclosures of individual remuneration to each Board member and the The remaining contingent liabilities for Group companies relate to guarantees for President and CEO, see Note 37 Remuneration to senior executives and Board borrowing by Group companies from credit institutions, guarantee undertakings members. in connection with divestment of properties by Group companies, guaranteeing For Board members appointed by the employees, no disclosures are made Group company undertakings to supply capital to their joint ventures and guaranconcerning salaries and remuneration or pensions since they do not receive these tees for Group company pension obligations. in their capacity as Board members. For Board members who were employees Of other contingent liabilities, SEK 16.5 billion (21.7) relates to liability for of the company prior to the beginning of the ﬁnancial year, disclosures are made external entities’ portion of ongoing contracting work. Of the remaining concerning pension obligations in their former role as employees. SEK 9.9 billion (8.5), SEK 0.6 billion (1.5) is attributable to guarantees provided for In 2017, bonuses paid to the President and CEO and other senior executives ﬁnancing of joint arrangements in which Group companies are co-owners and amounted to SEK 32.9 M (31.2). SEK 9.3 billion (7.0) is for guarantees in connection with ﬁnancing of residential In 2017, an allotment of shares occurred under the employee ownership projects in Sweden. program, Seop 3. The value of shares allotted amounted to SEK 33.7 M (32.3), of The amounts in the table above include the Parent Company’s contingent which SEK 19.0 M (13.4) was for Board members, the President and CEO and other liabilities relating to joint and several liability for trading company undertakings senior executives. of SEK 1 M (1). The company’s contingent liabilities relate entirely to guarantees The Parent Company’s pension expenses are calculated in compliance with the originating from surety provided or responsibilities as a shareholder in companies Pension Obligations Vesting Act. . In 2017, Skanska’s Swedish pension funds reimbursed Skanska AB in the Note 61. Cash ﬂow statement, Parent Company amount of around SEK 99 M (101). The company’s outstanding pension obligations to Presidents and CEOs, including former Presidents and CEOs, amounted to SEK 152.7 M (46.6). The company’s outstanding pension obligations to Executive Vice Presidents, including Adjustments for items not included in cash flow former Executive Vice Presidents, amounted to SEK 89.9 M (89.2 ). 2017 2016 The cost in 2017 for deﬁned-contribution pension plans was SEK 36.5 M (41.5) Depreciation/amortization 3 2 excluding indemniﬁcation. Capital gain 0 -1 Average number of employees Cost of Seop, employee ownership programs 22 25 Personnel is calculated as the average number of employees. See Note 1 Accounting Total 25 26 and valuation principles. Taxes paid of which of which of which of which Total taxes paid in the Parent Company during the year amount to SEK 0 M (–1). 2017 men women 2016 men women Sweden 124 52 72 111 48 63 Information about interest and dividends 2017 2016 Men and women on the Board of Directors and Senior Executive Team on closing day Interest income received during the year 0 0 of which of which of which of which Interest paid during the year 63 75 2017 men women 2016 men women The change in interest-bearing liabilities belonging to ﬁnancing activities is shown Number of Board members and deputy in the following table. members 13 69% 31% 13 77% 23% President and CEO, and 2017 2016 other members of the January 1 4 918 4 769 Senior Executive Team 9 67% 33% 9 78% 22% Items affecting cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities –741 149 December 31 4 177 4 918 Skanska Annual Report 2017 Notes, including accounting and valuation principles 181 Disclosures in compliance with the Annual Accounts Act, Chapter 6, Note 63. Related party disclosures, Parent Company Note 64. Section 2 a, Parent Company Through its ownership and percentage of voting power, AB Industrivärden has a Due to the requirements in the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, Chapter 6, Section signiﬁcant inﬂuence as deﬁned in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures. 2 a, concerning disclosures on certain circumstances that may affect the possibility Information on personnel expenses is found in Note 62 Personnel. For transacof a takeover of the company through a public takeover bid for the shares in the tions with senior executives, see Note 37 Remuneration to senior executives and company, the following disclosures are hereby provided. Board members. 1. The total number of shares in the company on December 31, 2017 was 2017 2016 419,903,072, of which 19,755,414 were Series A shares with 10 votes each Sales to Group companies 693 668 and 400,147,658 Series B shares with one vote each. Purchases from Group companies –241 –224 2. There are no restrictions on the transferability of shares due to provisions in the law or the Articles of Association. Interest income from Group companies 0 0 3. Of the company’s shareholders, only AB Industrivärden and Lundbergs Interest expense for Group companies –63 –75 directly or indirectly have a shareholding that represents at least one tenth Dividends from Group companies 4,466 3,597 of the voting power of all shares in the company. On December 31, 2017, AB Industrivärden’s holding amounted to 23.9 percent of total voting power in Non-current receivables in Group companies 247 253 the company and Lundbergs’ holding 12.4 percent of total voting power in Current receivables in Group companies 18 15 the company. 4. Skanska’s pension fund directly owns 370,000 Series B shares in Skanska. Non-current liabilities to Group companies 4,177 4,918 There is also an insigniﬁcant proportion of indirectly owned shares via Current liabilities to Group companies 26 26 investments in various mutual funds. Contingent liabilities on behalf of Group 5. There are no restrictions on the number of votes each shareholder may cast companies 129,318 131,926 at an Annual General Meeting. 6. The company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the right to transfer shares. 7. The Articles of Association state that the appointment of Board members is to take place at the Company’s Annual General Meeting. The Articles of Association contain no stipulations on dismissal of Board members or on amendments to the Articles of Association. 8. The 2017 Annual General Meeting voted in favor of authorizing the comSupplementary information, Note 65. Parent Company pany’s Board of Directors to decide on acquisitions of Skanska’s Series B treasury shares through a regulated market on the following conditions: A. Skanska Series B shares may only be acquired on Nasdaq Stockholm. Skanska AB, Swedish corporate identity number 556000-4615, is the Parent B. The authorization may be used on one or more occasions until the 2018 Company of the Group. Annual General Meeting. The company has its registered ofﬁce in Stockholm, Sweden, and is a limited C. A maximum of 3,000,0000 Skanska Series B shares may be acquired to company in compliance with Swedish legislation. secure the allotment of shares to participants in the Skanska employee The company’s headquarters are located in Stockholm, Sweden. ownership program, Seop 4 and for subsequent transfer on a regulated market to cover certain costs associated with Seop 4. Address: D. Skanska Series B shares on Nasdaq Stockholm may only be acquired at a Skanska AB For questions concerning ﬁnancial information, price within the applicable price interval at any given time, meaning the SE-112 74 STOCKHOLM please contact interval between the highest purchase price and lowest selling price. Sweden Skanska AB, Investor Relations, 9. Skanska AB or its Group companies are not party to any material agreeTel: +46-10-448 00 00 SE-112 74 STOCKHOLM, Sweden ment that will go into effect, be amended or cease to apply if control over Fax: +46-8-755 12 56 Tel: +46-10-448 00 00 the company or Group companies changes as a consequence of a public www.skanska.com E-mail: investor.relations@skanska.se takeover bid. 10. There are agreements between Skanska AB or its Group companies and employees that prescribe remuneration if employment is terminated without reasonable grounds. Such remuneration may not exceed 18 months’ ﬁxed Note 66. Events after the reporting period salary after the end of the notice period or, in the case of the President and CEO, a maximum of 24 months of severance pay. There are no agreements prescribing termination of employment as a consequence of a public takeThere are no material events to report for the Parent Company during the period. over bid for the shares in the company. 182 Vinstdisposition Skanska Annual Report 2017 Note 67. Allocation of earnings The Board of Directors and the President and CEO propose that the proﬁt for 2016 SEK 4,321,135,990, plus the retained earnings of SEK 1,033,333,156 carried forward from the previous year, totaling 5,354,469,146 be allocated as follows: A dividend to the shareholders of 1 8.25 per share 3,371,882,613 To be carried forward 1,982,586,533 Total 5,354,469,146 The consolidated annual accounts and the annual accounts, respectively, have been prepared in compliance with the international accounting standards referred to in Regulation (EC) No. 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of July 19, 2002 on the application of IFRS and generally accepted accounting principles, and provide a true and fair view of the position and results of the Group and the Parent Company. The Report of the Directors for the Group and the Parent Company provides a true and fair view of the operations, ﬁnancial position and results of the Group and the Parent Company, and describes the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Parent Company and the companies included in the Group. Stockholm den January 31, 2018 Hans Biörck Chairman Pär Boman John Carrig Nina Linander Board member Board member Board member Fredrik Lundberg Catherine Marcus Jane McGivern Charlotte Strömberg Board member Board member Board member Board member Richard Hörstedt Gunnar Larsson Board member Board member Anders Danielsson President and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Our Auditor’s Report was submitted on March 8, 2018 Ernst & Young AB Hamish Mabon Jonas Svensson Authorized Public Accountant Authorized Public Accountant 1 Based on the total number of shares outstanding on December 31, 2017. The total dividend amount may change by the record date, depending on repurchases of shares and the transfer of shares to participants in long-term employee ownership programs. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Auditor´s report 183 Auditor´s report This is a translation from the Swedish original Key Audit Matters Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our professional To the general meeting of the shareholders of judgment, were of most signiﬁcance in our audit of the annual accounts Skanska AB (publ), corporate identity number and consolidated accounts of the current period. These matters were 556000–4615 addressed in the context of our audit of, and in forming our opinion thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole, but we do Report on the annual accounts and not provide a separate opinion on these matters. For each matter below, consolidated accounts our description of how our audit addressed the matter is provided in that context. Opinions We have fulﬁlled the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s responWe have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of sibilities for the audit of the ﬁnancial statements section of our report, Skanska AB (publ) for the year 2017 except for the corporate governance including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit included the statement on pages 49–55 and the statutory sustainability report on pages performance of procedures designed to respond to our assessment of the 70–83. The annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the company risks of material misstatement of the ﬁnancial statements. The results of are included on pages 61–182 in this document. our audit procedures, including the procedures performed to address the In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance matters below, provide the basis for our audit opinion on the accompanywith the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, ing ﬁnancial statements. the ﬁnancial position of the parent company as of 31 December 2017 and its ﬁnancial performance and cash ﬂow for the year then ended in Percentage-of-completion method accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts A signiﬁcant portion of the company´s revenues relate to construction conhave been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and tracts. For 2017 the revenues from construction contracts amount to SEK present fairly, in all material respects, the ﬁnancial position of the group as 131,510 M. The company applies the percentage-of-completion method of December 31, 2017 and their ﬁnancial performance and cash ﬂow for i.e. a forecast of ﬁnal project revenues and results is recognized gradually the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reportover the course of the project based on the degree of completion. This ing Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. requires that the project revenues and project expenses can be reliably Our opinions do not cover the corporate governance statement on pages determined. This in turn requires that the Group has effective, coordinated 49–55 and the statutory sustainability report on pages 70–83. The statusystems for cost estimation, forecasting and revenue/expense reporting. tory administration report is consistent with the other parts of the annual The system also requires a consistent process to assess the ﬁnal outcome of accounts and consolidated accounts. the project, including analysis of differences compared with earlier assessWe therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders ment dates. This critical judgment is performed at least once per quarter. adopts the income statement and balance sheet for the parent company Our audit procedures include, among others, audit of material contracts and the group. including signiﬁcant judgements relating to proﬁt recognition and allocaOur opinions in this report on the annual accounts and consolidated tion of costs. We have audited material contracts to identify potential accounts are consistent with the content of the additional report that has penalties due to any delayed milestones in the projects. We also assessed been submitted to the parent company’s audit committee in accordance the historical accuracy of management’s estimates of the ﬁnal outcomes with the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. of projects and evaluated the adequacy of the Company’s disclosures included in Note 9 Construction contracts. Basis for Opinions We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Valuation of Investments in Infrastructure Development Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our Potential impairment in completed infrastructure projects remaining responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Audiin a joint venture ownership structure could have signiﬁcant impact on tor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parent company Skanska´s net income. These projects are normally material and the investand the group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in ment cycle could be long. The expected cash ﬂows from these investments Sweden and have otherwise fulﬁlled our ethical responsibilities in accorcould extend beyond 20 years in to the future. dance with these requirements. This includes that, based on the best of The Investments in Infrastructure Development amounts to SEK 1,944 M our knowledge and belief, no prohibited services referred to in the Audit as of December 31, 2017. As outlined in Note 20 B “Investments in joint Regulation (537/2014) Article 5.1 have been provided to the audited comventures and associated companies” of the Annual Report the company pany or, where applicable, its parent company or its controlled companies determines an estimated value for infrastructure projects by discounting within the EU. estimated future cash ﬂows in the form of dividends and repayments of We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufﬁcient and loans and equity. The discount rate chosen is applied to all future cash appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. ﬂows starting on the appraisal date. Our audit procedures included among others assessing budgets and ﬁnancial projections and reviewing other ﬁnancial input used to determine the value in use models. We have also 184 Auditor´s report Skanska Annual Report 2017 audited work performed by external appraisers. We speciﬁcally focused In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, The Board of on the sensitivity in the difference between the estimated value and book Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the assessment of values of the projects, where a reasonably possible change in assumptions the company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. They could cause the carrying amount to exceed its estimated present value. disclose, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the We also assessed the historical accuracy of management’s estimates. We going concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis of accounting evaluated the adequacy of the Company’s disclosures included in Note 20 B. is however not applied if the Board of Directors and the Managing Director intends to liquidate the company, to cease operations, or has no realistic Claims and litigation alternative but to do so. The non-current provision for legal disputes amounts to SEK 941 M as The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of Director’s of December 31, 2017. As outlined in Note 29 “Provisions” of the Annual responsibilities and tasks in general, among other things oversee the comReport, the Company is exposed to potential claims and disputes in the pany’s ﬁnancial reporting process. Construction business stream for projects that have been completed. Claims and disputes including any provisions are a key audit matter to Auditor’s responsibility our audit because management judgement is required. The assessment Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the process is complex and entails assessing future developments. In addition annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from matesome of the claims are in countries where the legal proceedings can stretch rial misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s out over an extended period of time. report that includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high level of We have gained an understanding of the claims and litigation through assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance discussions with in house Legal Counsel. We have read the internal posiwith ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always tion papers prepared by the Company. We also obtained lawyers’ letters detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise to the extent considered necessary for our audit. For all potentially material from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the claims we tested the underlying facts and circumstances considered relaggregate, they could reasonably be expected to inﬂuence the economic evant for the legal advisors to reach their conclusions and assessed the best decisions of users taken on the basis of these annual accounts and consoliestimate of outﬂows as determined by the Company. dated accounts. As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgOther information than the annual accounts and consolidated • ment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also: accounts Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the annual This document also contains other information than the annual accounts accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud or error, and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 1–60 and 189–197. The design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufﬁcient and appropriate to provide a Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for this other basis for our opinions. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement information. resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts does may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentanot cover this other information and we do not express any form of assurtions, or the override of internal control. ance conclusion regarding this other information. In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated • Obtain an understanding of the company’s internal control relevant to our audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the accounts, our responsibility is to read the information identiﬁed above circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the and consider whether the information is materially inconsistent with the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. annual accounts and consolidated accounts. In this procedure we also take into account our knowledge otherwise obtained in the audit and assess • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by whether the information otherwise appears to be materially misstated. the Board of Directors and the Managing Director. If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ and the Managing Director’s use of the going concern basis of accounting in preare required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. paring the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. We also draw a conclusion, based on the audit evidence obtained, as to whether any Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the signiﬁcant doubt on the company’s and the group’s ability to continue preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and that as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, they give a fair presentation in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in accordance with IFRS as disclosures in the annual accounts and consolidated accounts or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion about the annual adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are accounts and consolidated accounts. Our conclusions are based on the also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, enable the preparation of annual accounts and consolidated accounts that future events or conditions may cause a company and a group to cease are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. to continue as a going concern. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Auditor´s report 185 • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the disclosures, and Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts represent the The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations of underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair prethe company’s proﬁt or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this includes an sentation. • assessment of whether the dividend is justiﬁable considering the requireObtain sufﬁcient and appropriate audit evidence regarding the ﬁnancial ments which the company’s and the group’s type of operations, size and information of the entities or business activities within the group to risks place on the size of the parent company’s and the group’s equity, conexpress an opinion on the consolidated accounts. We are responsible solidation requirements, liquidity and position in general. for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organization and remain solely responsible for our opinions. the administration of the company’s affairs. This includes among other We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other matters, the things continuous assessment of the company’s and the group’s ﬁnancial planned scope and timing of the audit. We must also inform of signiﬁcant situation and ensuring that the company’s organization is designed so that audit ﬁndings during our audit, including any signiﬁcant deﬁciencies in the accounting, management of assets and the company’s ﬁnancial affairs internal control that we identiﬁed. otherwise are controlled in a reassuring manner. The Managing Director We must also provide the Board of Directors with a statement that we shall manage the ongoing administration according to the Board of Direchave complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding indepentors’ guidelines and instructions and among other matters take measures dence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that are necessary to fulﬁll the company’s accounting in accordance with that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where law and handle the management of assets in a reassuring manner. applicable, related safeguards. Auditor’s responsibility From the matters communicated with the Board of Directors, we Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby determine those matters that were of most signiﬁcance in the audit of the our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence to annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the most important assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any member of the • assessed risks for material misstatement, and are therefore the key audit Board of Directors or the Managing Director in any material respect: matters. We describe these matters in the auditor’s report unless law or has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can give regulation precludes disclosure about the matter. rise to liability to the company, or Report on other legal and regulatory requirements • in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. Opinions Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of the In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, company’s proﬁt or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to assess we have also audited the administration of the Board of Directors and the with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is in accorManaging Director of Skanska AB (publ) for the year 2017 and the prodance with the Companies Act. posed appropriations of the company’s proﬁt or loss. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the proﬁt be that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory administrastandards in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions that can give tion report and that the members of the Board of Directors and the Manrise to liability to the company, or that the proposed appropriations of the aging Director be discharged from liability for the ﬁnancial year. company’s proﬁt or loss are not in accordance with the Companies Act. As part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing Basis for Opinions standards in Sweden, we exercise professional judgment and maintain proWe conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing fessional skepticism throughout the audit. The examination of the adminstandards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are furistration and the proposed appropriations of the company’s proﬁt or loss is ther described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are indepenbased primarily on the audit of the accounts. Additional audit procedures dent of the parent company and the group in accordance with professional performed are based on our professional judgment with starting point in ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulﬁlled our ethical risk and materiality. This means that we focus the examination on such responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. actions, areas and relationships that are material for the operations and We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufﬁcient and where deviations and violations would have particular importance for the appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. company’s situation. We examine and test decisions undertaken, support for decisions, actions taken and other circumstances that are relevant to our opinion concerning discharge from liability. As a basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposed appropriations of the company’s proﬁt or loss we examined the Board of Directors’ reasoned statement and a selection of supporting evidence in order to be able to assess whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. 186 Auditor´s report Skanska Annual Report 2017 The auditor’s examination of the corporate governance The auditor´s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability statement report The Board of Directors is responsible for that the corporate governance The Board of Directors is responsible for the statutory sustainability report statement on pages 49–55 has been prepared in accordance with the on pages 70–83, and that it is prepared in accordance with the Annual Annual Accounts Act. Accounts Act. Our examination of the corporate governance statement is conducted Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing in accordance with FAR´s auditing standard RevU 16 The auditor´s examinastandard RevR 12 The auditor´s opinion regarding the statutory sustainabiltion of the corporate governance statement. This means that our examinaity report. This means that our examination of the statutory sustainability tion of the corporate governance statement is different and substantially report is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweaccepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination den. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufﬁcient basis has provided us with sufﬁcient basis for our opinion. A statutory sustainfor our opinions. ability report has been prepared. A corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclosures in Ernst & Young AB, Box 7850, 103 99 Stockholm, was appointed auditor accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph points 2-6 of of Skanska AB (publ) by the general meeting of the shareholders on the 4th the Annual Accounts Act and chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph of April 2017 and has been the company’s auditor since 2016. the same law are consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and are in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Stockholm March 8, 2018 Ernst & Young AB Hamish Mabon Jonas Svensson Authorized Public Accountant Authorized Public Accountant Skanska Annual Report 2017 Auditor´s report 187 Independent practitioner’s review report on Skanska AB’s greenhouse gas reporting This is a translation from the Swedish original A limited assurance engagement undertaken in accordance with ISAE 3410 involves assessing the suitability in the circumstances of Skanska’s To Skanska AB use of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol as the basis for the preparation of the Greenhouse gas reporting, assessing the risks of material misstatement of We have undertaken a limited assurance engagement of the accompanythe Greenhouse gas reporting whether due to fraud or error, responding ing Greenhouse gas reporting of Skanska AB for the year ended December to the assessed risks as necessary in the circumstances, and evaluating the 31, 2017, comprising the emissions inventory and the explanatory notes on overall presentation of the Greenhouse gas reporting. A limited assurance page 69 of the Skanska Annual Report 2017. engagement is substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement in relation to both the risk assessment procedures, including Skanska AB’s Responsibility for the Greenhouse gas reporting an understanding of internal control, and the procedures performed in Skanska AB is responsible for the preparation of the Greenhouse gas response to the assessed risks. reporting in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (published by The procedures we performed were based on our professional judgthe World Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council for ment and included inquiries, observation of processes performed, inspecSustainable Development (WBCSD), applied as explained in the Greention of documents, analytical procedures, evaluating the appropriateness house gas reporting section of the Sustainability report section on pages of quantiﬁcation methods and reporting policies, and agreeing or reconcil65-79 of the Skanska Annual Report 2017. This responsibility includes the ing with underlying records. design, implementation and maintenance of internal control relevant to The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary the preparation of a greenhouse gas reporting that is free from material in nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in As discussed in the Greenhouse gas reporting section of the Sustainabila limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance ity report, greenhouse gas quantiﬁcation is subject to inherent uncertainty that would have been obtained had we performed a reasonable assurbecause of incomplete scientiﬁc knowledge used to determine emissions ance engagement. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assurance factors and the values needed to combine emissions of different gases. opinion about whether Skanska’s Greenhouse gas reporting has been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Our Independence and Quality Control Protocol applied as explained in the Greenhouse gas reporting section of We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements the Sustainability report. of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which is founded on funConclusion damental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have due care, conﬁdentiality and professional behavior. obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that The ﬁrm applies International Standard on Quality Control 1, ISQC 1, Skanska’s Greenhouse gas reporting for the year ended December 31, 2017 Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Financial is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the GreenStatements, and Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements and house Gas Protocol applied as explained in Greenhouse gas reporting secaccordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including tion of the Sustainability report. documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Stockholm March 8, 2018 Our Responsibility Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the Ernst & Young AB Greenhouse gas reporting based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained. We conducted our limited assurance Hamish Mabon Jonas Svensson Ingrid Cornander engagement in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Authorized Public Authorized Public Authorized Public Engagements 3410, Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas StateAccountant Accountant Accountant Specialist, ments (“ISAE 3410”), issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Climate Change Standards Board. That standard requires that we plan and perform this Sustainability Services engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether the Greenhouse gas reporting is free from material misstatement. 188 Auditor´s report Skanska Annual Report 2017 Homes that make good – and green – neighbors Skanska Annual Report 2017 Major orders, investments and divestments 189 U Cukrovaru and Botanica K, Prague, Czech Republic Residential Development and Construction When buying a home, the location, price and layout are important basics. Skanska develops apartment houses with distinctive beneﬁts that offer even more. For U Cukrovaru, shown here, Skanska engaged with neighbors to determine what could beneﬁt both them and future residents. It turned out to be a public park for relaxing and dog walking, and this was incorporated into the project. This participation process has set a new path for local Residential Development projects. Botanica K uses treated water from sinks, bathtubs and showers for ﬂushing toilets. Combined with other water efﬁciency solutions, this approach reduces potable water consumption by about 40 percent, helping lower both environmental impacts and utility bills. 190 Major orders, investments and divestments Skanska Annual Report 2017 Major orders, investments and divestments Orders Q1 Skanska builds light rail in Lund, Sweden, for Skanska builds railway in Sundsvall, Sweden, about SEK 710 M. for SEK 320 M. Skanska renovates the Olympic Stadium Skanska refurbishes mixed-use development in Helsinki, Finland, for EUR 156 M, in London, UK, for GBP 73 M, about SEK 810 M. about SEK 1.5 billion. Skanska expands hospital in Vestfold, Norway, Skanska builds the road E6 in southern for NOK 960 , about SEK 1.0 billion. Helgeland, Norway, for NOK 2.3 billion, about SEK 2.4 billion. Skanska signs seven-year highways maintenance contract in Hampshire, UK, for GBP 80 M, about SEK 890 billion. Q2 Skanska builds power plant in Høyanger municipality, Norway, for NOK 350 M, about SEK 370 M. Skanska renovates tunnels in Oslo, Norway, for NOK 516 M, about SEK 550 M. Skanska builds the I-15 Express Lanes project in California, USA, for USD 146 M, about SEK 1.3 billion. Skanska signs contract for USD 35 M, about Skanska constructs new building for ofﬁces SEK 310 M, for ongoing project in New York and retail in Stockholm, Sweden, for City, USA. Skanska invests USD 360 M, about SEK 1.2 billion. SEK 3.2 billion in a new ofﬁce project in Skanska renovates and expands University Houston, USA. hospital in Virginia, USA, for USD 45 M, about Skanska builds new hospital in Kainuu, SEK 400 M. Finland, for EUR 69 M, about SEK 670 M. Skanska constructs an ofﬁce building, Sthlm 01, in Stockholm, Sweden for about SEk 1.0 billion. Skanska signs seven-year highways maintenance contract in Somerset, UK, worth 50 M the ﬁrst two years, about SEK 570 M. Skanska builds new Sixth Street Viaduct in Los Angeles, USA, for USD 134 M, about SEK 1.2 billion. Skanska builds energy-positive ofﬁce building in Trondheim, Norway, for NOK 370 M, about Skanska builds 40-story residential tower SEK 390 M. in Seattle, USA, for USD 152 M, about SEK 1.4 billion. Skanska upgrades freeway in San Diego, USA, for USD 88 M, about SEK 750 M. Skanska constructs a new ofﬁce project in SeatSkanska builds apartments in Helsinki, Finland, tle, USA, for USD 228 M, about SEK 2.0 billion. for EUR 38 M, about SEK 360 M. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Major orders, investments and divestments 191 Orders Skanska builds care facility at Kungälv Hospital, Sweden, for about SEK 940M. Skanska builds new hotel at Arlanda Airport in Stockholm, Sweden, for about SEK 710 M. Skanska builds new research and education tower in Tampa, USA, for USD 41 M, about SEK 360 M. Skanska builds Sundsta-Älvkulle Upper Skanska expands Portland International Skanska expands S:t Görans Hospital in Secondary School in Karlstad, Sweden, for Airport in Portland, USA, for USD 151M, Stockholm, Sweden, for about SEK 1.3 billion. about SEK 410 M. about SEK 1.3 billion. Skanska renovates commercial building in Skanska signs ten-year highways maintenance Skanska builds new residence hall in Durham, New York City, USA, for US 48 M, about SEK contract in Cambridgeshire, UK, worth GBP 64 USA, for USD 61 M, about SEK 520 M. 430 M. M the ﬁrst two years, about SEK 710 M. Skanska builds replacement schools in Skanska renovates four subway stations in Cincinnati, USA, for USD 65 M, about SEK New York City, USA, for USD 150 M, about 560 M. SEK 1.3 billion. Skanska builds a combined city hall and station building in Växjö, Sweden for SEK 580 M. Skanska builds collegiate facility in Pennsylvania, USA for USD 47 M, about SEK 400 M. Skanska renovates facility near Philadelphia, USA, for USD 85 M, about SEK 730 M. Skanska builds ofﬁce building and movie theater in Tysons Corner, USA, for USD 167M, about SEK 1.5 billion. Skanska converts Farley Post Ofﬁce Building into major transport hub in NYC, USA, for USD Skanska renovates commercial ofﬁce building 1.26 billion, about SEK 11 billion. in London, UK, for GBP 41 M, about SEK 460 M. Skanska builds new recreation center for Skanska extends county road in Nord TrønBoston College in Massachusetts, USA for delag, Norway, for NOK 360 M, about SEK USD 113 M, about SEK 1 billion. 380 M. Skanska renovates east end of Las Olas Skanska designs and prepares construction Boulevard in Florida, USA, for USD 49 M, about for High Speed Two in London, UK, for GBP SEK 440 M. 27 M, about SEK 300 M. Skanska constructs mixed-use facility in Massachusetts, USA, for USD 125 M, Skanska builds rental apartments in Stockholm, Skanska renovates tunnels in Akershus, about SEK 1.1 billion. Sweden, for about SEK 400 M. Norway, for NOK 385 M, about SEK 400 M. Skanska builds mixed-used development in Skanska builds manufacturing facility in London, UK for GBP 127M, about SEK 1.4 bilwestern USA for USD 120M, about SEK 1.1 billion. Q4 lion. Skanska restores lagoon in San Diego, USA, for Skanska builds courtand ofﬁce building USD 38 M, about SEK 325 M. Q3 in Sollentuna, Sweden, for about SEK 420 M. Skanska renovates commercial building in Skanska builds conference hotel in Drammen, New York City, USA, for US 48 M, about SEK Norway, for NOK 300 M, about 310 M. 430 M. Skanska builds warehouse in Portland, USA, for Skanska builds medical ofﬁce building USD 63 M, about SEK 540 M. in Franklin, USA, for USD 40 M, about SEK 340 M. Skanska builds research facilities in New Jersey, USA, for USD 43 M, about SEK Skanska signs additional contract for 350 M. manufacturing facility in western USA, for USD 81 M, about SEK 690 M. Skanska rehabilitates George Washington Bridge in New York City, USA, for USD 452 M, Skanska builds mixed-use development in Madabout SEK 3.9 billion. isonville, USA, for USD 100 M, about SEK 850 M. Skanska to build mixed-use development Skanska signs additional contract for Skanska builds graduate student housing in London, UK, for GBP 142M, about manufacturing facility in western USA, in San Francisco, USA, for USD 170 M, about SEK1.6 billion. for USD 121 M, about SEK 1 billion. SEK 1.5 billion. 192 Major orders, investments and divestments Skanska Annual Report 2017 Investments Q1 Q2 Q3 Skanska invests EUR 46 M, about SEK 440 M, in Skanska invests EUR 37 M, about SEK 360 M, in phase I of an ofﬁce project in Lodz, Poland. the ﬁrst phase of a new ofﬁce project in Bucharest, Romania. Skanska invests in land in Mölndal, Sweden, for about SEK 280 M. Skanska invests EUR 48 M, about SEK 460 M, in phase I in mixed-use project in Poznan, Poland. Skanska invests SEK 1.3 billion in the ofﬁce building Sthlm 01 in Stockholm, Sweden. Skanska invests EUR 38 M, about SEK 370 M, in Skanska invests about SEK 430 M in the ofﬁce the ﬁrst phase of an ofﬁce project in Bucharest, building Epic in Malmö, Sweden. Romania. Skanska invests EUR 44 M, about SEK 420 M, Skanska invests EUR 33 NM, about SEK 310 M, in the second phase of an ofﬁce project in in second phase of an ofﬁce project in BudaWarsaw, Poland. pest, Hungary. Skanska invests DKK 566 M, about SEK 730 M, Skanska invests USD 392 M, about SEK 3.5 bilin a new hotel project in Copenhagen, Denlion, in a new ofﬁce project in Seattle, USA. mark. Skanska invests in land in Prague, Czech RepubSkanska invests EUR 27 M, about SEK 260 M, in lic, for CZK 841 M, about SEK 290 M. a new ofﬁce project in Prague, Czech Republic. Skanska invests USD 360 M, about SEK 3.2 billion in a new ofﬁce project in Houston, USA. Q4 Skanska invests about SEK 250 M to increase the capacity in BoKlok’s factory in Gullringen, Sweden. Skanska invests EUR 44 M, about SEK 420 M, in a new ofﬁce building in Krakow, Poland. Skanska Annual Report 2017 Major orders, investments and divestments 193 Divestments Q1 Q2 Q4 Skanska’s divestment of its investment Skanska divests its investment in the in the A1 highway, Poland, was completed. Sjisjka wind farm in Gällivare, Sweden, for about SEK 160 M. Skanska sells ofﬁce building in Solna, Sweden, for about SEK 300 M. Skanska sells nursing home in Gothenburg, Sweden, for about SEK 240 M. Skanska sells ofﬁce building in Poznan, Poland, for EUR 62 M, about SEK 590 M. Skanska sells residential project in Copenhagen, Denmark, for 880 M, about SEK 1.1 billion. Skanska sells the ofﬁce building Piren2 in Gothenburg, Sweden, for about SEK 410 M. Skanska sells ofﬁce building in Bucharest, Romania, for EUR 38 M, about SEK 370 M. Skanska sells ofﬁce building in Warsaw, Poland, for EUR 83 M, about SEK 800 M. Skanska sells ofﬁce property in Vantaa, Finland, Skanska sells ofﬁce building in Stockholm, Swefor about EUR 31 M, about SEK 290 M. den, for about SEK 440 M. Skanska sells multi-family development in Boston, USA, vor about USD 60 M, about SEK Skanska divests three properties in Stockholm, 510 M. Sweden, for about SEK 850 M. Skanska sells two ofﬁce buildings in Krakow, Poland, for EUR 75 M, about SEK 720 M. Skanska sells ofﬁce building in Prague, Czech Republic, for EUR 50 M, about SEK 480 M. Skanska divests three buildings at Skanska sells ofﬁce building in London, UK, for Linnaeus University in Kalmar, Sweden, for about GBP 118 M, about SEK 1.3 billion. about SEK 1.1 billion. Skanska divests its investments in the Mullberg wind farm in the Berg municipality, Sweden, for Q3 about SEK 370 M. Skanska sells ofﬁce building in Poznan, Poland, for EUR 73 M, about SEK 700 M. Skanska sells ofﬁce building in Oslo, Norway, for NOK 795 M, about SEK 830 M. Skanska sells ofﬁce building in Stockholm, Sweden, for about SEK 900 M. 194 Consolidated quarterly results Skanska Annual Report 2017 Consolidated quarterly results 2017 2016 In compliance with IFRS Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Order bookings 33,232 34,110 46,254 38,215 39,615 46,426 53,859 30,344 Proﬁt/loss Revenue 45,302 38,868 40,094 33,613 39,550 35,487 39,926 30,402 Cost of sales –41,215 –35,762 –37,346 –30,780 –35,772 –32,502 –34,732 –28,113 Gross income 4,087 3,106 2,748 2,833 3,778 2,985 5,194 2,289 Selling and administrative expenses –3,097 –2,091 –2,390 –2,273 –2,560 –2,157 –2,298 –2,137 Income from joint ventures and associated companies 390 129 95 1,041 1,618 220 129 159 Operating income 1,380 1,144 453 1,601 2,836 1,048 3,025 311 Interest income 23 13 35 18 18 14 9 30 Interest expense –21 –20 –34 –36 –52 –33 –34 –51 Change in market value 4 6 5 9 16 7 2 –23 Other ﬁnancial items 7 3 17 16 –43 –3 36 –12 Financial items 13 2 23 7 –61 –15 13 –56 Income after ﬁnancial items 1,393 1,146 476 1,608 2,775 1,033 3,038 255 Taxes –208 –108 29 –225 –457 –217 –640 –52 Proﬁt for the period 1,185 1,038 505 1,383 2,318 816 2,398 203 Proﬁt for the period attributable to Equity holders 1,181 1,031 500 1,383 2,313 813 2,394 202 Non-controlling interests 4 7 5 0 5 3 4 1 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss for the period Remeasurement of deﬁned-beneﬁt pension plans 595 355 –1529 180 2866 –2,578 –1,190 –225 Tax related to items that will not be reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss for the period –143 –78 328 –38 –574 454 254 55 452 277 –1201 142 2292 –2,124 –936 –170 Items that have been or will be reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss for the period Translation differences attributable to equity holders 288 –284 –438 –165 179 728 495 –237 Translation differences attributable to non-controlling interests 4 2 3 –1 –1 5 3 1 Hedging of exchange rate risk in foreign operations –91 –5 –32 3 99 –60 1 –4 Effect of cash ﬂow hedges 98 –54 9 85 –4 37 –56 54 Share of other comprehensive income for joint ventures and associated companies 13 15 37 18 1,467 –54 –209 –349 Tax related to items that have been or will be reclassiﬁed to proﬁt for the period –16 7 –3 –13 1 –3 8 –10 296 –319 –424 –73 1,741 653 242 –545 Other comprehensive income after tax for the period 748 –42 –1,625 69 4,033 –1,471 –694 –715 Comprehensive income for the period 1,933 996 –1,120 1,452 6,351 –655 1,704 –512 Comprehensive income for the period attributable to Equity holders 1,925 987 –1,128 1,453 6,347 –663 1,697 –514 Non-controlling interests 8 9 8 –1 4 8 7 2 Order backlog 188,411 194,743 202,214 200,792 196,254 191,567 177,902 154,590 Capital employed 44,111 42,589 41,594 42,773 42,605 38,672 36,734 36,846 Interest-bearing net receivables/net debt –1,126 –5,560 –4,323 2,917 1,219 –3,210 –463 2,367 Debt/equity ratio 0.0 0.2 0.2 –0.1 0.0 0.2 0.0 –0.1 Return on capital employed, % 11.1 14.8 14.9 21.9 19.2 20.4 19.8 15.9 Cash ﬂow Cash ﬂow from operating activities 4,059 –568 –1,233 588 –457 376 2,102 –2,904 Cash ﬂow from investing activities –809 726 –387 2,060 1,583 –1,617 –1,340 –219 Cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities –560 –107 –1,046 –1,104 –261 –237 –2,442 –1,150 Cash ﬂow for the year 2,690 51 –2,666 1,544 865 –1,478 –1,680 –4,273 Skanska Annual Report 2017 Consolidated quarterly results 195 Consolidated quarterly results, continued Business streams 2017 2016 In compliance with IFRS Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Order bookings Construction 33,232 34,110 46,254 38,215 39,615 46,426 53,859 30,344 Total 33,232 34,110 46,254 38,215 39,615 46,426 53,859 30,344 Revenue Construction 41,074 38,208 38,681 32,087 38,827 34,969 33,767 30,438 Residential Development 3,422 2,167 3,633 2,601 2,487 1,729 1,815 1,540 Commercial Property Development 4,906 1,670 1,269 1,671 1,940 1,112 6,082 577 Infrastructure Development 22 20 18 21 35 28 155 19 Central and eliminations –4,122 –3,197 –3,507 –2,767 –3,739 –2,351 –1,893 –2,172 Total 45,302 38,868 40,094 33,613 39,550 35,487 39,926 30,402 Operating income Construction –221 918 116 392 1,264 942 898 442 Residential Development 482 205 514 307 347 171 140 88 Commercial Property Development 1,441 304 139 183 180 60 1,968 –9 Infrastructure Development 40 –25 –29 939 1,475 126 131 86 Central –327 –200 –234 –182 –431 –226 –234 –250 Eliminations –35 –58 –53 –38 1 –25 122 –46 Total 1,380 1,144 453 1,601 2,836 1,048 3,025 311 2017 2016 According to segment reporting Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Order bookings Construction 33,232 34,110 46,254 38,215 39,615 46,426 53,859 30,344 Total 33,232 34,110 46,254 38,215 39,615 46,426 53,859 30,344 Revenue Construction 41,074 38,208 38,681 32,087 38,827 34,969 33,767 30,438 Residential Development 3,136 2,033 4,716 3,352 4,529 2,596 3,479 2,660 Commercial Property Development 3,685 1,074 5,119 1,562 2,673 1,339 1,794 4,420 Infrastructure Development 22 20 18 21 35 28 155 19 Central and eliminations –4,298 –3,249 –3,598 –2,840 –3,827 –2,411 –1,943 –2,240 Total 43,619 38,086 44,936 34,182 42,237 36,521 37,252 35,297 Operating income Construction –221 918 116 392 1,264 942 898 442 Residential Development 394 219 665 438 680 250 378 297 Commercial Property Development 863 594 978 279 322 202 451 1,361 Infrastructure Development 40 –25 –29 939 1,475 126 131 86 Central –328 –199 –235 –182 –431 –226 –234 –249 Eliminations –10 –41 –44 –17 –10 –28 40 32 Total 738 1,466 1,451 1,849 3,300 1,266 1,664 1,969 196 Annual General Meeting, Investors Skanska Annual Report 2017 Annual General Meeting Investors The Annual General Meeting of Skanska AB (publ) will be held Calendar at 10:00 a.m. on April 13, 2018, at the Stockholm Waterfront The Skanska Group’s interim reports will be published Congress Centre, Nils Ericsons Plan 4, Stockholm, Sweden. on the following dates: Notiﬁcation and registration Three Month Report Shareholders who wish to participate in the Annual General Meeting May 9, 2018 must be listed in the register of shareholders maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB, the Swedish central securities depository and clearing Six Month Report organization, on Saturday, April 7, 2018 and must notify Skanska July 20, 2018 by April 9, 2018, preferably before 12 noon, of their intention to participate in the Meeting. Nine Month Report Shareholders whose shares have been registered in the name of a November 8, 2018 trustee must have requested re-registration in their own name in the register of shareholders maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB to be Year-end Report entitled to participate in the Meeting. Such re-registration, which may February 8, 2019 be temporary, should be requested well in advance of, April 7, 2018 from the bank or brokerage house holding the shares in trust. Distribution and other information The interim reports and the Annual Report can Notiﬁcation may be made in writing to: be read or downloaded from Skanska’s website Skanska AB, Årsstämman 2018 www.skanska.com/investors. c/o Euroclear Sweden, Box 191, SE-101 23 Stockholm, Sweden Telephone: +46 8 402 92 81 Those wishing to order the printed Annual Report can Website: www.skanska.com/group easily use the order form found on the above website, or contact Skanska AB, Investor Relations. The notiﬁcation must always state the shareholder’s name, personal identiﬁcation or corporate identity number, address and telephone number. For shareholders represented by proxy, a power of attorney The website also contains an archive should be sent to the company before the Meeting. Shareholders who of interim reports and Annual Reports, have duly notiﬁed the company of their participation will receive an as well as Annual Reviews in USD. admittance card, which should be brought and shown at the entrance to the Meeting venue. Dividend www.facebook.com/skanska The Board of Directors propose a dividend of SEK 8,25 (8,25) per share for the 2017 ﬁnancial year. The proposal is equivalent to a regular www.linkedin.com/company/skanska dividend payout totalling SEK 3,372 M (3,380). The Board proposes www.twitter.com/skanskagroup April 17 as the record date for the dividend. Provided that the Meeting approves this proposal, the dividend is expected to be distributed by If you have questions, please contact: Euroclear AB on April 20, 2018. Skanska AB, Investor Relations The total dividend amount may change by the record date, depending SE-112 74 Stockholm, Sweden on repurchases of shares and transfers of shares to participants in the Telephone: +46 10 448 00 00 company’s long-term employee ownership programs. E-mail: investor.relations@skanska.se Skanska Annual Report 2017 Addresses 197 Addresses Skanska AB (publ) Skanska Poland Skanska USA Building Skanska Commercial Property SE 112 74 Stockholm ul. Pruszkowska 17 389 Interpace Parkway, 5th floor Development USA Sweden PL-02 119 Warszawa Parsippany, NJ 07054 Empire State Building Street address: Poland USA 350 Fifth Avenue, 32nd floor Warfvinges väg 25 Tel: +48 22 561 30 00 Tel: +1 973 753 3500 New York Tel: +46 10-448 00 00 www.skanska.pl www.usa.skanska.com New York 10118 www.skanska.com USA Skanska Czech Republic Skanska USA Civil Tel: +1 917 438 4514 Skanska Sweden and Slovakia 75–20 Astoria Boulevard www.usa.skanska.com SE 112 74 Stockholm Křižíkova 682/34a Suite 200 Sweden 186 00 Prague 8, Karlín Queens, New York, N.Y. 11370 Skanska Infrastructure Tel: +46 10-448 00 00 Czech Republic USA Development Customer service: Phone: +420 267 095 111 Tel: +1 718 340 07 77 SE 112 74 Stockholm +46 20-30 30 40 www.skanska.cz www.usa.skanska.com Sweden www.skanska.se www.skanska.sk Tel: +46 10-448 00 00 Skanska Commercial Property www.skanska.com/id Skanska Norway Skanska UK Development Nordic Postboks 1175 Sentrum Maple Cross House SE 112 74 Stockholm Skanska Financial Services NO-0187 Oslo Denham Way Sweden SE 112 74 Stockholm Street address: Maple Cross Tel: +46 10-448 00 00 Sweden Lakkegata 53 Rickmansworth, Hertfordshire www.skanska.com/property Tel: +46 10-448 00 00 Norway WD3 9SW www.skanska.com +47 40 00 64 00 United Kingdom Skanska Commercial Property www.skanska.no +44 (0) 1923 423100 Development Europe For other addresses: www.skanska.co.uk SE 112 74 Stockholm www.skanska.com Skanska Finland Sweden PL 114 Skanska USA Tel: +46 10-448 00 00 Nauvontie 18 Empire State Building www.skanska.com/property 00280 Helsinki 350 Fifth Avenue, 32nd floor Finland New York +358 20 719 211 New York 10118 www.skanska.fi USA Tel: +1 917 438 4500 www.usa.skanska.com More information about Skanska: www.skanska.com Annual report production team: Skanska AB in collaboration with Addira. Text: Skanska AB Translation: Novoterm Print: Larsson Offsettryck Linköping Photos: Skanska 341 298 Printed matter Larsson Offsettryck Skanska AB www.skanska.com/group Warfvinges väg 25 SE–112 74 Stockholm Sweden Tel: +46 10-448 00 00
