Global Compact Progress Report 2017 Anel Group Global Compact Progress Report 2017 Global Compact Progress Report 2017 About The Report We prepared Anel Group Global Compact Progress Report 2017 to give information about our activities for sustainability, services and management understanding. We support and are a signatory to the UN Global Compact since 2013. We carry out all our activities in accordance with the 10 principles for human rights, working standards, environmental and anti-corruption issues stated in the agreement. Our set of core values is the most precious guide for us in every step we take. We are a strong team who develops continuously, gives particular importance to creating value in the society, makes innovative attempts by combining the engineering and technological strengths with the strategical skills for a sustainable world in environmental, social and economical terms. Global Compact Progress Report 2017 Chairman’s Message Since 1986, we improve ourselves and develop others by creating value while respecting people and the environment. With our value for sustainability, we align our strategies and operations with the universal principles specified by the United Nations Global Compact initiative and continue our activities with a continuous improvement. With the principle of creating value and sustain values by sharing them, we realize challenging projects in Turkey and in the world. The success of our team, which completes MEP works in accordance with its shareholders for more than 30 years, will continue to increase in lock step with the satisfaction of our business partners, investors and employees. Kind Regards, Rıdvan Çelikel Chairman of The Board Global Compact Progress Report 2017 About Us 1986 was the year when our journey started in Turkey. Today, we’re one of the leader MEP contracting companies with the capacity to deliver wide scope of services to a broad range of customers around the world. We are a team of approximately 4.000 working together for the common goal. Over 30 years, we carried out more than 200 MEP contracting projects, in a total area of over 13 million m2 in three continents and 12 countries. We have ongoing MEP operations in Qatar, United Arab Emirates (Abu Dhabi and Dubai), The United Kingdom as well as in Turkey. We also give service in operation and maintenance, low and medium voltage panel production, renewable energy, ship electric and electronic systems (defense industry) and recycling. Global Compact Progress Report 2017 Our Values We work to add value to the world, the society we are part of, institutions and companies we cooperate with. We protect the core values that underlie our success and corporate culture and keep these values alive. We give place to people who are appropriate for our values in professional life. Unity: We determine the targets and the strategies together. We know that we have to share the information with our stakeholders for the right management. We try to listen carefully. We attach value to examine, listen and explain through others’ perspective. We spare time to help our colleagues. We encourage our teammates for success and prompt them for contribution and believe that they have right to declare their opinions and get information. Tenacity: We believe that high performance, realising many important works simultaneously result from consciousness of responsibility. We have consistent and high performance. Each member of our team aims to be a star in their own fields since we believe that this is the way to achieve perfect business results together. We make right committments and realize them. We say what is hard to say and make the hard decisions. Rationalism: We give rationalistic decisions even in indefinite situations. We define the origin reasons of the problems, we think strategically and improve our processes. We rationally seperate the problems to be solved immediately from the ones to be improved later and we make our plans accordingly. We dispute all our expenses for sustainability and we aim to return all our expenses in the most efficient way. We dispute the disorderly conducts to our core values. We avow our faults. Development: We take different approaches and suggestions into consideration. While setting up our strategies, we give opportunity to our stakeholders’ innovative and creative approaches and we improve our processes in line. We Global Compact Progress Report 2017 always aim for the better. We learn ambitiously and quickly. We try to understand our strategy, our market, our customers and business partners. We take interest in other expertise fields and try to improve ourselves. We evaluate the situations in different ways to find practical solutions for the hard questions. We dispute the widely known truths and we offer new approaches. We produce ideas that benefit for our business. We try to simplify our processes. We believe that quality needs to be improved continously, we are never contented with where we are. Respect: We respect people. We protect and think of the other parties with our attitudes and communication. Even if they think differently, we communicate respectfully with our colleagues. We create secure and healthy workspaces. We respect nature and all the living creatures’ right to live. We are sensitive. We create and actualise economically sustainable social responsibility projects for a better world. Global Compact Progress Report 2017 Our Human Resources Approach We make continuous efforts for investing in our people and reinforcing internal communications with undertaking the role of a consultant for each of our team members. We aim to achieve sustainable development via innovative efforts to increase the company’s performance in line with strategical goals. We operate in accordance with the principles of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and report regularly. We make decisions in line with the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights We make decisions and organize all our activities in this respect. We for activities that commit that we will not be an accomplice of are appropriate for human rights violations under no circumstance. human rights In all countries, practices are carried out by taking into account the suggestions and recommendations of international independent organizations on practices of Human Resources We give importance to cultural diversity, and believe that this diversity enriches an institution. We work to prevent For us, ‘Giving Importance to Diversity’ means discrimination in acknowledging and considering the religious, working life structural, cultural preferences and situations of Global Compact Progress Report 2017 employees, customers, investors, suppliers and other social stakeholders, which are not contrary to human rights. We undertake to be the most preferred employer who protects the rights of its employees for all candidates who dedicate themselves and add value to their work We also undertake to provide a work environment that is safe, developing and away from all kinds of harassment, exploitation, abuse and severity. We, as a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, do not allow children to be employed Child labor has no at any stage of our activities under any place in our work circumstances. We inform all our stakeholders about this approach and we expect them to support it as well. This issue is guaranteed in our contracts with suppliers. We do not allow for forced or compulsory working at any stage of our operations on conditions not in compliance with laws and We do not allow for regulations. Every employee is insured as of the forced and day they start working with us. This issue is compulsory working controlled by both internal and external audits. We also check the insured employment of the workers of our subcontractors. Global Compact Progress Report 2017 We ensure that our employees work in safe areas in our operation regions. Security arrangements We ensure that our are made by paying attention to safety needs employees work in while respecting human rights. For safe and healthy work environments, we take actions to safe areas minimize the risk of accidents, injuries and diseases. With accident insurance covering all employees, their future is guaranteed. Human Resources We work to incorporate workforce who create added-value, are sensitive to nature and society, have appropriate viewpoints and behaviours, open to innovations and changes, fair, dynamic, aim to develop oneself and one’s work. We ensure that the most appropriate workforce is assigned to the job descriptions. 1.092 people joined our team this year! 132 people among our high performance colleagues continued to work in other projects with internal passes. As a result of the Employee Satisfaction Questionnaire conducted by an independent company at the end of 2015, we continued our works for the determined actions. Global Compact Progress Report 2017 Development and Improvement We separated target and competency-based evaluations in our performance system, by focusing more on employee development, we became able to measure performance more tangibly. We share the trainings prepared by our experts as online and classroom trainings. At AnelAkademi, we tripled the number of personal and professional development trainings in addition to technical trainings. With the usage of Mindflash application, oure-learning platform became mobile and more user-friendly. 313 15% 32% 14% 133 39% Technical 2016 2017 OHS Personal Development Number of Trainings Vocational Development Global Compact Progress Report 2017 While focusing on behavioural competencies in personal development trainings, we concentrated upon BIM/Revit trainings for the technical ones. As we follow the process with the BIM Committee we established, we Training 14.40 Hour Per Person 1.758 Total Training Hours focused on online and classroom trainings. This year, our main focus in classroom trainings was on knowledge sharing. We identified the topics of these activities, which we called “Professional Talks” with participants. This year we shared our knowledge and experience on topics such as testing and commissioning, site work order, building management systems, compensation systems and frequency converters, finance, budgeting and accounting, import and LC processes and challenges in implementation stages. We improved our orientation process and created 3 different position based orientation types. The general orientation, intern orientation, which focuses on the dynamics of the business world, and the manager orientation, which is planned in line with the framework. Global Compact Progress Report 2017 We carried out 78 trainings in cooperation with our suppliers focusing on technical and personal development. A total of 393 people benefited from the 13 classroom trainings which were prepared by our internal trainers. Communication We established ForumAnel which is an information sharing platform open for all our colleagues. We added the “Life” section to our corporate LinkedIn page and shared the working culture of Anel with a wider audience. (http://www.linkedin.com/company/anel-group) Using Yammer among our internal communication platforms, we organized events with our social clubs. We conducted interviews with our colleagues. We shared knowledge and opinions by examining various topics in depth with our colleagues through Yammer. We participated in Istanbul Marathon as Anel Running Team and we supported the children who are in need of protection. We gave trainings on the aspects to consider in business life, Volunteer Awareness and OHS to all our interns. We talked about the future of engineering with REVIT training that we organized for engineering students. As part of Career Day activities, we visited universities as well as high schools to find our new interns and present Anel to the youngsters. In addition to our activities at ITU, YTU, Boğaziçi University, we organized publicity and interviews with 3 technical universities in India. We conducted interviews in 2 schools for Global Compact Progress Report 2017 high school interns. We started to receive feedback of our interns to improve our internship process. We received more than 20,000 applications this year and by providing 100 % return to all candidates, we received the Human Respect Award at the Human Resources Summit of Kariyer.net this year just like the past years. We held ceremonies for our colleagues who completed their 10th year within Anel in Qatar, Abu Dhabi and Turkey and we gave their seniority awards. In 2017, 37% of the Çelikel Education Foundation volunteers were Anel employees. Our Sustainable Management Approach Strategic Management Since 1986; we work with the consciousness of adding value to the world, the society we are involved and the institutions and organizations we are working with. The goals and critical performance indicators that are parallel to our company’s vision and mission and that are created with this view are determined within the scope of our annual strategy plans. These goals and critical performance indicators are approved by the Board of Directors at yearend budget meetings. At the per annum meetings, the Board of Directors review the results of the operations by comparing the performance of the previous year and the goal indicators. Global Compact Progress Report 2017 For a sustainable management approach, we have defined Anel strategic management system as a process. Our strategy studies are carried out to ensure the participation of all our stakeholders. All plans are degraded to the corporate report card, process indicator and employee performance system so that the strategic plan can be implemented. We ensure the sustainability of the strategy by reviewing it in specific periods. Ethical Management We share the ethical rules which we expect our employees to comply with and the information content of ethical committee function and processes in the “Ethical Code of Conduct and Ethics Committee Function Guide”. We upload this guide to our website (www.anelgroup.com) and intranet area Anel’İN for all our employees to access easily. Our Ethics Committee investigates the complaints and notices on the violation of ethical rules and sets out the sanctions to be applied. The Ethics Committee Secretariat reports to the Vice Chairman of the Board of Anel Holding, who is the Chairman of the Ethics Committee. The Ethical Code of Conduct includes the subjects below; respect, compliance with laws and regulations, information confidentiality, accurate information sharing and accurate reporting, information sharing with the media & via social media, using Anel resources, avoiding conflicts of interest, bribery & corruption, justice & reliability, special transactions with customer & family, occupational health & safety. Third parties can make notifications on our company and our employees’ behaviour in relation to compliance with ethical rules through the Anel Group Code of Ethics Consultation and Information e-mail address (etik@anel.com.tr). Global Compact Progress Report 2017 Transparency We aim to make corporate governance prevail in company management with all its elements and therefore aiming to add value to our company partners, employees, stakeholders, the environment and community. With this approach and in the direction of transparency, reliability, accountability and honesty principles, we aim to provide maximum benefits to both our Company and our stakeholders. Within the framework of the Information Policy established within the scope of the Corporate Governance Principles published by the Capital Markets Board, we aim to inform our shareholders and all our stakeholders with the accurate information, in a complete and timely manner. The information to be disclosed in this context are not confidential business information. We publish our information policy on our website. We prepare the annual reports of our companies that are publicly held, in accordance with the Turkish Code of Commerce, Ministry Regulation and the criteria specified in Corporate Governance Principles published by Capital Markets Board. Our company’s audit operations are conducted by Anel Group Audit Unit with a proactive methodology based on International Internal Audit Standards and Anel Group Code of Ethics within financial, operational, risk, process, legal compliance, work ethics and misconduct headings and on the processes and subjects that are determined throughout the years. Within all operational centres, basic financial and process audits are held twice a year, and thematic audits for the period are held at least once a year. Global Compact Progress Report 2017 Practise of Improvement Opportunities We plan and follow actions that improve our processes by taking our employees' ideas and In 2017, 388 improvement suggestions via Improvement Improvement Opportunities platform that allows the access Opportunities of every employee. records were opened In 2017, 388 Improvement Opportunities records were opened in the platform. Participation to the IO System 2015 2016 2017 69% 67% 59% 41% 31% 33% Management Systems Department Other Departments Global Compact Progress Report 2017 Improvement Opportunities Source 70,88% 9,28% 5,93% 4,38% 3,35% 2,58% 2,58% 1,03% Internal Audit External Improvement Suggestion Customer Risk Meeting Other Audit Feedback Assessment Decision Distribution by Companies for IO 31% 29% 15% 10% 6% 6% 2% AnelEmirates AnelMep AnelDoğa AnelMarin AnelSis Anel Elektrik Anel Holding Global Compact Progress Report 2017 Our Customers The results of the Customer satisfaction surveys for the last 3 years based on operation areas are as follows; 2015 2016 2017 MEP Contracting 79% 80% 70% Operation & Maintenance 81% 75% 86% Medium and Low Voltage Panel Production 89% 96% 89% Ship Electric & Electronic Systems (Defense 87% 96% 94% Industry) Recycling 89% 89% 98% Contribution To Community Considering the importance of education and art in terms of social life, we conduct studies in these fields. Social Responsibility Activities in Education Founded in 2007, Çelikel Education Foundation aims to help our country to be mostly comprised of people who contribute to the progress built on human rights, know their limits and are also self-confident and successful worldwide. To that end, the Foundation develops and implements programs intending to enhance the quality of education to help raise people with self awareness, ability of evaluation with value judgement knowledge, creative and responsible in reaching lofty ideals. Global Compact Progress Report 2017 We continued to support the programs of Çelikel Education Foundation in 2017, like in the previous years. 37% of the volunteer workforce support for the Foundation’s projects and programs was provided by our employees. Voluntary Support (Hours) 612 134 33 43 Assessing Authority Leading Program Organization Committee EGAP Activities Social Responsibility Activities in Art Located at the entrance of Anel Business Centre, Galeri 5 organizes exhibitions in diverse fields of art, and thus contributes to the development of art and lets young-generation artists show of their talents as well. Exhibitions held in 2017 • Olağaniçi • Enstrümanlar • Arınma Global Compact Progress Report 2017 Started in recent years, live music performances were held at Anel Business Centre on Monday mornings with the participation of young artists in 2017 as well. These performances not only create a source of income for young artists, but also gives them the opportunity to demonstrate their talents. Environment We establish group-wide environmental management with an organization that includes Anel Holding and the group companies with a participative approach. The top level decision-making body of environmental management is Senior Management of Anel Group. We have established an Environment Committee with the participation of related departments on environment, energy and sustainability issues of our group companies at Holding. Our committee is in charge of setting long, medium and short term environmental management strategies and creating action plans. The task of the committee is to share existing best practice samples among group companies, conduct compliance studies with environmental legislative changes, organize environmental education works, and develop groupwide environmental management systems. We carry out our annual internal audits in line with our internal audit process with our employees entitled to receive the internal auditor certificate resulting in outsourced trainings and are included in our internal auditor team. Apart from the contributions made by the Environmental Committee and the audits conducted by the internal audit teams, the environmental policy and performance of the group companies also pass through independent external audit processes. As a result of the inspections, improvement studies are carried out for the development issues. The deficiencies detected after the Environmental Audit are tracked through online system and improved. The environmental management systems of the Group companies are based on internationally recognized standards, ISO 14001 Environmental Management Global Compact Progress Report 2017 System Standard. Annually, these systems are certified by periodic external audits conducted by an independent certification body to ensure application reliability. Our seven group companies (Anel Holding, Anel Elektrik, AnelSis, AnelMarin, AnelDoğa, AnelMep, AnelEmirates) are ISO 14001 certified. The effectiveness of the environmental management system is audited and reported by BSI. Group companies provide environmental management activities their achievements both, to their own senior management of and to the senior management of Anel Group. We assess and rigorously manage the environmental impacts of the services we provide. We focus on reducing environmental impacts across the value chain by addressing environmental risks through a holistic approach to supply, logistics, production, and services to the consumption process. For this reason, our group companies expect their stakeholders (suppliers, subcontractors, employees, customers, etc.) to adopt the same environmental policies and management approach, and they also place environmental management criteria in the supplier and subcontract selection and evaluation processes and aim to raise awareness. Group Companies with ISO 14001 Environmental Management System Certificate Anel Holding, Anel Elektrik, AnelSis, AnelMarin, AnelDoğa, AnelMep, AnelEmirates Group Companies with OHSAS 18001 Certificate Anel Holding, Anel Elektrik, AnelDoğa, AnelSis, AnelMarin, AnelDoğa, AnelMep, AnelEmirates Global Compact Progress Report 2017 Main Environmental Impacts Potential Risks Potential Effects Taken Actions Natural gas is used for heating Exhaust gas inspection of vehicles is carried out on Emission of air pollutants (air Pollution of air, soil and surface time emissions) water Carbon footprint calculation and offsetting activities The emission of liquid wastes or contaminated wastewater to Domestic liquid wastes are discharged to city Pollution of surface water receiving media or unsuitable waste network water treatment The wastes are collected on a daily basis and Unsuitable waste management due stored in the waste collection area and sent to the Pollution of soils, ground and to solid waste generation in high disposal facilities surface waters quantities Paper consumption is avoided with intelligent printers Contamination of nearby soil Hazardous materials are stored in accordance Unsuitable management of and water with the standards and sent to the facilities to be hazardous materials Soil degradation and loss of disposed of biodiversity Spill kits are available Photocell and energy saving luminaires are used Automatically switches off lamps during lunch Depletion of local energy break sources, air pollution as a result Excessive energy use Electricity is produced by solar energy panels of the release of combustion which are located at roof and terrace residues IT Reduce energy consumption with cloud infrastructure processes Photocell luminaires are used Excessive water use Depletion of water resources Grey water system is used Negative effects on human Environmental measurements are being made. High or excessive noise levels health and disturbance of local PPE support is provided to employees. wildlife Global Compact Progress Report 2017 Environmental Policy We; ▪ Comply with all current laws and regulations and implement the programs and procedures that ensure this to be the case. ▪ Aim to accept legal requirements as the minimum level to be met and exceed them when identifying the quality standards with respect to environment. ▪ Minimize risks by creating clean work environments for our staff utilizing cutting-edge technology. ▪ Prepare disaster management and improvement plans to be ready for natural urgent cases. ▪ Aim to reduce negative impacts on the environment by reducing our wastes, energy and water consumption. ▪ Utilize opportunities to improve and review environmental policies continuously. ▪ Inform staff, suppliers, customers and investor partners about developments, ask for their contribution to the achievement of objectives and support them to achieve their own objectives. ▪ Measure and improve our performance and share it with our business and investor partners annually. ▪ Commit to work in accordance with the best practices accepted globally. ▪ Aim to increase the usage of environment friendly products in all our works. ▪ Aim to reduce greenhouse gas emissions proportionally to our activities and to maximize the energy efficiency. ▪ When choosing our stakeholders, we attach importance to their environmental performance and observe constantly. 23 Global Compact Progress Report 2017 Our Environment Policy that includes our environment conservation and development processes is under the supervision of our senior management. The policies are announced in internal and external communication platforms to ensure that our employees know and understand, and they are provided with easy access and understanding through the trainings provided. The eligibility of the policies is reviewed by our senior management at the Management Review Meetings and revised if necessary and announced in the same way. We carry out improvement studies in line with our environmental policy by setting targets in line with the following priority focus areas and by monitoring their performance. Environmental Target Methodology Responsibility Increasing Awareness, Environmentally Prevent unnecessary increase of carbon friendly fuels preference, MeasurementClimate Change footprint amount Monitoring, Business cooperation with To be involved in greening activities NGOs Increasing Awareness, Using Photocell fittings, Measuring-Monitoring, GreyWater Prevent the usage of unnecessary water Water System, Business Association with NGOs Increasing Awareness, Efficient Use of Prevent unnecessary energy use Daylight, Extinguishing Illumination with Energy Using clean energy resources Automation at Noon, Using Solar Panels, Measuring-Monitoring Working with environment friendly producers Utilization of Doing their work without harming the Increasing awareness, Working with Environmentally environment environment friendly suppliers, Friendly Products Encouraging stakeholders to use Information environmentally friendly products in their works To ensure that waste is sent to recycling Waste Collection Areas and Cases, Reduction of unnecessary paper waste Wastes Awareness Raising, Green IT Activities, Encouraging employees to use waste Measurement-Monitoring boxes 24 Global Compact Progress Report 2017 Protection of Biodiversity During our operations, we aim to protect, preserve and enrich biodiversity and historical buildings. If we see that the public opinion is concerned about the environment during our operations, we evaluate our operations according to the opinions of the public. We are aware of the importance of biodiversity for the world and in Since 2014, we spent order to preserve the biodiversity, we 244.546 ₺ for collaborate with TEMA and municipalities. After tree planting Memorial Forests in Çanakkale and Balıkesir, this (61.210 ₺ in 2017) year we have created “Hope Forest” in Gaziantep in cooperation with TEMA Foundation. 18025 9291 6121 400 2014 2015 2016 2017 The Amount of Planted Tree Waste Management We aim to minimize our waste production and recycle as far as possible. We systematically recycle the wastes of our head office building and construction sites in waste collection zones. When batteries are thrown out with other waste 25 Global Compact Progress Report 2017 or are burned, chemical substances that batteries include, cause the environmental pollution. In order to collect batteries and reduce of their detrimental effects, we placed waste boxes in our head Office. The amount of waste collected in last 3 years is given below: Waste Type Unit 2015 2016 2017 kg Battery and aku NA 226 677 Metal kg 130642 71527 47326 Paper kg 22810 23110 47390 Plastic kg 1340 7893 5663 Glass kg 220 928 2170 Electronic kg 15119,5 1929 4605 We produce electricity with solar PV modules installed on the roof and terrace of our head office building. 1/3 of the power needed for our office floor and interior lighting is supplied from these modules. With electricity generation from renewable energy, we decrease consumption of electricity from the grid. Thus, we also reduce the consumption of primary energy sources used in the production of electricity. We use our energy efficiently by automatically turning off the lights during lunch and out of working hours. In order to reduce our water consumption, we installed the Grey Water System in our Head Office. After a series of treatment operations, the waste water is reused for reservoir system. We cooperated with UNICEF to donate water base for children in various parts of the world. We provided a water for 3 villages and 1 school. Carbon Footprint Since 2014 we are regularly calculating the amount of carbon released to the atmosphere as a result of our activities and are taking actions to reduce / neutralize greenhouse gas emissions. We do our calculations by including the following elements: ▪ Flights ▪ Natural Resource Consumption ▪ Vehicle Usage 26 Global Compact Progress Report 2017 CO2 Emission (tons) Flights 2116,06 1765,766 1545,93 715,94 2014 2015 2016 2017 Natural Resource Consumption CO2 Emission (tons) 1598,24 1200,71 665,32 822,02 2014 2015 2016 2017 Vehicle Use CO2 Emission (tons) 2486,03 1788,57 2031,75 1931,78 2014 2015 2016 2017 27 Global Compact Progress Report 2017 Renewable Energy Source Use Solar Energy AnelEnerji provides services for investment and technical consultancy of solar power plants, project planning, system design, power plant installations, license purchase and operation maintenance. We produce solutions in a wide range from industrial plants to roof installations. We have developed special solutions for our head office building Anel Business Center in converting energy from the infinite energy source into electricity. With our solar PV installations on the roof and the terraces, we generate energy for our Office floor. 1/3 of the Office floor’s energy needs and interior lighting are provided by solar energy, thanks to these installations. CO2 Emission Prevented by Solar Panels (tons) 3.836 3.795 3.773 2015 2016 2017 28 Global Compact Progress Report 2017 Environmental Accidents and Complaints There aren’t any environmental accidents and complaints between 2015-2017. Percentage of Participation in Online Education with Environmental Theme 87% 9% 7% Natural Resource 3R Environmental Awareness Consumption Green IT Since 2016, we have reduced energy consumption with the Cloud infrastructure processes. With using staff identity card system for printers, our paper usage was reduced by 70%. We switched to the e-billing system and reduced our paper consumption. In order to contribute to efficiency and sustainability, we replace traditional desktop computers which consume high energy, with new generation devices. We recycle electronical devices which turn to waste status. Thus, we recover metals such as copper, aluminum and lead without releasing them to the environment. 29 Global Compact Progress Report 2017 Our Natural Resources Consumption Between 2015-2017 Water Consumption m3 27805,00 27776,22 24944,05 2015 2016 2017 Natural Gas Consumption kWh 1945760,03 1845473,763 1455541,38 2015 2016 2017 Electricity Consumption kWh 2941566,1 2701330,009 1964465,7 2015 2016 2017 30 Global Compact Progress Report 2017 Occupational Health and Safety Our Policy In order to meet the expectations, we are committed to carry out all its activity with the goal of zero harm to our employees, contractors and the community by providing a safe work environment, safe system of work and safe people at work to minimize number of incidents and occupational Health Hazards. For this, We; ▪ Comply with all current laws and regulations and implement the programs and procedures that ensure this to be the case. ▪ Aim to accept legal requirements as the minimum level to be met and exceed them when identifying the quality standards with respect to health and safety. ▪ Minimize risks by creating safe work environments for our staff utilizing cutting-edge technology. ▪ Prepare disaster management and improvement plans to be ready in urgent cases. ▪ Utilize opportunities to improve occupational health and safety policies continuously. ▪ Inform staff, suppliers, customers and investor partners about developments, ask for their contribution to the achievement of objectives and support them to achieve their own objectives. ▪ Measure and improve performance and share it with business and investor partners. Global Compact Progress Report 2017 Occupational Health and Safety Trainings We prepared occupational health and safety training program for our head office, the buildings which we give operation and maintenance service and construction sites in Turkey. We gave 16-hour safety training. We also certified our employees who participated in the training. Our trainings were organized as internal classroom trainings, distance learning and outsourced trainings. Our internal classroom trainings were provided by our work safety experts and workplace physicians. 738 (tool-box) training was carried out in various subjects and 241,580 people participated in trainings. 2,106 trainees were given outsourced in various job security matters. Training Subject Number of Participants Occupational Safety Orientation Training 3,887 Basic Occupational Safety Training 266 Risk Analysis Training 144 Hygiene and Ergonomics Training 152 Occupational Safety Training in Electrical Work 221 Occupational Diseases Training 133 Occupational Safety Training for Works at Height 225 Basic First Aid Training 150 Emergency Teams Training 37 Environmental Awareness Training 21 32 Global Compact Progress Report 2017 Risk Assessment Studies and Internal Audits All offices, operation maintenance and risk assessments for sites were undertaken, and existing risk assessments were revised to ensure that living risk assessments were formed. The risk assessments prepared for the sites were also shared with the employers. The occupational health and safety practices outlined in the procedures were checked by operating inspections and occupational safety inspections, which were carried out by the occupants. Emergency Exercises The emergency drill we conducted every year was held at Anel Business Center with 700 people from all tenants and 180 Anel employees and they evacuated in 5 minutes 30 seconds. Our subcontractors were also given fire drills and training on the use of fire extinguishers. Our maintenance team also participate in exercises which the employer has organized. Occupational Safety Specialist and Workplace Physician According to the hazard classes, all office, business maintenance and work placements were made according to the number of employees, and work security specialists and workplace physicians were appointed and kept up-todate by the OHS-Clerk. MoLSS Business Safety Expert and Workplace Physician MoLSS notifications have been completed through the OSH-Clerk for Anel. All subcontractors were also allowed to perform this application. 33 Global Compact Progress Report 2017 Occupational Health and Safety Committee Meetings At the Anel Business Centre and our sites, we Total working hours held monthly occupational safety committee 13,723,249.5 meetings with the participation of the site chiefs Number of work accidents and subcontractors. At this meetings, a number 2 of employee representatives mentioned in the Lost days regulations participated. 28 Fatal accident Field Inspections and Controls 0 Accident severity Rate Occupational safety was checked by internal 0.0020 inspections where the occupational health and Accident frequency rate safety practices specified in the procedures were 0.1457 fulfilled by the workshops and business maintenance. The Occupational Health and Safety Surveillance Reports of Occupational Health and Safety Surveys were organized weekly by our Occupational Safety Specialists. During field inspections, improper work was intervened and corrected. Inappropriate training of employees was renewed and all nonconformities were recorded. Unsuitable forms of non-compliances were identified and allowed to work immediately with necessary interventions. Through Anel, all subcontractors were evaluated in terms of occupational safety practices. 34 Global Compact Progress Report 2017 Employee Health Reports Approved health reports were issued for our 22 employees who started work. Periodical health examinations of 239 employees were carried out. 35
