Human Right Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. AMS policy and goals  Respect for human right is fundamental value of the AMS Company.  AMS emphasis to support the Universal Declaration of Human Right to which all human beings are inherently entitled.  Written our company policy in respecting and supporting Human Right.  AMS regard a diverse workforce as an asset. We hire base on talent and personality and offer the same opportunities to all employees.  No discrimination on gender, age, race and religion in employment. Implementation  AMS fully respect the policies concerning human right and provide equal opportunities for all employees. AMS has Code of Conduct that outlines the important of every employee to treat colleagues with respect and consideration.  AMS has special mail box and contact numbers for all employee to submit their complaints about human right violations towards any of their colleague, unfair treatment, requests, feedbacks and questions. That mails and reports check by HR senior management team and discussed immediately.  AMS provide safe and healthy working area complies with applicable safety and health law, regulations and internal requirements. We are dedicated to maintaining a workplace by minimizing the risk of accidents and injury. We setup necessary safety equipment to all employees to avoid the risk of accident.  AMS offer health care training and doctor counseling service to promote employee health.  Moreover, the management team regularly obtains employee feedback on over all condition through the quarterly employee survey. Measure of out come  During this reporting period, no case of human right unfair treatment and complain occurred. Labor Principle Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policy and Goals  AMS fully support the ILO eight fundamental core convention and Right at work, including non-discrimination, prohibit force labor, abolition of child labor and freedom of association.  AMS already clearly stated details in employee handbook, employee right and responsibilities, wage standards, working hours, holiday and leave entitlements, benefit, career development, right to equal treatment, Job security and standard of conduct.  AMS also provision the well-being of our employees, supporting education and healthy and active lifestyle. Implementation  AMS clearly states the terms and conditions of company policy regarding employment in job advertisements and provide individual orientation at the interview. Furthermore, employees are provided with written employment contract which clearly chart terms and conditions of salary, working hours, leave policy, right and responsibility, rules, regulations and procedure.  AMS’s employees are provided with ferry service for commuting to workplaces from their hostel.  AMS prohibits the hiring of labors that are under 18 years of age.  At the company, provide the meals service healthy food at cheap price for all employees and free coffee and tea snack for night duty employees. Special free meal on every Sunday.  AMS support training to our employees not only work related training ( safety awareness, first aid training, traffic safety training, pre firefighting training) but also management skills training (sales and marketing management, seminar on management soft skill etc.) and general knowledge training ( IT knowledge, basic computer course, basic to advance English courses ) to gain knowledge and awareness. Measure of outcomes  There has been no case of breaches, violation or complaint during this reporting period. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy and Goals  AMS is fully aware of the important of environmental risk and its treat to current and feature environment.  AMS implements and move towards as a paperless organization.  AMS encourages the development of environmental friendly technologies such as renewable energy and recycles system. Implementation  AMS provide training to employees for awareness rising on environmental protection.  The preservation from each computer’s waste energy by setting the computer to sleep mode when one is away from short time and turn of all computers, printer, photocopier and other electrical equipment it is not in use.  AMS reduce the using of paper by going paper less with using on email for report and promote to use the screen for reviewing document instead of printing and using both side of paper.  AMS maintenance and engineering check and replace the old LED to new energy consuming LED ones to save energy . Also check and repair the all of faucets and hydrate at work place to reduce to reduce waste of water. Measurement of outcomes  The development management team monitors and check the use of water & electric resources once in a month.  AMS makes ensure compliance of employee with the company’s policy on environment issues.  There is no adverse impact or complains during this period. Anti-corruption principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment policy and goals  AMS creates the organizational culture based on ethic and transparency.  AMS adopt zero tolerant policy on any forms of corruption such as bribery, political influence and extortion.  In the company’s code of conduct, it is clearly outlined to perform all the business transactions in an ethic manner, without corruption and try to receive unfair advantages. Implementation  AMS have sample rules and regulations which every employee can obey to avoided the corruption.  Senior management takes the responsibility to check any report about correction.  AMS build the strong management team to get a good management. Measurements of outcomes  AMS has any report on corruption action during this reporting period. All of AMS’s employee are not committing in corruption action.
