SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 2 TABLE OF FOREWORD BY THE GROUP PRESIDENT & CEO 4 CONTENTS ABOUT THIS REPORT  6 MISSION ­S TATEMENT  6 ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY  7 FACTS & FIGURES  8 ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2017  9 AWARDS & RECOGNITION 9 GOVERNANCE  10 RESPONSIBILITIES  11 HEALTH & SAFETY  12 MAIN ACTIVITIES  13 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY  14 ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT  15 MAIN ACTIVITIES 16 3 HUMAN RIGHTS & LABOUR PRINCIPLES  17 SOCIETY & SUSTAINABILITY  18 CODE OF CONDUCT 18 FAIR COMPETITION  19 ANTI-CORRUPTION  19 CODE OF CONDUCT TRAINING  19  PEOPLE  20 HEADCOUNT REPORTING  21 ORGANISATION  22 RECRUITMENT  23 LABOUR RELATIONS  23 ENGAGEMENT  24 COMPENSATION & BENEFITS  24 PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT  25 TRAINING & DEVELOPMENT  25 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTIONS  27 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY  28 SWISSPORT FORMULA  29 PRODUCTS & SERVICES 30 INNOVATION  30 GROUND HANDLING  31 CARGO  32 EXECUTIVE AVIATION  33 FUELLING  34 AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE  34 GROUND SUPPORT EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE  35 AVIATION SECURITY  35 HUB & BASE MANAGEMENT  36 OUR STAKEHOLDERS  37 CUSTOMER DIALOGUE  37 4 FOREWORD BY THE GROUP PRESIDENT & CEO “ We believe that responsible conduct and sustainable management are vital to securing the long-term future of Swissport ” and are in the interest of the company and its stakeholders. At Swissport all business activities are guided by our commitment to business integrity and responsible conduct regarding financial, social and ecological aspects. We believe that responsible conduct and sustainable management are vital to securing the long-term future of the company and are in the interest of Swissport and its stakeholders. Our membership in the UN Global Compact, which we joined in 2011, highlights this view and expresses our support for the “Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact” with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. In our corporate code of conduct we have laid down the business integrity principles of Swissport as a compass in our daily operations. Swissport employees are to adhere to these principles and the highest standards of business conduct at all times. The members of the Group Executive Management have made the same commitment. We will continue to execute our strategy of profitable growth by growing organically and through acquisitions. We leverage our operational procedures following a best-practice concept and are committed to delivering consistently high quality to our customers, regardless of whether they are in Africa, Asia, in the Middle East, America or Europe. With over 65,000 personnel, Swissport is present at 279 stations in 48 countries globally. The company has been owned by Chinese HNA Group since February 2016. It is a stand-alone legal entity within the Group, headquartered in Zurich, Switzerland. HNA Group fully supports the corporate strategy of Swissport and backs its executive management in the ambition to expand the company’s global footprint further . 5 At Swissport we are committed to the industry’s highest Quality, Health, Safety and Environment (QHSE) standards. We have intensified even further our support for health & safety, quality and training over the course of the past few years, as we want to continue to reduce accident rates and provide an ever safer work environment to our employees. Our Health & safety initiatives and our commitment to first-rate staff training are key drivers of the quality and reliability of our services. And while cost-efficiency is a critical success factor in view of the continued pressure on prices, we do not cut corners when it comes to Health & safety and training. We want to further increase efficiency with smart processes, by implementing lean-methods and by exploiting the potential of digital innovations. We aim to further expand Swissport’s global leadership position and I am very pleased with the readiness to go the extra mile that many Swissport employees consistently show. It is a sound basis to build on for future success. With this sustainability report we share some ideas and business principles with you. Enjoy reading! Eric Born Group President & CEO Swissport International Ltd. 6 ABOUT THIS The Swissport Sustainability Report 2017 provides insights into the world of Swissport and its global operations from a sustainability perspective since 2013. It enables stakeholders REPORT and readers to get an overview of the impacts, risks and opportunities Swissport has identified as material in terms of sustainability. The reporting period includes complete information on the year 2017 for Swissport International Ltd and its subsidiaries (collectively “Swissport”). Since the date of the previous report (12.2016), Swissport has increased its focus on sustainability. This is reflected in this report by the disclosures on Swissport’s Management Approach to each category and responding to each performance indicator. This is done in accordance with version G3.1 of the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines and with the “Communication on Progress” requirements of UN Global Compact. Any re-statement of information from the previous report is mainly concerning facts, figures and headcount reporting. The same basis for reporting is use in this report as in the previous sustainability report, and Swissport has not detected any new boundaries of the report. The report covers all the performance indicators which are material for Swissport in relation to Economic, Environmental, Human Rights, Labour, Social and Product Responsibility. The performance indicators have a corresponding disclosure of Swissport’s management approach to each of the categories. Unless otherwise stated, figures, facts and manager statements are valid for Swissport on a worldwide basis and are measured and displayed in a manner which is according to the GRI protocol. All indicators, facts and figures are based on internally measured data. ·· 2013: fulfilled the requirements of Application Level C ·· 2014: fulfilled the requirements of Application Level B ·· 2015: fulfilled the requirements of Application Level A Given the nature of our high-labour business, social sustainability, including labour practices and decent work, human rights, product responsibility, and society are the most material factors identified by Swissport. Due to Swissport’s business nature, the operation of ground support equipment (GSE) has been identified as the main source of environmental impact which can be influenced by the organisation. As a service provider, Swissport does not own any production plants or airports. Therefore, we focus on our indirect economic impact on society by ensuring a fair and safe working environment for our locally-hired staff, by full compliance with local legal and tax regulations and various contributions to local societies where Swissport operates. MISSION ­STATEMENT To provide the aviation industry with consistent and tailor-made solutions around the globe, for a better customer experience. Swissport is a people-focused organisation – only with our people will we achieve our goals and our vision. As such, we focus on the principles of sustainability and compliance, living by our core values: ·· People ·· Professionalism ·· Partnership 7 The ongoing professional development of the people within Swissport ensures that: ·· We show respect towards our people and their values; we do not compromise on health & safety, and work with enthusiasm and enjoyment. ·· We are pioneers; working constantly towards achieving sustainable results, we creatively explore new options and improved solutions. ·· Continually striving to exceed the expectations of our clients and our commitments, we deliver excellent service; in any place, at any time. Swissport is the biggest global airport and aviation service provider in terms of health & safety, quality, reliability, innovation and network coverage. Offering a comprehensive range of services, Swissport is able to provide an “all-inclusive” service package in addition to m ­ anaging integrated collaboration models. ·· Ground Handling ·· Cargo Services ·· Executive Aviation ·· Fuelling Services ·· Aircraft Maintenance ·· Aviation Security Services ·· GSE and ULD Maintenance “ Swissport has a global reputation for being a valued business partner, not only because of its modern equipment and its well-trained staff, but also due to our expertise ECONOMIC in personnel logistics, effective cost management and service delivery. Our brand is SUSTAINABILITY ” an industry benchmark. It stands for customer orientation, reliability, quality and superior value for money.  Eric Born, Group President & CEO Swissport, owned by HNA Group since February 2016, now employs more than 65,000 personnel and is present at 279 stations in 48 countries. With the closing, Swissport became a stand-alone business within HNA Group. It continues to deliver the highest quality ground handling and cargo services to its airline customers across the globe. HNA will support the Swissport management in the execution of the business plan and continue to expand its global footprint. Swissport’s expanded and comprehensive service offering complements some 845 client-companies, which equates to more than 4.3 million flights and more than 250 million passengers served per annum. An estimated 4.3 million tons of cargo are moved and 130 warehouses are operated worldwide throughout the combined network. Swissport has a global reputation for being a valued business partner, not only because of its modern equipment and its well-trained staff, but also due to our expertise in personnel logistics, effective cost management and service delivery. Our brand is an industry benchmark. It stands for customer orientation, reliability, quality and superior value for money. The Swissport Formula describes “the way we work” – it is an organisation-wide set of policies, practices and standards ensuring sustainable economic growth and continued success in all the markets where Swissport is present. Efficient and secure operations form a sustainable basis for development and provide customer confidence and peace of mind, in addition to reducing costs. With the Swissport Formula, customers and employees experience the benefits of global alignment, standardisation and consistency every day. Swissport does not disclose financial results; however, the facts and figures provided in this report provide a good overview of the economic performance and global market presence of Swissport. 8 It is important to add that Swissport as a ground handling service provider does not own or run any production plants or airports that could have a significant direct economic impact on the environment or society. However, Swissport recognises that as a global company operating on local levels, we have a responsibility towards the local communities. In all countries and stations we operate in, Swissport is always looking to create jobs for local people. We ensure a fair and safe working environment for our locally hired staff and our full compliance with local legal and tax regulations as well as various positive contributions to local communities as disclosed later in this report. FACTS & F­ IGURES 2017 Revenue (not normalised) EUR 2.7 billion Countries 48 Employees > 65,000 Flights handled (movements) > 4.3 million Cargo handled (tonnes) > 4.3 million Warehouses > 130 Airports served > 279 Customer airlines > 845 Passengers handled (departures) > 250 million Continents Countries Stations Asia 2 7 Europe 17 92 Latin America 15 66 North America 2 57 Middle East & Africa 12 57 Total 48 279 9 ·· Swissport signs agreement to acquire Aerocare and enter growing Australasian market ·· Swissport Cargo Services Frankfurt awarded with IATA CEIV Pharma Certification ACHIEVEMENTS ·· Swissport Ghana receives “Best Terminal Operator (KIA)” Award at the 2017 National IN 2017 Trade Facilitation Awards ·· Swissport Cargo USA opens a new state-of-the-art warehouse at Chicago O’Hare Airport ·· Swissport The Netherlands awarded with IATA CEIV Pharma Certification ·· Swissport receives various ISAGO certificates and IATA’s recognition for the implementation of the IGOM standards ·· Swissport Brazil awarded with the 2016 “Program of Excellence” by Azul Airlines ·· Swissport Cargo Services wins the fourth consecutive STAT Times Africa Award at the Air Cargo Africa 2017 Conference CARGO 2000 AWARDS & Swissport has achieved certification as a fully compliant Cargo 2000 company, a landmark certification recognising Swissport’s active endeavours to fully comply with all agreed RECOGNITION industry quality standards. ISAGO Swissport’s Corporate Headquarter as well as 35 stations of its global network are currently ISAGO registered. IGOM Swissport’s operational standards as part of Swissport Formula have been recognized by IATA as being IGOM compliant. IATA Swissport has been a Member of the Strategic Partnerships Program since 2005. ISO The Swissport Management System is ISO 9001 certified by Swissport Group Services. HANDLER OF THE YEAR AWARD 2016 Awarded to Swissport by Air Transport News. ACSA Best Cargo Handler of the Year 2015 awarded to Swissport at ACSA’s Feather Awards. IBAC Swissport Executive Aviation Nice completes IS-BAH certification for Nice, France. NPMA Silver Nozzle Trophy for the most outstanding airport fuelling organisation and General Manager in the United States 2015 (LaGuardia Airport). PRIORITY PASS EuroAirport Skyview Lounge awarded Priority Pass European Lounge of the Year 2015. GHI SAFETY AWARD 18th Ground Handling International Safety Award Winner in the category “Europe Ramp Safety”. 10 GOVERNANCE GROUP EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT (GEM) Group President & CEO Eric Born EVP Swissport CLO COO CFO CCO CHRO EVP Group Services Johannes Joe Phelan Christian Goeseke Nils Pries Knudsen Andreas Hugener David Liu Luzius Wirth C. Spindler Eric Born Joe Phelan Christan Goeseke Group President & CEO COO CFO Nationality: Swiss Nationality: American Nationality: German Nils Pries Knudsen Luzius Wirth Andreas Hugener CCO EVP Swissport Group Services CHRO Nationality: Danish Nationality: Swiss Nationality: Swiss Johannes C. Spindler David Liu CLO EVP Nationality: German Nationality: Chinese 11 Topic Accountability / Responsibility General strategy of Swissport Board members / CEO / GEM members RESPONSIBILITIES Financial results / investor relations CEO / CFO Media releases & articles / media contacts / Corporate Communications Corporate Identity and Corporate Design New operations & major contracts Regional, Country and Unit Heads Legal and political issues CEO / Legal / Corporate Communications Health & Safety, Environment and Quality CEO / GEM members / Regional, Country and Unit Heads Crisis Communication CEO / GEM members and Regional, Country and Unit Heads / Corporate Communications Local activities on station level Regional, Country and Unit Heads Labour issues HR / Regional, Country and Unit Heads Overall responsibility for the development and implementation of equal opportunity initiatives rests with the Group President & CEO of the company. It is the responsibility of each manager to ensure that the associated policies and procedures are published and communicated to all staff within their area of responsibility. It is also the responsibility of each manager to ensure that effective monitoring takes place to provide assurance that the policies and procedures are being adhered to. Furthermore, it is the responsibility of every staff member to ensure that their actions adhere to the associated policies and procedures that apply in their place of work. Failure to do so could lead to disciplinary actions. All Swissport policies and procedures are designed to comply with local law, represent the best human resource management practices, encourage and respect diversity and ensure equal opportunities, foster a team approach to business success, offer development and secure employment, and provide competitive remuneration and other terms and conditions. These policies, processes and guidelines are in place to provide guidance, structure and alignment for the various HR activities. Group Executive Management Meetings (GEMM) take place on a monthly basis to review the business performance, including economic, environmental, and social performance in order to assess risks and opportunities, and general compliance with the principles, guidelines and international agreed standards. This ensures that any fluctuation regarding operational performances can be identified immediately; actions and improvements can be implemented and reviewed monthly. In addition, EVPs and the Group President & CEO visit the key countries several times a year to conduct in-depth business reviews. These reviews are supported and rounded-off by internal safety and management audits, external audits (e.g. Global and Regional internal audits, external audits ISO 9001 / ISAGO and / or airline audits) as well as independent internal corporate group audits, which report directly to the Board of Directors. All governance mechanisms, processes and procedures are compliant with the general norms. Currently, the Group Executive Management has only male members. This fact has been addressed regularly and seriously. Swissport wants to reiterate that this has been and will be addressed in any recruitment and is not the result of discrimination. 12 HEALTH & Swissport is committed to not compromising when it comes to health & safety and we will work with determination towards our ultimate goal of: zero accidents, zero work-related SAFETY injuries and illnesses. We believe incidents are preventable and nothing is more important than keeping our people, our customers and the people around us safe. Our aim is to be the recognised global leader in health & safety in our sector. The overall accountability of health, safety and environment lies with the Group President & CEO. It is cascaded down from the Board of Directors, via the Group President & CEO of Swissport International Ltd., the Executive Vice Presidents (EVPs) and their individual line management structures, down to the business managers of every single unit or department. Accountability for the individually assigned area of responsibility cannot be delegated as described in our Safety Management System (SMS). All employees are accountable for understanding their responsibilities, being trained for the task, complying with the Swissport Operational Standards (SOP), directly intervening– where appropriate– to prevent an accident, to use only equipments that is fit for use, use the proper Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). Employees are encouraged to STOP a task and to report to their superior, if they feel unsafe or not trained for it. Swissport operates a “Just Culture” philosophy that is fair to all employees and encourages open reporting of all unsafe acts, unsafe conditions and incidents. However, deliberate harm and willful damaging behaviour is not tolerated and can lead to disciplinary measures. Everyone is supported and encouraged in the reporting of incidents. Safe behaviours and commitment to accountability are encouraged and recognised in our SMS. Operational Risk Management Swissport has set up its operational safety risk management in line with the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) recommendations for the establishment of a safety management system. All occurrences recorded in the Safety Management Tool (SMT) provide the incident and accident history. These incidents or events are analysed case by case, and that includes the review of the global and local risk assessments. Together with structured information on operational phases and contributing factors, the database provides all the necessary information about the Swissport Group risk register, which is automated and continuously updated. With regard to health & safety, all Swissport employees working on the ramp near the aircraft, in cargo warehouses or in another potentially hazardous environment are fully equipped with personal protective clothing and equipment, which is mandatory for them to wear as we do not compromise on safety. For the same reason, the standard training programmes which are applied in all stations worldwide include safety aspects of the working environment, in particular the use of protective clothing as well as the special behaviour on the ramp aiming at minimising the risk of working accidents. The operational procedures are periodically reviewed by the management of the Swissport Group and are improved continuously. Health & Well-being Swissport has fitness and health services at many locations depending on their size of operation. Health and safety is not only a matter of protective equipment, but also of different programmes that support a healthy lifestyle. Various stations of the Swissport Group offer services and programmes such as: education, counselling, and other local human resources programmes for health and well being. These fitness and health services are available for employees. 13 Quality, Health, Safety and Environment (QHSE) Organisation Swissport has reinforced its regional QHSE organisation and will actively work in rein­ MAIN ACTIVITIES forcing the QHSE skills within the local organisation. Lagging Indicators Swissport has set the ambition to reduce the lost time injuries and aircraft damages by 50% by end 2019 versus 2015. Swissport is on track in delivering its ambition. Leading Indicators Swissport has been very active in deploying the reporting and analysis of unsafe acts and conditions across within the organisation. Different programmes have been implemented to enhance the awareness of the management and employees for the risks of unsafe behaviours and conditions across the organisation. The number of observations have increased by over 300% by end 2017. SHIP – Safety Health Improvement Programm SHIP is a Swissport coaching programm for the station management. It has been deployed in 18 stations in 2017 and has contributed to engage the management and a group of employees to drive and implement quick wins in relation to health, safety and environment. ISAGO Swissport Headquarter and its Seattle station have been volunteered for the implementation of the new ISAGO (IATA Safety Audit for Ground Operation), its registration has been validated by IATA. Currently 35 stations are registered. SMT – Safety Management Tool Swissport has replaced its old reporting tool, Aviation Quality Database (AQD), for SMT. This has facilitated and made more accessible the report and record of the incidents. Real time monitoring and announcements have been made available to the management. 14 ENVIRON­ “ Swissport International Ltd has been a member of the UN Global Compact since 2011. This membership reflects our continued efforts in environmental sustainability. MENTAL ” We are committed to making environmental sustainable practices a part of our culture, strategy and day-to-day operations of our company. Eric Born, Group President & CEO SUSTAINABILITY According to the United Nations Global Compact Principles, businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. We strive to continually improve our environmental management system, with the goal of improved environmental performance. For Swissport, Corporate Social Responsibility focuses on safeguarding society and mankind by preser­ ving our living conditions, as well as ensuring health & safety for our employees. We achieve environmental objectives by proactively, systematically and fully integrating environmental considerations into the planning and execution of our work. Our environmental protection activities are focused on our Ground Service Equipment (GSE). The Swissport Group has issued an Environmental Guideline which sets the goals of minimising environmental impact, endeavour for continuous improvement for our services and for more effective production processes with customer adapted solutions, to be economical with raw material, materials and energy, to increase awareness of environmental issues among all employees to a level where environmental considerations become one’s own responsibilities, and, finally, to foster low-emission service vehicles and Ground Service Equipment (GSE). Overall accountability for the development and implementation of environmental initiatives rests with the Group Chief Executive Officer of the company. It is the responsibility of each manager to ensure that the associated policies and procedures are published and communicated to all staff and implemented within their area of responsibility, line mana­ gers are responsible for checking the implementation and to ensure that employees are trained, and to engage them in continuous improvement. Employee behaviour is guided through awareness training and regular briefings. Typically, the operational areas interface directly with the airport infrastructures. Swissport has to make use of the locations, assigned infrastructures, and, if necessary, to adapt our processes to the ones prescribed by the local authorities. Swissport Management System (SMS) integrates systems to report and analyse data in order to support management decisions to control or reduce health, safety and environmental risks through engineering administrative controls. We strive to continually improve our environmental management system, with the goal of improved environmental performance. In addition to this, we are evaluating our environmental performance through periodic reviews and audits to ensure that our conduct is consistent with these principles. Swissport is compliant with all local environmental laws, regulations and standards. In the period covered by this report, Swissport was neither involved in any rulings, nor made liable as a result of environmental non-compliance. 15 Swissport is committed to leading the industry by minimising the impact of its activities on the environment through the efficient use of resources, preventing pollution, and reducing ENVIRON­MENTAL the environmental impact of our operations. COMMITMENT Swissport has made an effort to identify its main environmental impact areas as below. Guidelines are given to all operations on the design of operational and managerial procedures. The Swissport environmental policy focuses on the following core impact areas: Operational Managerial Behaviour GSE Maintenance GSE Purchasing GSE Usage Anti/ De-Icing Stationary Purchasing Office Electricity Waste Management Office Air conditioning Lavatory Services Waste Recycling Fuelling In addition to complying with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, Swissport is committed to: ·· Making environmental concerns an integral part of our planning and decision-making process and committing sufficient resources to implementing effective environmental programmes; ·· Practising sound environmental management of all Swissport-operated facilities and properties and all natural resources under our management; educating employees to be accountable for environmental management and encouraging them to seek innovative ways to improve the environmental aspects of our operations; ·· Minimising, mitigating or restoring any adverse environmental impacts caused by our operations; maintaining open relationships with our customers, employees and government agencies to meet their information needs with regards to environmental issues; ·· Continually improving our environmental programmes; ·· Ensuring the proper handling and disposal of all waste, and minimising their creation while pursuing opportunities to prevent pollution and recycle and reuse waste materials; ·· Evaluating our environmental performance through periodic reviews and audits to ensure that our conduct is consistent with these principles. 16 MAIN ACTIVITIES GSE Due to Swissport’s business nature, the operation of Ground Service Equipment (GSE) has been identified as the main source of environmental impact that can be influenced by the organisation. Within its own organisation, Swissport maintains continuous contact with major GSE manufacturers worldwide to evaluate adequate equipment with minimal environmental impact. For example, Swissport has been operating electrically powered GSE for many years wherever possible and available. Some electrical Ground Service Equipment reduces fuel usage by 30–40%. In the Swissport de-icing business, the use of glycol is strictly monitored. Swissport constantly strives for an optimisation of glycol use and glycol recovery by using state-of-the-art technology. A glycol mix is a Swissport standard for optimised glycol usage, i.e. to reduce the use of glycol to the minimum necessary. Fuelling Swissport’s Fuelling operation is fully committed to meeting its customers’ fuelling and fuel storage needs in a manner consistent with a clean environment. We believe it is both good business practice and our duty to protect the natural resources of the communities which we serve while maintaining outstanding service to our customers. In keeping with this belief, it is our policy to conduct our business in an environmentally responsible manner that protects the public, our customers, our employees and the environment. To ensure minimum spilling of fuel, a “zero-drop” compliance and incentive in the fuelling service has been implemented, both for environmental and for safety reasons. Green Logistics The majority of the GSE is leased, hence there is minimal logistics required for transportation of GSE from one location to another. When GSE transportation is required, the method of transportation depends on various factors, such as distance and volume for example. In most cases, the logistic suppliers transport GSE by ship. Duty travel by air is kept at the lowest possible level – a policy with top management attention. Car-sharing options and discounted rates for public travel or hire cars are offered in order to reduce the personal need for a car. Video conferencing, WebEx, Skype and telephone conferencing are oftenused alternatives to business travel. Video conferences are preferred to face-to-face mee­ tings when possible. Conference calls reduce travel costs and the environmental impact related to travel, such as the use of fuel. Regarding employees’ individual transport, financial incentives for public transport offers are in place. 17 “ As a member of the UN Global Compact, we constantly strive to ensure that all Swissport operations and significant suppliers are in compliance with the Human HUMAN RIGHTS Rights. It is an organisation-wide goal with top management focus that Swissport is & LABOUR ” seen as a company with high ethical standards. This is reflected in our Code of Conduct and our core values. Dr. Johannes Spindler – EVP & Chief Legal Officer (CLO) PRINCIPLES According to the United Nations Global Compact Principles, businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Furthermore, businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour, the effective abolition of child labour and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. As a service provider and therefore a human workforce business, Swissport has a big responsibility towards its employees. Swissport is fully committed to these principles. Swissport actively supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights through various policies and certification requirements. This is a subject of prio­ rity throughout the organisation and has led to the absence of any significant incidents or violations of non-compliance with the internationally proclaimed human rights, including freedom of association or collective bargaining, child labour, compulsory labour and indige­ nous rights by Swissport or any significant suppliers during the reporting period. Swissport has not identified any particular operation or supplier that is at significant risk or exposure in this regard. If such a case of non-compliance should occur, Swissport would be prepared to take all measures necessary outlined in the Code of Conduct in order to deal with the violation. With a large workforce of more than 65,000 employees worldwide, uniform suppliers are our most relevant supplier with regard to human rights protection. In order to ensure compliance with our standards on a global level, all significant suppliers engaged by Swissport are required to show certificates of compliance with relevant and prioritised human rights, including non-discrimination, child labour, forced and compulsory labour, security practices, and indigenous rights. In addition to this, we recognise the legitimate role of responsible trade unions and employee representatives. Swissport establishes appropriate mechanisms to enable the effective representation of staff. The overall responsibility for environmental, political, and labour issues lies with the Group President & CEO; the responsibility is further divided between the Legal department and Human Resources. For all its employees, Swissport maintains and promotes a corporate culture and behaviour in which honesty, integrity and respect for the law are viewed as essential to achieving our desired success. In relation to human rights the Code of Conduct states: ·· The recognition of internationally proclaimed human rights ·· Respect for other cultures and opinions ·· Professional behaviour and observance of the rules of good business practice and of internal and external rules and regulations ·· Protection against discrimination Any and all of the employees are personally obliged to abide by the Swissport Code of Conduct. They are prompted to report any evidence of possible violation of the Swissport Code of Conduct to their superior or, if appropriate, to the Chief Legal Officer or to the Chairman of the Audit Committee. As a last resort, if the employee fears retaliation, he or she has the possibility of contacting the Swissport Whistleblower hotline. 18 SOCIETY & Swissport is an advocate of fair and open competition and is constantly working against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. All directors, officers and emSUSTAINABILITY ployees of the Swissport Group are required to abide by the Swissport Anti-Corruption guidelines and the Competition Law guidelines, regardless of their place of work. Each individual Swissport employee is obliged to follow the Competition Law guidelines and Swissport has issued Anti-Corruption guidelines which are based on the Anti-Corruption rules set forth in the 1997 OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions, the 1999 Criminal Law Convention of the Council of Europe on Corruption and the 2003 United Nations Convention against corruption. Overall responsibility for issues regarding Fair Competition and Anti Corruption lies with the Group President & CEO and the EVP & Chief Legal Officer, the responsibility is further divided between regional managers within the company. All directors, officers and employees are prompted to report any corrupt practice of which they become aware (including attempts thereof) to their superior or to the Chief Legal Officer. Disciplinary actions (including termination without notice) will be taken against those directors, officers and employees who do not comply with Anti-Corruption rules and Competition Law. In the period covered by this sustainability report, Swissport was neither involved in any rulings, nor made liable in relation to corruption or anti-competitive behaviour. CODE OF CONDUCT The Code of Conduct and its supporting policies (Anti-Corruption guidelines and Competition Law guidelines) apply and form the guiding principles of our behaviour. The Code of Conduct states: ·· Behaviour with integrity and in compliance with the law ·· The recognition of internationally proclaimed human rights ·· Respect for other cultures and opinions ·· Responsibility towards society ·· Care for the environment ·· Loyalty towards the Swissport Group ·· Fair, courteous and respectful behaviour towards colleagues, superiors, subordinates, customers, shareholders, authorities, business partners and the public ·· Professional behaviour and observance of the rules of good business practice and of internal and external rules and regulations ·· Protection from discrimination ·· Promote an open, transparent and constructive business style Since constant awareness is the best prevention of all, Swissport urges all its employees to report any violation of the Swissport Code of Conduct. Such reporting should primarily be addressed to the superior or the local HR manager. If the superior is part of the issue then the employee should directly address it to the Head of the business unit. As a last resort, if the employee fears retaliation and / or if he / she wants to report on a confidential basis he / she has the possibility of contacting the Swissport Whistleblower e-mail hotline or the Swissport Whistleblower telephone hotline, where all communications will be treated in strict confidence, and will not result in any disciplinary action against the person making them in good faith and intention, even if the alleged violation proves unfounded in the subsequent internal investigation. In contrast, however, any violation of the Code of Conduct by the person making such communications, and any intentionally falsified claim of such violation (such as malicious and improper accusations) will result in disciplinary action. 19 Competition law may on no account be violated. Any such violation may result in substantial fines for Swissport and in fines or prison sentences for its employees. In particular, FAIR COMPETITION price-fixing among competitors (verbal, written or in any other form), market allocation and any other practices which may inhibit free competition are strictly prohibited. Swissport’s Anti-Corruption guidelines summarise the relevant statutory provisions in Switzerland. Under Swiss law – like in most of the developed countries – corrupt practices ANTI-CORRUPTION are subject to criminal prosecution if they are carried out in Switzerland and also abroad. Therefore, when doing business abroad, all directors, officers and employees of the Swissport Group must comply with both the Swiss rules and any applicable local rules. Since the international Anti-Corruption treaties adopted over the last few years have provided for a certain harmonisation of the national legal rules, the Swiss rules are in line with those of most of the developed countries. However, since there are slight differences from country to country, it is required to assess the applicable national rules with the support of a local lawyer in each particular case which raises anti-corruption issues. A web-based training on the three modules “Code of Conduct”, “Competition Law” and “Anti-Corruption Guidelines” has been introduced as a group wide standardised training. It CODE OF CONDUCT has been developed as an additional step to reinforce our Code and Ethical Behaviour TRAINING guidelines across the organisation. This training is intended to help our employees to better understand our core values and to maintain our reputation for honesty, integrity and respect for law, by promoting a corporate culture and behaviour in order to achieve the desired success. The training consists of three modules, with an approximate duration of 1.5 hours. 20 PEOPLE “ People at every level are our key asset, and their dedication is the foundation of Swissport’s success. We aim for the establishment of an open and stable working relationship and strive to treat all people with respect and co-operate across the whole company. Therefore, Swissport HR key performance indicators aim for a consistently ” understood set of measures of HR performance; both for our business and for HR processes. Andreas Hugener – EVP & Chief Human Resources Officer (CHRO) Swissport is a service provider in the aviation industry which is a distinct people business. Therefore, Swissport feels highly responsible towards all its employes which is reflected in our values, commitments, behaviours, procedures and standards. Operating globally, we strongly foster the dialog between employees and cultures to support any social progress. Our Organisation is committed to respecting and supporting human rights, to avoiding responsibility for and complicity in human rights abuses and to fostering a positive working environment. And as such, it uses the following as a base for policy development: ·· Swissport Code of Conduct ·· ISO 9001 ·· UN Global Compact Ten Principles Swissport is fully committed to ensuring fair and equal employment opportunities. We believe in diversity and do not accept any discrimination. The company is dedicated to the support of all employees in reaching their full potential through a wide range of training and development opportunities. Development-oriented Performance Management and established Talent Management processes provide additional opportunities for enhancing employees’ capabilities and personal growth. Swissport does not compromise on occupational health and safety. Health and safety is embedded in Swissport’s operational procedures with the focus on a reduction of occupational accidents. Swissport strives to apply the same standardised operational procedures in line with high national standards worldwide in each of the 279 stations in 48 countries. There is a strong commitment at Swissport to sharing information and to providing business news and performance updates with all employees on a regular basis. Swissport recognises the legitimate role of responsible trade unions and employee representatives. Swissport establishes appropriate mechanisms to enable the effective representation of staff. We are committed to best people management practices that generate a healthy and safe working environment, development opportunities, social interaction and fair compensation. Listening to our employees and benefitting from their knowledge enables us to align, to review and to continuously improve business processes to become more successful as a company, and, at the same time, be more attractive for people. In case of conflicts between social needs and sustainable management requirements, Swissport is committed to solutions that are in line with the spirit of taking care of people. 21 Swissport’s headcount reporting is consolidated on a monthly basis for all the legal and operating entities of the Swissport Group with a global participation of Swissport. It inHEADCOUNT cludes a consolidated overview over all headcounts, gender ratio and the allocation of perREPORTING manent and temporary contracts. The headcount report also shows the headcounts per business units and per continent, for managing the business effectively. It forms the basis for calculating global HR-related key performance indicators. Total Headcount as of 31.11.2017: > 65,000 HEADCOUNT PER STAFF TYPE HEADCOUNT PER 3.3% Operations 6.38% BUSINESS LINE 2.4% 1.84% 1.3% Support Functions Ground Handling 0.3% Management Cargo Handling 0.2% Fuelling Services Aviation Security Lounge 10.5% Aircraft Maintenance Executive Aviation 81.9% 91.77% HEADCOUNT PER CONTINENT HEADCOUNT PER North America CONTRACT COVERAGE 1,521 Latin America Full-Time Middle East & Africa Part-Time Europe Asia 22,864 23,406 35% 65% 7,785 9,492 HEADCOUNT PER OVERALL GENDER SPLIT CONTRACT DURATION Female Permanent Male Temporary 11% 37.9% 62.1% 89% 22 ORGANISATION Swissport has an HR organisation that serves as an enabler for the implementation of the business strategy. Securing human capital, enhancing people capabilities, fostering valuecompliant culture are the main topics of the HR agenda to contribute to profitable growth. The current HR organisation reflects this mission accordingly. Swissport is presently operating on five continents in a variety of different legal environments. This requires local experts for all human-related matters, which is reflected by a decentralised approach for its transactional HR matters. Nonetheless, Swissport’s unique strength lies in our standardised approach to operations which also includes best practice processes and procedures in HR. Centers of Expertise in the area of Learning and Development, Labour Relations, Compensation & Benefits, Talent & Recruitment as well Global Mobility ensure consistency and knowledge transfer to guarantee best-in-class service to our customers. Global and regional meetings take place regularly to exchange current HR issues, to facilitate collaboration and shared project work. The Swissport global HR community is collaborating on a regular basis and in different interdisciplinary projects. We have a vast variety of skills and expertise within the HR community that we can widely utilise so that projects are not solely run out of the Head Office, but rather led by individual HR leaders and accompanied and coordinated by Corporate HR. This results in full buy-in and smooth roll-out and local implementation. In most cases, our Corporate HR colleagues are supported by their local human resources, payroll and labour relation specialists to ensure smooth and effective human resources operations and employee relations. A new HR dashboard that reports key performance indicators supports the HR community to take the right decisions and to define impactful action to support the business in achie­ ving their results. 23 Swissport strives to become and to remain an “Employer of Choice”. Its recruitment stra­ tegy that strongly focuses on objectivity and equality, substantially contributes to the realiRECRUITMENT sation of that mission. Swissport also adheres to all national laws relating to the recruitment of staff, and to any of the more-stringent requirements of its own internal policies. No job applicant will be discriminated against or treated less favorably based on gender, race, color or ethnic origin, marital status, religion or any other categories protected by law. Any discriminatory behaviour would also be a breach of Swissport’s Code of Conduct. Swissport’s recruitment strategy can be summarised in two words: objectivity and equality. Swissport cares for its employees as they are the most valuable contributors to success. Therefore, Swissport is committed to making an effort when recruiting new staff where human resources specialists and line management are involved. We are looking for motivated, committed and dedicated colleagues who are skilled and bring experience or willingness to learn and who are proud to work for Swissport. We invest in our people. Swissport operations and business success are based on people and their services. Opera­ ting in many countries across the globe, Swissport has a large and growing workforce subLABOUR RELATIONS ject to different legislations and labour environments. It is Swissport’s aim to establish and maintain an open and stable working relationship with employees and their representatives, such as work councils and trade unions or other. Therefore, local / regional Labour Relations and management are responsible for regular exchange and information with employees and employees’ representatives. 24 ENGAGEMENT Having the right people on board, Swissport is fully aware that success is largely dependent on engaged and committed employees. In that respect, we offer first and foremost working conditions that meet the needs of our employees, secondly fair remuneration, thirdly flexible working time models, further development opportunities, and lastly retention measurements under the premise of “able to go, but happy to stay!” From our dashboard data, we regularly analyse key performance indicators that help us to find any systemic issues that negatively impact people engagement. Based on these data HR, together with the business, are in the position to address these issues quickly and appropriately. COMPENSATION Our compensation strategy is in line with market practices and with our aim to be fair and competitive. As mentioned above, it is self-evident that our compensation strategy does not & BENEFITS discriminate between males and females. Swissport rewards personal engagement and outstanding individual contributions to the company’s business performance with success-related salary components on management levels. The performance is assessed and reviewed annually to calculate the compensation. Global guidelines for management compensation are complemented with local incentive systems for our non-managerial employees. Corporate Compensation & Benefits experts, together with our regional Head HR, regularly assess our employment terms and conditions, salary packages for country roles and local incentive systems in regards to their compliance with corporate standards and local legal requirements. Swissport Health Management and Pension Schemes are in local responsibility and always in compliance with local legal requirements, too. 25 Swissport has an aligned transparent Performance Development Review System for all senior managers worldwide. Supported by a well-established HR system, management and PERFORMANCE HR can closely manage and monitor the entire development-oriented process. Training MANAGEMENT opportunities for our managers ensure qualitative performance review, constructive feedback and sustainable development sessions. Swissport is committed to the development of all employees, endorsing that each individual has the relevant knowledge, skill and proficiency to deliver the highest standards of work TRAINING & consistently and safely in the workplace. Swissport recognises that training and developDEVELOPMENT ment is fundamental to maintaining and continually improving operational performance, and an integral part of the organisation in the achievement of our strategy and goals. Therefore, Swissport is striving for excellence at all levels in the organisation. In this regard, Swissport provides level-adequate training and development opportunities from base to top – for all operations staff, supervisory and first-line management, as well as middle and senior managers. Swissport has two departments that design and deliver training and development opportunities: Global Training, responsible for the development and implementation of corporate technical training standards; Global Learning and Development, responsible for processes and standards in performance and talent management and in leadership development. Standard Training Programme (STP) The Swissport Standard Training Programme (STP) pursues the global standardisation of technical training and is applicable to all Swissport stations, unless overruled by local laws, regulations or written carrier-specific instructions. Station management ensures training conformity with local laws, regulations and specific carrier requirements. The technical training follows a modular approach and covers generic trainings such as human factors, fire prevention or active supervision, health and safety, dangerous goods and security, as well as all training and qualification needs for the execution of operational core services offered by Swissport. 26 Technical Training All Swissport employees must have a sound basic knowledge of their duties at their work place. For this reason, Swissport has developed a Technical Training Policy to achieve safe, smooth and efficient handling in any kind of operations among employees and supervisory staff working in operations. The training policy contains principles that define ownership and responsibility in training design and delivery and ensures high conformity with standards, industry regulation, customer requirements, and laws. Leadership Development Swissport believes that leadership matters to navigate the business in a world of volatility, uncertainty, complexity and ambiguity. Leadership development programs shall improve leadership performance at each leadership level and foster a common language in leadership matters. ‘Active Supervision’ trains our supervisors to manage their leadership challenges in their daily operations. The ‘Active Leadership Program (ALP)’, a signature Swissport leadership development programme, is aligned to the current business strategy. The programme encourages our first-line and middle managers to reflect their abilities in regard of the current business context and so define their personal development journey to improve their leadership performance. 27 Swissport takes pride in contributing to our local communities all over the world, and seve­ ral local stations have implemented projects, contributions and initiatives both environ­ SOCIAL mental and social, related to this. It shows Swissport’s strong commitment and connection to the community for social contribution activities and willingness to support in social and CONTRIBUTIONS environmental projects. Swissport Cyprus supports the charity “Child Smile Foundation” Since 2012, Swissport Cyprus has been organising various events and raise money for the charity. For the last three years, in collaboration with the charity, they have been supporting the Children’s Shelter in Larnaca, which houses orphan children (until they are placed in foster homes or are adopted) and children who have been taken away from their parents by social services. With various events the local team has raised money to paint the shelter (staff volunteered to do the actual painting) and replaced the grass in the playground. Swissport Cyprus invites the children of the shelter to the Children’s Christmas event every year and Santa Claus gives them a gift. Again all the money for the gifts is raised through events that Swissport Cyprus organises with the staff volunteers (e.g. bake sales, car boot sales). Hurrican Clean-up and Reconstruction in Florida Swissport Fort Myers employees in concert with Spirit Airlines employees cleaned up and returned the 81 year-old historical and educational Nature Center of Downtown Bonita Spring, FL to its original condition following Hurricane Irma’s attack on the State of Florida. The Center suffered severe damage. In addition to significant clearing up of debris, cleaning of animal enclosures and repair, the crew planted approximately 100 new plants to replace those destroyed. Job Opportunities and Training Sessions for people in need of employment Swissport Cargo Atlanta station has been working closely with an organisation called “The Center for Working Families” in Atlanta. A non-profit, this organisation helps those in need of employment who may be unfamiliar with how to get work, or lack basic skills that they need to qualify for positions. They go through interviewing and if they pass this, they are placed with life coaches and begin a process called “Strive”. In the “Strive” programme, they are trained in computer systems and applications as well as other trade skills. If an individual passes all required courses they are then sent to participating companies who have agreed to work with the Center. This process has given Swissport Cargo Atlanta some very capable and enthusiastic new employees. Swissport has been designated as a “Highlighted Employer” because of their participation. Local contribution after tropical storm “Nate” in Costa Rica Hurricane “Nate” was an unusually fast-moving tropical cyclone that caused widespread destruction and casualties in Central America during early October 2017. It caused heavy rains, landslides and floods which blocked roads, destroyed bridges and damaged houses. In Costa Rica, nearly 400,000 people were without running water and thousands were sleeping in shelters. Unfortunately, also Swissport employees were affected by this devastation. The entire organisation supported its employees with donations like furniture, electrical devices and mattresses in order to support and reconstruct the damaged homes. 28 PRODUCT “ Swissport takes great pride in its safety management system and fulfills its responsibility towards its products and services. We focus on the safety and quality RESPONSIBILITY & of our services at every level of the company. It is a consistent goal for Swissport to have the lowest possible rates of injuries, and we are constantly working together SUSTAINABILITY ” to ensure that all procedures meet the highest standards. We do not compromise on safety. Luzius Wirth – EVP Group Services Offering a wide range of ground handling services, Swissport recognises its important role of managing product responsibility in a manner which is consistent across its global operation and in respect with Swissport’s core values Professionalism, Partnership and People. The Swissport Management System (SMS) incorporates all aspects of operational and managerial activities that could have a potential impact on health & safety, performance and consistency. The SMS allows Swissport to deliver customers’ satisfaction and trust by delivering what we have agreed on, in a safe, consistent and sustainable way. We assess the QHSE risks, measure performance and focus on continuous improvement of the SMS. All Swissport entities are mandate to adhere to the standards given by the SMS. The Swissport Management System is certified ISO 9001:2008. Swissport has mandated SGS, an external independent compliance company, to audit and certify our headquarter and 65 stations that are under the multisite agreement for ISO 9001. 29 Global Standard Swissport is dedicated to aligning, regularly reviewing and continuously improving its SWISSPORT standardised processes and procedures across the entire organisation. Local implementation FORMULA of all standardised processes and procedures are crucial to our success in providing the customer with best-in-class services every day, every time and everywhere. Swissport Formula is an essential part of the “Way We Work” in operations, and it is fully integrated in the Swissport Management system. Swissport Formula is a proven model of standardising managerial and operational processes. This enables Swissport to deliver the highest service quality for our customers and to apply the same proven standards in all our Ground Handling and Cargo operations all over the world. The Swissport Formula has been derived from the best practices not only from our operation, but also from comparative industries. It ensures pro-active management at all operational levels and is focused on a KPI-driven performance culture, optimised resource utilisation, technical and managerial training and efficient operational processes. This approach enables continuous improvement in the stations through a change of mindset and behaviour. The Swissport Formula aims to change the company culture from a local understanding of the “Swissport way of doing things” to a global approach. The tried and trusted procedures are reinforced with the Swissport core values. Efficient and secure operations form a sustainable basis for development and provide customer confidence and peace of mind, in addition to reducing costs. With the Swissport Formula, customers and employees experience the benefits of global alignment, standardisation and consistency every day. Collaboration across the entire organisation is crucial for successful local implementation of our global standards. Therefore, Swissport is structured as a matrix organisation. The functional communities and cross-functional teams are collaborating in a strong relationship to ensure full alignment and implementation of our standardised best-in-class processes in the local stations. Good relationships are absolutely crucial in creating buy-in, ensuring a smooth roll-out and delivering the same message across the organisation. Swissport’s operational standards, a fundamental part of the Swissport Formula, have been recognised by IATA as being compliant to IGOM (IATA Ground Operation Manual) and Swissport Formula implementation has facilitated the registration of 35 stations and headquarter into ISAGO (IATA Safety Audit for Ground Operators). 30 PRODUCTS & Innovation is a key priority for Swissport. In order to understand, analyse and develop emerging technologies, Swissport has a dedicated unit. Alongside the business units, the SERVICES innovation group drives the digital transformation of Swissport’s business. But also beyond today’s operation, innovation is for us about looking several years ahead and anticipating what the future will look like based on trends in society and technology. This is key for us INNOVATION to understand how our business model might have to evolve. In order to effectively and efficiently adopt new technology, we work with a wide range of partners. We collaborate with a Silicon Valley-based innovation platform, to immerse ourselves in and navigate the world’s largest ecosystem of start-ups and tech companies. We use these insights to develop partnerships to introduce new technologies into our business in an agile way. In terms of focus areas for innovation, we are looking at four pillars: ·· Fostering positive employee experience: Our employees are our most important asset. We want to make Swissport the “Employer of Choice” by providing a modern work environment, leveraging digital solutions, allowing for flexibility and focusing employees on the most value adding and rewarding tasks. “Happy employees will delight our customers.” ·· Creating seamless customer journeys: We operate in a complex supply chain, interlinked with a number of partners. Together we need to develop / adopt technologies and solutions that allow passengers and cargo to travel smoothly and effortlessly through our operations. ·· Building connecting platforms: We want to actively shape the future of travel and air cargo. In order to remove existing hurdles, we need to collect, manage and use data across our business and build / look for solutions in the area of industrial internet of things (IIoT), artificial intelligence, big data and predictive analytics. ·· Implementing operational excellence: By leveraging technology and automation and upskilling our employees, we intend to set new standards of operational excellence within our industry. 31 The award-winning Swissport Ground Handling business currently provides passenger and ramp handling at over 279 stations worldwide and serves in excess of 250 million passenGROUND HANDLING gers per year. Today, Swissport is recognised as the biggest independent global ground services provider with the largest number of hub and Low Cost Carrier base operations globally. Innovation Swissport has the advantage of being able to exchange expertise and share best practices from all over the world – the benefit of which is seen in the Swissport Formula. Due to our global presence, operational practices and service innovations are being developed and implemented on an ongoing basis. Process and service optimisation, through the use of information technology, has been crucial to the success of Swissport. Our vast reach and network enables rapid adoption of the latest technologies, which deliver efficiency and cost-effective operations on site. Using the benefit both of our experience and proprietary software for resource optimisation enables Swissport to develop rapid turnaround times without sacrificing quality of service. Processes are documented and described in detailed operations manuals to ensure safe handling according to the ISAGO authority. Our aim is to serve our airline customers in the most effective way while also being cognisant of the individual needs and requirements of each of our customers. Outlook Swissport is monitoring automation developments in the area of ground service provision very closely. We constantly strive to reduce our production costs with the early integration of newly-created features within our scope of activities. The automation process is already well developed in the area of passenger handling, including: ·· Fully automated passenger handling at check-in ·· Automated boarding processes Swissport also supports working groups with our know-how in order to advance the same kind of automation in other areas, such as: ·· Self-service devices at Lost & Found counters ·· Checked-baggage screening ·· Central load control 32 Our well-established operational monitoring tools allow us to test every change in procedure and verify the impact of any deviation to the running process. Swissport is an organisation that is actively shaping the future for the benefit of our customers. CARGO Swissport is the world’s biggest cargo services provider, offering award-winning cargo handling at more than 130 warehouses worldwide, and handling in excess of 4.3 million tonnes annually. The cargo organisation is structured to allow global, regional and local representation at both sales and operational levels through its Customer Relationship Mana­gement (CRM) process; which is designed to improve the customer experience. Innovation With daily monitoring of the key business drivers and shipment tracking in line with Cargo 2000 (C2K) standards, we have a transparent overview of our services that ensures service quality and enforces operational excellence. Implementation of hand-held terminals reduces human error and ensures efficient operation, which allows our customers to also benefit from reduced handling and associated costs. Daily follow-ups on hours worked, volumes handled, door waiting times and many other measures ensure a scorecard approach to daily activity which further supports the Cargo operations and helps to deliver efficient operations. Swissport will continue to improve technology and interfaces for its customers and has many new and exciting advancements in production to minimise cost and improve operational readiness. We are also committed to improving the look and feel of our facilities, as well as to grow and develop new operations worldwide. 33 Some benefits of this approach to innovation include: ·· Cargospot: The system used to manage our Cargo business, interfacing with any airline system. ·· Freightfinder: Using the latest technology, Freightfinder allows you to track and trace your freight in any of our warehouses worldwide. ·· Hand-Held Terminals: Swissport’s customers benefit from real-time status updates so shipments can be tracked and traced in our warehouses. ·· Volume Scanning Devices: Allow our customers to calculate the volume of shipments with accuracy. ·· SHIELD Document Imaging System: Capturing the entire flight pouch digitally solves the problem of missing documents. Outlook The continued drive to grow with our customers and to ensure that we continue to deliver the highest quality handling in the most cost-efficient way is our prime focus. By leveraging the use of system-management and implementing innovative, solid operational and financial processes together with our customers, we will continue to enhance our prime position in cargo handling services. Our Global Account Management team allows custo­ mers to benefit from full access to Swissport’s specialist resources, including the latest industry information and cutting-edge operating solutions designed to optimise the efficiency of customers’ handling processes. This specialised team provides our customers with peace of mind and an established confidential relationship to explore and develop new opportunities and strategies. This single point of contact allows quality consistency, open communication and increased transparency in the handling process. We tailor operations to the needs of our customers and create a suite of reports based on their information requirements, both at operational and sales levels. Swissport Executive Aviation (SEA) & PrivatPort provide exclusive ground handling services to the international community of operators and executives who utilise private or EXECUTIVE AVIATION corporate jets in more than 80 bases in 22 countries worldwide. The mission is to make arrivals, stopovers and departures as convenient and smooth as possible for passengers and crew, providing a customised spectrum of aircraft care services. These bespoke service requirements are offered by professionals with good expertise, exceptional skills in servi­ cing and understanding the importance of the business aviation world. The dedicated teams are hand-picked for their commitment to the job and are highly committed to their assignment, delivering assistance beyond expectation. 34 FUELLING Swissport Fuelling Services is an international provider of high quality, independent aviation fuel handling on behalf of airlines, airports and fuel suppliers. We provide a full service solution with regard to our clients’ fuelling needs including both on and off airport fuel storage and distribution systems. Swissport Fuelling Services has a proven track record in demonstrating a full understanding of the requirements and responsibilities of maintaining aviation fuel systems, with a focus on safety, cost control, inventory management and a clear emphasis on environmental compliance and responsibility. Swissport Fuelling Services provides our customers with safe, efficient, independent into-plane fuelling services whilst leading the industry in on-time performance. Our expertise and know­ledge in this specialist field also assists our clients in the design, construction and commissioning of aviation fuelling facilities and related structures. Swissport Fuelling Services operates to the highest industry standards in health, safety and environment. Our policies and procedures have been developed in accordance with the Air Transport Association (ATA) 103 Specification and the Joint Inspection Group (JIG) Guidelines for Aviation Fuel Quality Control & Operating Procedures. AIRCRAFT Swissport Aircraft Maintenance, the recipient of the prestigious FAA Certificate of Excellence Diamond Award, is a quality provider of third-party line maintenance services opera­ MAINTENANCE ting at seven airports in the USA and in four other countries globally, providing line maintenance support to major commercial airlines on both a scheduled and on-call basis, ensuring that all capital-intensive equipment operates and performs flawlessly. Swissport’s A&P Mechanics has the training, knowledge and expertise to meet our customers’ demands. 35 Swissport GSE and Unit Load Device (ULD) Maintenance Services operate at over 180 airports in 48 countries, managing and maintaining a fleet of more than 50,000 units. Our GROUND SUPPORT commitment is to offering superior and consistent standards and dedication throughout our EQUIPMENT (GSE) network: providing reliable, comprehensive and cost-effective GSE maintenance, minimi­ sing downtime and maximising productivity. Swissport Maintenance Services is committed MAINTENANCE to working within the industry towards the research and development of efficient, safe, ergonomic and environmentally friendly Ground Services Equipment. Swissport Aviation Security (Checkport) provides security services for more than 40 customers in over 10 countries worldwide. The team working within the organisation is highly AVIATION SECURITY trained in both security and vulnerability assessments, providing complete solutions for our customers. Swissport Aviation Security customers have the flexibility to choose the solution fit for them; be it on a local or a global level, the Checkport entities guarantee full flexi­ bility for the procurement of security services. Our services and expertise in this specialised field are based on more than 20 years’ experience within Aviation Security with a clear focus on, and commitment to quality solutions and integrated products for the client’s convenience. Working with Swissport allows our clients to purchase security services via ground handling and cargo and benefit from the synergies realized by the integration of security tasks in existing processes, such as: ·· Check-In Security Combined Check-In and Security Services ·· Gate Security Combined Gate and Security Services ·· Cabin Clean & Search Combined Cleaning and Security Services 36 HUB & BASE Outsourcing continues to play an important role in the aviation and airport services industry. As airlines continue to focus on profitability, they are increasingly focusing on their MANAGEMENT core business: passenger transportation. While the Swissport service portfolio can begin from a single station, true partnership comes when Swissport provides the full management of our airline partner’s hub or base operations. Swissport headquarters assumes professional project leadership from appointment through to the operational start, providing total reassurance for our customers during transition. Experienced field managers from our global network support the implementation on site. This solution encompasses vast commercial expertise from more than 700 customer airlines. Quality reassurance is given to our customers via the operational and leadership training of local staff and management. Commissioning Swissport with hub operations is both financially and operationally sensible for our customers. Swissport has earned its customers’ trust for hub management through our proven track record in best practice, quality and industry-leading processes and procedures in addition to our commitment to continuous innovation in service provision. Swissport is well positioned to manage the sensitive responsibility for hub management for our customers: success stories include Munich (the regional fleet of Lufthansa), Helsinki (Finnair), Johannesburg (South African Airways), Sao Paolo and Rio (Gol / Cargo), and three stations for United in the USA. A SWISSPORT CORE COMPETENCE – BUILDING RELATIONSHIPS INTO PARTNERSHIPS THE WINNING COOPERATION CONCEPT SINGLE STATION REGIONAL / MULTISTATION NETWORK PACKAGES HUB & BASE MANAGEMENT* FULL OUTSOURCING * Provision and management of handling services at carrier’s hub or base airport 37 Swissport engages with a range of stakeholders on a regular basis. It is our declared goal to be a reliable, professional and recognised partner in the creation of values and results for all OUR our stakeholders – internally and externally. Our key stakeholders are identified by analysing those groups that are intrinsically affected by, or could have an effect on, our operation. STAKEHOLDERS ·· Customers Airlines ·· Airports ·· Airport authority (private and governmental) ·· IATA and other international associations in the aviation industry ·· Shareholders ·· Management ·· Staff ·· Trade Unions and work councils ·· Communities ·· Suppliers ·· Passengers Swissport’s Sustainability Report was created through the engagement and interest of our various stakeholders. Key topics and concerns raised were: ·· Employee and customer safety ·· Service quality and customer satisfaction ·· Human rights and labour principles ·· Employee development ·· Environmental Protection and Initiatives ·· Equal opportunities ·· Engagement in local communities In 2013, Swissport initiated its first Sustainability Report which addressed the above topics and concerns. The following years, through further engagement of internal and external stakeholders, Swissport’s awareness and engagement with sustainable practices has continuously increased. Evidence is shown in our further developed and refined reports. Swissport intends to deliver the best service and improve operational processes by developing and introducing state-of-the-art technology to our customers. We do not rest on our CUSTOMER successes and have developed methods and tools for continuous improvement, working DIALOGUE with our customers in a collaborative way to ensure that we always strive to be the best and offer innovative and optimal solutions to all of our customers – current and new – across all of our many and diverse operations. We believe that technology has to increase value externally and internally at the same time as reducing cost. In order to achieve this, Swissport meets with airlines to review processes and identify cooperation potential (for outsourcing of “non-core” activities and usage of technology), follows industry trends by visiting industry conferences, analyses and benchmarks competitors and also stays in contact with external partners. This is our understanding of true partnership: one of our core values. Swissport carefully observes market trends. It is obvious that these trends show a need for modifications to the current business model and increase the importance of technology: Swissport’s IT is eager to continuously improve the infrastructure and applications landscape to support the business processes. SWISSPORT INTERNATIONAL LTD. GROUND HANDLING, CARGO SERVICES, AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE, FUELLING SERVICES, EXECUTIVE AVIATION, AVIATION SECURITY P.O. BOX, 8058 ZURICH-AIRPORT, SWITZERLAND P: +41 43 815 00 00 corporate.communications@swissport.com WWW.SWISSPORT.COM
