Corporate Social Responsibility CITIZENSHIP AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015-2016 2 GREEN PLANET BIO DOME Dubai, UAE Citizenship and Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Corporate Social Responsibility GRI 102-1 4 OUR THIRD CSR REPORT Strong achievements for the two last years in line with In doing so, we are convinced that we correctly follow the guidelines the objectives shared in our second 2012-2015 Report of ISO 2600. We use the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework confirm that ‘CSR is part of the BESIX Group’s DNA’. The to prepare our report that associates the CSR credibility of any organization with its foundation in a strong senior management comyear of 2017 and the governance changes it brought mitment to the CSR path. along also offer us the opportunity to combine innovation and consistency, in the content and structure of our Furthermore, in preparation for the above session, a survey was Report. conducted in August 2017 among our senior managers to inform the Executive & Strategy Committee’s reflection and support decision-making. When concluding their assessment and message in the 2012-2015 Report, our CEO and COO decided to record our application to join The results of that survey, performed and reviewed by a third party, the Ten Principles of the Global Compact initiative of the United Naemphasize that the senior managers firmly believe in a vision incortions. In doing so, their aim was to further affirm our own values porating sustainability, partnership and innovation, commitment and in terms of human rights, working conditions, the environment and openness. business practices. Such shared and effective convictions confer a strong dimension on Then, in 2016, our corresponding commitment to those Ten Princithis CSR Report, especially when reporting transparently on difficulples was publicly shared and we joined the United Nations federating ties and areas for improvement that we identified during the period platform ‘The Shift Network’. and daring to consider them in determining and sharing our CSR objectives for the future. In keeping with previous editions, ‘Do what you say and say what you do’ remains the guiding principle of this third 2015-2016 Report In this Report, our CEO commits himself and the Executive & Stratand on its issue, we can announce that, having reported our achieveegy Committee to further support and monitor the implementation ments over that period, our participation in the Ten Principles was of those objectives. renewed by the United Nations on 29 September 2017. The second CSR Report was driven by the thematic thread of This recognition of our achievements in 2015-2016 was obtained the Respect, the linchpin of our Common Values and Core Competensame day that our new CEO invited the Group Executive & Strategy cies underlying our CSR achievements 2015-2016. With our third Committee, during a two-day residential session, to revisit the CSR Report, we highlight various initiatives that were streamlined by Group’s core purpose, its values and its strategic drivers and boost a Dare Change campaign launched after 2015, a year in which the its future. Group faced operational and financial difficulties. Such an initiative clearly contributes to the credibility of our Group Boosted by the innovation initiatives commented on in the second CSR commitment since it largely concerns our Group’s relationship CSR Report, that Dare Change campaign flowed out into various with its various stakeholders. Therefore, we chose to wait for the outinitiatives, aiming to ‘energize’ the Group Triple Strategy decided in come of that session as well as of the subsequent onboarding and 2013 as well as to identify the corresponding action plans for the buy-in initiatives dedicated to our senior management and Group Group’s sustainability. colleagues in November 2017, to then consistently include in this third CSR Report both our achievements in 2015-2016 and our core Many initiatives that were part of our Group CSR objectives matured purpose, value and strategic drivers underlying the Group CSR obin 2015 and 2016 and are now included in the strategic drivers revisjectives for the subsequent years. ited in 2017 with corresponding objectives, including in CSR. GRI 102-13 102-14 102-26 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 5 Consistent with our earlier approach, we still have no stand-alone and subject-specific CSR organization since we believe in the benefits of networking, through which our CSR essentials are transposed to every level, discipline and region of our Group, ensuring greater ownership of and accountability for every CSR initiative. As you will see as a stakeholder, reviewing, auditing or analysing this CSR Report, we worked with consistency and determination in pursuing our CSR objectives. Since 2010, we 'co-found this edition together with the innovation and sustainability drivers ‘co-energized’ in 2017 by our Executive & Strategy Committee. This third edition of our CSR Report can easily be consolidated with the first two editions and you will note that we have not duplicated all CSR foundations embedded and reflected in the original Reports. However, the three editions are complementary and mutually explanatory. One of our objectives is to reorganize the report in the future. We will create a BESIX reference CSR framework applying for years to come, like a country’s constitution on the one hand and a dedicated and focussed review of the actions in the relevant period compared to this ‘BESIX reference framework’ on the other hand. This will make consistency more obvious and analysis of our CSR achievements easier for all our stakeholders. Frédéric de Schrevel Group CSR Officer GRI 102-12 102-14 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 6 Content Our commitment, as a leading building company, is to embrace our responsibility and contribute to the long-term sustainable development in alignment with the goals of the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. 01 Our last CSR report was published during Q3 2015. This (third) CSR report covers 2015 and 2016 (unless stated otherwise) and demonstrates the continuity of our CSR actions. We now enter a maturity phase in which we can evaluate our achievements. We will report on our CSR efforts on a biennial basis. Always in the idea of progress and improvement to better meet society’s challenges and our Our “DNA” stakeholders’ expectations. For the third time we have used the Global Reporting Initiative framework to guide us for the content of this report because 11 Value Creation from an Integrated Approach it enables our stakeholders to note our objectives and their 11 Sustainable Growth and Performance implementation regarding people-planet-prosperity 12 Belgian Identity and International Deployment You will notice in this third edition how much our CSR 14 “Dare Change” 2015-2016 Campaign commitment has evolved. The objectives published in our 15 Made the Group Future-Proof CSR reports clearly demonstrate the Group’s determination to become a CSR benchmark. 04 05 Our Business Engagement Our Environmental 31 Strategy & Clients Engagement 33 Responsible Business 37 Sustainable Innovation 49 Sustainable Respect towards the Environment 39 Certified Projects 52 Our CO² Management 41 Innovation Programs 56 Our view on Biodiversity 44 Projects 56 Partnerships and Memberships 57 Water: high on the Group’s agenda 58 Projects GRI 102-50 102-51 102-52 102-54 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 7 02 03 Our Senior Executives' Our Corporate Engagement Commitment 23 Vision, Mission and Strategy 24 Values 16 Commitment towards Responsibility 26 Corporate Governance and Codes of Conduct and Sustainablity 27 Awards and Accolades 29 Our Certifications and Labels 06 07 Our Community and Societal BESIX Forward 2017 Engagement 94 Going Forward 96 Objectives 2017-2018 65 Direct Engagement with Stakeholders 104 GRI Content Index 66 Enhance our Human Capital 80 Vendors and Business Partners 82 Social Initiatives and BESIX Foundation 88 Projects BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 BESIX GROUP ESSENTIALS 10 OUR DNA 11 BESIX GROUP ESSENTIALS BESIX Group is the largest Belgian Group, operating in the construction, VALUE CREATION concessions and property development sectors. FROM AN It profiles itself as a multiINTEGRATED services Group. APPROACH Creating value beyond just building imposes as a strong element of our collective professional approach, among all the Group entities in collaboSUSTAINABLE rating with our clients and business stakeholders and serving innovative solutions to them. GROWTH AND We assemble people, resources, know-how and experience to carry projects through, managing complexity on a commercial, PERFORMANCE technical, logistical and performance level. Our multidisciplinary teams work together closely in centers of excellence, offering top quality and efficiency as well as creativity and value enSince first going into action in 1909, the BESIX gineering in all disciplines involved directly or indirectly in our Group has grown into a multidisciplinary company activities. with a leading position in the markets it is It is further in our “DNA” to bring every project that we underoperating in: construction, property development take, however challenging, to a successful completion. It is and concessions. also typically in difficult circumstances that we display our full creativity, team-spirit and flexibility to mitigate the impact and BESIX Contracting specializes in buildings, infrastructure change them into opportunities. and marine works, with a focus on projects with a high level of complexity. In the Benelux and France, the Group’s Our fundamental “DNA’ is finally the “we” and “our” sense of regional affiliates BESIX, Belemco, BESIX Infra, BESIX Park, making business giving to each of us a strong motivation and BESIX RED, Cobelba, Franki Foundations, Jacques Delens, sense of belonging. All our successes and pains are the ones Lux TP, Vanhout and Wust ensure a strong local approach of the BESIX Group community and not linked to one or anand presence. other, even performing, entity or individual. This “DNA” underWith Franki Foundations, West Construct, BESIX Infra, lies especially our “zero tolerance” objective in securing a safe Socogetra, Sanotec and Van den Berg, the Group offers niche working environment to all our resources and the ones of our solutions for the building market, including deep foundations, business partners along project completion. geoengineering, road construction, water treatment and cable and pipeline construction. BESIX Concessions & Assets has built its strong reputation in Belgium, The Netherlands and the Middle East. With Six Construct, we have established strong positions outside Europe and especially in the Middle East. GRI 102-2 102-4 102-6 102-7 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 12 BESIX MADE IN BELGIUM AROUND BELGIAN THE WORLD IDENTITY AND INTERNATIONAL DEPLOYMENT BESIX Group is firmly anchored in Belgium. The group not only realizes a significant part of its revenues and profit in Belgium, it also implements a “Belgian way of doing business” with a special focus on diversity, collaboration, common sense and the ability to make compromises that benefit all parties involved. This strong “DNA” contributes to our sustainability, stability and attractiveness for recruitment and partner­ships all over the world where opportunities are identified. This also means that penetrating in a new country will only be promoted if and when a relationship of trust is built with a local reliable business partner. Based on this key approach, BESIX Group is anchored in two home-markets: Belgium and the United Arab Emirates. These countries are solid hubs for the Group’s international deployment in various countries and focused acquisitions. COUNTRIES WHERE BESIX HAS BEEN ACTIVE EUROPE SOUTH AMERICA Czech Republic Peru Germany Chile Greece Ecuador Russia Brazil This strong “DNA” Spain AFRICA contributes to our ASIA Azerbaijan Morocco Algeria sustainability, stability India Iraq Benin Guinea Nigeria and attractiveness Pakistan Russia Congo Gabon for recruitment and NORTH AMERICA Barbados Angola South Africa partnerships all over the Bermuda Jamaica Botswana DR Congo Burundi world where opportunities Martinique Mexico Congo Rwanda are identified. Trinidad and Tobago USA Sudan Libya Tunisia Mauritius GRI 102-3 102-4 102-6 102-7 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 13 BESIX GROUP ESSENTIALS United Kingdom France Belgium The Netherlands Luxembourg Switzerland Denmark Italy Poland Montenegro 20 COUNTRIES where BESIX is currently active Sri Lanka Australia Oman UAE Qatar Bahrain Saudi Arabia Egypt Cameroon Equatorial Guinea GRI 102-4 102-6 102-7 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 14 CONSOLIDATED KEY FIGURES016 2016 EMPLOYEES NUMBER OF PROJECTS EVOLUTION OF TURNOVER +13,000 425* * over € 100,000 €2.4 billion In 2016, BESIX Group formulated its Triple 3 strategy to continue its organic growth, extend its regional footprint and diversify its “DARE CHANGE” business further in order to make the group even more multidisciplinary than it is today. CAMPAIGN To secure sustainable prosperity, we formulated 3 clear ambitions to achieve: €3.0 billion revenues in 3 home markets with 3 income streams (1/3 in Europe, 1/3 International, 1/3 Recurring) and with 3 new business ventures by 2022. 2015 was a challenging year: BESIX has worked hard as a group, but could not reap the results accordingly with a bottom line that was at a historic low. A strategic consultant conducted a Group survey about a number of key aspects and processes: vision, decision-making, communication, responsibility and autonomy, commercial efficiency and organizational structure. Based on the outcome of the survey and the Committee’ s review, workgroups were formed to review the lessons learned from the past, pay consideration to the new management systems and tools and to the expectations of the new generation and to energize knowledge sharing and risk management. This resulted in an action plan: The Dare Change Program was born. The Dare Change program includes various initiatives that are critical to BESIX Group’s commitment to sustainability and prosperity, through adjusted processes and valorization of human resources. GRI 102-7 102-8 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 15 BESIX GROUP ESSENTIALS MADE THE GROUP FUTURE-PROOF “New challenges now present themselves at unprecedented speed. Technological innovations are disrupting the status quo in existing markets: companies like Uber, Booking.com, Airbnb, but also GAFA have fundamentally upended existing business models. Within this challenging context, BESIX too needs to determine its strategy and react in order to secure its future and its market position.” “With the Dare Change program we commit ourselves 100% to Change is not an option, increasing the efficiency of our core processes. In doing so, we gain clout by being more productive, generating less waste and it is the sole way towards operating more cost-effectively. The outcome must be a dashboard with clear KPIs for controlling the business. For Dare Change we the future. have deliberately opted for very multidisciplinary working groups, J. Beerlandt with representatives of different subsidiaries and age groups focusing on the same objective. Breaking down silos and encouraging cross-fertilization is in fact an equally important objective of the program. We also need to look beyond our own little wall and examine how we can provide unique solutions that meet the needs of tomorrow.“ ARE CHANGE •D • T K DARE CHANGE EN ISK MAN E MANAGE T•R AG EDG ME EN EM WL NT EM NO ER FOR MANCE M AN 2015-2016 •P AG CARLO J. SCHREURS Chief Development Officer BESIX Group “Speaking for my generation. I think we can play the role of sherpas for the rising generation during the exciting journey which BESIX has begun. The younger generation in turn needs to lead the way to unprecedented opportunities. In short, the old need to guide the young and the young need to educate the old.” Johan Beerlandt, Chairman BESIX Group GRI 102-15 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 16 OUR SENIOR EXECUTIVES’ COMMITMENT Commitment towards our CSR vision, while it remains a daily challenge in the projects Responsibility and and in all processes, regions and activities of our colleagues and stakeholders to co-achieve our Prosperity, People and Planet relatSustainability ed objectives. Safe working conditions with ‘zero tolerance’ for a zero tolerance for accidents and incidents, environmentally friendly building technolWith our strong CSR 2015-2016 achievements in the ogies, low-energy, low-emission and eco-friendly design projects two last years, BESIX Group’s CSR ambition and comemerged not only as important but as a standard to be met. Our CSR mitment will be guided henceforth by strengthened responsibility implies that we should continue to ‘unleash’ creativity to differentiate BESIX Group and excel in this respect and that we core purpose, values and strategic drivers. co-create innovative and sustainable solutions with all stakeholders, ultimate owners, clients, engineering consultants and architects but Consistency and going Forward also with our partners and subcontractors. BESIX Group’s vision and responsibility are and will remain consistent over the years: we want to contribute to a safer, greener Value Engineering and sustainable solutions have also emerged as and more pleasant society and build a better place in which to live. part of our ‘DNA’. More than ever, our CSR responsibility means ‘unleashing’ further creativity in developing new green infrastructures, Our achievements since 2010, as discussed in three editions of CSR enhancing the comfort of citizens and rethinking the cities of tomorReports so far, reinforce the underlying ‘DNA’ of the Group around row in collaboration with our stakeholders. GRI 102-2 102-14 102-16 17 BESIX GROUP ESSENTIALS The BESIX Group’s Prosperity indicates that risk and opportunigeneral and differentiate ourselves further, our CSR commitments will ties were well managed overall, but the threats, current and future, be organized around five revisited values as from 2018: ‘Excellence, whether in the global geopolitical and economic environment or the Co-creation, Respect, Passion, Unity’. construction sector, force us to improve our internal control and risk management processes and behaviors. They are key to securing susThis development reflects – following on from our Respect campaign tainability and complying with our Planet and People commitments, – our conviction that Respect is a core value and also inspires the continuously. other values of Co-creation, Passion, Unity and Excellence, without which we cannot succeed in our Core Purpose. Therefore, our Executive & Strategy Committee has decided that our CSR vision and achievements will inspire the revisited Group Core PurCSR as part of our strategic drivers pose and that all our future actions and developments will be aligned Our 2015-2016 CSR Report illustrates and comments on our KPIs for with this. each of the CSR objectives included in the second edition. Consistent with previous editions, the Report sets out our performance in each Henceforth, our CSR ambition will be guided by and cross-fertilize Content section together with various testimonials from our Executive our Core Purpose: ‘Excel in creating sustainable solutions for a better & Strategy Committee, our senior executives and staff as well as world’. external stakeholders. From Values to Sustainability The recognized basis of Prosperity, People, Planet underlies each of Our values of ‘Excellence, Innovation, Safety, Team Spirit and meeting the strategic drivers that we have identified to achieve our ambition Challenges’ have driven our development and activities in the 2015in the Noble Purpose. 2016 period. Hence, you will find in this third CSR Report our KPIs in each of the processes, projects or activities to which they were They are all about demonstrating the highest consideration for our relevant. stakeholders, our clients, our colleagues and workers, our shareholders and our planet. Our Group mottos ‘Together for success’ or ‘Building a better world’, our core value of Respect and our Core competencies of Flexibility, Result-orientation, Innovation, Teamwork and Entrepreneurship Frédéric de Schrevel Rik Vandenberghe underlied and cross-fertilized all reported CSR initiatives. They are Group CSR Officer, Chief Executive Officer also constantly monitored through our governance rules and systems, Secretary General our Integrated Management systems, our Codes of Conduct and our internal control systems and processes. In the last two years, the Group senior management has decided to give a special dimension to its strategy through the IDEAL theme (Innovation, Dedication, Engagement, Ability and Lead). This theme T •D ARE CHANGE • K DARE CHANGE EN ISK MAN E MANAGE T•R EDG was based on the Group values, aimed at facing a changing world EM EN AG EM NO WL ME NT 2015-2016 and being prepared for innovation. The Unleash program was also MANCE M FOR AN ER •P AG rolled out further, with one third of its ideas linked to our CSR commitments. CSR is our ‘co-responsibility’, whereby we commit, with all our Two platforms are currently in place, BESIXpedia to share experiences stakeholders, to go beyond our current strong achievements and boost knowledge management and BE Pro, an e-platform to reported herein and the requirements of the law or any certification familiarize and guide performance in all our processes. authority. Our values also find expression in our continuous objective to achieve CSR is not only about Corporate Social Responsibility. For this ‘zero-tolerance’ of accidents and incidents in line with our Safety value Report, to our Group, the CSR acronym really means nothing and all initiatives reported here in this respect. else than our collective Citizenship & Sustainability Report. BESIX Foundation is another pillar of our CSR commitment vis-àWe commit to further expanding and shining in achieving our vis the communities in which we develop and operate our activities. objectives and thank all those who helped to bring our ‘DNA’ Alongside financial support for eligible projects and organizations, our alive in 2015 and 2016, also crowned by various awards and solidarity actions and own programs Right2Learn and KiddyBuild give recognitions, and with special thanks to all contributors, without a human face to our initiatives, which are generously supported by all whom we would not have been able to issue this report. our teams and their families. However, our Executive & Strategy Committee is convinced that values also require continuous energizing. Therefore, to boost buy-in in GRI 102-2 102-14 102-16 102-26 102-30 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 18 KEY EVENTS The BESIX Group’s main actions 2012 2013 2014 Publication of first BESIX Group CSR Report for 2010-2011 BESIX Foundation launches KiddyBuild 1st Satisfaction and Engagement Signature of Procurement Code Survey of conduct by Group purchasers & subcontractors/suppliers. BESIX Foundation starts Right2Learn Start of RESPECT Campaign Procurement survey BESIX and Jacques Delens CSR Code of Conduct created their own sustainable Development of CSR toolkit Creation of BESIX Group CSR Network construction departments for Project Managers GRI G4-1 G4-2 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 19 2015 2016 1st passive building owned & operated by BESIX in St-Pieters-Leeuw (B) Publication of 2nd CSR Report Signing of SDG Belgian charter Focus on social inclusion QHSE Life saving rules Adherence to 10 UN Principles & 17 UN SDGs Review of the Group rules Participation in the SDG Belgian charter (with Minister De Croo) work group Member of The Shift Creation of the B2Eco Concept by Wust EIC sustainable work group Dubai Chamber CSR Label for Six Construct Focus on social economy First initiatives circular economy Jacques Delens joined the Board of Directors of the Plateforme Maison Passive (PMP) GRI 102-12 102-13 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 CSR AT BESIX GROUP 22 OUR CORPORATE ENGAGEMENT 23 OUR CORPORATE ENGAGEMENT BESIX Group continues to promote the values and Determined to core competencies, which were documented in the first become a CSR CSR Report of 2010-2011. Benchmark In order for non-listed companies to develop a strong CSR approach, good Corporate Governance is essential. Business behavior is crucial for the continued performance of the VISION Group, its reputation and its compliance with the We believe in a BESIX Group that operates as one team, focused on world’s highest standards in ethics and business. sustainable growth, and recognizing local differences whilst building on Group leverage, created as a result of excellent client relationThe objectives published in our CSR reports clearly ships and added value delivery, in existing and new markets, creating demonstrate the Group’s determination to become a CSR a fully integrated solution for the client, respecting safety and the benchmark. environment. MISSION We want to contribute to a safer, greener and a more pleasant society by building a better place to live in for our clients, our workers and the communities in which we live and operate. STRATEGY As a part of our CSR roadmap, an internal working group selected a number of CSR priorities. These priorities remain the key drivers of our CSR strategy and are translated into effective action plans annually. As we have already embraced the commitments of the UN Global Compact, we intend to outline our efforts to operate responsibly and support society as requested by these principles. GRI 102-6 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 24 VALUES In its relations with all stakeholders, BESIX Group is driven by values. These values are colored by the Respect value as well. Respect for our stakeholders, respect in business behavior and respect for the planet. The Group’s values and competencies are the foundation for initiatives such as the BESIX Group Code of Conduct and of the BESIX Group Procurement Code of Conduct. You can learn more about those initiatives in this Report. In 2017 an update of our values was introduced in order to match better with our future-proof mission and vision. Respect Respect for our stakeholders, respect in business behavior and respect for the planet. Excellence We are committed to meeting and exceeding the highest standards of professionalism and performance. Passion We continuously increase our expertise through new challenges. Unity We believe in teamwork and the unlimited possibilities of collaborative energy. Co-creation We constantly look for We rely on two core drivers of the Group: our engineering skills innovative ways to enand our values. hance our performance. Engineering is BESIX Group’s core business. The quality and ambition of our engineering teams all over the world make the Group feel confident in tackling the People – Planet – Prosperity challenges the world is facing at the moment. This report includes plenty of cases and examples which demonstrate our engineers’ unique ability to find solutions for the most complex problems. GRI 102-16 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 25 OUR CORPORATE ENGAGEMENT CSR PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY Global emissions of CO2 have increased by almost 50% since 470 million jobs are needed A quickly changing market globally for new entrants to the creates a need for new types 1990. labour market between 2016 Industry challenges of competences. 103 million BY 2030, the UN predicts a and 2030. & UN concerns youth world­wide lack basic 40% water shortfall. literacy skills. More than 60% Undeveloped infrastructures Global sea level rose limits access to health care and of them are women. approximately 17 cm in the education last century. SDGs Increase safety and comfort Facilitate a low carbon & low Carry out respectful & Preferred Employer waste society sustainable operations BESIX vision Promote local, social & Encourage green solutions Corporate governance economic development “Making a safer, greener & more pleasant society. Minimize our environmental footprint & waste Integrate codes of conduct Focus on safety, well-being (→ See pages 29, 49-57, 59-60, (→ See pages 26, 80-81) & career development 63, 78, 88-89) (→ See pages 58, 66-79) BESIX strategy Develop a sustainable supply Develop sustainable building Social involvement solutions & use more chain & promote the social sustainable raw materials economy (→ See pages 27, 65, 83-87) (→ See page 80-82, 90-91) (→ See pages 37-39, 41-47, 62, 94-95) GRI 102-12 102-15 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 26 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND CODES OF CONDUCT While BESIX Group was delisted in 2004, it continues to comply with a corporate governance framework firmly embedded in the day-to-day working of the Group’s Board of Directors, its advisory committees and the numerous Boards of Directors of the Group’s companies. The goal is to secure the sustainable development of the Group and to develop a strong risk management approach. The monitoring of this commitment is secured through the continuous implementation of the Group Rules and is supported by the interactive and web-based Group Corporate Housekeeping application. The functioning of the Boards of Directors, Committees and corporate organizations is now controlled and reviewed better and on a regular basis, as imposed by the Group Rules. BESIX Group Code of Conduct The BESIX Group Code of Conduct embodies Corporate Governance, Human Rights, Business Behavior, Safety, Environment and Human Resources and is included in most of the Group entities’ prequalification and tendering documentation. The Code constitutes a framework that can be further developed by each Group entity to the extent necessary to align with the specificities of the concerned country or business sector. The Code also prescribes that violations of law, rules, regulations or the Code shall be reported to the Group’s CSR Officer. Sustainable and Responsible Procurement Code of Conduct In line with its CSR objectives for 2010-2011, BESIX Group issued the BESIX Group Sustainable and Responsible Procurement Code of Conduct in 2013. GRI 102-16 102-28 102-33 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 27 OUR CORPORATE ENGAGEMENT AWARDS AND ACCOLADES Projects The Belgian Pavilion received an honorable mention at the Best Exhibit Expo 2015 award ceremony Each year, Exhibitor Magazine honors the best exhibition spaces of the year. The Belgian Pavilion received an honorable mention in the ‘Best Exhibit’ category of Expo 2015 in Milan. The panel of judges described the pavilion as “particularly spectacular, inspiring, of high educational value and extremely well worked out conceptually”. Prestigious Architizer A+ award for ParkToren More than 1,000 entries were submitted for this year’s Architizer A+ award in the ‘Residential-Multi-Unit Housing (16+ floors)’ category. Despite the high number of contestants, it was the ParkToren in Antwerp that won the prestigious American prize in 2015. Yas Mall awarded as Best International Shopping Center Yas Mall received the ‘Best International Shopping Centre’ award at the 10th anniversary of the Global RLI Awards 2015 in Dubai. Neeltje Jans wins the Betonprijs In November 2015, our project ‘Radartoren Neeltje Jans’, Roompotsluis, was announced as the winner of the Betonprijs 2015 in the Structural Design category. People Several Group entities elected as winners of the Aedificas Prize The Aedificas Foundation was created by the ‘Belgian Confederation Construction’ to help improve the living conditions, well-being and sociocultural enrichment of the community by targeting a specific area of action. Several Group entities were awarded: −− BESIX and Cobelba in 2015 (with the Perron de l’Ilon non-profit association) −− Jacques Delens and Socogetra in 2016 (with the Poverello and Chevrefeuille non-profit non-profit associations) Belgian Pavillon, Expo Milan inside view BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 28 Business Six Construct awarded the CSR label in 2015 and 2016 Six Construct received the 2015 and 2016 Dubai Chamber of Commerce and Industry CSR label in recognition of the company’s CSR initiatives, as well as its commitment to operate responsibly. Vanhout wins ‘Kempenaar 2015’ award Vanhout was proclaimed ‘Kempenaar 2015’ (Kempen Company of the Year 2015). The Geel company was chosen by ETION Kempen for its contributions to help the region flourish and for its vision on DARREN GIBSON entrepreneurship. CEO Lustica Development A.D. Six Construct awarded by the Ministry of Labour In March 2016 for its continuous efforts and collaboration with “Through the collaborative and the Ministry. pragmatic approach of the BESIX team with respect to value engineering and BESIX awarded Eco-dynamic Entreprise label*** This accolade from the Brussels Institute for Environmental project procurement, we have managed Management (IBGE) highlights BESIX Group management’s strong to realize significant cost reductions and commitment to sustainable construction and development and the efficiencies, while undoubtedly delivering pivotal role the Group staff plays in meeting ecological targets. an improved quality product overall.” Mobility Week 2016: BESIX won the first prize BESIX participated in the Mobility Week, organized by the Brussels Region in September 2016, and won the first prize. BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 29 OUR CORPORATE ENGAGEMENT OUR CERTIFICATION DEPARTMENT/COMPANY CERTIFICATIONS VCA**2008/5.1 / Safety Atlas Fondations, BESIX, Cobelba, Franki Foundations Belgium, Franki Grondtechnieken, & LABELS Jacques Delens, Socogetra, Vanhout, West Construct, Wust OHSAS 18001:2007 / Six Construct Multi-Site UAE/ Safety Qatar/ Oman/ Bahrain/KSA SMAS (Safety Quality, health, safety and the environment are key Management Advisory priorities for BESIX Group companies across all levels. Services Worksafe Franki Foundations UK certificate) Our QHSE teams work hard to maintain high standards and to make sure that everyone at BESIX Group is fully ISM (International Six Construct (Safe vessels Safety Management) operations certification) aware of changes in standards applying to the business sector. This results in a plethora of certifications for the ISO 14001: 2004 / Six Construct Multi-Site UAE/ Group companies: Environment Qatar/ Oman/ Bahrain/KSA, BESIX, Jacques Delens, Vanhout, Wust We are pleased to underline that Six Construct got the Multi-Site certification and that BESIX Nederland received the CO2-conscious CO² Performance ladder Carbon Footprint / BESIX certificate level 5 accreditation – version 3.0, which represents (level 5) Nederland Environment-BESIX the highest level of the Eco performance ladder developed by ProRail, the operator of the Dutch railway infrastructure. ISO 9001:2008 / Quality Atlas Fondations, BESIX, Cobelba, Franki Foundations All entities concerned are now working hard to meet the new “ISO UK, Franki Grondtechnieken, 9001/14001: 2015” standards. Jacques Delens, Lux TP, Six Construct Multi-Site UAE/ Qatar/ Oman/ Bahrain/KSA, Socogetra, Vanhout, West Construct, Wust KOMO (production of re-bars BESIX for The Netherlands) Marine Contractor Certificate IMCA Diving Contractor Certificate IMCA Six Construct Ltd Association of Diving Contractors International (ADCI) GRI 102-12 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 30 OUR BUSINESS ENGAGEMENT 31 OUR BUSINESS ENGAGEMENT JAN VAN STEIRTEGHEM Director Engineering, BESIX “The Dare Change workgroup on commercial training has as primary target to put the client centric in all our projects, thus delivering higher customer value. Transforming the company from project technical centric to customer centric thinking requires a new skill and competence set for the core of our STRATEGY operations, the management of projects. Next to our ability to be experienced & CLIENTS managers of project and excellent problem solvers, focusing on the endReinforcing our client needs will help to establishing lasting relationships with our clients.” ‘client-centricity’ In order to strengthen our client-oriented approach, the ‘BESIX Potential Academy’ alumni organized an inspiring workshop on ‘Client-Centricity’ in late 2016. DIRK VERVOORDT Administrateur Délégué de Vervoordt r.e. Kanaal project, Wijnegem (B) “Reconversion is an extremely demanding process for us, for the architect and for the builder. BESIX-Vanhout proved to be an excellent communicator and showed a great deal of adaptability to any and all situations on the Wijnegem Kanaal project. To know that the team was prepared to look for innovative solutions and to work closely together with all parties was very reassuring.” GRI 102-43 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 32 Collaboration as added value during tender phase BESIX experienced a new approach in tendering. In The JAN HENDRIK DRONKERS Netherlands, for the renovation project of the Nijkerker Director General of Rijkswaterstraat. bridge, the client (Rijkswaterstaat) opted for an innovative way of tendering, in which there are less restrictive “BESIX did not come with the cheapest rules between all parties involved and in which the proproposal but safety, minimized traffic ject’s price and scope are not the leading directives of disruption and good understanding the selection procedure. with the client were more important The new selection criteria? Client-understanding, communication to us here than budget” and collaboration. Components of the procurement process encompassed presenting our vision of the project, a collaboration assessment with the team of Rijkswaterstaat and our interpretation of the client’s needs. The contract was drawn up in a later stage by all parties involved, including arrangements on scope, costs and risks. The result? A fitting procurement process saving both time and money. This new approach was implemented for the 50-year-old Nijkerker bridge which needs to be renovated in the third quarter of 2018 to last another 30 years. At the end of November 2016, BESIX and Mourik signed a MoA (memorandum of agreement) in Amsterdam (The Netherlands) to work out the engineering phase of the ‘DOEN’ initiative, as the joint venture NU. Clients’ requests in prequalification folders Clients’ requests in prequalification folders tend to be a useful barometer to determine what our clients’ main The Cube concerns are. Interact, Connect and Share the BESIX Experience The top-3 requests from 2014 to 2016? ISO 14001, ISO 9001 and This multi-purpose facility, first launched in 2015, helps us to inVCA ** certifications. An environmental Management Plan and CO ² teract with our business partners. Two more CuBes were opened awareness are common requests as well. The Code of Conduct is in the Emirates on the Dubai Canal project and the Atlantis hoalso regularly included in prequalification requests. tel project. Used for weekly site meetings with partners, visitors shared their positive feedback as they could better experience Our continuous progress in CSR is also part of concern in the BESIX’s company culture. Another CuBe along the Al Rayyan prequalifications. road project in Qatar was also installed, with the same spirit. BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 33 OUR BUSINESS ENGAGEMENT RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Group Rules T •D ARE CHANGE • K DARE CHANGE EN ISK MAN E MANAGE T•R AG EDG ME EN EM WL NT EM NO ER FOR MANCE M AN 2015-2016 •P AG The Group Rules have been issued by the BESIX Group Executive Committee that operates in delegation of the Board of Directors and the CEO. The Committee MATHIEU DECHAMPS continuously monitors compliance, control and reporting General Manager International, BESIX of the Group entities pursuant to the Group Rules. “As our group is expanding in several The Group Rules embed the major risk areas identified by the directions, it was crucial to have the tool Committee and the Group senior management and mainly cover High to manage and record all information Risk Contracts, Capital Expenditure, Budget & Finance commitments, Real Estate exposure, Remuneration policy, Litigations, Corporate related to the projects we are following management and Crisis situations through twenty rule statements. from the Expression of Interest phase to its delivery. Therefore, Salesforce has been transformed to become BESIXforce, a user Knowledge friendly tool fit for its purposes: the follow up of our projects and their stakeholders.” Management The BESIX Group remains a learning organization via information collected from data, but also via its employees who never stops with learning, and with sharing their operational experience inside the Group via the TKM portal, launched in 2011. Optimizing the transfer, the deployment and the maintaining of knowledge remains a challenge for the Group. This TKM portal collects technical information among countries in which we are active and share it in the easiest possible way to all colleagues. Sharing knowledge encourages co-creativity to promote standardization, participating to the success of a future project and in line with the business objectives. The Dare Change 2015-2016 initiative boosted all along the Group the awareness of the rich accumulated experience, information and knowledge all over the organisation. It also emphasized the need for setting up for the maximum entities of the Group a framework making easier the consultation and re-use of that information and knowledge but also the contribution from all the colleagues who have This is a first step in setting up the wished framework, a process and formed informal communities of practice. a tool that would federate all current and future initiatives and take profit of the new digital technologies, including artificial intelligence. To streamline all the existing initiatives, a workgroup launched, with The CSR and BESIX Forward objectives for 2017 and 2018 include an external assistance, a thought process on data and information now the next steps in all those key challenges to contribute to management in relation to tenders and projects. excellence and continuous improvement from lessons learnt. GRI 102-30 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 34 PIERRE SIRONVAL Managing Director, Six Construct Integrated ‘The Dare Change workgroup on Management System Performance Management aims to develop a common reporting tool with In 2015, the Group revised its Integrated Management set KPI’s across the various Business system (IMs) profoundly. The objective: to improve the Units. A more systematic, common and user-friendliness of the portal where all IMS procefocused reporting tool will increase the dures are logged and to integrate the company’s best awareness of our project teams and thus practices, last process changes and new standards finally improve our performances’. and forms. Moreover, as mentioned in the previous CSR report, a link with the BE Pro e-learning platform was also implemented to facilitate the search for specific IMS documents in relation with a project’s phases: Risk Management acquisition, design, execution and delivery. At the end of 2016, the Management Board Contracting decided to The diversification in activities and geographies of our go for a multi-site ISO certification with a “BESIX Contracting” perimGroup already reduces our exposure to risk significanteter in Q1-2018. Consequently, IMS documents are revised at three ly. Nevertheless, risk management remains a very imlevels: (i) General for Policy Statements, Group Rules, Codes of Conduct, IMS Manual and Procedures applicable to “BESIX Contractportant topic for the Group. ing”, (ii) Regional for procedures and linked documents applicable to BESIX Group integrates the assessment, management and control an entity or a region and (iii) Specific documents related to a particuof risks at all levels of the Group’s organization. lar project or department or permanent installation/auxiliary center. Under the direct responsibility of its Board of Directors, each Group The decision for a multi-site certification is a significant step towards entity has developed its own Integrated Management System that the harmonization of our procedures throughout all BESIX Contractcovers all strategic, operational, reporting and compliance processing entities. es underlying its business and activities. The system also covers all possible risks as well as the policy, procedure, tools and responsiDigital management of site documents bilities to manage them. Each entity is responsible for identifying, Since 2010, BESIX reinforced its document management policy to controlling and managing its own business and risks. Our entities’ facilitate document management, encourage cooperation via docrisk management complies with the Group Rules that are mandatory ument sharing facilities and to expand the secured accessibility of for all of them. information. To assess the effectiveness of the internal control mechanisms within With its SDMS applications, dedicated to digital document managethe Group, an Internal Audit function is organized under the direct ment on building sites, the progress is now visible. Just to give an responsibility of the BESIX Group CEO. It has authority in all Group example: The SDMS of the Mall of Egypt was used by 865 users and entities. The internal audit function operates in accordance with the contained no less than 110,000 documents. For the the King AbdulInternal Audit Charter that is approved by the Audit Committee. lah Sport City project project in Saudi Arabia, 796 users had access to 130,000 documents. A total of 54 SDMS are currently available on The BESIX Group Audit Committee, chaired by an independent BESIX and Six Construct building sites. director, oversees the annual and interim consolidated accounts of BESIX Group and as such liaises with the Statutory Auditor, the InterPaper archives still exist even though our objective is to drastically nal Auditor and the Group’s senior management. In this context, the reduce this support as much as we can. Committee monitors the effectiveness of the internal control mechanism within the Group. At the end of 2013, BESIX Group launched a new action plan to optimize the management and storage of its site and department As important parts of the Enterprise Risk Management, like health archives via SharePoint. This SharePoint now contains the contents and safety, environment and quality, are included in the accreditaof 18,146 binders of BESIX and Six Construct sites and departments. tions of each Group entity, the auditors of the accrediting organizaA QR code system ensures that each document can be easily found. tions also control our operations on a regular basis. GRI 102-18 102-30 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 35 OUR BUSINESS ENGAGEMENT Project Risk Management Prioritizing the High-Risk Contracts, as prescribed in the Group Rules, BESIX Group dedicates a specific focus to the management of project risks, both at tender stage and during completion. Tendering Risk Tool The Tendering Risk Tool is used to assess project opportunities in relation to the technical, administrative and financial risk and to duly report to the relevant management levels. The objective: securing the follow-up of relevant and effective business opportunities and JEAN POLET consolidating all relevant risk factors, having them duly analyzed and General Manager Europe, BESIX included in the final tender price by the senior management. The tool also includes an assessment of the risks associated with “The Dare Change workgroup on Risk the country, partners and main subcontractors involved in the proManagement aims to develop risk ject. For projects that qualify as High-Risk Contracts, the authority management systems across the project remains in the hands of the BESIX Group Executive Committee. lifecycle. At the tendering stage the focus The objective is to limit the risk of abandonment of an opportunity will be on detecting and preventing risks during the tendering process and to monitor whether a tender price before they happen. If possible we will is correct and feasible. discuss these with our clients and include both mitigation measures and a provision Completion Risk Control for the residual risks in our estimates. With a priority on the High-Risk Contracts, specific attention is paid to the internal “transfer meetings” organized after a contract is During execution stage the focus will be awarded. The goal is to secure a well-documented hand-over of the on continuous review of the project risks tendering and negotiation process to the project team in charge of and the development and implementation completion. of adequate countermeasures, raising risk awareness of our project teams and BESIX Group imposes an effective ‘live’ hand-over of data, planning thus finally improving our performances.” and requirements. Another key directive is that the central Design Department colleagues who have been involved during the tender stage remain in charge of the completion period. The central support service specialists organize business, cost and contract reviews regularly, in order to guide and support the project Large projects often team on the key milestones of the project. Contract and subcontract management is secured in the High-Risk Contracts by a dedicated feature a high-risk contract administration and a survey team directly managed by the project manager. Operational Risk Control The long planning horizons and complex interfaces of large projects profile make planning and budgeting a lot more challenging than for standMegaprojects have the ability to change the structure of soard projects. Often, the scope or ambition level of megaprojects ciety. They contribute to an updated city plan (the Burj Khalchanges over time, further challenging a successful and timely delivery. To avoid cost overruns, delays and, above all, unsatisfied clients, ifa, Dubai’s international airport), to an increased comfort proper project management and coordination are key. of life (the Cleveland clinic in Abu Dhabi and Melun hospital in France), to a city’s entertainment facilities (Ferrari World Digital real-time tools, such as virtual animation, 3D planning and and Legoland® Dubai) or to the safety of a specific region document control, help to effectively communicate with key players and provide progress reports in terms of budget and timing. (The Netherlands North Sea Protection Works). GRI 102-15 102-30 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 36 Insurance Management Among the Group Rules, risk and insurance management forces all The Cleveland Clinic project gathered about 18,000 workers Group entities to adequately cover the risk that can be transferred and between 40 and 50 subcontractors. For such projects, to insurance, either on projects or for issues that relate to the BESIX Group staff protection. team spirit (between customers, subcontractors and BESIX), transparency, ﬂexibility and decision-making are key. The main driver of the Group’s insurance management strategy is to not only comply with the requirements by law or from our clients but to identify, assess and cover the risk on a larger and more protective way each time that it seems relevant to secure the profitability of the Group entity, its staff and third parties in the development of the DIDIER BOSREDON Group activities. Director Large Project Operations, BESIX BESIX Group is also firmly protected against high risks as a consequence of its operational activities. In this context, a profession“When BESIX is in charge of megaprojects, al indemnity open cover is renewed each year to offer adequate we take on a coordinating role. Bringing cover of the design and supervision activities that are developed by together all parties involved is one of our any Group entity. strengths. On-site, the project manager An open cover has also been put in place at BESIX Group level, basically manages a small company. A with higher limits to secure the Group interests in case of a substansuccessful project starts with an efficient tial third-party liability that would exceed the usual limits covered at engineering phase and a meticulous risk project level. analysis. We create added value thanks to our in-house design, engineering and With regards to the credit insurance, a (non-exclusive) collaboration has been put in place with the Belgian Export Credit authorities, BIM capabilities, but also by sharing which allows adequate risk analysis and an effective decision-making expertise between different regions, using process if and when projects are completed in countries with a highour internal resources for key parts such risk rating. as foundations, facades and MEP*.” In all Group entities, the relevant procedures have been included in the Integrated Management System to secure compliance and *Mechanical, Electrical and Plumbing effective insurance management. Encourage partnership on site thanks to lean approach BESIX site teams are increasingly implementing a Lean Management In 2014, BESIX decided to create an e-learning reference approach on-site. Lean Management aims to involve all stakeholdtool to extend the control and monitoring of the management ers: designers, planners, contractors, subcontractors, suppliers, ... The main goal is to fine-tune the coordination of the works: a joint process risks. BE Pro was launched in February 2016 and exercise in maximizing efficiency. summarizes the BESIX way of managing the various stages of the business process. This creates a better understanding of the planning and directly involves each party. The scheduling phase is visualized by color-coded sticky notes. An efficient way to translate tasks, risks and progress into a visual workﬂow. The goal? To better meet clients’ needs by 2016 IN NUMBERS 490 streamlining our building processes. Colleagues invited 180 Completed all the courses GRI 102-30 404-2 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 37 OUR BUSINESS ENGAGEMENT SUSTAINABLE Our Engineering department is INNOVATION based on four expert areas: Engineering Soil Mechanics The BESIX Group has outgrown its roots as a building and Concrete firm to become a leading multi-service enterprise workTechnology ing at the cutting edge of engineering and construction. Our Engineering department meets and exceeds our customers’ ever-increasing expectations every day. With ever-changing conDesign struction imperatives in terms of safety, environment and wellbeing Process Innovation of citizens, the Engineering Department is (now more than ever) Support considered a crucial competence centre for the Group. Moreover, the BESIX Engineering Department remains an essential link in the success of the Group to win new contracts. In its relentless efforts to offer the most competitive tender, the department is constantly looking for solutions that optimally combine functionality, technology, Technicians and implementation methods, budget and planning schedules. draughtsmen Managing megaprojects is also a niche for our teams. Working on ambitious projects like these helps us to explore new technologies and drives us to aim higher every day. Our in-house experts follow a training program to enhance their techIN 2016 nical skills according to the newest trends and to stay up-to-date continuously. In addition, all engineers have the opportunity to share LOCATIONS their experience via the Technical Knowledge Management (TKM) portal. Brussels (Belgium) & Dubai (UAE) 89 Engineers 37 Designers incl. BIM 19 Nationalities 11 in Brussels / 8 in Dubai GRI 102-2 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 38 In-house expertise and know-how Innovation through partnership BESIX is fully aware of the importance of certified sustainable BESIX Group’s Engineering Department is still involved in the 'Smartconstruction projects, in terms of current and future generations’ coco' ('Smart Composite Components) research project in collabowell-being, CO2 emissions and energy. It requires a vast amount of ration with the University of Liège. expertise and specialized know-how to meet the requirements of well-known certifications such as LEED and BREEAM. Moreover, naNext to the University of Liege, other specialized partners are also tional authorities increasingly announce rules regarding sustainable involved in the project: Imperial College of science Technology and construction in their own legislation (such as the Energy Performance Medicine (ICST in London), Institut National des Sciences Appliquées of Buildings in Belgium and Dubai green buildings regulations). de Rennes (INSA) and the research and development department of Arcelor Mittal. All partners intend to publish a design guide that BESIX Groups accepts the challenge and even goes the extra can be used for various situations in which steel profiles are used to mile giving clients the chance to develop their own ‘green’ criteria reinforce a reinforced concrete structure locally. (e.g. Rijkswaterstaat with the CO2 Prestatieladder in The Netherlands). Our teams advise clients as well as our Group entities in the design Our engineers are also members of ICE, the UK Institution of Civil stage, they follow up projects in the tender and execution stages Engineers, of IABSE (the International Association for Bridge and and they provide internal trainings on passive and certified buildings. Structural Engineering), a scientific and technical organization with about 4,000 members in 100 different countries, and of PIANC Effective partnerships: the road to success (the World Association for Waterborne Transport Infrastructure), At BESIX, all projects are opportunities to build green. If clients want a scientific forum where professionals from around the world to obtain a certification, we first evaluate whether this is a realistic exchange knowledge and provide expert advice on cost-effective, objective. We help them to define the sustainable guidelines of the reliable and sustainable infrastructures to facilitate the growth of project, challenge the architect, calculate the financial impact and waterborne transport. provide technical notes. Lots of our clients look for sustainable solutions without having a specific idea in mind. We then advise them on what could make GREEN PLANET BIO DOME their project greener. Thanks to our expertise and creativity, we can Dubai, UAE deliver sustainable solutions without a significant cost impact. Green buildings Between 2015 and 2018, LEED-certified buildings in the United States alone are estimated to have $1.2 billion in energy savings, $149.5 million in water savings, $715.2 million in maintenance savings and $54.2 million in waste savings. GRI 102-13 39 OUR BUSINESS ENGAGEMENT CERTIFIED PROJECTS SITE NAME GROUP ENTITIES SITE NAME CITY PRJECT TYPE YEAR CERTIFICATION NOTE Mall of Egypt BESIX Egypt Cairo Shopping centre 2012-2015 LEED Gold Shape BESIX Belgium Mons School 2012-2015 LEED Silver EDF SACLAY BESIX France Paris Offices 2013-2015 HQE-BREEAM Excellent Lustica BESIX Montenegro Tivat Villas 2013-2015 LEED Platinum ADNOC Headquarters Six Construct UAE Abu Dhabi Office Tower 2010-2016 LEED Gold Just Under The Sky BESIX Belgium Brussels Shopping Center 2013-2016 BREEAM Very good (DOCKS) Trebel BESIX Jacques Delens Belgium Brussels Offices tower 2013-2016 BREEAM Excellent BESIX RED Wust CASA Ferrero LU Luxemburg Offices 2014-2016 BREEAM Very good Lux TP BESIX MIVB-STIB Haren BESIX Belgium Brussels Industrial Building 2014-2016 BREEAM Good Khalifa Stadium Six Construct Qatar Doha Football Stadium 2014-2017 GSAS** 4 Star Renovation Yas Theme Park Six Construct UAE Abu Dhabi Amusement park 2015-2017 ESTIDAMA Pearl 2 STIB Haren Jacques Delens Belgium Brussels Bus and tram depot 2015-2017 BREEAM Good Atradius Cobelba Belgium Jambes Offices 2015-2017 BREEAM Very good Kons Lux TP BESIX RED Luxemburg Luxemburg Offices + retail area 2015-2017 BREEAM Excellent Shopping centre + NEO BESIX BESIX RED Belgium Brussels 2015-2018* BREEAM Very good residential The Royal Atlantis Six Construct UAE Dubai Resort + residences 2016-2018* LEED Certified Resort & Residences Al Wakrah Stadium Six Construct Qatar Al Wakrah Football stadium 2016-2018* GSAS** 4 Star Expo 2020 Event Deep infrastructure Six Construct UAE Dubai 2016-2018* CEEQUAL Excellent Infrastructure works Masdar Institute LEED Gold Six Construct UAE Abu Dhabi Offices + residential 2016-2019* Neighbourhood ESTIDAMA Pearl 3 British School Vanhout Belgium Brussels School 2014-2016 BREEAM Excellent* Residential + daycare Canal District Jacques Delens Belgium Brussels 2015-2018* Passive + shops Ecole Cogge Jacques Delens Belgium Brussels School 2015-2017 Passive Saint Pierre & Paul Jacques Delens Belgium Brussels Residences 2015-2017 Passive * Target objective ** GSAS = Global Sustainablility Assessment System (Originally QSAS) GRI 102-12 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 40 FIRST WAVE 220 people have added contributions 324 ideas have been published 4,066 votes have been cast 909 comments have been added GRI 102-43 41 OUR BUSINESS ENGAGEMENT INNOVATION Want to give PROGRAMS your idea wings? Innovation as a goal Innovation is one of the values that identify our Group. Therefore, BESIX launched “Unleash”, a program where collaborators have the opportunity to submit their innovative ideas to increase our performance on the one hand, and to develop new businesses on the other hand. Leading by example Our subsidiaries lead by example: Franki Foundations and West Construct created BeWind, offering a one-stop-shop solution for windmill foundations, Socogetra worked on an innovative program Don’t let it fly away! Breeding on an idea that improves our daily way-of-working or that might even change for concrete waste recuperation, Vanhout developed the Winst prothe face of our industry? Then take your chance and submit it on the new BESIX Unleash Innovation portal. gram (Workgroup INnovation and STrategy) to remain successful in Take a dive into innovation and check it out today: the years 2015-2020, BESIX implemented Systems Engineering in unleash.BESIX.com an elaborated Relatics tool and BIM in design and execution of many Design&Build projects, BESIX Nederland works together with its client Rijkswaterstaat in the project “DOEN”, the BESIX Potential Academy 1 sessions bring us 6 new ideas per year and Six Construct dePATRIK PEYNSAERT veloped the PERFORM program that is targeting better performance Innovation Coordinator, BESIX and productivity on site. Innovation platform in figures “For its first wave, launched in 2016, we −− Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility are really pleased to note that from the −− Customer Experience 324 submitted ideas; 79 ideas were about −− QHSE Performance −− Waste Management & water treatment CSR, 74 ideas about waste management −− Most Attractive Employer & water treatment and 82 ideas about −− New Technologies, Materials & Equipment QHSE. This clearly shows our employee −− New Business Model & Opportunities engagement to having more sustainable business outcomes by combining profit with social and environmental purposes.” GRI 102-2 102-43 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 42 The future of construction is digital Digitalization within BESIX is already yielding results: better coordinaTHOMAS VAN DEN BERG tion, less paperwork, improved risk and performance management Senior Projects Manager, BESIX and a more efficient supply chain. To further seize opportunities to build at a lower cost, in a shorter time span and with a minimal accident risk, BESIX continually follows and incorporates the latest de“In early 2016 BESIX hired its first drone velopments and trends in its daily activities. engineer to accelerate the implementation and development of UAVs (Unmanned 1. Cost-effective construction with 5D-BIM BESIX is part of the BIM Platform where experts in Building InforAerial Vehicles) within the group. The mation Modelling from 9 European countries and USA gathered in a first focus is to explore the possibilities non-competitive atmosphere to share their experience and vision on of coupling sensors with drones to collect innovation in the construction industry, with special focus on BIM for site information that improves surveying infrastructure and during project development. results in terms of safety, precision, speed, type of measured data, at a preferably Vanhout is a member of the Flemish BIM Cluster of the Wetenschappelijk & Technisch Centrum Bouwbedrijf. lower cost. Techniques for aerial footage capture are also tested in order to The 3D-BIM (Building Information Modelling) era is making way for facilitate site progress reporting. On the the 5D-dimension. A close collaboration between entities to entirely longer term, we will make use of UAVs for integrate geometry, planning, costs and productivity will enable the curing and construction automation.” creation and use of 5D-BIM. The use of 3D-BIM at all parts of the design stage is already a reality within BESIX. Since 2010, 50 BIM models were produced during tender stage and 22 for projects under construction. BIM Model “BESIX aims to take it to the next level by gathering all available tools developed within the group into BIM models. How? By integrating planning and project schedules, estimating software and our ‘PERFORM’ tool (Dubai’s productivity monitor) into the existing BIM models,” says Juan Nolet, BIM Engineer Specialist at BESIX. The BESIX Engineering Department (BED) pursues the full integration of Building Information Modelling techniques, 2. Online and real-time sharing Some Group entities exploit smartphones and tablets to develop (BIM), in its daily operations. This model offers infinite new workflows in planning, tracking, progress reports and best possibilities of BIM, with complete projects being scoped and practices. Our teams can share information with their colleagues in modelled for coordination, 4D simulations, the production real-time now. of drawings and blueprints and material take-offs. The BIM On-site, real-time sharing is already paying off for our teams. The Model is part of our risk management approach. Group’s rapid communication about maturometry (a technical computation measuring the temperature of concrete and calculating the compressive strength) significantly improves the planning of conProjects in execution followed struction projects. by the engineering department are using BIM “This method has been used on several projects in Europe. Data 20% is processed by a website, which automatically sends a text message to the construction manager to inform him when the concrete element is ready to be relieved from the formwork. This allows us was the goal to remove formwork in 1 day instead of 3 days. A remarkable differfor 2016 ence, saving us both time and costs,” informs Xavier Farina, Con29% crete Technologist at BESIX. already using BIM in 2016 GRI 102-13 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 43 OUR BUSINESS ENGAGEMENT 3. Precast & prefab construction speeds up the process Precast and prefab construction is transforming the industry. The BIM and Drones structures make use of next-generation techniques: preassembly and 3D-printing. The advantages are self-explanatory: reduced time and costs, but also greater efficiency and improved safety. 3D-printing is still in the early stages of development and not yet Drone surveys can be used to develop BIM models or to calapplicable to large projects. However, this new technology promises culate volumes, as BESIX is doing at the ‘Carrière des Limites’ to transform the industry. BESIX keeps pace, with a BESIX Potential Academy group introducing the opportunity to use 3D-printing in the and ‘Beatrix Sluis’ sites. The final inspection and 3D model of near future. the newly refurbished Velser Tunnel was carried out by drones. 4. Using drones to see the bigger picture The importance of drones in the construction industry is growing rapidly. Their high-definition cameras can focus on specific areas to limit geological surprises. Its images are used in progress reports and as inspection tools, especially for difficult-to-access areas. FRÉDÉRIC KENNES Senior Engineer Marine Works and member of the 2016 BESIX BESIX owns several drones. A bonus according to Emmanuel Potential Academy 1, BESIX Craenen, Deputy Site Manager at the Monaragala & Buttala Integrated Water Supply Project in Sri Lanka (see p. 86): “The drone pictures allowed us to accurately evaluate the impact of our project on the “Future applications in construction are environment, and to take corrective actions immediately.” numerous. To name but a few: the curing compound application, transporting 5. Full digitalization ahead? The impact of digitalization on our business model is undeniable. first aid or reanimation kits, spotting, BESIX’s ‘one-stop shop’ model is continually adapting to technologfire or emergency situations and giving ical advances, yet our ‘human touch’ remains essential. People are underwater visual assistance.” still our most valuable asset. Innovation Platform In April 2015, BESIX hosted the 23rd Innovation Platform. 13 experts in Building Information Modelling from 9 European countries and the USA gathered in a non-competitive atmosphere to exchange their experience and vision on innovation in the construction industry, with a special focus on BIM for infrastructure and during project development. BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 44 Tervuren, Belgium 2014-2016 THE BRITISH SCHOOL OF BRUSSELS The new British School of Brussels building housing ofIn addition, the energy consumption of the construction phase was fices, a swimming pool, a sports hall and a semi-understrictly monitored and improved by installing energy saving equipground parking, is the first ‘BREEAM Excellent’ project ment. For the building in-use we chose photovoltaic panels and a geo­thermal heat pump which resulted in a very efficient energy rating. delivered by Vanhout in joint venture with the Van Roey Group. BREEAM is a holistic approach to designing, building and maintaining a sustainable building in specific categories. 2016 IN NUMBERS 48% For this project, special attention was paid to the categories ‘Health & Well-being’, ‘Energy’ and ‘Pollution’, for which Vanhout scores highly above average. CO2 saved Taking care of our stakeholders >2,000 Our teams pay a lot of attention to the neighborhood of the school thanks to a strict communication plan. tons waste Site visits are organized for the future students’ parents and for reused neighbors, business partners and client. ±150 Taking care of the environment We set up a recycling-driven waste management plan, organizing a visitors for the strict waste segregation and re-using demolition materials: more than open site day 2,500 tonnes of brick and concrete were broken on-site and reused as the foundation for the road system. We also selected low VOC (Volatile Organic Components) emitting materials for the building. Certification BREEAM Excellent* * Target objective GRI 413-1 45 United Arab Emirates 2014-2016 DUBAI CANAL The Dubai Canal connects the natural Dubai Creek and the Arabian Gulf, increasing the value of the land and adjacent properties. The Dubai Canal forms the last link between the natural Dubai Creek (Business Bay) and the Arabian Gulf. The Dubai Ruler long dreamt of extending this once natural creek, connecting it to the sea. This way, Dubai can be toured by boat, increasing the value of the land and adjacent properties and obviously attracting business, malls and restaurants. BESIX completed this largely ambitious project, inclusive of a marina by end of October 2016 and was formally inaugurated by HH Sheik Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Prime Minister and 2016 IN NUMBERS Ruler of Dubai along with high government officials on 9 November 1,224 2016. people working Environmentally sound and innovative on the project The existing natural park at the creek’s end will be kept untouched, 644 avoiding the area where flamingos are settling. This natural habitat will therefore not be disturbed by the future passage of marine traffic. hours of In order to limit impact on the traffic and the neighborhood, the new training deep sewerage system is being constructed by non-destructive road 17 crossing (NDRC). All operations are indeed executed in the immediate vicinity of occupied villas, schools, shops and alongside busy roads. different nationalities GRI 413-1 46 ECO-RESPONSIBLE DESIGN −− Using natural light to the fullest −− Using rainwater for plantations and sanitation −− Recovery of hot water from the Brussels’ incinerator for heating −− Transportation of goods by waterways and public transport −− First European shopping centre to receive the BREEAM ‘Excellent’ certificate Brussels, Belgium 2013-2016 DOCKS BRUXSEL SHOPPING CENTRE 2016 IN NUMBERS Docks Bruxsel is one of the first shopping centers built ± 840 to ecological standards. Technology-wise, the project is people working particularly innovative, as Brussels’ industrial heritage on the project has been preserved. 20 Hot water from the nearby incinerator is being reused for heating. Storm water serves for daily maintenance, plant watering and the sandifferent itary facilities. The human dimension is also of great importance, with nationalities the project designed to create a lively and vibrant place that encour29% ages a mix of activities, from shopping to leisure to work. The buildings have been dimensioned and the surrounding district and the walking trails conceived with this in mind. CO2 saved 11,882 This project by developer Equilis includes 41,000 m2 of retail space, 7,000 m² of office space, an events hall accommodating 1,500 m2, an 8-theatre cinema, plant walls and underground parking place for m3 waste 1,700 cars. generated 26% The oldest industrial site of Brussels, once housed the heating factories of Godin, giving the old site the prestige it deserves. Our teams mingled some of its architecture, old bricks and railroads with waste saved the brand-new structures of the mall through a contemporary design. The site teams welcomed different kind of groups such as training centers, universities and technical schools to share their experiences with students. 98% waste sorted GRI 413-1 Certification BREEAM Excellent 47 Brussels, Belgium 2014-2016 TREBEL In June 2016, the BESIX-Jacques Delens teams delivered A première in Brussels: Franki Foundations installed geothermal piles the TREBEL building, a new 13 floor office building for 237 m deep. the European Parliament. In honor of a former Belgian Low-temperature geothermal energy was used and is still one of the Prime Minister who was also President of the European most economical & ecological heating and cooling process for buildPeople Party (1990 – 2013), the building was promptly ings. A constant source of energy locally available. renamed “Wilfried Martens” by its new occupants. The project presented the BESIX teams with some major logistical challenges. As it is situated right at the heart of Brussels, the construction teams could only use one road to gain access to the site. On top of that, storage facilities were limited to only one small zone. As a result, the concrete structure had to be prefabricated by Ergon. 2016 IN NUMBERS Nevertheless, the teams were able to deliver the project on time. 100% After having successfully finished the construction works, the same BESIX-EJD team can now proudly announce that they have also won the tender for the interior works of this building. green electricity Façades meet high acoustic and thermal demands with triple glazing 80% – unusual for an office building. Franki Foundations have successfully executed the drillings in deep waste recovered rock layers, little explored in the Brussels area. An innovative drilling technique was used according to the different layers of the subsoil and aquifers in order to successfully drill as deeply as necessary. Certification BREEAM Excellent GRI 413-1 48 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL ENGAGEMENT 49 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL ENGAGEMENT JAN VAN STEIRTEGHEM Director Engineering, BESIX “Our Sustainable Construction Department is the port of call for all BESIX Group’s project managers. We provide an initial assessment service as well as personalized advice to those of our Integrating clients who want to start a project with Environmental positive impact on the environment.” criteria in our Procurement Policy We integrated environmental criteria in our procurement and subcontracting policy. In order to check whether our SUSTAINABLE RESPECT suppliers meet those criteria, we perform an audit. An Environmental Performance Rating Tool (PRT) for Site Inspection was developed in 2015 and implemented in 2016. TOWARDS THE ENVIRONMENT Environmental criteria are also embedded in the Group’s Code of Conduct for purchasing products & services. Every day, the construction sector helps to provide citizens with more comfort and better places to live or work in. On the other hand, we can’t deny that our sector also has a significant impact on the environment. The Group does its utmost best to keep its negative impact on the environment to a strict minimum. In order to measure and monitor our impact, we have defined a number of objectives for the past years and the years to come with a focus on a better mobility, more varied and efficient, and a reduction in our energy consumption. BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 50 Waste management Waste diversion rate 2015-2016 compared to 2013-2014 All Group entities define their own objectives and KPIs with regards to waste management. A project waste management system defines the types of waste that AT SIX CONSTRUCT need to be segregated: concrete, metal, wood, oil, plastic items, cans, paper, electronic and electrical items. INCREASE OF Waste segregation and registration are standardized using labels for containers in the waste accumulation ALMOST 29% areas and waste registration documents, which adhere to legal requirements. The Group regularly highlights the importance of the 3R principle (Reduce-Reuse-Recycle) to all employees through training, tool box talks, an on-site waste management team, etc. As a result, for example, Six Construct increased its waste diversion rate by almost 29% in 2015-2016 (compared to 2013-2014). Whenever possible, our entities work together with NGOs to find a sustainable solution or second life for some of our waste. In Belgium, for example, plastic bottle tops are harvested to finance the ASBL Atout Coeur, which educates dogs for the visually impaired. Franki Foundations installed 150 driven tube piles (diameters 273 mm – 324 mm – 355 mm, of about 12 m in length) for the Burundi Brewers and lemonade makers (Bralima) – a subsidiary of the Heineken International Group – so that they could install new silos. Minimizing the environmental impact Thanks to the choice for driven tube piles, the amount of raw materials used, waste and transport could be reduced: −− Reducing the piles’ length and diameter by about 30% meant that the quantity of cement to be poured into the ground could be reduced by 50%, which of course had an impact on the number of transports needed. −− The choice of a complete discharge technique meant less displaced earth, and thus less waste and transport. Circular economy on site Old pipes were reused as lost casings and the remaining pieces of tubes were turned into plugs for the tube piles. Burundi 2015 Reinforcing local skills Franki Foundations favoured local workers to work on this project. BRALIMA They sent 1 team leader and 1 workman from their headquarters to train 5 local workmen. GRI 413-1 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 51 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL ENGAGEMENT Recycling or reusing materials SOCOGETRA IN 2016 : Our site teams and Engineering Department are continuously looking for ways to recycle or reuse material as 55,000 tons much as possible. One of the most commonly used pracof concrete reused tices in the group is to use excavated sand and grind for concrete production and to reuse concrete waste in foundations. 53,500 tons A more innovative solution is the use of ECO-filler instead of soil for backfilling (e.g. Keersluis Limmel project). ECO-filler is a rest product recycled and sold coming from the recycling process of asphalt. Recycling solutions are also proposed even if they are not requested in the requirement specifications. For its project on the Belgian E411 speedway, for example, Socogetra recycled concrete waste and reused it for the realization of a new speedway section. GNB Beton, a subsidiary of Socogetra, reuses rests of residues from concrete pump trucks to made stackable blocks. These recycled blocks represent 20% of their total blocks production. Paper use After an in-depth analysis about paper consumption at the headquarters in 2013, the group decided to take action and set concrete goals to reduce paper use. This ‘Papercut’ project (double-sided printing, printing order by badge,...) is still on-going but already results in less use of color printing (decreased up to 53%) and more double printing (increased up to 65% of total impression). The BESIX Young Community (BYC) also initiated the Notepad project, which was supported by BESIX Foundation at the end of 2015. In partnership with TWI, a social enterprise (sheltered workshops), BYC and BESIX Foundation collected old project plans in order to produce notepads. The result: a total of 564 notepads were produced using old plans. Thanks to this great success, BESIX Foundation has continued the collection process on an even larger scale. BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 52 The Group entity requires most of its subcontractors to share OUR CO² their footprint data and to implement mutual CO² reduction actions. MANAGEMENT BESIX is still awarded the Eco-dynamic Enterprise label. Its award (firstly won in 2011) was renewed in 2016 thanks to its Although we acknowledge we still need to take important steps in this field, BESIX Group keeps making pronew initiatives. gress in its efforts to reduce CO2 emissions. BESIX, Vanhout and Jacques Delens are actively participating in an initiative of ADEB VBA Green Board (Association of Belgian’s Largest Contractors) to introduce a CO2 certification on the Belgian market. BESIX* still holds the top CO²-Conscious certificate (level 5 – version 3.0) Franki Foundations uses the EFFC-DFI Carbon Calculator to choose the techniques with the lowest associated emissions 2014 2015 2016 for specific deep foundation or ground improvement projects. Turnover Mio € 109 103 128 Vanhout signed the CSR charter set up by VOKA. Ton CO2-emission 4,734** 4,918 5,214 * BESIX Nederland, some of the projects of the BESIX Nederland Branch, the BESIX NV HQ in Brussels, the regional offices of BESIX Nederland BV and Franki Grondtechnieken BV, the Steel Reinforcement Plant (in SintCO2 turnover Pieters-Leeuw) and the Material Service in Saintes (B). Ratio CO2/Turnover, Ton/Mio € ** The result in our previous report was 4,582 but, as a new calculation system was applied, we had to recalculate the 2014 result. 50 40 30 20 10 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Result Objective (-2%) The emissions of these entities were first measured in 2009. In the same year, we set the goal to reduce these CO2 emissions by 10% by 2015. At the end of 2015, we managed to reach a 7.2% reduction. 2018 objectives • Develop a Group wide CO2 management system • Develop a global reporting of environmental parameters GRI 102-13 305-5 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 53 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL ENGAGEMENT Our vision on mobility By road BESIX launched a new Mobility Policy with the ambition to reduce the average CO2 emission of the company car fleet. Every employee is assigned a mobility budget, expressed in points. BESIX also wants to provide its employees with attractive alternatives, by stimulating alternative ways of transportation such as the use of public transport and/or bicycles. During the Mobility Week and with the Bike Experience, the Group also helped its employees to discover those alternatives. Statistics 2015 and 2016 for air travel: The result: a reduction of the CO2 emissions of the Belgian car fleet with 8.6% from Mid 2014 (114.09 gCO2/km) until the end 2016 (104.15 gCO2/km). 2015 2016 Distance (km) 8,213,842 8,771,720 A one-year awareness program called ‘E-Driver Challenge’ was organized in 2016 for all company car drivers in The Netherlands. Turnover (Mio€) 2,200 2,400 The program’s goal is to obtain an 8% fuel reduction. Ratio distance/Turnover 3,734 3,655 By air Number of flights 3,668 4,054 The Group is active in more than 20 countries around the world. Although synergies between entities are encouraged, employees are Ratio number of flights/turnover 0,60 0.59 invited to use video conference calls in order to limit air travel. The ‘travel request’ procedure launched in 2011 has the clear objective Distance per flights 2,239 2,164 to optimize and limit the number of business trips by airplane. *These numbers do not include Six Construct data Mobility Week 2016: BESIX won the first prize BESIX participated in the Mobility Week, organized by the Brussels Region in September 2016. Thanks to its dynamic approach to the mobility shift and its internal campaign in order to encourage its staff to find alternative ways of transportation, the company was proud to be awarded. The main actions: E-Bikes, electrical plugs and clothe hangers in the bike parking, free public transports tickets, ‘smart breakfast’ organized to inform staff. GRI 305-5 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 54 Energy BESIX entities foster Some entities’ headquarters (Wust, Vanhout, Franki low-energy workplaces: Foundations), sites and workshops (Cobelba, Wust, Socogetra), are (partially) powered by solar energy. AIR-CONDITION ENERGY New buildings with a maximum of energy-efficient SAVERS IN THE UAE features at BESIX in Saintes, BESIX Nederland, Franki HEAD OFFICE Grondtechnieken and Wust. The Group’s entities use various actions to save energy: 7% ENERGY Ultra-modern workshop for Socogetra Socogetra has invested in a brand new 1,800 m² workshop on its REDUCTION Marloie site in 2016, built by Wust. The new ultra-modern working tool includes a maintenance and reIN THE BESIX HEADQUARTERS, pair shop, a welding shop, and a spare and storage warehouse. TUBELIGHTS WERE Everything has been designed for employee comfort: infrared heatREPLACED BY ing, overhead cranes for easy handling of heavy loads, three working pits, large glazed doors, etc. Centralizing the equipment department LED LIGHTS will make for more efficient operations management and technicians dispatching. The new building is partially powered by photovoltaic panels producing nearly 10 kilowatts. The parking lot’s wastewater is gathered BESIX NEDERLAND in a hydrocarbon separator and there is an ATEX room for storing USE OF DOMESTICALLY hazardous products. PRODUCED GREEN ELECTRICITY Wust moves to a brand new headquarters 100% GREEN Following an initial centralization in 2007, Wust extended the administrative building (just over 2,000 additional m²) at the Les Plénesses industrial estate at Verviers. This extension, ready by early 2017, will accommodate the employees currently located in Malmedy with better energy performance indicators: ELECTRICITY −− Installation of the latest energy and environmental performance technologies. −− Comfortable, bright workspaces with colored finishings, designed to promote good communication between employees. −− Sanitary facilities and changing rooms are provided to encourage sport activities during breaks. Wust headquarters in Verviers (B) GRI 302-4 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 55 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL ENGAGEMENT Does concrete have a future? The future of concrete is questioned regularly because of the high levels of CO2 that are emitted during its production. For BESIX projects, however, we use concrete technology almost everywhere as it can be used in practically any climate and tends to save time and money. BESIX Group continues to look for ways to improve the sustainability, quality and utilization of this multidimensional material. Low-carbon concrete On the large infrastructure projects in The Netherlands, low carbon concrete is used (CEM III instead of CEM I). −− A study on the concrete chain on the Lanaye project where CEM I was replaced by CEM III has been finalized mid-2015 resulting BESIX proposed a durable concrete for the redevelopment in a carbon emissions reduction of 76%. BESIX will start up a new concrete chain study on the projects in The Netherlands of the Neherkade, an important link in the road network of in 2017. The Hague, The Netherlands: In addition to better-flowing traf−− Using CEM III instead of CEM I, BESIX Nederland reduced its fic, a further concern of the redevelopment was improving the footprint at the OVT Tilburg project by 40% compared to the air quality and road safety. BESIX gave its own interpretation to initial construction plan. −− In collaboration with Rijkswaterstaat, an innovative testing prothe client’s sustainability criteria by opting for a blast furnace gram on the use of low carbon concrete has been set up on the cement mixture that requires no cooling and is therefore less Limmel project in The Netherlands. The objective is to increase energy-intensive. Following the cradle-to-cradle principle, the the percentage of recycled base material up to 50% in the progranules in the poured concrete were partially replaced with duction of concrete. recycled concrete. Sheet piling, asphalt and excavated soil were also recycled. Six Construct uses GGBS in concrete – Offsetting carbon emissions: To reduce the impact on the environment, construction projects that aim to obtain a green building rating like LEED, Estidama, CEEQUAL, etc. are required to replace a part of the OPC (Ordinary Portland Cement) with GGBS (Ground Granulated Blast Furnace Slag) in the concrete mix. GGBS is a by-product of the iron and steel manufacturing process. Six Construct has managed to offset a considerable amount of CO² emissions by using GGBS mixed concrete in their recent green buildings projects such as ADNOC headquarters (Abu Dhabi), Yas Mall (Abu Dhabi), Yas Theme Park (Abu Dhabi), Expo 2020 Infrastructure works (Dubai), Royal Palm Atlantis (Dubai), Jebel Ali Sewage treatment plant (Dubai), Masdar Institute Neighbourhood (Abu Dhabi). BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 56 PARTNERSHIPS Our main & MEMBERSHIPS responsibility is to Next to all our in-house’s engagements, BESIX Group develop an environmental wants to collaborate with external partners to innovate and to support the development of sustainable solutions management system that in the construction sector. protects the environment on and around each Group companies BESIX, Vanhout, Jacques Delens and Wust are part of the Belgium Green Board Council (BGBC). This Board’s construction site. goal is to encourage its members to share experiences in order to implement common actions that address issues like waste, CO2, BREEAM, fuel tanks, concrete, environmental legislation. We are also member of the BAMB (Building As Material Bank), an EU funded projects that aims to enable a circular building industry. OUR VIEW ON −− BESIX Is a member of EcoBuild Cluster, a network of BIODIVERSITY sustainable construction companies operating with an HQ in or around Brussels. −− Vanhout is member of Kamp C prov. Antwerpen – duurzaam Environment and ecology are becoming increasbouwen Kamp C (Provincial Center for Sustainable Building and ingly important in tender procedures. In order to Living) take full account of the environmental component −− Jacques Delens is one of the Directors of the Plateforme Maison in its project pricing, BESIX has recruited an Passive (PMP). Environment & Ecology Advisor at the beginning of 2015. −− Franki Foundations is a member of EFFC (European Federation of Foundation Contractors). This association works on a national This in-house expert analyzes risks (breeding season, logging and European level for better contract conditions for specialist permits, or other potential environmental damage) in advance, foundation contractors. Moreover, the EFFC and the Deep Founsets up a risk management plan and provides the Group with dations Institute (DFI) are urging the geotechnical sector to make the necessary information for tender negotiations. immediate use of their jointly developed carbon calculator tool a standardized and pioneering open source tool that can be His main responsibility is to develop an environmental used to compare the sustainability of different foundations. management system that protects the environment on and around each construction site. He weighs commercial and −− BESIX and Cobelba are involved in the REINTEREST research social interests against each other and thinks how we can project to develop new renovation techniques for existing resiconsciously engage with the environment. During monthly site dential buildings. visits, he checks whether everything goes as planned. BESIX also regularly calls for external consultants to help us to preserve nature and wild animals before starting any projects. GRI 102-12 102-13 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 57 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL ENGAGEMENT WATER: Awareness creation Next to the various water projects the Group is working on, it also HIGH ON wants to dedicate special attention to the increasing scarcity of this precious resource. Six Construct for example, educates its teams to preserve water and make more sustainable accommoTHE GROUP’S dations which manage to reduce water consumption since its installation in 2015 (up to 3% per day from August 2016). AGENDA Our wastewater treatment concession in Ajman regularly organizes awareness campaigns to urge the local population to reuse treated water. Addressing water scarcity Local and international water projects Sustainable water management is crucial for our planet and its The BESIX Group undertakes both small-scale and large-scale inhabitants. BESIX Group is well aware of this and is keen to play water projects. The ﬁrst concerns a few hundred or thousand PE a leading role in addressing the growing water scarcity. Not only (population equivalents), the second ten thousand to one and a by supporting projects through its Foundation but also with water half million PE. These projects are running both in Belgium (via treatment and water supply solutions delivered by BESIX Sanotec. Socogetra and Wust in Wallonia and Vanhout and West Construct in Flanders) and overseas (Six Construct). In the Middle East, Ensuring sustainable water solutions worldwide, with access to safe BESIX Concessions is also undertaking PPP projects, including drinking water and decent sanitation, today and tomorrow: that’s the maintenance and operation. central mission of BESIX Sanotec. The company is backed by other Group entities like Socogetra, West Construct, Vanhout, Wust and In Ajman, a daily dose of 45 million liters of treated water are reSix Construct. Together, they deliver drinking water and wastewater used as feed water for SAFI (another BESIX-led company that services (including water treatment) to residential, commercial and treats water for even higher quality requirements) as irrigation industrial customers. water for greenery and urban landscaping in the City of Ajman, the new Ajman Al Zorah Golf Course, leisure and ‘royal’ farms. BESIX groups the various specializations within the Group to provide a comprehensive service. This ranges from civil engineering and The concession organizes awareness campaigns and networks to mechanical and electrical installations and to operation presentations at universities to sensitize the local population to and maintenance in the form of DBFM (Design, Build, Finance and the re-use of treated water, which is largely under-exploited in this Maintain) contracts. area that is in great need of it. They also develop wetlands where birds which had disappeared are starting to appear again. In 2016 the area will expand by 33%. ADRIEN THEUNISSEN Senior Manager, BESIX Sanotec “Especially when water pollution by industry and agriculture is creating problems both globally and locally, innovative solutions and quality management systems are needed in order to continue to ensure a safe water supply.” GRI 102-2 413-1 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 58 Renovation in Joint Venture of the Khalifa Stadium within an expanded footprint with a new capacity of 49,917 seats, in 25 months. This includes dismantling, diversion, reconstruction and extension. And last but not least, the inclusion of four new substations and the building of a museum. Doha, Qatar 2014 2017 KHALIFA STADIUM Four Star rating in the GSAS −− Safe and healthy working & living conditions thanks to the HSE This is the first certificate for a renovation project to be isdepartment that conducts monthly accommodation inspections, sued by GORD (Gulf Organisation for Research & Development). following by action plans if needed. When making an assessment, GORD takes the following into consider−− Creation of a Site Welfare Department to meet the workers in ation: urban connectivity, sites, energy, water, materials, indoor environorder to understand their problems and take appropriate action ment, cultural and economic value and management and operations. with the subcontractor. −− Training. Sustainable future One of the most important changes to the stadium was the addition of a huge new roof canopy. Along with advanced cooling systems, it helps to maintain a comfortable temperature for football fans, supplying a simple, 2016 IN NUMBERS green solution to an environmental challenge. Selected partners To conform to Q22 standards, relevant Qatari laws but also to our own Codes of Conduct, a strict vetting was held regarding our subcontrac± 3,515 people working on the project 11 tors in a manner that ensures the worker’s constant wellbeing, health, safety and security. different nationalities Working conditions focusing on: 23,892 −− Health & safety concerns by faster & actively encouraging a worldclass health & safety culture. All workers being deployed on Kalifa hours of Stadium site must attend a detailed HSE & orientation induction. −− Ethical recruitment policies to explain officially and by writing to the training workers what are his benefits, prior to recruting him. And wages 14,504 engagement to ensure that salaries are paid on time. −− Equality: all workers are being treated equally & fairly, irrespective of tons of waste their origin, nationality, ethnicity, gender or religion. generated GRI 413-1 59 The “New Flood Lock Limmel” project is part of the rural Meuse renovation project to improve the waterways and make them more suitable for longer, deeper and higher vessels. In this project, the Keersluis Limmel Company and its partners are overseeing the design, construction and servicing of a new retaining structure at the southern entrance to the Juliana canal in the north of Maastricht. At the same time, the nearly eighty-years old lock is being demolished. The Netherlands 2014 2017 NEW FLOOD LOCK LIMMEL Reducing our environmental footprint Taking care of our stakeholders While enlarging the canal and building the new flood lock, sustainWe made sure that the neighborhood was aware of the happenings ability was among the chief concerns of our team. During this proon the building site. Prior to construction, information leaflets were ject, BESIX Group implemented a lot of measures, to minimize the given to residents and we sent newsletters during the project environmental impact as well as the carbon footprint of the project: regularly. We even opened an information centre on-site. We also the building site was powered by green energy. built a temporary bridge for cyclists to facilitate safe crossing during the construction phase. Green Deal concrete with a lower carbon footprint was used. Concrete mortar was sourced from the street where the building site was And last but not least, we enjoyed taking the opportunity to teach in. The transportation of concrete mortar, therefore, caused very few children: two primary school groups (around 500 children) visited the carbon emissions. site and we created a lesson plan for the teachers to use. A one week game was developed for those students. When possible, materials and tools were shipped to the building site rather than driven by trucks. 60% (= 67,500 m³) of the soil material Certifications and 91% (= 11,360 m³) of demolition materials were brought to and/or ISO/IEC 15504 + 15288 assessment, ISO 9001:2008 + VCA** taken away from the site by boat. Doing so, we were able to decrease 2008/5.1, EDP certificate PMS and SPIC. the number of trucks used by 5,510. Waste was recycled or reused as much as possible Thermical recycled asphalt from a highway (eco filler) were reused to make the core of the abutments on-site. Biodiversity Every month, an environmental expert gave feedback on the construction project. With his help, temporary shelter was made for bats and two beaver castles, including the living area of the beavers, were saved during the construction phase. GRI 413-1 60 Abu Dhabi, UAE 2015-2018 YAS THEME PARK The Yas Theme Park project consists of the construction 2016 IN NUMBERS of a recreational indoor building with themed rides and at6,142 tractions, retail, food & beverage facilities. The park consists of approximately 140,000 m2 of gross floor area and people working is designed to be an attraction that will appeal to the whole on the project family. Yas Theme park aims to obtain an Estidama 2 Pearl ±49,500 Rating (equivalent to LEED Silver). hours of Our people: our main focus We’ve implemented a welfare system to ensure all workers are treated training fairly. A new mandatory provision has been included in all subcontracts, 96 stating that all subcontractors have to comply with the same welfare suppliers signed the standards in order to be eligible to work for Six Construct. Requirements include the nomination of a compliance officer and submitting a compliProcurement Code ance plan. of Conduct 530 Minimizing our environmental impact In order to reduce the project’s environmental impact, the project team implemented the best construction practices that minimize the weight of kg CO2 /m2 saved construction waste and reduce the environmental incidents. Measuring the embodied carbon during construction stage and reducing it below the 93.6% international standard is one of the main project goals. The project is in line of achieving its target: to limit the embodied carbon to 550 kg CO2/m2. waste recovered The team focuses on the high mass components/materials of the project such as the steel structure, concrete, masonry and façade and procures from local sources with the maximum allowable recycled content. Certification ESTIDAMA 2 Pearls GRI 413-1 61 Environmentalist on site: −− Dendrologist: wooded plants −− Ornithologist: birds −− Archaeologist: ancient and recent human −− Geologist: solid and liquid matter −− Herpetologist: amphibians and reptiles −− Chiropterologist: bats (the flying mammals) Poland 2015 2016 GDANSK Since the early commencement of the project, BESIX In cooperation with the local university, BESIX has used 2,000 T of took a dedicated attention to environmental issues. The the sand cut on site to create artificial dunes in a protected area, a ground water quality was monitored before the project few kilometers away from the project location. Research and ex­ periments on plantations will then be carried out by the students of started and was controlled on a regular basis in several the university. locations on site. Deforestation of the site has been strongly controlled by a dendrologist and ornithologist. No trees have been cut with birds 2016 IN NUMBERS nests and protected trees have been replanted in duplicate. In order to reduce the carbon impact of the tree cutting on site, BESIX ±594 decided to recycle some trees for the fencing post of the area. people working All animals (frogs, beavers, seals, birds, bats) have been relocated to on the project an appropriate location before disturbing their ecosystem. A maximum of material found on site was reused, e.g. concrete from demolition work has been recycled for the temporary roads and parking places. 50% female employees 5 Environmental toolbox meeting took place on regular basis to sensitize the workers to the environmental impact of their way of working different with and the tools available to minimize it (wheel washer for trucks, nationalities land and marine spill kits for leakage of hazardous substances, ded1Mio icated maintenance area,...). man-hours without In order to have a positive local impact from this project, BESIX subcontracts most of the work to local companies and suppliers. lost-time incidents GRI 413-1 62 Brussels, Belgium 2015-2018 CANAL DISTRICT The « Canal District » Project, an old industrial estate, policy. We kept to it, by asking our residents to favour cycling over is located in the lower part of Brussels, near the canal. cars, thanks to rooms, which are directly accessible via the entry This location, which is highly polluted by oil and heavy halls. metals, had become a wasteland abandoned by its Environmental approach owner. Several promoters had attempted to redevelop Our desire was twofold. On the one hand, we worked hard to combat the site, but failed due to the location’s complexity and pollution, by suppressing it rather than containing it, which allowed the high amount of pollution from days gone by. us to curb the spread of this pocket of pollution to the rest of the area via the groundwater and to regain areas of open soil. These areas will Philosophy of the concept be sown to give birth to the future inner court’s garden. For this large 205 housing unit project, BESIX RED’s vision had to go beyond a classical housing concept. We needed a strong concept On the other hand, we decided to go beyond the required standards with daring architecture! Therefore, we thought up a small village in in terms of energy, by setting ourselves the goal of reaching the critethe middle of the city, which offers a huge variety of accommodation ria required for passive or very low energy housing. This sustainable with an inner court, to create a meeting place and a town garden in choice for the development of the city has seduced many buyers. which children can play. A lively project The surface area of the housing units ranges from 32 m² for a stuCanal District’s commercial success validates our strategic choices. dio flat to 148 m² for an apartment, as well as a concept of two or The rapid acquisition of accommodation by investors is a testament 3-bedroom townhouses. This spread of different sorts of accommoto the attractiveness of our project. dation allows for all budgets, which enables the development of a very sustainable vision of the city. For us, as developers, it is imporThis location has become an example of reallocation and is driving tant to coax families into town again, by offering them high quality the quarter’s redevelopment. accommodation with ready access to facilities. This approach is also supported by the local authorities’ environmentally friendly mobility GRI 413-1 63 Engis, Belgium 2013-2015 ECOQUARTIER FONTAINE ST JEAN Being developers enables us to enrich a project with our The walls of the buildings were prefabricated by a local company, own CSR approach. situated less than 15 kms away from the construction site, in order to minimize the impact of the transportation. This is a project of inclusion, as it was thought out so as to be able to mix generations, to integrate disabled people as well as people The materials used for these walls include wood from local forests, on low incomes. as we have been using a combination of concrete and wood, wich we patented. Apart from the leisure areas, the construction of common areas will facilitate the integration of an association, a neighborhood service Biodiversity and a kindergarten. All of this whilst paying particular attention to the Wust paid great attention to the preservation of the remarkable local organic environment in which the project is growing. fauna and limiting the height of construction will enable successful integration into the park. During construction, we took many measures to limit the impact of the work on neighbors. Planning of the more disruptive work, adaptPreserving the neighborhood ed access, limiting dust... A person was given the task of informing the neighborhood of the progress of the construction work, and to implement measures to reMinimizing the environmental impact duce annoyances from the building site (tarpaulins for lorries, markConcerning the buildings, thanks to a controlled ventilation system, ing HGV’s, cleaning access routes, planning noisy work,... ) the installation of retention basins, installation of waterproofed areas, collection and sorting of hydrocarbons... Social Economy The purchasing service is looking from partners from social economy For the building site, thanks to the implementation of a waste segrefor the contracting of certain markets. gation management system. Recycling of stone from below ground, to make ripraps. GRI 413-1 64 OUR COMMUNITY AND SOCIETY ENGAGEMENT 65 OUR COMMUNITY AND SOCIETY ENGAGEMENT DIRECT Giving back to ENGAGEMENT the community in which we operate WITH STAKEHOLDERS The Group pursues its on-going communication through its website and its LinkedIn, Twitter, YouTube and Facebook accounts for all its stakeholders. In 2016 BESIX launched a dedicated e-pressroom with Our 2015-2016 objective was to further develop both Prezly in order to directly inform its business partners and media. internal and external tools of communication in The Group and some of our entities (Six Construct, Jacques Delens, order to create and to stimulate open relationships Vanhout, Wust) publish an annual activity report which is available and solid partnerships with all of our employees and on the Group’s and entities’ website. Some entities also send out a stakeholders. customer newsletter. Group entities and sites are organizing special events for the attention of different stakeholders and communities interested in the group’s activities: employees, citizens, candidates, students, clients, government officials, journalists, etc. GOVERNMENT COMPETITORS CLIENTS NGOs STAFF MEMBERS NEWS LOCAL COMMUNITIES MEDIA GENERAL PUBLIC CANDIDATES INVESTORS SUPPLIERS GRI 102-42 102-43 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 66 ENHANCE OUR HUMAN CAPITAL BESIX Group is fully aware it cannot separate the success of its business and the quality of its services from the talent of its employees. That’s why the Group aims to inspire its employees continuously by giving them new opportunities to reveal their potential and to implement 2014 2015 2016 their innovative ideas in the best and safe working conditions they deserve. Belgium 1,238 1,187 1,109 Workmen Worldwide 12,025 10,420 8,920 Belgium 1,074 1,144 1,115 Employees Worldwide 5,150 4,773 4,617 Belgium 2,312 2,331 2,224 Total Worldwide 17,175 15,139 13,537 GRI 102-8 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 67 OUR COMMUNITY AND SOCIETY ENGAGEMENT Five core competencies In order to ensure a continuously strong and successful performance and to effectively translate the Group’s values, BESIX Group wishes all employees and agents to share the following five core competencies in their daily communications, tasks and activities: Result-orientation Teamwork Focus on determined goals, Maintain the ability and desire objectives and results. to work cooperatively with colleagues from different backgrounds and cultures to achieve our shared goals. Entrepreneurship Be a self-starter, seize profitable business opportunities and consider change a challenge. Innovation Think originally, initiate, manage Flexibility and energize change processes, generate Be open-minded, embrace and enable new and innovative solutions, new opportunities, adapt achieve and surpass results against the behaviors and approaches relevant internal and/or external standard whenever necessary. of excellence. Gender diversity BESIX Group encourages diversity with various processes that exclude discrimination in terms of race, religion, national origin, age, gender, sexual orientation, marital status or physical disability. And this yields results: although the construction industry still tends to be a man’s world, the number of female colleagues in the Group is rising. Although BESIX Group spares no efforts to guarantee equality between men and women from recruitment to career management, we understand a lot of progress is still possible and needed when it comes to gender diversity. 24% * *BESIX Group, BESIX NV, BESIX RED, CCB, Engeo, Franki Foundation Belgium, WOMEN HBS, Socogetra, Vanhout, Vanhout Project, Vanhout Facilities, West Construct, Jacques Delens, Wust GRI 102-8 102-16 405-1 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 68 Supporting young generations BESIX Group has always shown a keen interest in the up-and-comMembers of important ing generation, especially students, and young people who want to make their mark on the construction business. Sharing knowledge is still the most effective way of keeping the building community growing and enlarging its know-how and expertise. networks and associations That’s why each year, the Group welcomes engineering students who want to gain valuable work experience as trainees. Our in-house experts also attach considerable importance in knowledge exchange with other companies active in different and At the end of an internship, each student gets an appraisal interview with his/her mentor or coach, a valuable moment with constructive scientific construction fields. They stay open to new trends and to feedback and useful career advice. other experiences by attending conferences and by sharing their expertise with universities, R&D teams and their peers. They also Vanhout is also involved in De Wolkammerij, an organisation which share the Group’s innovative solutions at specific seminars. Besupports young entrepreneurs in the field of construction. sides the fact that BESIX is a member of the Belgian Construction Strong collaboration with universities Confederation and of the BBRI (Belgian Building Research InstiCollaboration with the academic world is of extreme importance to tute), the BESIX Group companies are active in various associathe BESIX Engineering Department. It allows our Group to improve its tions via its experts. technical skills and to validate solutions developed by the Engineering Department. They cooperate with Belgian universities for research and knowledge exchange on BIM. ANTHONY SETTIMIO Jacques Delens is part of a Cam(B)bridge research project aiming Master Student in Industrial Engineering at more reliable assessment of thermic behavior and air tightness before and after construction using BIM. “I have had two internships at BESIX. During the second one, I had the chance to work on the Trebel project, in the centre of Brussels. I Internships at learned a lot here: it seemed very complicated at first, but the project awakened my curiosity BESIX Group in 2016 and hunger for knowledge. I really appreciated being made part of the team so quickly. I was 61internships genuinely involved and did not just lend a helping hand. My bosses gave me specific tasks and my role was well defined from the get go, which was very motivating. I felt useful and 31% involved with the project. BESIX is a successful and efficient company where I felt very good. I really enjoyed this internship, but the cherry on the cake is that it enabled me to find a job.” more than 2014 200 hours taught outside the group GRI 102-13 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 69 OUR COMMUNITY AND SOCIETY ENGAGEMENT Recruitment Group companies are constantly looking for new talents to reinforce their teams. Our recruitment approach has been updated with a bigger focus on digital and social media and on company culture, BESIX engineers an increasingly important factor for candidates nowadays. coach students whose The Group encourages direct employment of local nationals and applies a ‘mixed team’ policy to stimulate cooperation and interacengineering research has tion between ‘local’ and ‘non-local’ employees. Local employees shown great potential and get the opportunity to follow a tailor-made training that encourages them to take on bigger challenges and responsibilities. teach in places where their BESIX Group is also fully aware that its activities create direct and expertise is a real bonus. indirect employment in the countries where it is active (local purchases, etc.) Referral, a permanent asset The success of our referral campaign demonstrates our employees’ willingness to recommend their relatives to join the Group. A relevant indicator for us in term of career management and well-being at work. Total recruited 1,330 845 GEERT AELBRECHT 602 Group Human Resources & Communication Director, BESIX Group 2014 2015 2016 “The Dare Change workgroup on Compulsory Staff turnover Induction Program aims to a clear and (departure/ total) (%) methodical manner to welcome new employees. The main target is to ensure that newcomers 21% 22% in the company will welcome, understand the 18% basics of the company prior. Employees will easily find the needed information sources 2014 2015 2016 especially created for them. There are less risks on quality and safety on one hand and BESIX Egypt Branch, BESIX Equatorial Guinea, BESIX France, BESIX Group, it increases retention and job engagement BESIX ITALY, BESIX MANILA, BESIX Nederland BV, BESIX NV/SA, BESIX R.E.D./SGT, BESIX Sanotec, COFELY BESIX Facility Management Ltd, Franki on the other hand. The program has been Foundations, Sanotec Sharjah Branch, Six Construct, Six International, West launched already for BESIX and is gradually Construct.idem Able Piling, ATLAS FONDATIONS, BESIX Australia Pty. Ltd., BESIX Azerbaijan, BESIX Morocco, BESIX SOMAGEC S.A., BESIX Switzerland, extending to other parts of the group as ENGEO, FFB, Franki Grondtechnieken, Six Construct Saudi Arabia Branch, well as expanding in level of content.” SOCOGETRA S.A., BESIX NV/SA Montenegro d.s.d. Tivat, Vanhout, Vanhout Facilities, Vanhout Projects, Jacques Delens, Wust GRI 401-1 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 70 Working conditions Overall participation rate 90% Second BESIX Engagement Survey Our colleagues from all entities participated to the second BESIX Engagement Survey in May 2015. This study is an opportunity for employees to communicate openly about their working environment. All results were further analyzed by the management team of every have high pleasure at work department/division/company in order to identify the strengths, 84% weaknesses and trends and devise an action plan. The results were communicated to all employees. Newly implemented measures After the second engagement survey, we decided to strengthen the feedback process for Line Managers to their team through an internal have high engagement communication campaign, a new appraisal process, the Coaching and commitment to the organization Card, and an e-tool to train managers (“As a line manager, where to start?”). The e-learning course’s goal is to guide managers to set SMART The results for Engagement, objectives and give feedback in an adequate way. 208 managers already completed the course. Well-being, Satisfaction and Attractiveness HAVE INCREASED MOHAMMED HAJOU Vanhout worker Nevertheless, on the “Well-being” “I was just a young lad when I first started we can still improve more than working at Vanhout, as a carpenter. I just remember how I felt going home: extremely we have done. proud of having a job. Meanwhile, 30 years >72% have passed and so much has changed in my life. The pride, however, never left. How is it that Vanhout has become such a constant in my life? Well, I’ve been asked this many times before, and I can’t come up with a Worldwide white collar employees snappy answer. I do have a few ideas on the subject, though. I’m thinking about all participation rate the training I’ve had here, or the relaxing initiatives we’re setting up. Maybe it’s the openness and honesty of the management towards us. Is it the laughs and good mood between colleagues? Because that part is great. I could go on, but it boils down >35% Belgium Blue collar to the way I feel at Vanhout. It’s a great feeling I’ve had for the past 30 years.” employees participation rate GRI 102-43 102-44 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 71 OUR COMMUNITY AND SOCIETY ENGAGEMENT Promoting connections BESIX Groups is actively reinforcing both its online and offline communities. BESIXpedia and the Unleash innovation program give colleagues the opportunity to share knowledge and ideas and work together disregarding their location. The Group also regularly organizes networking events, teambuildings and family days to strengthen the connections amongst employees. In 2016, Vanhout published its third cookbook with recipes from colleagues, customers, relationships. Group newsletters are published in English, French and Dutch within the Group entities for all staff members, giving them an update about the Group’s activities. Some group entities also publish an own local newsletter that is translated in various languages. Employee benefits The Group offers a total reward package which includes financial and non-financial advantages such as compensation and benefits. Next to a competitive wage, the Group offers benefits which (depending on the position and level) can include group insurance, hospitalization insurance, medical checkup, meal vouchers, company car, mobile phone. Group entities organize an annual Long Service Award Ceremony in order to thank and promote employees who have been working for them for the past 15, 20, 25, 30 and 35 years. Moreover, benefits only decrease very gradually with reduced schedules, demonstrating the importance of a good work-life balance for the Group. GRI 102-43 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 72 Welfare standards for our workers Our people are the most valuable asset for BESIX Group. Their health and well-being is of primordial importance to us. The Group is committed to provide a caring and supporting work environment BESIX is fully that enables all employees to develop and grow towards their full potential. committed to continue its Six Construct, the BESIX Group subsidiary active in the Middle East, efforts for the welfare of manages the workers’ accommodation in the UAE (Dubai, Abu workers in Qatar, also by Dhabi, Sharjah), Qatar (Doha), Bahrain, Saudi Arabia and Oman. The accommodation is inspected by the safety department every month. increasing buy-in among These inspections mainly focus on the safety of employees, the fire protection system, employee welfare facilities, health & hygiene, its subcontractors. emergency procedures, maintenance etc. Six Construct sets higher standards than the local standards with, amongst others: training facilities, air-conditioning, leisure, communication facilities, and housekeeping facilities, medical campaign, official ceremonies or Worker’s Welfare Forum cultural celebrations, ... First election: QSV camp workers welfare representatives election 03/06/2016 The Worker’s Welfare Forum was formed at Six Construct’s Total number of workers (qsv camp) at the time of election 1,773 Workers accommodation facilities in Qatar to understand and Number of candidates proposed their names for address the concerns of the workers efficiently, if any. representative 10 This forum consists of the relevant worker’s welfare officer, Number of workers voted (58%) the contractor’s senior managerial staff (HR manager at least Number of elected representatives 6 included), one worker representative per nationality of workers living in the accommodations (selected every six months by the workers). BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 73 OUR COMMUNITY AND SOCIETY ENGAGEMENT BESIX launched a BESIX standard charter in 2017 To monitor compliance, KPIs have been developed based on the acthat includes the minimum standards required commodation requirements. All contractors were categorized from by the most rigorous country. the worst score (red: score below) to the best one (Platinum class: main contractor above 8 and their subcontractors in the green, i.e., New welfare compliance department at Yas Theme Park project score above 7). Six Construct created a new welfare compliance department at the Yas Theme Park. The results are determined by the comfort of the tenants (room sizes, cleanliness, quality of food, etc.) as well as their well-being (extra The goal of this department is to make sure that all subcontractors activities, availability of rooms to practise their religion, etc.). comply with our welfare standards and treat the entire workforce fairly during the execution of the project. All subcontractors have been inThe KPI score achieved by Six Construct and its partner Boom vited to comply with the same standards to be eligible to access and Construction, was 9.2 out of 10. We were particularly proud to get work for Six Construct. Moreover, all subcontractors have to formally the certificate of appreciation for ‘The best project across the nominate a compliance officer and submit a compliance plan. expressway program towards workers welfare – Platinum level’. High standards for the workers’ accommodation facilities on the Al Rayyan upgrade project As a conclusion, the project team completed four million man-hours Six Construct (in partnership) was awarded the first segment of the 2.9 without a lost-time incident. km Al Rayyan upgrade project in Doha by the Public Works Authority of Qatar in February 2014. Since the start of the project, they had laid out high standards for the workers‘ accommodation facilities. BESIX shares NGOs’ concern conditions for migrant workers on the site. For many months, BESIX-Six Construct was in contact with Amnesty International about the safety and welland fully co-operated with them by providing feedback to their being of our workers questionnaires, including queries about subcontractors working on the Khalifa Stadium project. We did so because we share Amnesty International's concern for the safety, respect and well-being of our Ever since Qatar has been chosen to host the 2022 FIFA World workers on site and during their free time. Cup, the media and NGOs have been reporting on the working conditions of immigrant workers in Qatar. Through the joint The main issues raised by the initial report of Amnesty International venture Midmac-Six Construct, BESIX is operating in Qatar as the focus on irregularities reported for one of our subcontractors. lead contractor for the Khalifa Stadium. Through our own mechanisms such as our Code of Conduct and regular facility inspections we aim to detect potential issues and We explained in our previous CSR report 2012-2014 that BESIXact upon them. Through our own monitoring systems such as Six Construct has allowed multiple unrestricted visits to its regular facility inspections with our subcontractors we aim to detect construction sites and labourer accommodation in Qatar by potential issues and act upon them. Whenever we identify conflicts CSC Building – Industry & Energy, CSCBIE, BWI (Building and of the Workers Welfare Standards by subcontractors, we discuss the Woodworkers International) and the Belgian Workers Delegation. actions to be taken in transparency with the Supreme Committee. These organisations have applauded our endeavours to improve If they fail to apply the commonly agreed action, we will end our working conditions and have praised us for our efforts in terms of collaboration as we already did for some of them in the past. social consultation and communication with our workers. Our team in Qatar used the lessons from Amnesty International to BESIX took notice of the publication Amnesty International issued further improve its working methods and act upon them, within the on 30 March 2016 on the Qatar 2022 FIFA World Cup and the boundaries of what is allowed under Qatari law. BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 74 Strong focus on Health & Safety Ensuring a safe place to work Therefore, we have recently started producing QHSE-related e-learnAlthough good safety statistics are useful to reflect our safety efforts, ing tools and training materials that no longer use any form of text or there is more evidence than that to demonstrate that BESIX Group speech. This way, any barrier related to language difference, reading is ensuring a safe and sound working environment to its many emability or intellectual level has disappeared, making it easier to pass ployees and third-party workers. messages and make sure they’re understood. Focus on information exchange Comfort and well-being: addressing BESIX Group organizes many initiatives to raise awareness on safety particular work conditions risks, such as: At the end of 2016, after a study on various products that would help shield workers from the side effects of severe weather conditions, −− HSE introductions for new employees and subcontractors and especially the Emirates’ heat, a cooling towel has been chosen −− specific HSE training on various topics and is currently under trial at the Royal Atlantis project in Dubai. If the −− regular toolbox talks to reflect on HSE topics test is successful, it will be implemented as a company standard on −− safety time-outs all our sites in the Emirates. −− ... Appeal to creativity and innovation To be effective, these initiatives focused on information exchange In 2012, BESIX Group launched the HSE Chairman’s Awards, a commust be more than one-way communication from the management petition that invites employees to pitch their idea to improve our HSE to the employees. That’s why in 2015 we decided to make our trainstrategy. In 2016, however, no HSE Chairman’s Award election was ing more interactive by modifying our toolbox talks format. organized. Instead, a Group-wide campaign on innovation called UNLEASH was launched (see page 41). As a part of this campaign, At Six Construct, employees who perform extraordinary at every employees are still asked to suggest QHSE-related innovative ideas project in the field of HSE are rewarded with a certificate and a cash that may eventually be selected for implementation. prize. There were about two thousand in 2015-2016. Each year, the best suggestion has been selected to receive the HSE Taking into account a multi-cultural environment Chairman’s Award. As BESIX Group is active all over the world and because of the broad diversity of its workforce in terms of nationality, language and culture, it’s important to make sure that everyone and everything is understood correctly. Cooling towels of the Royal Atlantis workers GRI 102-43 404-2 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 75 OUR COMMUNITY AND SOCIETY ENGAGEMENT Accident statistics Accident statistics show a further reduction of incidents compared to previous years: the number of lost time incidents and medical Frequency Rate With subcontractors treatment cases dropped. This reduction, however, is overshadowed Number of work accidents with lost time *1,000,000/worked hours by the sad loss of one worker and four subcontracted employees in 4 fatal accidents in 2016. BESIX Group has carefully analyzed all details of these accidents and will do anything that’s within its power 1.67 1.50 1.68 to prevent accidents like these from ever happening again. 2014 2015 2016 Global Quality, Safety and Environmental Time-Out The 2015 Time-Out Session focused on ‘The impact of every individual’ on guaranteeing a risk-free working environment. The 2016 Time Out Session focused on ‘Excellence’. Severity Rate With subcontractors Number of lost days *1,000/worked hours The goal of these globally organized Time-Out sessions is to raise the awareness of employees and subcontractors on how they can prevent incidents and injuries and on how they should safeguard 0.04 0.03 0.04 the quality of their work. More than 20,000 staff members and subcontractors exchanged ideas after getting inspired by videos that 2014 2015 2016 showed colleagues on-site in different parts of the world, sharing their personal views on QHSE. Safety Time Out 2014 2015 2016 Worldwide participants (with subcontractors present that day) 18,257 17,671 21,403 Number of employees BESIX & JV 28,929 28,497 29,869 Number of subcontractors 14,067 13,212 12,082 Total 42,996 41,709 41,951 % with subcontractors 42% 42% 51% GRI 402-2 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 76 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 77 OUR COMMUNITY AND SOCIETY ENGAGEMENT Life Saving Rules In 2013, BESIX launched a communication campaign concerning the Life Saving Rules. Ten specific Life Saving Rules were defined as they corresponded to the Group’s core activities and associated critical safety risks: working at great heights and in confined spaces, heavy lifting and rigging, excavation techniques, driving, moving equipment, and diving and working near/over water. The Group continues to communicate about these fundamental rules through poster campaigns and toolbox meetings. Besides quarterly site inspections by the QHSE team, safety walkabouts are organized 6 to 7 times a year by our operational management. Since 2014, our general managers also participate to ‘walkabouts’ in order to stress the importance of safety on site. Diving improvements The group is an International Marine Contractors Association (IMCA) member since 2013. Since its accreditation as IMCA Diving Contractor, it can tender projects including in the Oil & Gas sector for marine works, where diving is an important aspect of the job to be performed. In parallel, Six Construct is accredited by Bureau Veritas (BV) for ‘Underwater Class Survey’. The company has registered with the International Safety Management (ISM) certification to manage its marine operations and associated risks effectively and improve performance in those operations. Our diving teams are trained to perform in a professional process and in a safe environment. GRI 102-13 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 78 Training and personal 14% development 17% Deploying our people’s talent BESIX Group supports the talent of its people and constantly Age chart develops tools to maximize their potential at the highest level. 2014 2015 2016 <30 69% 30-50 TOTAL 10,126 hours 11,188 hours 13,114 hours >50 Total People 5,150 4,773 4,617 Ratio 1.97 2.3 2.8 BESIXPEDIA, our online BESIX Potential Academy encyclopedia In collaboration with Vlerick Business School and Solvay Brussels School, the Group offers custom business school programs to 40 Initiated by BESIX young potentials, BESIX launched an interacyoung and mid-career potentials each year. tive sharing platform, BESIXpedia, to share best practices and The last BESIX Potential Academy in 2016 focused on ‘client-­ lessons learnt. This interactive platform aims to close the gap ­centricity’, guided by the new leadership style within the Group. between the internal know-how and its distribution within our organization. BE Pro Every year, the Group counts more than 150 new managers who are spread all over the world and need to be informed about the BESIX essentials as soon as possible. This is why BESIX EXPERIENCE IN PROJECT ROLL OUT was launched in February 2016. BE Pro informs our colleagues on what our company considers to be the key elements in the Project Management process and directly linked to the BESIX Contracting Integrated Management Systems (IMs). This tool gives managers the opportunity to spread important information concerning: ·· who we are and what type of company we’d like to be ·· the Group’s definition of success ·· expectations ·· how to achieve this Green construction training As a response to the increasing demands for passive or certified projects (BREEAM, LEED, HQE, ESTIDAMA, OSAS), all BESIX engineers regularly receive high-level training on ‘green construction’. In 2014, more than 40 engineers were also trained by an in-house expert. With 48 engineers trained in 2016, we exceeded our goal to BESIX Potential Academy 2, 2015 maintain the number of trainees compared to 2014. GRI 404-1 404-2 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 79 OUR COMMUNITY AND SOCIETY ENGAGEMENT Performance Career development management The System Competency Banding provides all employees with an overview of their current position and fuEach year, the Group foresees an appraisal process for ture career prospects. The system solely focuses on all of its employees, and every 2 years for the workers in real competencies and performance and doesn’t take the Middle East. This is an opportunity to summarize an into account other specifics (e.g. gender), guaranteeing employee’s performance and to define upcoming chala fair and transparent salary policy and gender equality. lenges and career opportunities. With our previous appraisal process, some employees missed the opportunity for different reasons. We know that the Line Manager’s Promotion feedback is crucial for the employee’s own development and growth. Banded staff = +/950 colleagues We therefore initiated a new appraisal process in 2015, ‘The Coach24.2% ing Card’. Thanks to this new tool, each employee takes ownership 21.2% of the process and can get regular feedback on performance and 18.2% competencies right after each project. Employees become responsible for their own career and development. 15.2% 15.7% Regarding employees, the evaluation process is now up to 100% in 10.7% Europe and more than 92% for BESIX workers. In the Emirates, the employees are not yet included in the Coaching card project but will be in the coming years. 2014 2015 2016 Europe International HR Business partners The HR Business partners help the HR team to develop talents and GEERT AELBRECHT transfer internal expertise from senior to junior staff members. They Group Human Resources & Communication Director advise employees and line managers to achieve better results and BESIX Group optimize manpower planning & internal mobility for staff members active on site. They also take care of individual Career Management “The Dare Change workgroup Face-to-Face & Succession Planning in order to guarantee a long-term continuity evaluations wants to bring the performance of the internal competences. review to the essential of coaching in direct contact. By creating the necessary tools, procedures and moments this workgroup wants to establish a culture of feedback, review and coaching on a regular and direct manner. If the proposals of the workgroup are applied, a positive impact on the employee engagement, retention and performance should be measureable. Thus impacting overall company KPI’s.” GRI 404-2 404-3 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 80 VENDORS Signature of Procurement AND BUSINESS Code of Conduct, a process PARTNERS still on-going Procurement Code of Conduct Our objective for 2015-16 was to have all internal buyers active BESIX Group expects all stakeholders of the procurement chain, bewithin the Group sign the Code of Conduct. As 96% of the ing the Group’s own buyers and all subcontractors, suppliers and service providers, to contribute to the continuous alignment of the buyers signed the code, this objective has almost been reached. BESIX Group procurement chain with: Our second objective was to have 75% of the identified subcontractors and suppliers sign the contract. Despite the good −− the Universal Declaration of Human Rights efforts of some entities (Six Construct, BESIX Nederland, −− the International Labor Organization Conventions 29 and 105 (Forced Labor Prevention), 111 (Prevention of Discrimination), Vanhout, Franki Foundations and BESIX), we will need to step 138 and 182 (Child Labor Prevention) up our game to reach this goal. −− the ISO 9001 and 14001 standards −− the Guidance Principles of ISO 26000. The procurement procedure was revised in 2016 and integrated in the Group IMS that is applied by most entities. Promote synergy Procurement Synergy meetings with representatives of most of the European companies are organised quarterly. They ensure the follow-up of the Procurement Code of Conduct and establish the priorities in the development of frame agreements. These allow those companies to take advantage of the Group scale effect, obtaining better prices, better services and, in some cases, introducing more environmentally friendly products and solutions (example: the use of biodegradable oil for stripping). Frame agreements At the end of 2016, about 60 frame agreements were in use in Belgium and the surrounding countries. All vendors involved have signed the Procurement Code of Conduct. On top of that, standard contracts are used for subcontracts and for equipment rental, resulting in balanced safety and environment rules that are respected by all parties Social economy The members of the Procurement Synergy meetings developed and promoted a list of about 30 Belgian vendors coming from the social economy (gardening, cleaning, carpentry, electrical works, ...). Buying locally Another aspect of the Group’s procurement policy is to buy locally and to work with local subcontractors and partners as much as possible, even when it is not required by our client. Peron de l'Ilon in Namur (B) supported by the BESIX Foundation and Cobelba. GRI 308-1 414-1 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 81 OUR COMMUNITY AND SOCIETY ENGAGEMENT Sustainable and Responsible Procurement Code of Conduct Identified Signed 2014 2016 2014 2016 Subcontractors, Suppliers & Service 698 959 433 412 providers 494 Internal buyers 584 515 520 = 96% Social economy Since 2009, BESIX Foundation supports, among other initiatives, sheltered workshops and centres for the professional and social integration of the disabled or people who have difficulties integrating in the job market. After a thorough analysis in 2014, our own CSR network set up a concrete action plan. BESIX Group intends to further promote the social economy as part of a responsible procurement process. The Group also wishes the central procurement support teams to identify and assess the social economy potential of reliable partners. • BESIX, Franki Foundations and Jacques Delens ordered sweets from the Farilu bakery for the St. Nicholas event. • BESIX, Jacques Delens and Wust are working with ‘L’Atelier de l’Avenir’ for carpentry. This association, working with earing impaired people, notably participated in the works for the Belgian pavilion at Expo Milano 2015 with a total contract of € 340,000. • BESIX Vlaanderen works with ‘De Groene Kans’ for gardening and landscaping (picture). • Vanhout works with ‘Alito’ for the realization of gardens and site surroundings. • BESIX Group recently selected Village N°1 for the maintenance of the surroundings of its headquarters in Brussels. GRI 308-1 414-1 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 82 SOCIAL INITIATIVES Social Inclusion AND BESIX Around the world, BESIX Group aims to get people involved in its operations, regardless of their social backFOUNDATION ground, race, sex or education. The Group wants to give a chance to young people without experience or people with no or few qualifications for whom special training Our social initiatives and on-site jobs are defined in advance. By doing so, BESIX Group contributes to the reintegration of those young adults into society. Aiming to create a positive impact on our and future generations, BESIX Group supports and organises a wide range of socio-economic initiatives. BESIX, for instance Training multicultural teams BESIX Group advocates the mobilization, deployment and training guides disadvantaged people on the path to new profesof multicultural teams. By recruiting and training local workmen, we sional opportunities and BESIX Foundation encourages support and strengthen the local economy. all our colleagues to volunteer in a variety of projects in the field of education, construction and/or environment. The law of Equatorial Guinea requires that 90% of the workforce of all companies working within its borders be made up of Guinean nationals. This motivated us to train local employees and to develop their skills. In the Democratic Republic of Congo, Franki Foundations is also training our local partners’ employees. We faced a high workforce turnover in Sri Lanka because many workmen came from far away, were trained on our building sites OYALA BRIDGE and then went back home to get better paid jobs thanks to their new Equatorial Guinea qualifications. GRI 413-1 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 83 OUR COMMUNITY AND SOCIETY ENGAGEMENT BESIX Foundation BESIX Foundation in 2015 2016 With the help of BESIX Foundation, the Group continues to contribute to the welfare of underprivileged people. BESIX Foundation supports charitable projects in the fields of education, construction and environment. Its 42 new projects goal is to help the communities in the countries where supported BESIX Group is active. BESIX Group employees and workers are closely involved in all these projects, strengthening the tie between them and the local communities. 789 volunteers involved 8 years of solidarity BESIX Foundation brings its support via direct funding, material supply and/or skills sponsoring. The Foundation has been active for 8 years now. In those 8 years, 189 projects were supported, more than € 2,668,000 was donated and thousands of people benefited from our actions. 35,000* beneficiaries 2015-2016 FUNDING LOCATION Europe € 730,222 75% Middle East 10% *These data demonstrate that our actions affect many people directly. An Africa even larger number of beneficiaries, however, are benefited indirectly. For 8% instance, when someone follows a professional training, it tends to lead to a India job, and thus recurring revenues for his/her family. 3% These figures should be seen in context because the project impact on the beneficiary can vary and we believe it can be more relevant to get an imporOther tant impact on a smaller group than a reduced impact on a larger one. 4% GRI 413-1 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 84 48 Solidarity Days or Nights organized in 2015-2016 Solidarity first Once again our volunteers demonstrated their strong dedication Special Olympics Belgium supporting our projects in 2016 and 2016. An example of this is our local Sri Lanka team, who prepared, supported and organized the much needed work in a primary school with 200 children located near our site. And let’s not forget all the colleagues who took part in helping in the organization of national our two home-made projects: Right 2 Learn and KiddyBuild. and international games Clean Up Building a library cleaning of public areas for refugees children BESIX Foundation 2016 staff award BESIX Foundation held its 3rd Staff Award in 2016. Enfants en Inde won, with 34% of votes. The awards ceremony took place during the BESIX Group’s annual drink, with 1,000 colleagues attending. Enfants en Inde built its second boarding school in India. Located in Maram in Manipur, it hosts to a hundred tribal girls. “Enfants en Inde is a marvelous adventure, which is led dynamically by one woman, Claudine Dumez. I am very happy that she received this award. It will not only help to get those girls an education, but it is also the recognition of the achievements of a woman who, for so many years, has struggled to bring her projects in favour of the poorest of the poor to fruition. She is an example to us all, as is Flavia Shaw-Jackson who won the award in 2014 for FACE for Children”, Donatienne de Spirlet, Executive Officer, BESIX Foundation. GRI 413-1 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 85 OUR COMMUNITY AND SOCIETY ENGAGEMENT RAVI SHANKAR DUBEY Six Construct worker This project, launched in 2011, aims to provide basic computer knowledge to the unskilled workers in the “I come from a village in Bihar, North India, Middle East. By using the Internet, they save a lot of and joined Six Construct as a Scaffolder money they would normally spend on communicating in 2012. Thereafter, I had an opportunity with their families and able to discover an endless world. to switch from site work to office work by starting to work as an office boy. In the same 4 training centres & cyber cafés have been installed either on-site or year I got the news of a Five Module – RIGHT in workers’ housing and many of our colleagues volunteer to coach 2 LEARN – session for total beginners in the and teach those who have never used a computer before. field of Computers being arranged by BESIX Foundation. The sessions were conducted In 2016, the 4 classes (1 in Qatar, 2 in Dubai and 1 in Abu Dhabi) hit cruising speed and more and more colleagues are getting involved. both in English and Hindi/Urdu. 178 workmen took classes in 2016. In one and a half months we completed the course and were handed a Certificate of Completion. I am pleased to record that I was promoted to Document Controller in 2015. RIGHT 2 LEARN played a valuable part in my development. My participation to RIGHT 2 LEARN has definitely boosted my confidence.” Students Dubai 121 143 178 Abu Dhabi Doha 2014 2015 2016 GRI 404-2 413-1 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 86 Kiddy Build KiddyBuild is a day on which we welcome children from the 5th and 6th grade of underprivileged primary schools. By bringing them to our building sites and warehouses, they can discover the variety of jobs existing in the world of construction. In 2016, 3rd edition, we organised 4 KiddyBuild days: 3 in Brussels and 1 in Antwerp. In 3 years, we have reached 15 schools and 716 children. In 2016, the Limmel building site (The Netherlands) hosted 30 primary school children and organized a week-long game for 60 secondary school students. Wust also welcomed 100 students with the “Ouvre-Boîte” project. In the UAE, our Ajman concession regularly hosts groups of university students and primary school girls, to give them a behind the scenes look and make help them understand the importance of using treated water and preserving the environment. ANNA In Belgium, the project is supported by the Construction ConfederaStudent, La Sagesse Philomène elementary school, tion and the Foundation for Education. Schaerbeek (B) We recently developed a teaching guide which teachers will be able to use in class, before and after the day. In 2017, we aim to host our “I learned so many things that I can’t name first TeachBuild day, aimed at lower secondary school classes. them all (about the jobs, the machines, the building site...) The workmen were nice to us. And I want to thank them, because they spent so much Students time telling us things when they could have carried on working, and they even lent us helmets, boots and safety jackets. Thank you 299 308 for the presents (the ruler and the yellow 197 jacket). I liked the concrete and the cement, because 2014 2015 2016 the cement reminded me of Nutella and the bricks reminded me of bread and seeing the others at work made me think they were making their sandwiches. I also liked the concrete because, there, I learned lots of stuff. I liked the carpenter, he was very nice. It was the first thing we did so I had gotten used to him. I learned that girls can work on building sites too! Thank you BESIX !” GRI 413-1 87 KATRIEN GOOSSENS JEAN MOSSOUX Porticus Foundation, Director, BESIX Foundation Director in non-profit Director, BESIX Foundation and commercial organizations, writer “As a Board member of the Foundation since 2014, “Between strategic options and I have the privilege to witness the unique way of field reality, the BESIX Foundation how BESIX Group is encouraging its employees and implements opportunities to seize contractors to volunteer in a variety of projects in chances for selected recipients and the three main themes of the Foundation: Education, chances for all those who are involved Building and Environment, all fundamental in the at various levels. Their actions are process of building a better world. It is impressive to supported by annual resources. see how multicultural teams are pulling resources Supports and initiatives in favor of together to help achieve the mission of the Foundation. education are exemplary: on several The professionalism of the small team and the continents, on one hand, encouraging commitment of the many volunteers is heartwarming. students and trainers, and, on the other Congratulations with a job well done and the result hand, setting up innovative programs of almost 10 years work of the Foundation.” of talent development. Impressive.” 88 Monaragala, Sri Lanka 2014-2017 MONARAGALA-BUTTALA INTEGRATED WATER SUPPLY Monaragala, a rural and remote area located in the South-East of Sri Lanka, now boasts a modern drinking water supply facility that meets European standards. The facility was built by BESIX with the support and input of local contractors and local workforce. The project consists of two river water intakes, one water treatment plant, 4 ground reservoirs and one water tower. All these sites are connected by six raw and clear water transmissions mains (30 km) as well as an extensive water distribution network (65 km). Local workforce As the project was situated in a rural area, one of the main challenges of this project was to find skilled local labourers. Most of the 2016 IN NUMBERS ±306 labourers were farmers without any special skills or experience in the field of construction. That’s why BESIX brought experienced people people working to the site to teach the teams to organize, manage and execute the works. BESIX also engaged some retired and experienced locals on the project who used to work in other similar projects for the client. People from different cultures like Buddhists, Tamils & Muslims worked together in the same teams and with the same purpose: to learn and to be proud of their contribution to this successful project. 613 total hours of training GRI 413-1 89 In order to make sure that BESIX Group’s standards in terms of quality were met, every team member received training and support on a very regular basis. Well-being and safety at work As most of the labourers lacked experience, a lot of attention was dedicated to Health, Safety and Environment. BESIX organized a number of trainings and awareness campaigns and implemented a monthly safety award for teams and labourers who performed extraordinary in the field of QHSE. The results were amazing with more than 1,400,000 hours without time lost due to incidents or accidents. Supporting the local economy In order to make this project a success, we tried to work with local labourers and suppliers as much as possible. The project created a lot of new opportunities for the local communities and boosted the local economy. W.G.A. NANDASIRI Project Director Minimizing our environmental impact Monaragala Buttala Integrated Water Supply Project Since a part of the works were carried out in rivers, we dedicated special attention to our environmental impact. After finishing all works, the river beds were monitored with a drone to make sure “BESIX truly outdid itself on this project nothing was left behind. The river sides were grassed in order to and far exceeded our expectations. avoid erosion. While not foreseen in the contract, they installed piping, which allowed us to deliver water to most of the endusers. Moreover, the quality of the water was much higher than required in the contract. We highly appreciate that kind of flexibility in a partner.” The BESIX team prepared support and organized the much-needed works in a primary school of 200 children located nearby their site in collaboration with BESIX Foundation. GRI 413-1 90 France 2014 2018 MELUN Since the early commencement of the project, BESIX Key events paid dedicated attention to environmental issues. The −− CSR action: ground water quality has been monitored before the BESIX favored local companies for the work. More than 30 companies, located within a 30 Km radius of the building project started and is controlled in several locations on site, worked on the building site, be it for contracting, supply site on a regular basis. of prefabricated materials, supply of concrete, etc. More than € 30 million were incurred with companies in the region. Perfect integration into the urban fabric Due to its status as a general interest and equipment project for all, BESIX also fostered societal integration and allowed unemthis new hospital, which will house a 510-bed hospital and a 224-bed ployed people to do over 20,000 hours of work on the building clinic, is a strong and structuring urban stake in the re-characterizasite. tion of the town of Melun. It will enjoy easy access via different modes of transport including a heliport on the roof. −− Safety action: training, awareness raising ·· BESIX holds a « Safety Time Out » session every year for all Travelling on foot will be easy on location, thanks to a footpath, which staff members. is the true central nervous system of the hospital and will allow vis·· Every morning, trained volunteers hold a « muscle warm up itors to get their bearings easily inside as well as outside the main session » This is a chance to share and to strengthen team areas of the hospital. spirit. ·· Implementation of a yellow and red card system in the event Description of the CSR aspects of security breaches by contractors. Non-respect of safety Regarding the social aspect, the Groupe Hospitalier Sud Ile de France instructions leads to a yellow card. If there is a second brings a huge increase in the standard of living of the population of breach, another yellow card is given, and finally, upon a third Melun. This is possible thanks to the arrival of the TZen*, new roads breach, the worker is shown a red card, leading to his perand railroads from the Melun station (just 25 minutes away from manent exclusion from the building site. Paris), increased standard of healthcare, the reinvigoration of some zones and the construction of new residential areas in town and in adjacent sectors. GRI 413-1 * cross between a bus and a subway. 91 2016 IN NUMBERS 350 people working on the project 26% female employees 36 different nationalities +81% people trained 300 secondary school students welcomed 14,519 hours social inclusion Environment award/action −− We implement « High Environmental Quality » (HEQ) procedures 2,171 tons waste generated 92% for the clinic and a « Clean building site » Charter for the hospital. This is achieved through the cleanliness of the workstations by, among others, the placing of urinals, to promote the men’s waste sorted hygiene on the building site. During the shell construction phase, specific washing units for concrete buckets and the cement mixer lorries was put in place at the foot of each crane. During IN TOTAL the second construction phase, the same principle is applied to 115,000 m 2 painters. −− We chose local waste management companies. −− We opted for « Eco-Packs » in the building site bungalows: 480 comfortable changing rooms, which are cleaned daily, are provided to the workers and have two-shelf heated cupboards, of earth movements which work on a timer system. The lighting functions with movewithout evacuation ment sensors. The heating turns off if windows are opened and 88,000 m 2 the taps work with push buttons, etc. −− 88 until 95% of save waste −− Recognition: HEQ total build-up area GRI 413-1 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 BESIX FORWARD 2017 94 Excel in creating sustainable solutions for a better world GOING FORWARD In September 2017, we stated our company purpose and clarified our common vision and values going forward. We aligned on priorities to enable BESIX’s sustainable performance. A crucial exercise, because a purpose can mobilize people in a way that pursuing profits alone never will. Our purpose is to stand at the crossroads of clients’ expectations, as well as the role we want to play in society and the expertise in our sector. From now on, this purpose will be our source of inspiration and motivation. It does not only relate to what we aspire to be in the future, but also to the changes we want to make now. It is fundamental because it gives everyone at BESIX a common reference point. Rik Vandenberghe, Chief Executive Officer, BESIX Group GRI 102-16 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 95 BESIX GROUP ENGAGING IN SUSTAINABILITY 2017 Our purpose: Our commitment Excel in creating sustainable solutions for a better world. to Excellence Our vision: As BESIX Group we develop multiple services to create value for our clients, whilst incorporating the evolving expectations of the To set us apart from competition, BESIX Group end users and building on strong partnership with all stakeholders. launched a new purpose and strategy end of 2017, Our values: called ‘BESIX Forward’. This opportunity to rethink our purpose, our vision and our values can lead the group to the next step as it gives BESIX employees a common ground. Our strategic drivers: 1. Leveraging on our 4. Being a leader in open customer centricity innovation 2. Promoting a great place 5. Synergizing our ways to work of working 3. Developing a 6. Promoting openness “one-stop-shop” solution towards new ventures & activities for business GRI 102-16 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 96 OBJECTIVES 2017-2018 OBJECTIVES RESULTS 2015-2016 TARGETS 2017-2018 2015-2016 HUMAN RESOURCES Career -Number of training hours -Done -Implementation of BE Pro training tools. management per year, by kind of training -From 2014 to 2016: 30% more training hours for -Carrying on in the same direction with and and by function for full time employees an objective of +25% more training; promotion of employees -Set up of new training tools: BE Pro, focus on on-line programs to facilitate employability BESIXpedia,... training opportunities for staff -All new recruited laborers must undergo training procedures, these include health and safety and job description induction -Recruitment of new -Six Construct follows the ‘free recruitment’ policy -Continuing to monitor this area employees -751 employees in 2015 and 701 employees in closely. Six Construct has reviewed 2016 were given Third party trainings & re-enforced this policy in all our -All new recruited labours has to undergo training agreements/contracts procedures, these include health and safety and -Estimation: recruitment of about 400 job description induction new employees within the Group -The Group pursued its recruitment of new -Launch of recruitment events at BESIX employees according ti business projects (BESIX Young Professional Days, Connect to Build, Campus days) -Staff member statistics by -Still On-going: development of a new recording -Consolidation of the data of all diploma, kind of contract, program in 2015-2016: Metrilio employees worldwide through Metrilio years of service during 2017: Group wide statistics from 2018 through Metrilio -Promoting intergenerational -Brainstorming -Preparation of an on-boarding program partnerships -Launch of a new Engagement -Done for the Management and Senior Staff -Implementation of similar survey for all survey among staff categories (72% of the white collar) Staff and Labours categories -Adhere to regional or national -Done: New law in the UAE since 2015 -Update if needed chart -Encourage youngsters to live -Done: BESIX Group welcomes students and -Pursuing the same approach a professional experience trainees on sites in Europe as well as in the UAE through training on site or in the office Health -HSE Chairman Awards -Done: 2015 ok and 2016: launch of Unleash -Promote Unleash program within the & safety program Group with specific theme: Reduce fall conditions hazards done (Well-being at work) -Number of training hours per -2,340 hours of Health, Safety & Environments -Pursue HSE trainings for group staff. year trainings in 2015-2016 -A platform to promote and encourage fitness and well being of our employees -BESIX Fit to be launched in 2018 -Coordination QHSE between -Done. First QHSE synergy meeting organized in -Pursuing meetings twice a year with different companies April 2016 a concrete action plan -Improvement of the -Done. Safety Time out 2016: 21,403 participants -Carrying on in the same direction participation rate for the Safety = 51% (>42% in 2015 & 2014) Time Out -Improvement of frequency -Frequency Rate 2014: 1.67 – 2015: 1.5 – 2016: -Carrying on in the same direction and severity rate according to 1.69 the group companies’ action -Severy Rate 2014: 0.04 – 2015: 0.03 – 2016: 0.04 plan BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 97 BESIX GROUP ENGAGING IN SUSTAINABILITY OBJECTIVES RESULTS 2015-2016 TARGETS 2017-2018 2015-2016 HUMAN RESOURCES Health -Awareness on burn-out -Preparation of a resilience program to be -Campaign launched in BE, FR & NL; & safety launched in 2017 workshops organized for +300 conditions participants (Well-being at -2018: Follow up with adequate coaching work) to employees who make the request; Launch of the campaign on our International operations aiming; for all levels of employees -1st draft for an action plan on -Preparation of teleworking at BESIX in Belgium -Implementation of teleworking in BESIX work-life balance and The Netherlands. (BE and NL); sick childcare services provided by BESIX free of charge to employees (limited amount of days per year); launch of a first-step fitness program (BESIX Fit) at BESIX in Belgium Non-Performance indicators by -‘Respect’ became our 6th value in 2016 after a -Carrying on in the same direction discrimination gender, age, nationality, worldwide campaign issues junior-senior, by region, by position -Integration in procurement -Racism is not tolerated and any act of racism -Better gender balance (up to 30% for policy is taken seriously by the company. Being an employees) international company with more than 8,000 working labours and over 60 nationalities, cultural differences are inevitable -Six Construct embraces diversity ranging from, but not limited to religion, gender, ethnicity, education, and socio-economic background -Workers have the option to speak to their direct supervisors who will assist them in resolving their general concerns. All labours have the right to “freedom of expression” -On staff levels Six Construct do strive to achieve equality between male and female employees. These include salary equality, equal opportunity and equal treatment within the workforce -Extend campaign about -Done, included in both Codes of Conduct. -‘Respect’ value is part of the Group Respect in the relations with -Qatar: creation of a Worker’s Welfare Forum values redefined in 2017 all Group stakeholders HUMAN RIGHTS Support and -Integration into effective -Included in both Codes of Conduct -Development & Implementation of respect of procurement and partnering -Qatar: creation of a Worker’s Welfare Forum BESIX fair labour standards in line with internationally policy international framework agreement proclaimed human rights Make sure not -Integration into effective -Included in both Codes of Conduct -Development & Implementation of be complicit in procurement and partnering -Partnership with NGOs and external organisations BESIX fair labour standards in line with human rights policy international framework agreement abuse -Rigorous monitoring of Subcontractors’ worker facilities COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Promotion -Promote employment and -BESIX Group: Mixed team policy -Improve on the minimum requirements of social and training of local staff economic development -Integration of local -Done -Promotion of socio-economic supplier chain and responsible sourcing in the procurement social disadvantages in system procurement policy -Encourage social economy in -Group engagement since 2016 through purchaser -Increased supply chain engagement our Entities and sites BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 98 OBJECTIVES RESULTS 2015-2016 TARGETS 2017-2018 2015-2016 COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Promotion -Give an opportunity in each -Europe: ongoing -Creation and circulation of a list in of social and and every project to social -UAE: a market analysis has been done and those France and The Netherlands economic economy operators kind of structures don’t exist -Continue our monitoring in UAE development -Identify the social economy -Done in Belgium -To be done abroad potential of reliable partners -Action plan regarding social -BESIX Group: Information campaign done -Increased engagement of BESIX economy potential -BESIX Foundation: 3 projects supported in 2015, Foundation 5 in 2016 -Develop our own education -Done through Right 2 Learn and KiddyBuild -Implement educational programs to programs via BESIX the internal community i.e., BESIX Foundation Employees Contribution -Comparison of projects -Done -Increasing Volunteer Engagement to issues supported by BESIX -2015: nb local benef: 1,833, nb staff involved: 342, of general Foundation (statistics 2015 -Belgium: 18, Africa: 2, Asia: 2 interest and 2016): numbers of local -Pillars: Envir: 14, Constr: 14, Educ: 16 beneficiaries, number of -2016: nb local benef: 3 012, nb staff involved: 359, Group staff involved, projects -Belgium: 17, Africa: 3, Asia: 2 Envir: 3, supported by region, by Constr: 16, Educ: 17 Foundation pillars -Promoting educational -BESIX Foundation: 33 projects supported in -Carrying on in the same direction projects 2015/2016 -Increase of international -2015: 17% of the financial support abroad -Increasing the global presence of BESIX spread of the support -2016: 33% of the financial support abroad Foundation -Collaboration with academic -BESIX Group, Jacques Delens and Vanhout. -Explore opportunities to collaborate world for sustainable -On-going collaboration with universities, such with local educational institutions construction promotion as VUB, Ghent, Liège, ... with cluster such as to contribute to the sustainable EcoBuild, with other association and work group development of the region such as ‘plateforme Maison passive’, ... ENVIRONMENT Development -New ISO 14001 certifications -UAE: done for multi-sites in UAE, Qatar, Oman, -An integrated ISO9001+ ISO14001 + of integrated Barhain, KSA OHSAS18001 multi-site certification environmental -NV BESIX SA has renewed his ISO14001:2004 of the Contracting BU (except regional management certification in June 2016 which is valid until entities) in the first Quarter of 2018 systems September 2018 -The following regional entities have an ISO14001 certification: J. Delens, Wust, LUX TP and Vanhout -Performance indicators as to -BE Pro in 2016 (NV BESIX SA): 30 minutes per -Well-defined performance indicators number of training hours on employee for a total of 174 persons = 87 hours on employees trained on environmental environment per employee -Induction: 30 minutes per new site worker in 2015 awareness to be established and and 2016 monitored -QSETO in 2015: (13,348 own employees + 4,323 subcontractors) *0.5h per person= 8,836 hours; -TBM: 1TBM per month per person in 2015 and 2016 -Integration of environment -Development and implementation of an -Carrying on in the same direction criteria and audit in Environmental Performance Rating Tool (PRT) for procurement/subcontracting Site Inspection in 2015 policy -Environmental criteria are embedded in the Code of Conduct for purchasing product & services and in the vendor list Development -Development of BIM model -On several projects quantity take off was -Exploring the idea of development of of green for sustainability and performed which entails that we have a more digital material passport enabling post solutions monitoring accurate view on the quantities construction development -Reduction of waste, only virtual waste BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 99 BESIX GROUP ENGAGING IN SUSTAINABILITY OBJECTIVES RESULTS 2015-2016 TARGETS 2017-2018 2015-2016 ENVIRONMENT Development -Double % of projects in -Statistics about “project in execution followed -Carrying on in the same direction of green execution using BIM by the Engineering Department using BIM”: 29% solutions (2016 target: 20%>< 2013=9%) -+20% of steel structure -For the in-house BESIX facade projects (where -All current in house facade tenders: drawings extracted from BIM BESIX is performing the facade design and all quantity take off for the large scale models execution themselves) complex geometry is done 100% with -execution project 100% of cutting lists / BIM production drawings are extracted from BIM (at -Using BIM for preparing method least for the external facade and roof) statements renderings and installation sequence animations -Quantify in % tenders using -Done: 2015: 56%; 2016: 50% (initial goal: 40%) -BIM visualizations for 60% of the BIM visualization tenders -Research on low carbon -UAE: done, adoption of cement with 65% of -BESIX will start up a new concrete chain concrete GGBS study in 2017 on the projects in The -On the large infrastructure projects in The Netherlands Netherlands, low carbon concrete is used (CEM III instead of CEM I) -A study on the concrete chain on the Lanaye project where CEM I was replaced by CEM III has been finalized mid-2015 resulting in a carbon reduction of 76% -In collaboration with Rijkswaterstaat, an innovative testing program on the use of low carbon concrete has been set up on the Limmel project in The Netherlands -Limiting use of raw material -Socogetra reuses the residue from concrete -The Socogetra’s objective is to increase pump trucks to made stackable blocks. These the percentage of recycled base recycled blocks represent 20% of their total material up-to 50% in the production of blocks production concrete -A study to understand the recycling of the waste internally and feasibility of introducing a circular economy, to be conducted in UAE in 2017 -Performance indicators in -UAE: Analysis of waste performance indicators on -Development of a corporate waste waste management projects management programme -Netherlands: a study on the waste management -Initiatives with the bottle caps and the chain has been finalized in late 2016 on the OVT collection of electric devices on the project BESIX headquarters. -UAE: done on various projects. -Notepad -A performance indicator on waste segregation (Waste management cost saved by segregation and recycling of waste) has been introduced in Belgium in 2016: in 6 locations, waste recycling reached 32 to 97%. -A Frame Agreement for collecting waste in Belgium has been signed with MAES at the end of 2015. -Encouraging recycling of -Innovative solutions such as the use of ECO-filler -Carrying on same direction. excavated or reused material (residue from the recycling process of asphalt) Opportunities to be defined on every instead of soil for backfilling projects -Socogetra recycled concrete waste and reused it for the construction of a new motorway section -BESIX Montenegro reused the excavated stones, extracted from the ground during the earthworks, to make all the walls of enclosure -Increase tablet use to control -Within the European region, BESIX has -Currently in development: a study site data to improve encoded implemented digital solutions for managing to perform the internal audits and info the provisional acceptance process. Also inspection by the use of tablets implemented in Ajman BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 100 OBJECTIVES RESULTS 2015-2016 TARGETS 2017-2018 2015-2016 ENVIRONMENT Development -Continuing to propose -The senior manager sustainability was involved -Strengthen the design capabilities of sustainable sustainable engineering in several projects in which we porposed value regarding sustainability within the BESIX construction solutions in tendering folders engineering idea regarding sustainability (New Engineering Department and offering operations Headquarters of BNP Paribas Fortis (Brussels), support to Real Estate Development Masdar Institue (UAE / Abu Dhabi), Beatrix lock and concessions -(The Netherlands) -Not limit our proposal of energy reduction -Continuing support for -BESIX and some of its subsidiaries are supporting -Follow at least 1 student on the students in their thesis work various students in their thesis work and research. sustainability subject per year and research In the 2015-2016 period two students were and 1 research topic in the field of supported by the BESIX Engineering Department sustainability -EJD is part of a research project Cam(B)bridge aiming at more reliable assessment of thermic behavior and air tightness before and after construction using BIM -Cobelba and BESIX gave support to a research project of the Walloon Region called REINTEREST which aims at developing very efficient and thin façade elements for refurbishment of old (high rise) buildings -Development of sustainable -Creation of dedicated teams for each project in -Have at least 1 expert per Business Unit construction teams which environmental certificates were demanded. or regional entity in Europe We trained people in almost all Business Units -Share of knowledge and information and regional entities able to give the necessary within the group entities support -Jacques Delens, Vanhout and Wust developed their own sustainable construction teams -Building more certified -There were 5 completed buidling sites in 2013-14 -A ‘Green Building Expertise & Support sustainable buildings and 9 in 2015-16 Delivery’ Centre of Competence to be -There were 13 ongoing building sites in 2013-14 set up for Middle East BU in 2018 and and 14 in 2015-16 expanding the same to the group -Compile projects where value -Not finalized during this period -Compile projects where value engineering has made a engineering has made a difference difference -Establish an innovation platform to encourage and enable innovation, to explore more sustainable solutions Energy -Statistics on site about -Energy consumption is monitored on the Head -The development of a group wide consumption energy consumption in Office + regional office in The Netherlands, CDF CO2 /energy management system. Belgium, The Netherlands, SPL, Saintes and projects in The Netherlands Objective is to implement this system France and progressively where BESIX is responsible for the administration. in 2019 in other countries where -UAE: on “Air Co Savers” done the group is active for CO² reduction program Paper -Concrete actions to reduce -BESIX has launched the Papercut application -To be developped on projects level paper consumption (%) (double sided printing, printing order by badge,...) in its head office. KPI’s on printing in the head office are set in 2016 -Percentage of color printing jobs related to the total amount of printing = 52.8% (target 2016 was < 55%) -Percentage of double printing jobs related to the total amount of printing = 65.4% (target 2016 was >70%) -Quantify use of recycled -Notepad project: In partnership with TWI, BESIX -Continue the collection process on an paper and eco printers collected old project plans from some sites even larger scale in Belgium in order to produce notepads. A total of 564 notepads were produced using old plans BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 101 BESIX GROUP ENGAGING IN SUSTAINABILITY OBJECTIVES RESULTS 2015-2016 TARGETS 2017-2018 2015-2016 ENVIRONMENT Transport -Comparison between -Flights booked by travel department BESIX -Pursuing the same approach statistics 2015 and 2016 for Brussels: -Encouraging online meetings and video air travel -in 2015: 5,101,765 miles = 3,668 flights (rating nb conferences flights/turnover: 0.60) -in 2016: 5,448,273 miles = 4,054 flights (rating nb flights/turnover: 0.59) -Comparison between -Reduction of the CO2 emission of the Belgian car -Development of the telework policy statistics 2015 and 2016 for fleet with 8.6% from Mid 2014 (114.09 gCO2/km) -Launch of a one year Eco driving car travel till end 2016 (104.15 gCO2/km) awareness campaign ( E-driver) for all drivers of a company car in The Netherlands Biodiversity -Concrete examples on site -Lanaye: Conservation of different types of trees -Carrying on in the same direction and planting for the upkeep of certain species. -Preventative fishing in the old spawning grounds -Heumen (NL): Relocation of a badger population -Limmel (NL): Relocation of beavers -EDF Saclay: Presence of a newt pond – monitoring of the pond’s pH throughout the project, to verify the absence of impact of our work on the pond. Building of a fence around the area, to prevent newts from accessing the building site -Fjordlink Denmark : preservation of eelgrass and local vegetation -Contribution to issues of -Decision to support more environmental projects/ -Increased focus on First support/ general interest initiatives through BESIX Foundation partnerships, through BESIX Foundation BUSINESS BEHAVIOR Integration of -Social and environmental -Included in the Procurement Code of Conduct -Increased commitment of supply chain environmental performances of its -96% of internal buyers signatures on the Procurement code of conduct factors subcontractors and suppliers respecting its CSR objectives -Integrating social and -412 subcontractors and suppliers signed the -Integration in every BESIX Frame environmental clauses in Code of Conduct Agreement and in the general conditions supplier and subcontractor of the subcontractors’ agreement; Legal contracts never took the time to revise the general condition of 2011 -General conditions of purchase and subcontracting to integrate CSR and environment criteria -Feedback from -Results didn’t answer our objectives. Target for -Understanding the performance over subcontractors and suppliers 2017 is to contact them again to explain our goal CSR procurement code of conduct by about our CSR procurement supply chain. code of conduct -Secure further deployment -Included in the Procurement Code of Conduct -Target 100% commitment by internal of the related commitments -96% of internal buyers signature supply chain all along Group entities in the subcontracting and supply chain. -Signature of the Code by the -Yes: 96% -100% see above Group internal buyers -Set up and deliver indicators -Not done yet -To be pursued among the of real endorsement of subcontractors with improved the guidance and rules assessment at project end contained in the two Codes of Conduct BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 102 OBJECTIVES RESULTS 2015-2016 TARGETS 2017-2018 2015-2016 BUSINESS BEHAVIOR Integration of -Select subcontractors and -Ongoing -The standard text of subcontract environmental suppliers who will be active includes the approval of the Code of factors on sites with a budget Conduct exceeding EUR 25,000 to sign the frame agreement. -Integrate the principle of -Ongoing -Carrying on in the same direction; local partnering in our overall Several social economy companies have procurement strategy. been added in the suppliers list and the awareness of the buyer of the group (in Benelux) have been developed Quality of -Statistics of internal -Implementation of a banding system for 20% of -Providing more view on progression in remuneration promotion of staff members the employees the banding system systems -UAE: records and procedure implementation for all workers -Statistics about the annual -BESIX Group: Done for 20% of the employees -Carrying on in the same direction evaluation interview system -UAE: Six Construct has incorporated the appraisal report which indicates how the employee is performing during his working hours + line manager constructive feedback CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Code of -Signature of Procurement -494 (=96%) staff members who directly deals with -Include the Code of Conduct in all conduct and Subcontracting by the external bodies have signed the Procurement of the Group’s frame agreements subcontractors and suppliers code of conduct and they are held to that code and in the general conditions of the in pre-qualifications and -412 subcontractors and suppliers signed the Code subcontractors’ agreements tenders (50% of our targets) of Conduct -Assessment on staff -A smart breaksfast was organized to introduce -Carrying on in the same direction members (1st group at the the CSR actions within the Group and the Code of head office) Conduct in 2016 -Consider becoming a -Done -To engage in Global Compact initiatives member of Global compact -NGO framework agreement -Engage in NGO framework agreement to -BWI Framework Agreement signature challenge human rights approach in BESIX Integration of -Implementation of CSR -Regular communication of CSR actions within the -Carrying on in the same direction CSR promotion dynamic Group through, Annual management meeting, -Presentation during the Welcome Day internal newsletter and intranet (for all new staff) in Belgium as a first step -Deployment in the 3 main Business Units -Promotion monitoring. -Set up the CSR Framework of BESIX Group and organize review and reporting every two years on each of the Framework segments to increase progress review -Determination of GRI -Done in the CSR biennial report. -To produce CSR information sheet every reporting requirements month showin achievements of the last months, on Intranet and on Website -ISO 26000 review by external -Not done -To perform with a third party a “gap party analysis” review of the three reports compared to ISO 26000 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 103 BESIX GROUP ENGAGING IN SUSTAINABILITY OBJECTIVES RESULTS 2015-2016 TARGETS 2017-2018 2015-2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Integration of -Group support organization -Done: CSR Ambassadors -Network to be coordinated by central CSR HO CSR Officer team -UNLEASH program to report on CSR innovation proposals for consideration and possible action -Information and Knowledge Management to streamline and incentivize -Report for all entities and -2015-2016 CSR report preparation -Deployment of new indicators consolidate group indicators in short and medium term -Report on feedback from -Done in the CSR report and Groups’ Annual -WWF partnership our external stakeholders Report -BWI organization reports and sharing on our CSR approach and pursuant to signed framework achievements. agreement on human rights -Extend the value of the -Partly achieved in this Report with the number -Action plan still in preparation indicators in our reports and indicators included -Further Group consolidated numbers device effective incentives and action plans. -Support project managers -Toolkit available on Intranet -UAE: engagement of a Senior in the effective integration Sustainability Engineer of CSR actions in the daily -Improved focus on the integration of operations CSR actions in the daily operations -Further development of -Not done yet -Increased focus on raising awareness Website CSR chapter on CSR through increased CSR Communications -2017: introduction in the new BESIX Group website -CSR information sheets monthly from all entities on Group Intranet and website Board and -Focus on risk management -Done: -Develop a Tender-risk approach by committees and internal control -Update of IMs Policies & Procedures to adapt the updating the Tender Processes to Company developments consider Risk Management as an -Development of a project-centric (in-house) integral part of the Tendering process interactive learning tool on Company Policies & -Setting-up a Tender Risk Review Procedures: BE Pro Committee -Develop a project-risk approach by updating the “Execution” Processes to consider Operational Risk Management -Set up an Enterprise Risk -Done -Consolidate the activity of the existing Management framework on -An “Internal Audit” function has been set-up and “Internal Audit” function to every the COSO model reports to “BESIX Audit Committee” organizational functions and levels -The “Internal Audit” applies principles of Internal -New ERP to deploy to secure Audit at core organizational functions to verify and organization and sustainable prosperity report on compliance operations au lieu de operations sustainable prosperity -IMs “multi-entities” to streamline ways of working, risk management and internal control -Group Rules update -Done: BESIX Group Rules have been revised on -Update the BESIX Group Rules in 2018 27 March 2015 to adapt the evolving organization and its context BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 104 GRI CONTENT INDEX 102-50 Reporting period 6 We have used the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework to guide us for the content of this report. 102-51 Date of most recent report 6 102-52 Reporting cycle 6 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding 105 the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with 6 the GRI Standards SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES PAGE 102-55 GRI Content Index 104 GRI 300: Environmental Topics GRI 100: Universal Standards GRI 302: Energy 2016 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 303-4 Reduction of energy consumption 54 102-1 Name of the Organization 3 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 102-2 Activities, brands, products and 11, 16-17, 37, services 41, 57 305-5: Reduction of GHG emissions 52-53 102-3 Location of headquarters 12, 105 GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 102-4 Location of operations 11-13 308-1: New suppliers that were screened 80-81 using environmental criteria 102-6 Markets served 11-13 GRI 400: Social Topics 102-7 Scale of the organization 11-14 401-1 New employee hires and employee 69 102-8 Information on employees and other 14, 66-67 turnover workers GRI 403: Occupational Health & Safety 2016 102-12 External initiatives 5, 19, 25, 29 , 39, 56 402-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, 75 102-13 Membership of associations 4, 19, 38, 42, 52, occupational diseases, lost days, and 56, 68, 77 absenteeism, and number of workrelated fatalities 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4-5, 16-17 GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 15, 25, 35 404-1: Average hours of training per year per 78 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and 16-17, 23-24, 26, employee norms of behavior 67, 94-95 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee 36, 74, 78-79, 85 102-18 Governance structure 34 skills and transition assistance programs 102-26 Role of highest governance body in 4, 17 setting purpose, values, and strategy 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving 79 regular performance and career 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance 26 development reviews body’s performance GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity 2016 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management 17, 33-36 processes 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and 67 employees 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in 17 sustainability reporting GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 26 413-1 Operations with local community 44-47, 50, 57-63, engagement, impact assessments, 82-86, 88-91 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 65 and development programs 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 33, 40-41, 65, GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 70-71, 74 414-1 New suppliers that were screened 80-81 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 70 using social criteria GRI 102-55 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 105 Key contacts in CSR Fréderic de Schrevel Secretary General Chairman of BESIX Foundation CSR Officer, BESIX Group Jan Van Steirteghem Director Engineering & Methods, BESIX SA Joeri Schellens VaDuTec Manager, Vanhout NV Olivier De Ridder Group HRIS Manager, BESIX SA Pascal Beeckmans Procurement Officer, BESIX SA Donatienne de Spirlet Executive Officer, BESIX Foundation Patrice Thomas BESIX Group IMs Manager Gurubasu S K Senior Sustainability Engineer, Six Construct This report is exclusively available in English and in a digital version. BESIX Group, avenue des Communautés / Gemeenschappenlaan 100, B-1200 Brussels csr@besix.com www.besix.com www.besixfoundation.com www.iso.org (ISO 26000) www.unglobalcompact.org www.globalreporting.org Additional information, contact or consultation of the internal magazines mentioned in this report can be arranged upon request via csr@besix.com. Photos Christophe Van der Eecken, Yvan Glavie, Michaël Joris Editorial Office BESIX Group CSR Team Design and production www.linknv.be GRI 102-3 102-53 BESIX GROUP CSR REPORT 2015-2016 BESIX Group SA/NV Avenue des Communautés 100 1200 Brussels – Belgium T +32 (0)2 402 62 11 communication@besix.com www.besix.com
