2018 Tbilisi Mall The Communication on Progress About Tbilisi Mall Tbilisi Mall managed by Rakeen Uptown Development is the first and largest development in the Southern Caucasus to meet globally recognized standards. It is located in the west end of the city and combines leisure, retail and entertainment facilities. Tbilisi Mall provides an exciting family destination experience for residents of Georgia and tourists, offering a broad range of high street and internationally famous brands and stays to be the leading shopping development throughout the region. Since its opening in 2012, Tbilisi Mall has managed to bring together a significant number of internationally acknowledged brands to attract more than 8 million visitors per year. The Mall occupies a total of four floors with a GLA of approximately 74,000 m². It comprises more than 200 different brands, cafes, 2,700 parking spaces, a 15,000 m² hypermarket and a 1,000 m² entertainment center. Other features include a multi-screen cinema, contact zoo, VR house and Airsoft Arena on the upper levels. Tbilisi Mall also benefits from a multi-stores free-of-charge parking space, spread over four underground levels. Tbilisi Mall has been managed by Gránit Management Georgia (GMG), since July 2015. Included within this remit is the Leasing and Commercialization of the Mall units and common areas spaces. A related company to the TriGránit Group of companies, GMG benefits from years of experience in Mall management and Leasing. Suppliers and Contractors In terms of the contractors, with the help of which different operations are conducted in Tbilisi Mall, to the greatest extent possible, Tbilisi Mall chooses to work with local individuals and companies. This results in the benefits both for our company, as well as the small scale businesses that work for Tbilisi Mall. This decision also affects the transportation waste, which is reduced to the local scale. Upon cooperation, these companies are observed and assessed by our team to make sure that we are collaborating with ethical, professional, anti-corruption and environmentally friendly suppliers. Tenants and Customers Tenants at Tbilisi Mall are also following the ethics and rules of the company. Tenants have a direct relationship with the managers of Tbilisi Mall and are always free to address with issues, or offers for collaboration. Tbilisi Mall also sends out monthly newsletters to keep the team and tenants updated about the events, new openings and changes at the mall. In terms of the customers, their opinion is key for Tbilisi Mall, thus, for every big scale event taking place in the mall, our customer service is providing a survey, which asks customers about their opinion for the event they are attending, for their overall experience and suggestions, of what they would like to change in the mall. CSR Activities One of the key activities performed by Tbilisi Mall all year round is the collection of clothes for charity. On two locations in the mall, there are wooden houses where customers are free to donate clothes that they no longer find useful. These houses are filled almost daily and our customer service team works on emptying them and placing them in a special storage. From there, different charity funds collect these clothes and deliver to people in need. Tbilisi Mall is also often a part of charity events, supporting people in need. In 2017, on multiple occasions, we transferred the mall territory for free to the family members of people in need of medical help. The supporters hold concerts and collect charity with the help of Tbilisi Mall. Tbilisi Mall also continues to participate in Educational programs. Last year we hosted the 10th International Young Inventors Project Olympiad, where 200 participants from 40 countries attended. Tbilisi Mall is continuing to participate in these kind of events and currently hosted different entrepreneurial festivals, for example, Entrepreneurial Education Festival 2018, where young entrepreneurs attended to present their products to the mall customers. Guest Services At Tbilisi Mall we offer a provision of full services in line with our main priorities to create a comfortable, pleasant environment and ensure that every visitor’s experience is exceptional. Tbilisi Mall has the following services at customer’s disposal: • Customer Service • Medical Service • Extensive Foodcourt • Free WIFI • Baby changing space • Parking Facilities • Children’s Wrist Bands • Lost and Found service • Banking Services & ATM’S • Car wash • Dry cleaning • Beauty (nail) salons • Gift Wrapping • Tbilisi Mall Taxi • Gift Card • Tbilisi Mall Magazine Human Rights and Labour Rakeen Uptown Development fulfils all its responsibilities according to Georgian law. In order to deliver quality services to customers and positive earnings to shareholders, Tbilisi Mall attracts and recruits competent employees. The company provides equal opportunities to both women and men and its team consists of balanced gender group. Currently 55 employees are working for Rakeen Uptown development including administration and technical department. Technical staff consists of 24 members. Management team comprises of 8 employees out of which there are 4 male managers and 4 female managers. Rakeen Uptown Development, Ltd (Tbilisi Mall) is actively involved in activities to support safe environment for its employees and employees of the tenants. There is special Health and Safety Department at the mall to control processes regarding human safety. The working environment is comfortable and clean, equipped with all the necessary furniture and equipment, providing proper temperature, ventilation, lighting and sanitary norms. Tbilisi Mall collaborates with state and private companies that ensure safe working environment for employees and Tbilisi Mall shoppers. Rakeen Uptown Development appoints special external companies to carry out checks on specific issues. In 2017 regular check-ups were implemented by the abovementioned companies to ensure that all the antiThe shopping center has 4 levels of sanitary and disposal works are performed in parking with 2,700 spaces accordance to the required standards to ensure including parent and child parking healthy working environment. The key importance and parking for people with was granted to safety of anti-fire equipment checkup, disabilities. These specially designed parking spaces are due to the tragic circumstances of Keremevo mall conveniently located on the levels. fire. For every new employee and tenant Health and Safety Department provides training on evacuation in case of fire and each year evacuation test takes place in the whole mall. Rakeen Uptown Development is committed to protect labor rights, including elimination of forced and child labor, and the rejection of any type of discrimination in the human rights. The shopping center has large parking with 4 levels including parent and child parking and parking for people with disabilities. These specially designed parking spaces are conveniently located on the levels. In order to ensure safe environment for people at the shopping mall the security team is on site for 24 hours a day. Also, there is special medical point at the center to provide the first aid in case of necessity. Tbilisi Mall is equipped with special parking for parents and people with disabilities. Toilets have special baby changing rooms to increase the comfort for customers. Tbilisi Mall is highly devoted to further improvements for the good of its co-workers. Activities for Protecting the Employee Rights The company fulfils all its responsibilities according to Georgian law including working hours, holidays, maternity leave etc. Rakeen Uptown Development has a friendly and courteous attitude, and a flexible, relaxed and enjoyable atmosphere without pressure. Strong corporate culture enables every individual to feel like a member of a big family, regardless of cultural, ethnical or religious belonging. Tbilisi Mall supports people with disabilities to have comfortable working environment and gives them employment opportunity. During the past year Tbilisi Mall hired a blogger with special needs to write texts for the company’s web-site. Despite that, Rakeen Uptown Development supports the CSR campaigns that implies hiring of persons with disabilities by organizations. Employees of Rakeen Uptown Development enjoy Employees of the company competitive pay and benefit packages (including have the chance to attend comprehensive health insurance, paid vacation, paid local and international maternity leave, etc.). Salaries are always paid on time, trainings to stay updated without any delay. and qualified in their field. Despite the fact that Georgian Law does not require to pay salary during maternity leave Rakeen Uptown development cares about the welfare of its employees and pays them during 3 months of non-working period and guarantees to reserve their working place until they return back. In case of health emergencies concerning the employee, or the family member of an employee, the company chooses to care about its employee’s welfare and maintains their working place, as well as their salary, until they return back. In order to create interesting working environment Rakeen Uptown Development cares about career development of its employees and provides opportunities for further development. Employees of the company have the chance to attend local and international trainings to stay updated and qualified in their field. Environmental protection Tbilisi Mall entirely recognizes the social responsibility regarding protection of the environment and takes actions against pollution. Health and Safety department together with the technical team of Rakeem Uptown Development is checking on a regular basis the technical condition of the shopping units rented to its tenants to ensure their technical and safety condition. The administration of the mall strictly controls the perimeter of the shopping center to avoid pollution and garbage distribution on its territory. Tbilisi Mall requires all the tenants obey the cleaning rules and be environmentally friendly. The mall has succeeded in negotiation with the city hall in the project of building the bridge to connect the opposite side of the highway to the side of the mall. The bridge is now active and used by number of customers daily. Tbilisi Mall adjusts lights and heat according to climate to reduce the waste of resources and employees turn off computers at the end of the day. During 2017 year Tbilisi Mall continued to participate in the campaign arranged by external organizer and collected used paper in the office and sent it for recycling. This process continues daily. Fighting Against Corruption Georgia has significantly reduced its levels of corruption over the past several years. Georgia is the 46 least corrupt nation out of 180 countries, according to the 2017 Corruption Perceptions Index reported by Transparency International. Georgia showed a record low level of corruption in 2017. Rakeen Uptown Development supports anticorruption in all its forms. Each year company financials are being audited by one of the big four audit companies in the country. Tbilisi Mall is a very strict tax payer and does not sign any agreement that involves bribery or any form of corruption. The company acknowledges its responsibility towards fight against corruption and constantly monitors its operations and prevents the risks. Tbilisi Mall pro-actively shares its rules and attitude to its current and potential employees. Rakeen Uptown Development strictly prohibits conflict of interest and informal employment. The mall promotes the principles by implementing its ethical standard in contracts, in dialogue with our project groups and through our publications and social media activities. Tbilisi Mall is a very strict tax payer and does not sign any agreement that involves bribery or any form of corruption. Measurement of the Activities We as a company recognize that there are many aspects that we have to develop. We’ve already succeeded in implementing on-line document flow procedure, which connects every department, involving all the participant employees to improve internal procedures and reduce the time of internal processes. In next year the adoption of internal procedure of environment protection will also help to make more steps and campaigns in this field. Last year, the goal of the company was to place paper recycling machines in the administration of the mall to support eco-friendly activities and reduce the use of the paper. Currently, the agreement is signed and the process will be finalized in the current year. In order to have employees motivated and qualified the list of trainings both local and international for the upcoming year has already been developed and will be performed according to schedule. In 2017 our employees have attended international trainings and certified courses. As of 2018, four more employees will attend these kind of trainings and courses. The English language program for the employees was also planned last year and will be active from Fall 2018, working on perfecting the English language level for the team members. This will ensure integrity of all employees in an international market. Rakeen Uptown Development will continue to In 2018 four more employees will support anti-corruption actions together with its have the chance to attend employees and partners. international trainings and certified courses. The company will continue to protect gender equality and provide employees with comfortable working conditions and environment. Rakeen Uptown Development is happy to be the part of such an important initiative as the Global Compact is and will continue to support the 10 principles. We fully acknowledge the responsibility we have towards our stakeholders, customers and the environment.
