COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 Communication on Progress Year: 2018 STATEMENT To our stakeholders: Softskills Management Consultants restates her commitment to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the following areas: Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we emphasised our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. Documented in this report is the summary of the progress we have made against these principles and we will continue to follow them up in future Wonuola Adetayo, Managing Director/ CE Contact: Wonuola Adetayo Email: wonutayo2002@yahoo.com Phone: 2348029990258 P 1/3 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans Human Rights for the upcoming Year 1. In Kainos Edge, we ensure our employees are given safe, efficient and sterile work facilities 2. Create a global standard environment for our business processes. 3. Our labor force is guided by gender equality. 4. We guard our employees from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats 5. All employees are treated with decency and given impartial and just compensation for their time at work. 6. Our policies and procedures are within the stated Human right law in Nigeria. 7. Our terms of employment and mode of operations are within Nigeria and ILO that guarantees non-violation of human rights of employees in whatever forms. Global Compact Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for Principle the upcoming Year Labour 1. Kainos Edge does not enforce her employees to participate in any form of forced labour 2. We are in full acquiescence with Federal Government minimum wage standards 3. All our employees have the freedom to join any association of their choice without restrictions. 4. We do not encourage child labour in our work environment. None of our Staff member is below the legal working age – 18 years old. The youngest staff on our payroll is 24 years old. 5. Our job offer letter is design to be easily understood by our new staff, their job description, targets, KPI and expectations are jointly agreed and clearly stated. P 2/3 Global Compact Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for Principle the upcoming Year Environment 1. Kainos Edge conduct regular maintenance of Power generator and sewage system in order to avoid environmental pollution 2. Human health emergency procedures are set in place to avoid and address accidents affecting the work environment 3. HSE Policies are set in place to encourage a safety approach to environmental challenges, 4. Regularly HSE meeting and audit are carried out to update our developed code of conduct for our business operations and its commitment to upholding good health and the environment. 5. Proper induction and orientation process are carried out for our new employee e.g. introduction of new employees to the Kainos family and office premises. 6. Our Muster Points are visible and easy approach in case of an emergency Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans Anti-Corruption for the upcoming Year 1. It is our standard practice we absolutely discourage the giving or collecting bribes for the jobs we do or the projects we lobby for. Part of the training and HR intervention to clients is based on good governance, work ethics, professionalism and good corporate citizenship. 2. Ethical behaviour are listed as one of our contracts elements with business partners and vendor 3. Kainos Edge internal procedures support the company’s anti-corruption commitment P 3/3
