S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 20 1 7 | 1 We are Grundfos Green at Heart Sustainability Passionate about Water Social Responsibility Ethics and Integrity Report 2017 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity Global NUMBER OF OPERATIONS EBIT WE OPERATE IN highlights 2017 WE ARE PLANTS AMERICAS 7 EMEA 27 ASIA PACIFIC 4 CHINA 3 TOTAL 41 DKK 25.6 DKK 2.346M 56 COUNTRIES BN 18,596 GRUNDFOS OTHER 3 1 4 NET 4 BRANDS TURNOVER EMPLOYEES 6 LOCAL WORLDWIDE ASSEMBLY 6 4 7 2 19 ALPHA3 WE REACH THE SCALA2 BOOSTER WINS THE RED WINS PRODUCT 5 GREEN AT OF THE YEAR 1,000,000 TH DOT AWARD FOR HEART UNIT OF THE ITS HIGH-QUALITY 2016/2017 MAGNA3 DESIGN 2 3 1 BY CIRCULATOR PUMP MORE THAN 34% FIRST SMART WATER FOR 700,000 28,000 WATER 1. TAIWAN 3. INDIA PASSIONATE DISPENSERS PEOPLE HAVE Grundfos Taiwan wins the Taiwan Enterprise Grundfos India is dubbed by Media Research ABOUT REDUCTION IN PILOTED IN ACCESS TO WATER WATER REFUGEE PEOPLE IN VIETNAM CLEAN WATER Environmental Protection Award for its solar Group to be India’s Most Trusted Company CONSUMPTION CAMPS IN THROUGH OUR THROUGH power system. The company is also recognised 2017 under the pump manufacturers category. FROM 2008 UGANDA EMPLOYEE PROGRAMME PARTNERSHIPS by Taiwan´s Ministry of Labour as one of the best-performing companies, in terms of pro4. RUSSIA 275 moting and implementing health and safety ALPHA3 is named the Product of the Year at the and as a workplace for middle-aged and older people. Time for Innovation Awards 2017. RESPONSIBLE 91.4%* TRAINING OPPORTUNITIES 5. SOUTH KOREA EMPLOYEES HAVE RETURNED TO IN OUR GLOBAL 2. HUNGARY A new production facility opens in Gwangju, *Based on experience in Mexico, Grundfos Hungary wins the KÖVET Association South Korea. WORK AFTER 14 China, Serbia, Hungary, Germany, TRAINING WAREHOUSE 4,000 DAYS OF SICK LEAVE Denmark and the Netherlands SAFETY WALKS for Sustainable Economies’ Water Saving Special Prize, the HR Transformation Challenge for 6. DENMARK MORE THAN good career development, the Family Friendly Grundfos earns the top spot as Denmark’s 15 85% FROM Company Award for good work-life balance, strongest company on environmental, social SUSTAINABILITY ETHICS AND the Ozone Green Award, and Deloitte’s Hunand governmental (ESG) issues in Økonomisk INTEGRITY NEW SUPPLIER AUDITS WHISTLEBLOWER EMPLOYEES PARTICIPATED 100% garian Green Frog Award for Most Innovative Ugebrev, an established Danish weekly busiIN 2016 TO Sustainability Report. ness and political magazine. SYSTEM INTRODUCED 97 AUDITS IN 2017 IN THE CODE OF CONDUCT TRAINING NEW SUPPLIERS SCREENED 2 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 20 1 7 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity 13 Contents THE PROGRESS REPORT IS ORGANISED ACCORDING TO THE MAIN WAYS THAT WE TARGET RESPONSIBILITY: Green at heart Global highlights 2 Responsible 25 Table of contents 3 Occupational health & safety 27 Letter from the CEO 4 Training & development 29 Employee satisfaction 30 We are Grundfos 5 Diversity & inclusion 31 Company profile 5 Local engagement 33 Priority topic assessment 7 Our path to the Sustainable Ethics and integrity 35 Passionate about water 20 Development Goals 9 Stakeholder engagement 11 Legal compliance 36 Human rights & forced labour Sustainable supply chain 3­7 39 Ethics and Green at heart 13 integrity Energy-efficient products & solutions 14 About the report 40 Product life-cycle 16 Key performance indicators 41 Environmental footprint 18 Indicator definitions 43 The GRI content index 45 Passionate about water 20 Water for all 21 Partnerships for water 23 25 Responsible 35 On the cover Oscar Martinez Grimaldo, one of our General Operators at Grundfos Mexico 3 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 20 1 7 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity A Year of reflection more relevant than ever – water was first listed rise in work-related injuries. We believe these Every time we partner with customers to deliver in the World Economic Forum’s Top 5 Global Risks results are no more than temporary aberration, sustainable, responsible products and solutions, in 2012, and it has stayed on the chart ever since but it has prompted us to thoroughly assess our we strengthen our belief that we can meet the – because water is an intrinsic part of any plan approach. We will launch a safety incident manneeds of today without compromising future to cope with the challenges ahead. Grundfos foagement system in 2018 and accelerate efforts to generations. The year brought optimistic signs of global ecocused on initiatives supporting our 2020 strategy lower energy and water consumption. nomic growth, along with more concerning indifor a sustainable future, and these issues will reWith that in mind, come and join us on a journey cators of instability as millions of refugees and main priorities in the years to come. TRANSPARENCY IS TRUST through our 2017 results. migrants flooded out of their home countries in In 2016, we set out to improve our collection of the biggest wave of human displacement on reTangible results included working closely with data and our reporting. This transparency imcord. These developments took place as we are key partners to bring safe water to more than proves collective knowledge about complex topstanding on the brink of another fundamental 700,000 people, and in collaboration with the huics, enabling collective action at a practical level. shift – “the fourth industrial revolution”, which manitarian organisation ADRA International we It aligns with our values – to be open and trustwill forever alter the way we work, live and relate aim to help another 1.5 million people in the next worthy. to each other. five years alone. We have supported the UN’s Global Compact This fast-paced revolution affects – and disrupts – As in previous years, we have calculated the annuprinciples since 2002 and will continue to do so. every aspect of Grundfos’ operations, from expecal electricity savings represented by the high-effiOur customers and the communities in which tations in the local communities where we have a ciency circulator pumps that we have sold in the we operate know that they can trust us to obpresence and the way our customers shop to the EU since 2005. In 2017, these Grundfos solutions serve the highest standards. We are determined way we manufacture our products and the solusaved an estimated 6.6 billion kWh. to maintain that trust, and to conduct business in tions we offer. We have taken a long, hard look at an ever-more sustainable way. our business, and the role our products and soluRESPONSIBLE GROWTH tions can play, to ensure that Grundfos evolves to We’ve acted decisively on human rights. After reI am proud of our achievements, but there is so meet the new challenges. vising our Code of Conduct in 2016, this year we much more we need to do. It’s about more than launched Code of Conduct Training in which more pumps – it’s about our impact on the world of We need to make bold decisions if we are to conthan 85% employees worldwide took part. which we are a part. tinue our leading role in a highly connected, digitally integrated world where social value is beWe also increased our supplier audits from 15 to As we grow our business in a changing world, we coming a yardstick for business performance. 97 audits and completed our first in-depth, onremain committed to developing the most enersite human rights assessment in Suzhou, China. gy and water-efficient solutions available, exploitMads Nipper, Grundfos CEO SUSTAINABILITY IS OUR BUSINESS ing the opportunities offered by new technology Sustainability has always been our business. We This year, our sales organically grew by 5.3%, the for greater sustainability. We are determined to are grateful to have twice won recognition from highest level ever. However, this achievement also strengthen our contribution to the Sustainable the United Nations for our efforts to address meant our energy, water consumption and carbon Development Goals (SDGs) #6 and #13, and to be global water challenges. These challenges are emissions increased slightly. We also saw a slight an inclusive and diverse company. 4 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 20 1 7 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity We are Left: The ALPHA3 (2016), our latest circulator for domestic buildings. Right: Foss 1, also known as “The Pig” (1945), was our first pump ever made Grundfos in Grundfos Holding A/S, while the founder’s family owns 10.6% and the employees own 1.8%. COMPANY PROFILE We have a board of directors and day-to-day operations are run by Group Management. Both work toOur story began with one man’s ambition to make a difference. Grundfos was founded in 1944, but it was gether closely in making sure we prosper while staying true to our values and beliefs. in 1945 that our founder Poul Due Jensen, the only employee of a small smithy in Bjerringbro, received an order from a neighbouring farmer who wanted a small, automated system to solve his problems in PRODUCT SOLUTIONS AND MARKET SERVED accessing clean water. Poul Due Jensen provided a shallow groundwater piston pump, known as Foss 1, Technical expertise, customer-oriented research and development, progressive innovation and digiour first pump ever made. talisation are at the core of our formula for delivering sustainable pump solutions, services and water technologies for a better tomorrow; solutions that benefit our customers and the environment. What The company expanded from producing 500 pumps in 1947 to 50,000 in 1959, and has since become one sets our pumps apart is the built-in electronics that transform them into intelligent, need-based perforof the world’s leading providers of pump solutions with annual production standing at more than 17 milmance systems that can significantly reduce water and energy consumption. lion units. Grundfos Holding A/S, based in Bjerringbro, Denmark, is the Parent Company of the Grundfos Holding A/S Group, and our primary owner is the Poul Due Jensens Fond with 87.6% of the share capital 5 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 20 1 7 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity PURPOSE Grundfos is a global leader in advanced pump solutions and a trendsetter in water technology. We contribute to global sustainability by pioneering technologies that improve quality of life for people and care for the planet. BUSINESS FOUNDATION Grundfos values define who we are and what we stand for as a company. They guide our actions and serve as our cultural cornerstones wherever we are in the world. Grundfos Code of Conduct sets the direction for the company, and sets out guidelines for employees. It applies to all Grundfos companies and employees, in all countries and all positions. Grundfos Code of Conduct further articulates our values and sets out behavioural guidelines for good business ethics. A Pump Grundfos Corporate Movie is the Our founder , Poul Due Jensen (left), when the first flex department was established in 1968 story of Grundfos and Poul Due Jensen, the founder of Grundfos – how his vision and ambition guided Grundfos to where we are We supply complete pumping systems and solutions for buildings, industry and every aspect of water today. use. A large part of our business is our market-leading circulator pumps that provide heating and cooling for domestic and commercial buildings. Our broad portfolio includes pump solutions for industrial applications from agriculture to breweries; Grundfos is a dominant player in the sector, providing centrifugal pumps for water supply, sewage, wastewater, dosing and other purposes. Passionate about water, we go all out to close the water-cycle loop with our product solutions, from cleaning water to delivering it SIGNIFICANT CHANGES IN 2017 wherever it is needed, from cities to remote villages. In addition, we develop and sell energy-efficient Group supply chain covers activities within planning and delivery of products and solutions, including motors and advanced electronics. administrative processes, material flow of products, transportation, warehousing, planning, line feeding and procurement. We operate in 56 countries. Through 83 companies and through our network of partners, distributors and subdealers we have a presence in even more. Our primary brands are Grundfos' own brands, DAB/ We restructured our Group supply chain to better fit the regional structure of our operations. Significant DWT, Biral Isia, and Enaqua. We have sales companies in all markets that we serve and our customers reorganisation of our production and distribution setup included closure of our factories in Switzerland include end-users, dealers and distributors, installers, and contractors. and a decision to phase out a production plant in Denmark. We consolidated our factory in South Korea and expanded production in India and China to strengthen local market support and reduce our transWe divide our market into four regions: EMEA (Europe/The Middle East/Africa), Americas (North, Central port footprint. and South America), APREG (Asia/Pacific), and China. We will split EMEA into WEREG (Western Europe) and EEWAA (East Europe, Western Asia and Africa) from January 1ST, 2018. 6 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 20 1 7 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity DRIVERS OUTPUTS OUTCOME IMPACT → → → Green at heart Mega-trends Corporate Green at heart Energy efficiency, product & regulatory objectives Offer solutions that use as little energy as possible, integrate products and life-cycle, environmental Create Societal developments & values digitally enabled solutions, leverage new technology for the benefit of our footprint Value customers and the environment. As a global leadPassionate about water er in advanced Passionate about water water for all, partnerships pump solutions Contribute to the global water challenge through technology and by utilisBusiness for water and a trend setter Values ing new business models to introduce sustainable solutions that strengthen opportunities in water technol+ our position in the market. for Grundfos to Responsible ogy, pioneering Strategy support global Health and safety, employee technology and Responsible sustainable satisfaction, diversity and solutions that Attract the best global talent to stay competitive, whilst making a positive development inclusion, local communities improve quality difference to local communities. of life for people Ethics and integrity and care for the Ethics and integrity The three-pronged approach to identify our priority topics Anti-corruption, human planet Maintain high ethical standards in our business, throughout the value rights, sustainable supply chain, because it is the right thing to do. chain Priority topic assessment A “theory of change”, showing how we see the connection between our material topics and the impact we aim for, as expressed in our purpose We engaged in a three-pronged qualitative assessment approach to identify our priority topics. The approach looked at: (a) mega-trends and regulatory developments, (b) corporate objectives and values and tainability, with the three topics (people, planet, profit) often thought We engaged a wide range of stakeholders to carry out a more tradition(c) opportunities to support global sustainable development. of and approached separately. Digitalisation plays a significant role in al materiality survey, asking our stakeholders to rank different topics. altering the way we work, live and relate to each other – from the way The survey was not as robust as we would have liked and we used the We looked at mega-trends and regulatory developments that could our customers shop to the way we manufacture, the solutions we offer results with some caution, adding interviews as verification. have an impact on our business areas, which allowed us to identify and the impact we can have on “the triple bottom line”. future opportunities. Examples of relevance to us include projections The result was the identification of “future proof” material topics – on access to water, water quality and treatment, refugee streams and We took a fresh look at our corporate objectives and values in this conthose where we have an impact today and those that lie ahead. geo-political developments. text to better understand how we are currently positioned and assess our impact now and in the future. This led to the final leg, the identifiTHE MATERIAL TOPICS We also saw a trend in legislation on human rights issues (including cation of opportunities for Grundfos to support global sustainable deWe arrived at our first two material categories, “Green at Heart” and modern slavery), chemicals, conflict minerals and transparency requirevelopment, which incorporated an analysis of SDG opportunities and “Passionate about Water”, by making a holistic assessment of three arments that could lead to these issues being more closely integrated, gaps. We followed an impact-based approach to our business strengths eas: (a) trends within water, energy and climate, (b) our mission to care especially as value chain transparency increases. This trend challenges within pumps, pump solutions, service and water technologies, always for the planet, and (c) key business strengths and potential impact areas what one could call the traditional triple bottom line approach to susasking, how can we enhance our social value as a business? within efficient pump solutions, service and water technology. Green 7 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 20 1 7 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity at Heart focuses on reduced impact on resources (energy efficiency, product life-cycle and environmental Value Chain footprint), while Passionate about Water focuses on helping with the world’s water challenges (water for all Material Issue and partnerships for water). Materials Tier 1 suppliers Grundfos Business channels End users Green at heart To arrive at our other two material categories, “Responsible” and “Ethics and Integrity”, we coupled: (a) trends within regulation, societal expectations, and social contract issues, (b) our values and mission to improve the Energy efficiency quality of life, and (c) key business strengths within a diverse and inclusive work force which conducts business in an ethical manner. Responsible focuses on creating a diverse, inclusive and safe workplace (health and safety, employee satisfaction, diversity and inclusion, and local communities), while Ethics and Integrity Product life-cycle focuses on social contract issues (anti-corruption, human rights and a sustainable supply chain). The topics are found to the right in a value chain perspective. Environmental footprint To place the findings in the context of the wider business, the topics are assessed in terms of a “theory of change”, Passionate about water showing how we see the connection between them and the impact we aim for, as expressed in our purpose. Water for all    Outcomes are notoriously challenging to measure – they are often qualitative in nature and affected by numerous other elements in society. We attempt to report on the outcomes in the SDG index (see pages 45-47), Partnerships for whilst a large part of the sustainability report is dedicated to the outputs – processes, standards and pro   water grammes that support the realisation of the intended impact. They should be seen together, because only together do they draw a picture of our intentions, efforts and in the end – outcomes and impact. Responsible Occupational We have used the same key indicators to track our performance for a decade, enabling transparent year-on     health & safety year comparisons. To retain the benefit of this comparison capability we maintain the same key performance indicators, while performance on our material topics can be tracked in the GRI Index. Employee satisfaction A “FUTURE PROOF” ASSESSMENT? Diversity and We embarked on a process to “future proof” the materiality assessment. We did this by working with me   inclusion ga-trends, regulatory developments, and company purpose and values, building on assumptions about what the world is and may become. Consequently, it is not a list of sustainability issues, but elements on which to Local     build the future of Grundfos from a “sustainability meets business” point of view. communities Ethics and integrity The mega-trends we continue to track include access to water, water quality, food security and urbanisation. Then there are regulatory trends on energy efficiency, renewable energy, digitalisation, human rights and Anti-corruption      anti-corruption, and a range of other issues that are important to efficiently running and future-proofing our business and operations. The tricky part is making sense of it all; to do so we have used the three-pronged, impact approach. Human rights      This means the findings are subject to change; changes in assumptions and changes in our actual and inSustainable      tended impact. In other words – this is a picture in time. We commit to constantly improve our understanding supply chain of the time we live in, our role and how we as a business can contribute positively to global sustainability.  Direct impact  Indirect impact 8 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 20 1 7 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity Our path to the Sustainable Development Goals GRUNDFOS RECOGNISES THE BUSINESS POTENTIAL IN THE UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (THE SDGS), ALSO KNOWN AS THE GLOBAL GOALS, AND THE NEED TO IDENTIFY AND DEVELOP SOLUTIONS TO SCALE. Sustainability is in our DNA; we’ve always supnities, impact and gaps in an SDG framework. It ported our customers with a portfolio of susled to the identification of priority SDGs within tainable products and solutions. Anchoring our each of our strategic impact areas towards 2020: strategy to the SDGs was a natural continuation • Green at heart. A focus on SDG #13 and providof our heritage and working with them is an oning energy-efficient solutions. Read more on going process. page 13. • Passionate about water. Here we focus on SDG We are proud to offer customers some of the #6 and providing sustainable water solutions world’s most energy-efficient, durable water to existing and future customers. Read more on solutions. Water handling in all its forms is what page 20. we do best; providing customers with this ex• Responsible, with a focus on SDG #8. Read more pertise is where our reach into the world goes on page 25. widest and deepest. That is why, from the begin• Ethics and integrity, with a focus on SDG #16. OWN OPERATIONS IMPACT OF OUR DIVERSITY AND ning, we have made SDG #6 the backbone of our Read more on page 35. AND SUPPLY VALUE PRODUCTS AND INCLUSION effort. We constantly work to integrate this goal CHAIN SOLUTIONS into our organisation as a framework of opporWe have also started reporting on these core tunity for our business – as the meeting point SDGs. between doing well as a business and actively seeking to do good for society at large. This is the THE SDGS DO NOT STAND ALONE first step in opening the business to the range of The SDGs are a unique way of outlining opporINTEGRITY ETHICAL opportunities that the SDGs represent. We want tunities for the private sector and helping it to BUSINESS an organisation of engaged people, who spot the have a positive impact on society when doing CONDUCT business opportunities of positive change. business. At the same time, it is important to note that they do not stand alone; life-cycle Last year, we mapped how the SDGs affect difassessments, sustainable product design, the Priority SDGs and our strategic impact areas towards 2020 ferent parts of our business and this year we UN’s guiding principles and other frameworks completed a gap analysis. Combining these two and methods are all part of a comprehensive results provided us with an overview of opportuapproach to sustainability. 9 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 20 1 7 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity IN PRACTICE IN PRACTICE Support SDG #6 and SDG #13 with sport first goal 6 or 13 in a match, a sum of money was DURING THE WOMEN’S HANDBALL WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP 2017 IN GERMANY, WE donated to the project assigned to that team. TOOK THE OPPORTUNITY TO SHOW OUR COMMITMENT AND CREATE AWARENESS “We love sports and are just as relentlessly OF THE UN’S SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT ambitious as the players are,” says Mads NipGOALS #6 AND #13. per, Grundfos CEO. “Water is the foundation of Grundfos’ business and of all of our lives, and In close cooperation with two NGOs, WaterAid as the world faces a global water crisis, we are and Practical Action, Grundfos chose four water committed to being part of the solution. Our and climate projects in Timor Leste, Mali, Kenya work with the sustainable development goals and Peru/Bolivia; two for goal #6 and two for #6 and #13 is part of that commitment.” goal #13. France came out of the tournament as the new Grundfos hosted and sponsored the water track Prior the competition, we randomly assigned World Champions, and at the end of the tournaeach national team with two projects to supment we donated a total of €55,400 to support port. So each time a national team scored the the selected projects. Innovative ways of sored the water track, which brought more meeting the SDGs than 120 professionals to our headquarters in August 2017. They got acquainted with GrundMORE THAN 1,000 PROFESSIONALS fos technologies like the AQtap, BioBooster and GATHERED AT A WELL-ATTENDED, 10-DAY SQflex, and gained a deeper insight into what INNOVATION LAB IN DENMARK TO SEARCH it means to be a water-technology company. FOR FRESH, NEW RESPONSES TO THE SDGS. They collaborated on finding fresh and innovaSOME OF THEM VISITED US IN BJERRINGBRO. tive solutions to some of the world's water-related issues. UNLEASH is a global innovation lab that brings together people from around the world to “The involvement of Grundfos in linked marbrainstorm and generate insights and ideas kets, as opposed to the core business of pumps, on building robust global networks around the I found very progressive,” says Matthew Davey Creating awareness of SDG #6 and SDG #13 at the Women’s Handball World Championship 2017 Sustainable Development Goals. Each SDG repfrom South Africa, who was one of the particiPhoto by: Lars Møller resented a track; Grundfos hosted and sponpants in the UNLEASH Innovation Lab 2017. 10 | S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 7 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity Stakeholder Group Engagement methods Topics Customers Consumer survey, websites, product webAll issues related to products sites, e-learning (Grundfos for installers), and solutions including innoonline tool for wholesalers ( MyGrundfos), vation, ethical business consocial media, direct contact through sales, duct, pricing, manufacuring customer meetings, industry trade group processes and impact meetings, awards (Customer Satisfaction Survey) Employees EMS (Employee Motivation Survey), InEthical business conduct, busitranet, town hall meetings, training & ness performance, sustainable learning warehouse, whistleblower system, innovation and production, safety week, Water2Life Environmental health & safety (EHS), human rights, diversity and inclusion Suppliers Direct purchase, supplier awards, Supplier Impact of SDGs, human rights, Code of Conduct awareness, meetings, auethical business conduct dits, trainings, conferences Our headquarters in Bjerringbro, Denmark Global and local partners For Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) Provision of water and social partners, we have key account managers impact Stakeholder engagement who hold regular meetings with them every year Local communities Direct local engagement, employee volunImpact of SDGs, ethical busiBuilding a strong relationship with our stakeholders helps us understand how and where we can conteers, collaborative partnerships, sponsorness conduct, human rights, tribute value to society through our business and the way we do business. We engage at all levels, from ships environmental issues, volunproduction employees to senior management. teering NGOs Governmental affairs liaisons, direct enImpact of SDGs, ethical busiWe consider several aspects when choosing whom to engage with and how. Some of these are: gagement, meetings, advocacy, dialogue ness conduct, human rights, • Shared values environmental and water relat• Similar impact goals and mutual benefits ed issues • Network and advocacy opportunities Development banks and Direct engagement, meetings, advocacy, Impact of SDGs, finance, policy • Complementary skills and expertise advocacy organisations dialogue positions • Opportunities for collective action, sharing/learning best practice and raising awareness of material Government & policy Governmental affairs liaisons, direct enEthical business conduct, legal topics makers gagement, meetings, advocacy, dialogue compliance, research and development, policy positions, SDGs 11 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 20 1 7 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity We reached out across our organisation and asked who we work with, why and how. The table below summarises the importance to our stakeholders when it comes to our four material areas. Material issue Stakeholder Importance to stakeholders Importance to Grundfos • Customers • Employees Leverage new technology to the benefit of our • Development banks & advocacy Focus on quality, product and syscustomers and the environment through inGreen at heart organisations tem efficiency gains and life-cycle novative pump solutions, services and water • Governments & policy-makers costs to stay competitive technologies • Local communities • NGOs • Customers • Employees Help meet global water challenges through Increased focus on water quality, • Development banks & advocacy technology and by utilising new business modPassionate about water accessibility, water as a service organisations els to introduce sustainable solutions that and effects of climate change • Governments & policy-makers strengthen our position in the market • NGOs • Employees • Development banks & advocacy Increased focus on diversity and Attract the best global talent to stay competiorganisations Responsible an inclusive, equal and safe worktive, whilst making a positive difference to wider • Governments & policy-makers ing environment society by including marginalised groups • Local communities • NGOs • Customers • Employees • Development banks & advocacy Increasing legislation and focus Maintain high ethical standards in our business, organisations Ethics and integrity on “social contract” issues and throughout the value chain, because it is the • Governments & policy-makers business ethics right thing to do • Local communities • NGOs • Suppliers 12 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 20 1 7 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity As a mindset that is rooted in our values, sustainability is our way of doing business. We take responsibility for making a genuine Green at difference in the world, particularly in terms of climate change and water scarcity. We address these challenges the best way we can: By helping our existing and new customers meet their needs in an heart ever-more energy and water-efficient manner, through our work with the product life-cycle and by walking the talk when it comes to our own footprint. This chapter is divided into: • Energy-efficient products and solutions • Product life-cycle, including sub-sections for materials, customer health and safety, marketing, and labelling • Environmental footprint, including sub-sections for energy and CO2, water and waste. We include a description of the approach to each sub-section, while the results are reported at the section level. “ For decades, our products and solutions have contributed to sustainability HIGHLIGHTS through their quality and low energy consumption. Now digitalisation gives SAVING IN 2017: AN ESTIMATED 23% 6.6 BILLION KWH, us smart, innovative and more efficient OR THE EQUIVALENT OF THE ANNUAL REDUCTION IN CO₂ EMISSIONS SINCE 2008, ways to optimise water systems, ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION OF 10.6% INCREASE 4.0 MILLION EU RESIDENTS find water leaks and achieve better VALUE IN 2016: 5.5 BILLION KWH COMPARED TO 2016 utilisation of clean water – because water is indeed a limited and precious resource.” 34% 4.5% OF OUR TURNOVER Lars R. Enevoldsen, REDUCTION IN WATER WAS INVESTED IN Group Vice President Technology & Innovation CONSUMPTION FROM 2008, DEVELOPING NEW 2.4% INCREASE COMPARED SOLUTIONS COMPARED TO 2016 TO 4.7% LAST YEAR 13 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 20 1 7 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity Energy-efficient IN PRACTICE products and solutions Pay as you save data for both water and energy saving. IN THIS NEW BUSINESS MODEL, THE MONThe pilot project is up and running in Takeo, OUR APPROACH tricity savings of all our high-efficiency circulator EY THAT CUSTOMERS SAVE ON WATER AND Cambodia, where we calculate the municWe are grateful that we can contribute to global pumps sold in the EU between 2005 and 2017. The ENERGY IS USED TO PAY FOR THE NEW SYSipality will save more than 86,000 kWh in water challenges by offering solutions that use as result implies a total annual energy saving of 6.6 TEM AND PUMP SOLUTIONS. electricity and around 23,800 m3 water per little energy as possible. Energy efficiency is at the billion kWh, or the equivalent of the annual elecyear, with a five-year payback time. “We are heart of every Grundfos pump solution. Digitalisatricity consumption of four million EU residents. It is a performance-based contract, meancurrently auditing several projects and are tion, application knowledge, strong research and ing that customers pay off the purchase working closely with the Cambodia Water development capabilities, along with our deep During 2017, we allocated 4.5% of our turnover to price of their new and improved pump soluAssociation to ensure that a sustainable customer and end-user insights, allow us to meet developing new solutions and launched close to tions over a period, using the money that solution is available,” Chee Meng adds. the future with confidence. As innovation leaders, 30 products including pumps, systems, and line the equipment upgrade lets them save on we aim to take full advantage of the benefits new upgrades to new products across our various portenergy and water bills. “The concept is ideSUSTAINABILITY FACTOR The energy and technology can bring. In the future, a substantial folios. Driven by our core value of being “relentally suited to countries where our solutions water savings are used to pay for the syspart of our offerings will integrate products and lessly ambitious”, we keep challenging ourselves have significant impact, but where customtem upgrade. digitally enabled services. to innovate and deliver even better solutions for ers might appreciate the limited up-front our customers so they can save money as well investment required, such as Cambodia. On OUR RESULTS as reduce their impact on resources through evtop of that, only part of the savings financAs in other years, we have calculated the elecer-more efficient energy and water consumption. es the solution, so the customer can profit from the savings too,” explains Chee Meng Tan, Regional Business & Product Portfolio Director in Water Utility, APREG. For this business model we focus on Demand Driven Distribution (DDD) and pump replacement because DDD cuts energy use and water leaks by accurately maintaining water pressure. System performance can be monitored via Grundfos remote management, making it possible to gather performance Our team is working closely to ensure a sustainable solution at Takeo, Cambodia More interesting cases on www.grundfos.com/cases-sustainable “We can promote a sustainable solution to save energy and The newly developed GO replace app allows an installer to take a picture of a defective pump and find water to municipalities.” out if it can be replaced with the latest circulator pump in the ALPHA range Chee Meng Tan, Regional Business & Product Portfolio Director in Water Utility, APREG 14 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 20 1 7 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity “Grundfos Filtration Units may turn out to be the best ceramic membranes for the application in terms of performance and economy.” Emmanuel Trouve, General Manager, AMT Nereus Decentralised wastewater treatment using Biobooster technology IN PRACTICE Tackling agricultural challenges is a decentralised wastewater treatment method that permits re-use of the water and the recovery of the remaining nutrients. A SUSTAINABLE WAY TO EXTRACT WATER FROM BIOGAS DIGESTATE AND SLURRY HELPS FARMERS TO RETURN IT SAFELY TO NATURE WITH ITS REMAINING NUTRIENTS. There are approximately 15,000 farms and 1,500 biogas plants in Europe. “Farmers and biogas plants need much less storage capacity and much less transport. With this method, it is now posStoring slurry and digestate from biogas plants, transporting it to farms and spreading it in the sible to extract water from the digestate and slurry and clean it efficiently to be discharged into fields can be ineffective and rather costly. A new, compact and environment-friendly method is streams in the local environment without any use of chemicals,” says Emmanuel Trouve, General available in the form of the Grundfos Biobooster, the key element of which a new original patManager, AMT Nereus. ent-protected Grundfos BioBooster Membrane Filtration Unit. This was co-developed with our customer AMT Nereus, a Luxemburg/France based water company. The unit filters the slurry or diSUSTAINABILITY FACTOR Farmers can now extract water from the digestate and slurry, clean it effigestate to such a degree that all particles bigger than five nanometres are separated out. The result ciently and discharge it into streams without using any chemicals while retaining its nutrients. 15 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 20 1 7 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity Product life-cycle terials, some of which are in limited supply and/or have environmental impacts. MATERIALS OUR APPROACH We therefore continually look for innovative ways It is our ambition to ensure sustainability at every to reduce our material footprint without comprostage of the product life-cycle: From extracting mising value or quality, for example with our Deraw materials and manufacturing to distribution sign-to-Value initiatives which focus on designing and usage. As part of our key development prohigh-quality products that use fewer raw matericesses, we have implemented an eco-design tool als. Other projects aimed at closing the loop on mathat supports life-cycle thinking; this allows us terial consumption include take-back systems, cirto set clear, specific targets to reduce our impact cular business models and design for disassembly. throughout the product life-cycle. END-OF-LIFE PRODUCTION We are also constantly reducing or eliminating the With the support of specialists in the use of this use of certain hazardous substances in our prodeco-design tool, all new product development ucts and production processes. These substances projects will be responsible for ensuring that we appear in our restricted substance list called the meet our goals for each life-cycle stage. As we Grundfos Focus List, with which all our suppliers build stronger Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) commust comply. petencies within our product development organisation, we are able to integrate this broadly Customer health and safety recognised methodology, not only as a way to OUR APPROACH document the environmental performance of If not managed responsibly, Grundfos products our products and solutions, but also as an aid to have the potential to harm users. Risks include decision-making during product design. We aim electric shock, moving parts, radiated energy, use not only to meet global standards but go beyond in explosive atmospheres, and direct contact with them, keeping track of international regulations, or consumption of substances of concern. Most of market trends and customer needs and adjustthese potential risks occur during the installation, ing our management approach accordingly. We use and disposal stages of the product life-cycle. therefore adhere to the Grundfos Environmental Health & Safety (GEHS) Policy, Sustainability PoliTo ensure that we meet minimum legal requirecy and our Business Development Environmental ments regarding product safety, all products must Objectives (ISO 14001). undergo risk assessments to check that they are safe USE & DISTRIBUTION & for their intended use. Additionally, all products are LIFETIME PACKAGING tested and verified for compliance with applicable Materials international safety standards and in many cases, OUR APPROACH this verification and certification is performed by inGrundfos makes physical products, mainly using dependent third parties (approval agencies). GRUNDFOS PRODUCT LIFE-CYCLE metals, polymers, ceramics, and electronic components. This entails the consumption of raw ma16 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 20 1 7 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity Furthermore, we actively participate in several key Regarding the materials we use, different prodnational and international technical standardisaucts are made with different amounts of recycled tion committees that are drafting ambitious, harmaterials: Typically all the aluminium and 90% monised requirements for products such as ours. of the cast iron in Grundfos products are derived Where we are not actively participating, we make from recycled materials. Additionally, the stainsure we follow international standards, setting less steel we source is approximately 60% recyclear goals and delegating specific tasks to specled, copper 50% and polymer materials 0-10%. cialists in each area. Most of our packaging material (wood, paper) can be 100% recycled. Our product health and safety programme includes chemical management, product approvals Following up on our efforts the previous year, we and CE marking, and product compliance manhave implemented a global process for monitoragement processes. We closely monitor internaing regulatory requirements for our products – not tional regulations, market trends and customer only those that apply to environmental standards, needs, and change our management approach but all relevant legislation and standards that imwhere necessary. pact our product solutions. The aim now is to ensure that this process is running efficiently across Marketing and labelling the global organisation. OUR APPROACH Clear communication of the compliance, perforWe also continue the roll-out of a new chemical mance and end-of-life handling of our products to compliance IT platform for our products on a globour customers is of paramount importance for us. al basis to ensure that we can fully document our We achieve this through product marking and procompliance and to facilitate faster responses to viding information in our technical product docuour customers. Our goal is to provide Certificates mentation, installation & operating manuals (I&O), of Product Chemical Compliance for all standard safety manuals (IOS) as well as on the Grundfos products and variants upon request. We commuwebsite. nicate the safe use of our products in the I&O or IOS manual. Our results With the full integration of our eco-design tool into We conduct safety assessments of all of our prodkey design processes, we are now able to get tracucts and solutions and this year found six reporttion on setting specific targets for reducing the imed cases of possible accident risk for customers. pact of our products across the life-cycle. This will These were handled in accordance with estabbe fully implemented in 2018 with all new product lished systems and legal obligations. To the best development projects. Likewise, the systematic of our knowledge, we have not identified any inuse of LCA methods has already in the early stagstances of non-compliance with regulations and es of implementation allowed us to make design voluntary codes in relation to product informadecisions that not only fulfill the technical specifition and labelling. cations set, but also provide documented improveMost of our packaging material (wood, paper) can be 100% recycled ments regarding environmental impact. 17 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 20 1 7 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity HIGH EFFICIENCY CIRCULATOR PUMPS INVESTMENT IN DEVELOPING NEW SOLUTIONS Environmental Water 2017 ENERGY SAVED (BILLION kWh ANNUALLY) 6,6 2017 (% OF TURNOVER) 4,5 Footprint OUR APPROACH Water consumption is another of our large envi2016 2015 2014 3,5 4,5 5,5 2016 2015 2014 4,7 4,5 5,5 ronmental aspects. Our production facilities acEnergy and CO2 count for most of our water consumption (78% of 2013 2012 2,0 2,8 2013 2012 5,6 6,1 OUR APPROACH Group total) and discharge most of the wastewaCaused mainly by our manufacturing activities, ter. We are therefore focusing our efforts on these 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 energy consumption represents our biggest enviproduction facilities seeking to improve water-use ronmental aspect as it leads to CO2 emissions that efficiency and improve the quality of the wasteISO 14001-CERTIFIED PRODUCTION COMPANIES (%) RETURNED PUMPS FROM PARTNERS (KG) affect the climate. water through purification. 8,000 100 7,000 7,908 Our Group ambition is to continually reduce CO2 Our approach to water echoes our efforts on en80 88 92 92 88 6,000 6,260 84 emissions and never exceed the level we set in ergy use and CO2 emissions; we work within our 76 5,000 6,057 60 2008. We constantly track our performance in EHS policy and make use of ISO 14001 third-party 4,000 meeting this goal. assessment and set our facilities specific targets 40 3,000 for reducing our consumption. We are committed 2,000 20 We set specific targets for our production facilito cutting our water consumption by 50% by 2025, 1,906 2,093 1,000 1,503 ties, which correspond to 93% of Group total enand to improving the quality of discharged water. 00 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 ergy consumption. We focus our attention on implementation of energy-efficient and renewable Waste energy projects and we track performance monthOUR APPROACH ly. In doing so, we operate within the GEHS frameWaste and hazardous waste are the second and Our results work. third largest environmental aspects at our producIn 2017, we invested more than DKK 26 million in mainly the result of increased manufacturing action facilities. While operating within the frameenvironmental projects across our facilities. Notetivities and output. Our CO2 emissions are still 23% We use the ISO 14001 environmental management work of our EHS Policy and according to ISO 14001, worthy projects include the installation of LED below 2008, but the increases in energy consumpsystem to ensure compliance with national enviin 2017 we refined our approach in managing our lighting, energy-efficient Grundfos motors and tion and CO2 emissions have spurred us to further ronmental legislation. We evaluate and improve waste streams by launching a new set of waste drives, the Grundfos Dynafilter solution, Grundfos boost investments in 2018 to reverse this trend. our management approach with the help of ISO KPIs intended to support recycling, re-manufacBiobooster solution, heat pumps, and PV solar pan14001 third-party audits, our management review, turing and reuse in line with the logic and rationels. These projects are estimated to reduce energy We are rapidly moving towards our 2025 target of process improvement teams, internal process asale of the circular economy. consumption by 5,170 MWh and cut water use by reducing water consumption by 50%, and we are sessment and monthly operational reviews. One 42,155 m3. In 2017, less than 1% of our energy concurrently 34% below the 2008 level. Again, comsmall company left the ISO 14001, resulting in a 4% Our efforts to reduce waste streams extend besumption came from onsite renewable sources. mercial success and expansion led to our water decrease of our production sites that are certified yond our own production activities. In 2017, we consumption rising; we consumed 432,106 m3 in ISO 14001. Effective from 2018, we will enlarge collaborated with external partners to refine our Despite our reduction initiatives, we consumed 317 across our production facilities, a 2.4% increase the scope of companies that will participate in this take-back scheme for small circulators. In doing GWh of energy and emitted 101,682 tonnes of CO2 compared to 2016. mandatory certification, due to a reorganisation so, we reverse the supply chain and ensure that from our production facilties in 2017. Our energy of Grundfos Operations. our end-of-life products are disassembled and reconsumption and CO2 emissions increased by 6.4% As with our energy-efficiency measures, we will cycled as much as possible. and 10.6% respectively compared to 2016. This was intensify our efforts further to reverse the trend. 18 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 20 1 7 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity % Water source Amount m3 Through our take-back system in Denmark we colduced from 99,000 to 92,000 kg/million working 85.21% ● Municipal water 384,972 lected 6,260 kg of end-of-use circulators, which hours in 2017 compared to 2016, corresponding to 10.26% ● Ground water 46.347 our flex department dismantled in a responsible a 7% reduction. manner. This was 20% less than in 2016; however 4.36% ● Rainwater* 19,707 the decrease was expected due to our efforts to reIn 2017, we detected a few violations of EHS reg0.17% ● Surface water 787 fine the scheme, which we plan to scale up across ulations across our production facilities such as *Our reported water consumption excludes rainwater Europe in the coming years. wastewater discharge issues in Russia and Hungary and detection of soil contamination in DenHazardous waste increased from 50,000 kg per mark. Acting as a responsible company, we have Reduction of water consumption, 2008 baseline (%) million working hours in 2016 to 51,000 kg per milinitiated decisive action to deal with all violations 5% lion working hours in 2017, corresponding to a 2% and have engaged in an open and transparent dia0% 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 increase. The KPI for non-hazardous waste was relogue with all relevant authorities. -5% -10% -15% -20% IN PRACTICE -19% -25% -22% -30% -35% -28% -32% -33% -34% Cleaning contaminated soil in -40% -36% Denmark Reduction of CO2 emissions, 2008 baseline (%) IN 2014, MACHINE LUBRICANTS WERE FOUND TO HAVE 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 0% LEAKED FROM AN UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK AT ONE -5% OF OUR PRODUCTION FACILITIES IN BJERRINGBRO, DEN-10% MARK AND WE COMMITTED TO REHABILITATE THE AREA. -15% -20% -20% -23% Boreholes were drilled to ascertain the extent of the contamWe completed decontamination in October 2017 -25% -22% -30% -25% inated area, which was found to cover about 600 m2 around -30% the container space. Our first response was to inform authorWe completed decontamination in October 2017 and took the ities and create a plan of work to rehabilitate the area. “As a preventive action of commissioning a completely new conReduction of energy consumption kWh, 2008 baseline (%) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 responsible company, we have the clear ambition to clean up tainer yard. This has a safe underground system into which 0% completely, eliminating any risk of contamination of drinking the liquid in the containers drains, thus strengthening an2% water,” says Klaus E. Christensen, Lead Project Manager for ti-pollution safeguards. 4% -5% Group Environmental Health & Safety. 6% 8% -7% -7% SUSTAINABILITY FACTOR In total, 2,100 tons of contaminat-9% 10% -9% Further investigation revealed additional areas of contaminaed soil have been removed and 4,000 kilograms of oil have 12% -12% tion, including one that posed a risk to the ground water in been cleaned out to eliminate the risk of contaminating the 14% -14% Bjerringbro. Determined to achieve a complete clean-up, we ground. We have also commissioned a new container yard to 16% extended our work and covered the total cost. reduce the risk of future incidents. Note: Due to insufficient data, some years are presented using dotted lines 19 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 20 1 7 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity Water scarcity affects more than 40% of the world’s population. Passionate About 80% of household wastewater is discharged into rivers or the sea untreated, while about 70% of all water abstracted from rivers, lakes and aquifers is used for irrigation. These issues are close to our hearts, because we have the technology and solutions about to make a significant contribution to sustainable water use. water We want to contribute to meeting the global water challenge through technology and by utilising new business models to introduce sustainable solutions that strengthen our position in the market. We measure progress qualitatively by reaching ever-more people with sustainable solutions and by the quality and innovation value of the partnerships in which we engage. This chapter is split into the following sections: • Water for all, with sub-sections Water2Life and Lifelink “ • Partnerships for water. It is our ambition to make the smartest and most HIGHLIGHTS intelligently executed digital transformation in LIFELINK: WATER2LIFE IN VIETNAM: any industrial company. For others to learn from 46 NEW WATER KIOSKS IN KENYA, REACHING 1.85 MILLION and for us to leverage as a 21,000 DKK DONATED global industry leader that PEOPLE WATER FOR makes a genuine difference in solving the world's water MORE THAN 28,000 PEOPLE and climate challenges.” 700,000 WATER2LIFE: Mads Nipper, HAVE ACCESS TO CLEAN Grundfos CEO WATER THROUGH KICKS OFF NEW CAMPAIGN PARTNERSHIPS WITH WORLD FOR HONDURAS, BRINGING VISION INTERNATIONAL IN WATER TO HOSPITALS AND EIGHT COUNTRIES SCHOOLS 20 | S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 7 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity COMPLETION OF Water for all VIETNAM CAMPAIGN WITH FINAL NUMBERS: Water2Life OUR APPROACH DKK In some areas, access to clean water is a problem that needs to be addressed fast. Water2Life is an 1.85 million important part of our charity and employee enDONATED gagement effort. It is a programme initiated by our employees that seeks to provide clean water to some of the 109 km world’s most vulnerable communities; it inculOF NEW cates a sustainable mindset within the company. WATER PIPES Our involvement in projects is framed by a sustainable solution as decided by Grundfos, and is communicated to employees across the world. The approach is evaluated on a yearly basis by 16 km looking at results in terms of engagement and OF IMPROVED fundraising. WATER PIPES The programme works in partnership with a local NGO that suggests where the greatest impact can be had within a region or country. We determine WATER FOR which project to focus on and proceed to fundraise the first half of the project, while the local 28,000 NGO fundraises the second half and manages the Grundfos together with Water Mission and San Isidro hospital employees in Honduras PEOPLE daily responsibilities. This distribution of work is due to our belief that each partner should utilise its own core competences: We are close to our colHYGIENE EDUCATION FOR leagues and the NGO is close to the project sites. terworks, and the project provided sanitation and local communities, which creates both a sustainMORE THAN 3,600 hygiene education for more than 3,600 school able business model and jobs for local people. OUR RESULTS students. In 2017, we wrapped up our Water2Life project in In September 2017, we partnered with Water MisSCHOOL STUDENTS Vietnam. More than 100 km of pipeline has conThrough Water2Life donations, local waterworks sion and launched a new three-year project in Honnected the homes of 28,000 people to local wain Vietnam provide clean and affordable water to duras bringing clean water to schools and hospitals. 21 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 20 1 7 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity IN PRACTICE AQpure treats surface water in India THE WEST BENGAL PUBLIC HEALTH ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT (PHED) NEEDED HELP FINDING FINDING A RELIABLE SOURCE OF CLEAN WATER. At Charalkhali village in West Bengal, India, water is typically sourced either from tube wells, which have high levels of arsenic and Total Dissolved Solids (TDS), or open ponds, that contain high levels of coliform bacteria. The contaminated water caused the villagers to develop acute diarrhea and skin diseases. They could not opt for the traditional solution of an energy-consuming water treatment plant due to the remote location and the lack of reliable power supply. Consumers can easily load water credits onto their water cards via mobile payment platforms PHED set up and commissioned a pilot pond-based solar powered ultra filtration (UF) water purification system (AQpure) that treats local pond water in the village. After treatment, the clean water is then dispensed through a solar powered water Lifelink ATM (AQtap). The system has been up and running since November 2017, providing 10,000 litres of OUR APPROACH low-cost, clean and safe water drinking to around 2,000 community members every day. Grundfos Lifelink represents our commitment to pumps, water treatment (AQpure) and intelligent providing customised sustainable water solutions water ATMs (AQtaps) with online water manageto serving low-income communities in the develment and professional service to provide water oping world. By supporting revenue collection, kiosks connected to groundwater or surface wawith World Vision Kenya and funded by the Stone munities could access the mobile payment plattransparency and smarter water management, ter supplies. This plug-and-play water treatment Family Foundation, Grundfos finalised the impleform for tapping water 24/7 at the AQtaps. Lifelink solutions enable water service providers solution plays an important role for communities, mentation of 46 automated solar powered water to deliver a sustainable long-term community especially in Asia. Lifelink solutions also build on kiosks for 11 water projects in Kenya. We also delivered Lifelink solutions to treat sursupply. partnerships across sectors. face water in communities that have no access to The AQtap system requires GSM connectivity to clean and drinkable water. In West Bengal, India, We deliver Lifelink solutions to treat surface waOUR RESULTS operate efficiently, which means data consumpour ultra filtration (UF) membrane-based Grundter in communities that do not have access to The Grundfos Lifelink team continued building tion. We engaged with Kenyan mobile operator fos AQpure solution is up and running to treat wapotable water or water of sufficient quality for partnerships to bring sustainable access to safe Safaricom, which made available a special data ter for a large village that is surrounded by saline domestic purposes. We combine solar-powered water for low-income communities. Together package at an affordable price so that local comand contaminated surface water. 22 | S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 7 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity IN PRACTICE Easy and sustainable poor in Kenya, which have in the past struggled access to clean water with accountability issues and faced operational, maintenance and management challenges. in Kenya A total of 60 AQtaps have been installed in the IN PARTNERSHIP WITH WORLD VISION 11 projects under the scheme, half in Kalawa in KENYA, THE EAST AFRICAN COUNTRY NOW the Makueni region and half in Wema in Nakuru HAS 46 AUTOMATED WATER KIOSKS WHICH county. The amount of water dispensed, and the ARE CONNECTED TO MOBILE PAYMENT SERresulting revenue, have increased significantly – VICES VIA GRUNDFOS AQTAP WATER ATMS. revenue was 62% higher in 2017 compared with the same period the previous year, before the By jointly implementing automated water kiinstallation of AQTaps. The system has brought osks, we're piloting a new market-based water more transparency and accountability to the supply approach to significantly improve susmanagement of water kiosks, ending the revetainability. The project, which can be scaled up nue losses that used to occur through vendors for broader impact through public-private partand water committees. Consumers can access nerships, was funded by the Stone Family Founthe water kiosks 24/7. The efficient revenue coldation through its Water, Sanitation and Hylection supports the sustainability of the progiene (WASH) programme. Its aim is to improve ject and makes expansion plans possible. the sustainability of WASH projects for the rural Partnerships for water There are 60 AQtaps installed in 46 kiosks, serving more than 21,000 people OUR APPROACH World Vision images ©2017 World Vision, photo by Gregory Woodman used with permission For us, the main value of partnerships is in making a greater difference in the world, particularly when we are working in unchartered areas. Through SDG #17 on partnerships we can achieve our aim to take water of the required quality to where it is needed. 23 | S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 7 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity OUR RESULTS Some of our significant partnerships in 2017 are: Danish Refugee Council There are more than one million refugees in Uganda and more arrive every day; 82% of them are women and children younger than 18. Thousands arrive every month in need of food, water and shelter as a first response. Here, the local communities, ADRA International called host communities, are mixed with refugee We collaborated with the humanitarian organisasettlements. Each family is given a plot of land to tion ADRA International, with whom we will work cultivate. closely to provide access to clean water for 1.5 million people in Asia, Africa, Central and South AmerGrundfos partnered with the Danish Refugee ica, and the South Pacific over the next five years. Council’s Business-Humanitarian Partnership Lab, Our innovative technology will improve access bringing the first water solutions to the Bidi Bidi to water and hygiene resources in under-served refugee camp. peri-urban communities. The first water solutions for the Bidi Bidi refugee camp in Uganda were successfully installed SDG #6 with World Vision continues Ghana Ministry of Water Grundfos and the Ghanaian Minister for Sanita2030 Water Resources Group WE SIGNED A PARTNERSHIP WITH WORLD VISION IN 2014 AND OUR GOAL TO SUPPLY TWO tion and Water Resources signed a Memorandum In 2016, we joined the prestigious 2030 Water ReMILLION PEOPLE WITH CLEAN WATER BY 2020 IS PROGRESSING ACCORDING TO PLAN. of Understanding on improving clean water supsources Group, named for the 2030 Agenda for ply for the people of Ghana. Grundfos solutions Sustainable Development and the SDGs that guide During 2016 and 2017, our partnership with World Vision benefited more than 700,000 people. In deployed in both urban and rural areas of the West its goals. The group brings together public, private 2016, we recorded more than 322,000 people from nine countries who had access to clean water African country include solar-driven pumps, which and civil society at country level to have an open and this year we reached a further 384,500 people from eight countries, including Kenya, Tanzaare particularly suited for areas with unreliable or discussion about water management and to develnia, Uganda, Ethiopia, and Zambia. To realise our ambition, around 1,000 solar-power systems are non-existent power supplies. Furthermore, the foop concrete proposals that can help drive action on planned for the Sub-Saharan African region. cus is on capacity building and training. the management of water resources. 24 | S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 7 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity Grundfos has a long-standing tradition of taking responsibility in “ society, which derives from our founder Poul Due Jensen and his view of humanity. We care for our employees and they represent who we are. …We take care of our people, and we therefore continuously strive to ensure a Our social sustainability initiatives aim to make a difference for healthy and safe working environment. We wider society too. Our focuses are on preventing people from becoming excluded from the job market, improving employment wish to create a workplace which promotes rates for workers with reduced abilities, and the inclusion of mardiversity, encourages an inclusive workforce ginalised groups. and takes care of people with special needs” This chapter is divided into: (an extract from Group Sustainability Policy) • Occupational health and safety • Training and development • Employee satisfaction • Diversity and inclusion • Local communities HIGHLIGHTS 2.86% 91.4% EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES RETURN AFTER Social WITH REDUCED LONG TERM SICK LEAVE* WORK CAPACITY GLOBALLY IN 2017 COMPARED NEW GENDER Responsibility TO 2.2% IN 2016 DIVERSITY TARGET: Responsible 25% OF LEADERSHIP is our NEARLY POSTS FILLED BY 4,000 WOMEN AND 15% OF SEATS IN THE EXTENDED LEADERSHIP SAFETY WALKS TEAM (ELT) FILLED BY IN 2017 WOMEN BY 2020 *Based on experience in Mexico, China, Serbia, Hungary, Germany, Denmark and the Netherlands 25 | S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 7 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity % OF EMPLOYEES RECEIVING % OF TOTAL EMPLOYEES % OF TOTAL NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES % OF TERMINATED EMPLOYEES REGULAR PERFORMANCE REVIEWS BY GENDER BY GENDER BY GENDER BY GENDER 67% 33% 65% 35% 68% 32% 68% 32% MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE BY CONTRACT* <20 = 3% < 20 = 4% 20 29 = 27% 60% WHITE COLLAR 40% BLUE COLLAR 36% 33% 16,544 BY 20 29 = 37% BY 30 39 = 30% EMPLOYEES RECEIVED AGE 30 39 = 35% AGE 40 49 = 20% PDD IN 2017**** TEMPORARY PERMANENT GROUP GROUP 40 49 = 15% 50 59 = 11% 50 59 = 9% 60 69 = 7% 64% 67% DIVERSITY 60 69 = 1% > 70 = 1% % OF EMPLOYEES BY JOB CATEGORY AND GENDER BY REGION ** BY REGION** BY REGION ** BLUE COLLAR WHITE COLLAR 65% 66% 64% 33% 67% 32% 68% 35% FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE EMEA BY JOB <20 50% 71% CATEGORY 50% 29% 12% 13% AND AGE 42% 11% 13% 10% 11% 20-29 58% APREG GROUP 32% 30-39 75% 68% EMEA APREG AMERICAS CHINA EMEA ASIA/PACIFIC AMERICAS CHINA 25% 40-49 38% 62% AMERICAS 48% 50-59 52% 70% * Trainees and invalid *** Former employees who BLUE 12.8% information regarding joined and left the company 51% 30% RATE OF EMPLOYEE COLLAR 60-69 MALE employees’ contract type are in 2017 are not included 49% CHINA excluded **** Based on registrations in TURNOVER*** WHITE 100% FEMALE ** Based on Legal Company the PDD system >70 0% COLLAR 26 | S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 7 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity Occupational health & safety OUR APPROACH More than 40 companies participated in Grundfos Safety Week held in April 2017 We care for our employees, ensuring a healthy or eliminate them entirely, we set targets for all and safe workplace, and remaining true to the production sites and assess the results at monthly key value of focusing on our people. We work management meetings. We constantly grow and constantly to reduce the number and the severity nurture our safety culture to ensure full impleOUR RESULTS of injuries, and have set ambitious goals in terms mentation of our Safety Policy across all regions. which are supported by our Health and Safety During 2017, one way we strengthened safety leadof strengthening a “safe operation” mindset and Centre of Excellence and our Global Health and ership was to include the issue in our Operations trying to eliminate injuries and injury-related Priority areas are safety leadership and knowlSafety Community, as well as systems for moniConvention, a forum in which our top 100 leadabsence from work. edge sharing, including safety walks, and cortoring performance. We evaluate our approach ers in Operations participate. We also increased rective action to ensure continual improvement through internal management reviews, third-parknowledge-sharing and focused on activation of Producing, assembling and servicing pumps and and support. Our commitment to this is clear in ty audits, Grundfos Production System assessour Health and Safety Community, for example by products can result in work-related injuries and our Safety Incident Management System (to be ments (internal audits), and a general plan-doestablishing expert teams and strengthening our ergonomic injuries. To keep these to a minimum, implemented in 2018) and our Group ambitions, check-act approach. global, regional and local organisation. 27 | S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 7 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity One of the key activities of the year was the Grundfos Safety Week IN PRACTICE held in April. It included Safety Walks, an initiative in which employees and management identify and act on potential risks before they cause an accident. More than 40 companies participated, and more 1,000 days without lost than 450 Safety Walks were carried out both inside and outside factories during that week. The figure for the full year was nearly 4,000. time injuries in Finland and We also prepared a Safety Incident Management System which will be launched in 2018 and will help us to identify more risks and preIndianapolis, USA vent injuries from happening. IT IS ABOUT COMMITMENT TO INCLUDE SAFETY IN ALL ACDespite the increased focus on health and safety in 2017, there is still TIONS, AT ALL LEVELS BY EVERYONE AT ALL TIMES. room for improvement. The number of reported lost-time injuries per million working hours increased 28%, from 3.30 in 2016 to 4.23 In Japanese, Kaizen is a word that can be loosely translated as in 2017. The sharper focus on the issue has improved transparency, “change for the better”; or a habit of making small improveAt PPU, the main focus is to get all employees to and created a better understanding of why reporting is important ments. It is a well-known concept at Grundfos Finland (GEF), in preventing injuries. where safety enhancement ideas are an essential part of the understand that their actions have an impact on their Continuous Improvement Proposal process. personal life and the business The injury rate in 2017 could be linked to the higher production levels we are now experiencing, but we will not regard this as an excuse for “As a key initiative, we have encouraged all employees to report work-related injuries and we are determined to reverse the trend. any safety-related observation or idea, no matter how big or small it seems, and we have promised to take action immediately,” says Marko Mäkipää, Grundfos Finland’s Production & EHSQ Manager. “Furthermore, several initiatives have been implemented to support awareness, among them Safety Walks and injury observation sharing with other production facilities. For the past couple of years, we have changed the attitude towards Near Miss reporting from a negative to positive KPI, meaning the more near miss reports are done the better. Safety is a mindset and must be reinvented every day.” Meanwhile at Grundfos USA (PPU), it all started with an ambition. Over the last three years, a specific safety training was In GEF, the more near misses are reported, the better introduced. Its focus is to get all employees to reflect that their actions have consequences not just for themselves but also for family, colleagues and the business. “Now we see how everyone at PPU. They also rolled out a Kaizen programme in April 2017 , looks out for each other and supports each other to make safe gathering 104 suggestions for safety improvements, really putGrundfos Hungary introduces an initiative where a light is and thought-through decisions,” says Ashley Lory, EHS Manager ting the focus on little improvements to make a big difference. attached to a vehicle as a way to increase safety 28 | S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 7 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity IN PRACTICE A success for the company and its talent WE ROLLED OUT A NEW BUSINESS-DRIVEN TALENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME IN 2017, POWER UP GRUNDFOS (P-U-G), “I had no idea that I was even considered to be a talent on TO BOOST OUR EMPLOYEES’ COMPETENCES AND SKILLS EVEN a Group level. I simply cannot pass up this opportunity,” FURTHER. Adamovic says. Since the programme runs parallel with normal duties, there are times when it can be challenging to balance The Poul Due Jensen Academy is our training academy To us, success means that the company and its employees grow these duties, the programme, and family life. “But the support together. The programme helps achieve this by continually dedicated for our employees to develop their competences from my family and commitment from fellow participants are and consistently identifying and developing high-potential very motivating,” Adamović adds. “Not only have I expanded employees. “This will make the filling of key positions faster my network, I also have the chance to collaborate with some and more efficient, and at the same time help us to retain highly talented employees and make sure we have the key great professionals whom I would normally never encounter in my current job. There are huge benefits for both my personal Training & development competencies required for the present and the future,” says and professional growth in learning to work in a very dynamic Hanne Fonnesbæk, Group Senior Director, Organisational and multicultural environment. It has helped my time OUR APPROACH Development. management and prioritisation,” she says. The rapid, agile and timely development of each of our employees, who together offer a rich diversity of backgrounds, competences The programme has four phases: entry, validation, development and skills, is crucial to our strategy to deliver more to our customers. and transition. “The company selects talented employees based on their current performance as well as their potential within Our focus is to attract people with the right competencies and esthe areas where we need more or new skills. This is further tablish the best conditions for them to learn and grow with the supplemented by an evaluation in which individual aspiration, company. By optimising our global training model and offering effimotivation and readiness play a huge part,” she adds. During cient, relevant training opportunities that motivate our people, we the programme, participants are assigned tasks and mentors nurture their competencies and align their behaviour, knowledge and have access to various learning and development and skills with our current and future needs. opportunities. Our Global Learning and Development function orchestrates a Our Operations function was the first to adopt the programme. “training warehouse”, which is the entry point for all our training It selected 27 employees from across the world and brought activities across the world, both face-to-face as well as online. them to Denmark to kick off the global programme. Among These 27 employees from across the globe came to them was Vanja Adamović, Quality Manager at GMS, a Denmark to kick off the global programme In our digital yet VUCA (volatile, uncertain, complex and ambiguGrundfos manufacturing plant in Serbia. ous) world, we remain true to our value of Focused on People. For 29 | S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 7 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity our employees to succeed, they need fast and agile development of the survey results as an indicator of the future success of Grundtheir competences. The Global Learning and Development function fos, and include them as a key performance indicator in our Strategy will soon launch an accelerated process of working with learning. 2020. Grundfos constantly strives to improve the work environment, Using new digital opportunities, this will make it easier for staff to and the survey gives us an indication of how we are doing at every access training anytime, anywhere and on any device, so they can level of the company. Employees remain anonymous in the survey. adapt to the fast-changing environment in which they operate – all for the benefit of our customers. In creating the survey questions, our Global HR management team collaborate with relevant stakeholders. It is translated into 33 lanOUR RESULTS guages and questions are answered on a 10-point scale. In 2017, our Global Training Warehouse offered 275 training opportunities, nearly half of them online tutorials that could be accessed We use the feedback from employees to identify opportunities for anytime and anywhere. The Global Learning and Development funcimprovement at all levels within our organisation. Managers are tion facilitated about 20 commercial, technical and leadership, and strongly encouraged to use the survey results to strengthen their generic courses related to project management and trainer skills. leadership skills with a view to improving business performance. These took place at the Poul Due Jensen Academy, regional venues and via online platforms. Some of our highlights: OUR RESULTS • Continued focus on leadership training – around 250 people, In 2017, we saw a record-breaking participation rate of 95% in the yearboth first-line managers and managers of managers, participatly survey. The satisfaction level overall is at 70, and the loyalty rate is at ed in face-to-face courses in Denmark and in the regions. 79. These results give management on all levels a solid foundation for • The internal trainer concept, which focuses on improving the their efforts to improve their organisation and leadership. skills of sales and technical trainers around the world; to date, around 100 trainers have taken part in the basic training. The annual engagement survey gives us factual insights as to where • Getting the basics right with the Sales Backbone project, an we as leaders and teams can and should take action to make Grunde-learning programme consisting of 55 modules. It supported fos an even greater place to work. The results showed among other over 3,000 employees globally. Several new modules have been things that the company has a strong feedback culture and solid leaddeveloped, targeted at our strategic initiatives such as quality ership, and has achieved solid traction on important behaviours such and SIOP (Sales Inventory, and Operations Planning). as collaboration and accountability. Employees rated 46% of our man• Supporting the OneHR journey for 60 managers in the global HR agement cadre as “strong” leaders, which is an impressive result. The community by addressing the needs of virtual leaders and their main challenges are found within people’s perception of our ability team members. Employee to manage change, learning opportunities, and customer-centricity. In Denmark, about 15,800 hours were spent on labour training programmes; 46 people qualified as skilled workers through apprentice programmes and 12 unskilled employees progressed to skilled level. satisfaction The overall satisfaction and motivation level met the group target for 2017, and was an improvement of two points compared to the results of the pulse survey that we did in 2016 (based on a sample). As part of a refugee integration initiative, eight refugees were reOUR APPROACH In the coming years we are determined to keep a strong focus on cruited to a two-year training programme focused on integration The employee motivation survey represents the voice of Grundfos’ people engagement. Not just to move closer to our ambitious 2020 and equipping them for a future on the Danish job market. Four of people and provides an overview of loyalty and morale. Since there target, but because our people and their engagement are crucial for them will go on to train as skilled Industrial Operators in 2018. is a link between employee motivation and customer loyalty, we see our future success. 30 | S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 7 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity Diversity & inclusion Diversity in leadership OUR APPROACH Grundfos has an ambitious vision for innovation, and we see harnessing the full potential of our diverse group of people as a way to achieve this. We acknowledge that we have struggled to achieve gender diversity in leadership positions, and we are now focusing on this. Our ambition, commitment and target-setting in this area was reviewed in Autumn 2017. In 2020, we want women to account for one in four members of our full leadership population. In addition, we set a target for the Extended Leadership Team (ELT) of 15% women members by 2020. This target is ambitious – there are currently no women in the ELT – but it is achievable. We will launch targeted initiatives both within the organisation and outside it to attract and retain female leaders. We will focus on ensuring that our existing global processes and programmes, which deal with recruitment, talent development, succession and flexible working conditions, contribute to the gender goals. OUR RESULTS Grundfos reached its target of increasing the proportion of nonDanes in key positions – the target for 2017 was 40%, and we ended up with 41%. But we did not meet the target we had set of increasing the proportion of women in leadership positions to 25%. Despite our efforts in such key processes as recruitment, succession, talent and development initiatives, we ended up with 20%. This led us to review our diversity approach and focus. National diversity has improved, and we will strive to do even better. But genFind out how Grundfos Mexico (MXP) lives our values by having an inclusive workforce der diversity obviously requires an intensified focus. 31 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 20 1 7 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity We have given our revised policy a title: Commitment. We want more women in leadership positions because we truly believe that innovation depends on the input of highly qualified people with different backgrounds. A diversity of competencies, cultures, generations, genders, races and religions drives invention and high performance. These are our new gender diversity targets: • 25% of leadership posts filled by women in 2020 (2017 status: 20%) • 15% of positions in ELT filled by women in 2020 (2017 status: 0%) Our gender diversity ambitions are part and parcel of processes such as employer branding, recruitment, succession, talent and development initiatives. To give muscle to the ambitions, top management is engaging in dialogue about the issue and we are evaluating a series of new initiatives. These will be prioritised and approved during the first quarter of 2018, leading to a revised action plan. The Grundfos Holding A/S board has nine directors, three of them elected by employees. Of the remaining six, five are men. The board intends to increase the number of woman directors among these six to two by 2020. No directors were replaced in 2017. We are always looking for qualified candidates and expect to fulfil the targeted number of female directors by 2020. We expect to increase our proportion of employees with reduced work capacity globally to 3% by 2020 Inclusive Workforce Employees with reduced work capacity OUR APPROACH or prolonged absence from work. We promote health and wellbeing, We have developed global standards for ensuring a healthy return to Concern for people runs deep in our veins. One of our salient initiamainly by doing all we can to prevent ill health, which includes an work after sick leave, and for employment with reduced work capactives is the employment of workers with reduced work capacities so intensified focus on stress-related illness. We also make every effort ity, based on our experience in Mexico, China, Serbia, Hungary, Gerthey are not excluded from the job market. Our focus is on finding to ensure that those who take sick leave can make a healthy return many, Denmark and the Netherlands. These companies have since jobs for employees with reduced work capacity, and we want to see to work. begun to deploy the standards and by the end of 2018 all companies this happen in all countries where we operate. in Grundfos are expected to be operating on the same standards. OUR RESULTS Healthy return to work One of our salient initiatives is preventing people from being excludWe have redefined the category “rates of retention” by recasting it OUR APPROACH ed from the job market due to health-related or social issues. We do as the “return-to-work rate” so we can think more precisely about We play our part in ensuring employees can enjoy a long and healthy this by providing jobs for employees with reduced work capacity. To the issue. In the above seven companies, we identified 206 cases of working life; that they are not pushed out of the workforce due to ill date, 2.86% of the workforce in all countries comprises employees in employees who had to take more than 14 consecutive days of sick health (either ergonomic injury or mental/psychological harm) and/ this category. We expect this number to grow to 3% by 2020. leave. Among these, 188 returned to work, a rate of 91.4%. 32 | S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 7 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity To support reforestation, our employees in Turkey along with their families ran for charity and donated over 3,700 euro to TEMA Foundation, an environmental and conservation NGO The Summer Camp initiative at Grundfos Hungary won Grundfos' internal Future Now Social Award 2017 Local engagement tina, we raised funds with a recycling programme to the communities in which they operate. Thus, for scholarships and Grundfos United Kingdom many of our community engagement projects are OUR APPROACH We also engage in activities designed to improve and South Africa's charity project SACRED continrun and financed by local employees who also ofWe want to support and play an active role in socithe quality of life and standard of living for local ues to provide better education and living condifer voluntary service. These initiatives include: ety and contribute to local communities wherevpeople. Our local companies give expression to tions for 5,200 children in South Africa. er we operate, in whatever ways we can. One such our Focus on People and Sustainability values in DENMARK At the Grundfos headquarters in Denway is to help to integrate marginalised groups the areas where they operate in many ways. For OUR RESULTS mark, the canteen serves healthy food; the focus into the labour market and offer opportunities for example in Russia, Grundfos runs a charity project We understand that our local companies know is on seasonal vegetables, and about 30% of the personal and professional advancement. for children in orphanages and hospitals. In Argenbest what initiatives will provide most benefit products are organic. This year, the canteen re33 | S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 7 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity IN PRACTICE duced food waste by more than 40%, or 13 tonnes, compared to 2016. This adds up to a 70% reduction from the estimated 60 tonnes of food waste in 2013. Through the Del Maden initiative, we delivered three tonnes of food to socially marginalised people. In partnership with Daka, the kitchen’s remaining food waste was used in seven different ways before finally being used as fertiliser on local farms. The canteen must now focus on maintaining these trends in the years to come. HUNGARY After an assessment in 2016, Grundfos Hungary learnt that many employees at our sites in Tatabanya/Tata and Székesfehérvár would like to have fun yet educational summer activities for their children during their ten weeks of summer holiday. The parents have two weeks off, so to improve the work-life balance, and in line with our social values, we organised a summer camp for 128 children those of employees and also many from an orphanage. The three-week camp had a different theme each week (sports, sustainability, dance) in a programme organised by an educator. Close attention was paid to the children's nutriImproving the quality of education in India tion at meal-time, and they were given small gifts AS PART OF OUR COMMITMENT TO OUR LOCAL COMMUNITY, GRUNDFOS INDIA PARTNERED WITH THE MADHI FOUNDATION, A NON-PROFIT ORand a diploma at the end of the camp. GANISATION WORKING IN THE EDUCATION SECTOR TO BRIDGE THE QUALITY GAP IN EDUCATION FOR CHILDREN. USA Hurricane Harvey which flooded thousands Its Transformational Academic Programme (TAP) operated in 40 classrooms in 15 corporation / government schools in Chennai in 2015, reforming educaof homes in August, 2017 hit our facility in Brooktion for teachers and students. It seeks to improve teachers’ skills in language proficiency and their knowledge of the latest teaching-learning techniques shire, Texas. Some of our employees were trapped and attempts to transform the learning environment for students. It takes a data-driven approach to attaining higher order literacy and numerical skills. and unable to leave their neighbourhoods. Employees from other parts of the USA travelled hunIn 2016, we started to support the project by sponsoring two classrooms at the CMS Arumbakkam School in Chennai. We hoped that through this endeavdreds of kilometres to help distressed colleagues our, students who were weak in subjects like mathematics and English would be able to improve their verbal and numerical competencies. The results in Houston. One drove a crane truck from Chicago were clearly visible; children from the classrooms that implemented TAP achieved dramatically better mastery of English, science and mathematics than towing a trailer loaded with food, water, clothing, their peers in classrooms that did not have this intervention. The teachers also performed better and delivered the curriculum in an efficient and interacpumping equipment and other necessities for our tive manner. In a recent teacher survey, 100% of teachers said the TAP programme helped them improve the quality of their teaching. partners. 34 | S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 7 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity “ Being a global organisation, we need a shared set of principles that can guide As a company that operates across cultures, traditions and legal jurisdictions, we are committed to be an ethical, value-based corporate citizen operating in a fair and legal way in every market. Respect for human rights is embodied in our values and leads our all employees in how to comply with business. Honesty and integrity are our foundation; simply, this is the company values and our ambitious how we want to do business. Above all, to us, acting ethically and ethical standards. These principles are responsibly is the right thing to do. described in our Code of Conduct.” This chapter has sections on legal compliance, with sub-sections Lars Aagaard, for anti-corruption and competition law, and human rights and Chairman of the Ethics Committee forced labour, with sub-sections for each of these. HIGHLIGHTS MORE THAN 100% 85% NEW SUPPLIERS WERE EMPLOYEES SCREENED USING ENVIRONMENT AND PARTICIPATED IN SOCIAL CRITERIA Ethics and THE CODE OF CONDUCT TRAINING integrity A PILOT LOCAL SUSTAINABILITY AUDITS: HUMAN 15 97 RIGHTS IMPACT FROM TO ASSESSMENT 2016 2017 IN CHINA A NEW WHISTLEBLOWER SYSTEM WAS INTRODUCED, AVAILABLE IN ALL COUNTRIES WHERE WE OPERATE AND IT IS MANAGED BY A THIRD PARTY 35 | S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 7 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity (2) Risk assessment; (3) Rules and guidelines; (4) end-users, utilities and industry. reports of irregularities since the launch. Claims Training and communication; and (5) Monitoring, or reports can be lodged in a range of languages. auditing and response. Our public affairs effort is three-pronged: Abuses that can be reported include infringement First, our main focus is on informing the various of human rights, discrimination and forced labour. Internal Controls and Audits parts of our organisation about political develOur Corporate Internal Control (CIC) has issued an opments across the world and how they affect Moreover, our annual financial statements comaudit instructions manual that lays down guideour business. Second, we focus a large part of our ply with the Danish Financial Statements Act (Årslines for control visits to local companies. Its main efforts on positioning Grundfos at top-of-mind regnskabsloven) and are audited by an independfocus is companies in high-risk countries which are among key public decision-makers. Finally, we lobent auditor. Grundfos Group Reporting, also known scrutinised to ensure they have effective measures by directly when proposed legislation is likely to as the Monthly Performance Report, provides deagainst bribery, kickbacks, or other financial mishave a major impact on our business. tailed information about the performance of difconduct, and that they comply with the Grundferent units within the group for management. fos Code of Conduct. The manual also deals with We work with governments, NGOs, development Meet Allan, Dan, Ana, and John, four ways of improving business processes and controls banks and advocacy organisations around the In 2017, we received 52 complaints through the where necessary. world to push for policies that support energy and whistleblower system. Of these, three were concharacters who presented Code of Conduct water efficiency. sidered breaches of the Code of Conduct in the related cases based on everyday dilemmas Compliance Screening areas of conflict of interest, bookkeeping and We thoroughly screen all business partners (both Competition law accounts, and compliance with laws and regulaLegal compliance customers and suppliers) against sanctioned-party lists. The screening includes scrunity of ownership structures. OUR APPROACH We want to contribute to fair, free and unlimited competition as we believe this benefits consumers, tions. After revising our Code of Conduct in 2016, we businesses and the economy in general. In every launched the Code of Conduct Training in 2017. Anti-corruption Public Policy market where we do business, it is essential for More than 85% of Grundfos employees took part OUR APPROACH We have a clear purpose, which is independent of Grundfos to comply with applicable competition worldwide. Our 2017 global Code of Conduct trainTrue to our commitment to zero tolerance of corparty politics. We do not support or make contribulegislation. This affects almost every aspect of our ing highlighted prevention of corruption – includruption, our goal is to protect our business by tions in any way to any political party or any politdealings, including pricing, promotion, sale of proding bribery, facilitation payments and conflict of eliminating – or reducing to the lowest possible ical candidate. However, it is important to support ucts and services, and relationships with competiinterest – along with human rights and non-disdegree – the risk of infringing money laundering and encourage public officials to develop sound tors and customers. criminatory practices. An anti-corruption section and anti-corruption laws and regulations. Our policies. We offer well-reasoned inputs to help polformed part of the 97 audits carried out so far in Code of Conduct and Grundfos Anti-bribery Comicy-makers make informed decisions on how to Our results our supplier sustainability audit programme. The pliance Programme are the foundations for manpromote energy and water efficiency. We support: A new Whistleblower system was introduced by research into policy, training and reporting of inciaging compliance in all markets. At the same time, • Fair water and energy pricing, based on the tothe Ethics Committee in March 2017 and it is availdents is used to evaluate the supplier. authorities across the globe are placing increased tal cost to society to incentivise efficient water able in all countries where we operate, managed emphasis on establishing robust and risk-based consumption and supply; by a third party. Claims or reports of violations can Our Global Anti-corruption Risk Assessment covcorporate compliance programmes. • Doing business in an environmentally and sobe submitted anonymously, if desired, to a website ered all Group sales and operations entities and all cially sustainable way; or via the app, with documents, pictures, videos markets. The assessment identified no incidents Five key elements are common to all legal compli• Public support for research and innovation in and the like. We expect an increasing number of relating to corruption, but we flagged potential ance programmes and form the basis of our comwater and energy efficiency; and reports through the system as we work to raise risks that we are exposed to. We plan to base our pliance efforts: (1) Commitment and organisation; • Informed decision-making by politicians, awareness of it and there has been an increase in mitigation initiatives on this risk assessment. 36 | S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 7 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity Human rights & forced labour Freedom of association Health & Human Rights safety Discrimination OUR APPROACH Our commitment to people is the foundation of of potential and existing adverse impacts in difour work with human rights. Respect for human ferent areas of the business, covering our own oprights is embedded in our Code of Conduct and erations and those of selected business partners. SOME OF is integral to how we stay true to our values. We We also want to identify opportunities to advance endorse and use as a frame of reference the Unithuman rights, especially in areas where we could OUR SALIENT ed Nations Guiding Principles for Business and have a significant impact, such as access to water HUMAN Human Rights (UNGP). Our objective is to prevent and sanitation. Our journey to respecting human Wages & RIGHTS ISSUES Forced labour benefits Grundfos operations causing or contributing to rights is detailed in our Prevention of Modern violations of human rights, or being linked to any Slavery Progress Report 2016. negative impact. With the support of Business for Social ResponsiForced labour bility (BSR), a global network dedicated to buildOUR APPROACH ing a just and sustainable world, we assessed poWorking hours Our overall human rights due diligence protential impacts globally in 2015. In the following Child labour gramme has identified forced labour and modern year, we assessed gaps in five countries – selected slavery as a salient issue, a finding that was reinaccording to human rights risks and the number forced by our pilot Human Rights Impact Assessof employees – between our systems and the rement. The prohibition of forced labour and modquirements of the UNGP. ern slavery is part of Grundfos’ overall human A high-level corporate mapping in collabration with Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) to rights due diligence programme. Our progress is However, the systems we have in place to prevent identify our salient human rights issues at a global scale reported annually in our Prevention of Modern potential abuses omit some of our business partSlavery Progress Report. ners, and our upcoming initiatives will focus on closing these gaps. We are still at an early stage Our results of the programme, strengthening its foundation, we improve our data with regard to concrete arePrinciples to prepare for a human rights assessWe are aware that understanding and managing assessing areas that require our attention, and as of impact, we expect to monitor remediation ment conducted that year. In 2017, we conducted human rights is a journey and we seek to continevaluating which measures help us address the and implementation of mitigation measures as a pilot local Human Rights Impact Assessment in ually improve our governance and processes to gaps identified. Our main goal today is to close applicable. partnership with BSR in China. From the assesslive up to our commitment and our stakeholders' gaps through sustainable solutions, and we focus ment, we learnt that we need to enhance the expectations. To help assess our human rights on concrete initiatives such as supplier audits. We In 2016, the HR representatives of China, Denmanagement of other issues, for example land impact, we drafted the Grundfos Human Rights are also checking that we fix any shortcomings mark, India, Russia and Mexico received 1.5 hours rights, since our existing systems address the topPolicy in 2014. It includes an ongoing assessment identified in our systems. In the coming years, as of training on the provisions of the UN Guiding ic to only a limited extent. We also identified op 37 | S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 7 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity IN PRACTICE Code of Conduct Training for all employees WITH A TRAINING RATE OF MORE THAN 85%, OUR 2017 GLOBAL CODE OF CONDUCT TRAINING HIGHLIGHTED SUCH ISSUES AS PREVENTING CORRUPTION, INCLUDING BRIBERY AND FACILITATION PAYMENT, CONFLICT OF INTEREST, OBSERVING HUMAN RIGHTS AND AVOIDING DISCRIMINATION. Employees at all levels must know the guidelines of our Code of Conduct and how to live by them. Therefore, training was rolled out across the entire organisation as well as across functions and departments. The training emphasises our ethical guidelines, dealing with dilemmas that we might meet in our daily life as part of a global company. “In the same way as our strategy and values set the direction of the company, our Code of Conduct sets the direction as to how we must act in a value-based organisation like Grundfos. It is crucial that all employees in all functions and at all levels are familiar with the principles and know how to respond to dilemmas. To make sure that our employees know how to act in a way that is ethically correct, we have involved all of them in discussions and workshops concerning our Code of Conduct, which is quite unique,” says Kim Nøhr Skibsted, Group Vice President, Communications, Public Affairs & Engagement. portunities to collaborate with business partners we understand all the risks, impacts and opporin initiatives to improve environmental-impact tunities around this topic. As part of our overall performance. human rights due diligence programme, we want to have mechanisms in place to reduce the risk of In regard to forced labour, we have identified contributing to or being in any way linked to adthe need to better understand the risks and to verse human rights impacts, including forced lastrengthen our efforts, especially with regard to bour. If abuses do occur despite out best efforts, business partnerships. We need to extend our we need to take remedial action. programmes to include monitoring deeper down the supply chain, and to look closely at some serIn the coming years, as we improve our data in revice providers in high-risk countries. Our business gards to concrete areas of impact, we expect to More than 85% of employees participated in the Code of Conduct Training in 2017 partnerships are where we need to strengthen monitor remediation and implementation of mitour efforts. Nonetheless, we need to make sure igation measures as applicable. 38 | S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 7 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity SUSTAINABILITY AUDITS ASSESSED BY GRUNDFOS 22 21 EXISTING NEW SUPPLIERS SUPPLIERS ASSESSED BY EXTERNAL PARTNER Sustainable 100 EXISTING 97 NEW supply chain supply situation. We assess a selection of tier 1 and global direct material suppliers on their environmental and social impacts. • By an external agency, when a supplier appears on the annual SUPPLIERS SUPPLIERS social-risk radar. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT OUR APPROACH Our Grundfos Suppliers Code of Conduct communicates to our supOUR RESULTS 1 existing supplier was found to have a minor negative issue pliers that we expect them to operate in accordance with local and In our supply chain, we have dramatically increased the number of 0 new suppliers were found to have a potential issue (assessed international standards with regard to human rights, labour rights, sustainability audits, going from 15 in 2016 to 97 in 2017. Our main by us and by external partner) the environment and business integrity, among other issues. The goal today is to close the gaps identified as well as to conduct addi100% new suppliers were screened using environmental and audits measure a supplier's level of compliance with the Grundfos tional audits. social criteria Suppliers Code of Conduct. Each and every new supplier was screened using environmental and SOCIAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT The audit occurs in two ways: social criteria. One out of 43 (2.3%) assessed suppliers had a minor Seven suppliers had significant issues of non-compliance with • By Grundfos internal employees, when a company is being evalupotential negative impact on the environment. Improvement action Grundfos Code of Conduct ated as a potential supplier and when there is any change in the has been agreed with the supplier. 39 | S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 7 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity About the report It is important for us to set targets and monitor progress. It is the ADDENDUM BY BSR ambition of the company to engage in open and transparent diaBSR, a global nonprofit organisation focused on corporate sustainlogue with our stakeholders by providing a fair and balanced picture ability, has provided Grundfos with feedback on the content in the of Grundfos' contribution to sustainable development. pre-publication drafts of the company's Sustainability Report. BSR's comment do not verify or otherwise provide an opinion on the acThe Sustainability Report 2017 covers Grundfos Holding A/S Group, curacy or completeness of data or other information in the report. including all subsidiaries that are owned and controlled 100% by Instead, BSR's comments represent a perspective, based on our exGrundfos. We have been publishing an annual Sustainability Report perience in the field of environmental and social reporting and on since 1999 with the latest one published in June 2017. Grundfos Susour work with Grundfos, on its reporting efforts to date and items tainability Report 2017 is our annual non-financial reporting. The rewe think worthy of improvement or addition in future years. port is also informed by the UN Global Compact (UNGC) Principles and serves as our annual UNGC Communication on Progress. Data Strengths in Grundfos' reporting include the clear identification and in this report covers the period between January 1st and December comprehensive coverage of material issues and an assessment us31st, 2017, unless otherwise noted. ing a forward-looking lens, as well as excellent reporting on sustainability in a broader context, highlighting specific SDGs relevant to This self-assessed report is structured along four main areas, and the business. in terms of the topics most relevant for our stakeholders and the areas where we can have a significant impact. Please refer to the It is also a key strength that the report provides performance data Priority Topic Assessment section for information on material topics against previous years and a good balance between positive and and boundaries. poor performance. This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global ReportAreas of improvement include more in-depth discussion of the iming Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core Option. Please refer to the GRI portance of material issues to specific stakeholders, how key stakeContent Index for a complete listing of GRI disclosures included in holders are identified and specific results of stakeholder engagethis report. ment. With the exception of gender and diversity goals, it could strengthen accountability with set targets to accompany a future The basis for restatement of previously reported data, relevant calstrategy, such as a set of 2020 goals. culation methodologies and data limitations are explained where applicable. For further information or questions regarding Sustainability Report 2017, please contact Pia Yasuko Rask, Senior Manager, Engagement & Responsibility, at prask@grundfos.com For further information about Grundfos and sustainability, visit www. grundfos.com/sustainability 40 | S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 7 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity Key performance indicators 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2008 Narrative GREEN AT HEART Products Investment in new products (% of turnWe offer solutions that use as little energy as possible. That is why 4.5 4.7 4.5 5.5 5.6 6.1 5.6 over) we measure our savings. As innovation leaders, we aim to take High efficiency circulator pumps – full advantage of the benefits new technology can bring. It takes 6.6 5.5 4.5 3.5 2.8 2.0 investments in new products. energy saved CO2 (metric tonnes)* 101,682 91,952 99,627 107,388 103,980 106,170 132,603 It is our ambition to continually reduce our emissions and never exceed the level we set in 2008. We are also committed to cutting Energy consumption (MWh)* 317,066 297,937 305,657 313,633 324,089 320,264 347,207 water consumption by 50% by 2025 and to improving the quality of discharged water. Water usage (m3)* 432,106 422,059 440,271 445,704 474,580 509,468 655,136 Non-hazardous waste (kg per million 92,000 99,000 101,000 110,000 115,000 109,947 228,000 working hours)* It is our ambition to ensure sustainability at every stage of the Hazardous waste (kg per million working product life-cycle. We continually look for ways to reduce our ma51,000 50,000 54,000 60,000 70,000 106,850 94,000 terial footprint and reduce or eliminate the use of certain hazardhours)* ous substances in our products and production processes. In line Returned pumps from partners (kg) 6,260 7,908 6,057 N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. with ISO14001, we have also refined our approach to remanufacturing and reuse in line with the logic and rationale of the circular ISO 14001-certified production economy. 88% 92% 92% 88% 84% 76% 84% companies (%) RESPONSIBLE Occupational health & safety Injuries (per million working hours) 4.23 3.30 4.83 4.57 5.82 10.21 We work constantly to reduce the number and severity of injuries and have set ambitious goals in terms of strengthening a ‘safe opLost working hours due to injuries** (per eration’ mindset and trying to eliminate injuries and injury-related 0.41 0.39 0.68 0.54 0.71 0.96 absence from work. thousand working hours) OHSAS 18001 production companies (%) 74 83 83 80 68 56 68 Our focus is to attract people with the right competencies and Performance development dialogue*** establish the best conditions for them to learn and grow with the company. The performance development dialogue between manBlue collar 40% 80% 47% 36% 76% 79% ager and employee helps achieve this. White collar 60% 86% 70% 66% 86% 80% There is a link between employee motivation and customer loyalty. Grundfos constantly strives to improve the work environment, and the survey gives us an indication of how we are doing at every Employee satisfaction 70 70 level of the company. 41 | S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R EP O R T 20 1 7 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2008 Narrative Grundfos has an ambitious vison for innovation, and we see Diversity harnessing the full potential of our diverse group of people as a way to achieve this. Female leaders 20% 20% 20% 20% 19% 17% In 2020, we want women to account for 25% of our full leadership Non-Danes in key positions 41% 40% 40% 25% 22% 21% population. In addition, we set a target for the Extended Leadership Team of 15% women members by 2020. Employees with reduced work capacity Concern for people runs deep in our veins. We provide jobs for 2.86% 2.2% globally employees with reduced work capacity and expect that 3% of the workforce in all countries comprises employees in this category. ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Grundfos Code of Conduct Claims 52 13 13 Breaches 3 1 1 True to our commitment to zero tolerance of corruption, our goal is to protect our business by eliminating – or reducing to the lowest possible degree – the risk of infringing money laundering and Compliance workshops 1 1 2 2 2 3 anti-corruption laws and regulations. Group entities audited 20 21 20 31 37 37 Our Code of Conduct and Grundfos anti-bribery compliance programme are the foundations for managing compliance in all Actions in response to corruption 0 0 3 1 2 3 markets. Supplier Code of Conduct Our commitment to people is the foundation of our work with human rights. Respect for human rights is also embedded in our Supplier sustainability audits (Third Code of Conduct and in our Supplier Code of Conduct. 97 15 3 Our supplier audits measure a supplier’s level of compliance with party auditors) the Code of Conduct. System and process audits (Grundfos 76 53 42 37 40 40 auditors) * Comparison figures adjusted since first reported ** Lost time injuries (LTI) *** Based on registrations in the PDD system Savings: 6.6 billion kWh per year equal to electricity consumption by four million inhabitants in EU 42 | S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 7 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity Indicator definitions As in previous years, Grundfos provides reporting on scope 1 and 2; however, the fuel consumption from our own vehicles is not included in scope 1 emission figures. Data has been collected, but the data processes will be Please note that due to an enhanced data collection process, comparison figures have had minor adjustments since first reported. The adjustments are not material. improved further – especially in terms of comparisons with previous years GREEN AT HEART – before it is included in the Group report. ISO certification Electricity savings The number shows the percentage of Grundfos production companies These are calculated as the energy savings that can be attributed to all The data provides no reporting on scope 3 emissions. Our data measurecertified according to ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. Effective from 2018, we Grundfos high-efficiency circulator pumps sold in the EU between 2005 ment techniques rely on the total energy consumption related to corporate will enlarge the scope of companies that will participate in ISO 14001 certiand 2017. The estimate is based on actual sales figures and assumptions operations. The carbon footprint gives a general overview of the company’s fication, due to a reorganisation of Grundfos Operations. about which previous models the new pumps sold replaced. The figure is CO₂ emissions and is based on reported data from the reporting entities. calculated as energy savings in kWh per year. CO₂ emissions are measured in metric tonnes. Emissions are calculated Investment in the development of new products for all activities in Grundfos companies that are included in the reporting The investment in development of new products is defined as expenses/ Carbon emissions and energy consumption scope. activities related to research, development and the launch of new prodIt is of great importance to Grundfos that all data is complete and as accuucts. This is indexed in relation to annual turnover. rate as possible. We have implemented a new sustainability data handling The baseline year for carbon emissions and energy consumption is 2008. system (SAP SuPM) to further improve data quality. For electricity, we use local factors whenever available, if not available we Number of injuries per million working hours use country specific factors from the IEA (International Energy Agency). Injuries are measured as lost-time injuries, which have caused lost working Production facilities are split into local assembly companies, which fall hours for at least one day after the injury. The indicator is indexed as injuunder the Sales function, and plants, which fall under the Operations deFor heat and steam, we use local factors whenever available, if not availries per one million working hours for blue and white collar employees. partment. All Grundfos production facilities use the system to report their able then we use the factor from the largest Danish production company monthly EHS data. (“GBJ”). This CO₂ factor for heat and steam is close to the global average. Please note that due to an enhanced data collection process, comparison Please note that due to an enhanced data collection process, comparison figures have had minor adjustments since first reported. The adjustments The reporting of our energy consumption and carbon emissions data is figures have had minor adjustments since first reported. The adjustments are material for 2016 figures. based on the emission calculation factors provided by the IEA (Internationare not material. al Energy Agency). This is in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas ProtoWorking hours lost due to lost-time injuries col (GHG Protocol), which is an internationally acknowledged standard for Waste and water Lost time – due to lost-time injuries – is measured in number of hours. The measuring greenhouse gas emissions developed by the World Resources The baseline year for water and waste was established in 2008. Water is indicator is indexed as working hours lost due to injuries per one thousand Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council for Sustainable Developreported as total use in m3. Water usage is defined as delivered municipal working hours. Absence within the reporting year, that occurred from LTIs ment (WBCSD). water, ground water from own well and surface water from lakes etc measfrom previous years, is included. ured in m3. Rainwater is not included. The GHG Protocol categorises direct and indirect emissions into three RESPONSIBLE broad scopes: Waste is measured in kg per one million working hours. The components Workforce size • Scope 1: all direct GHG emissions in this indicator are hazardous and non-hazardous waste disposed of in This covers the total number of employees at the end of the year – con• Scope 2: indirect GHG emissions from consumption of purchased eleclandfills, incinerated with energy recovery or incinerated without energy verted into equivalent full-time employees. A full-time employee has the tricity, heat and steam recovery. Recycled waste is not included. Some of our (smaller) companies standard number of working hours according to local rules/agreements. • Scope 3: other indirect emissions, such as the extraction and production have no information available on water and energy consumption, as this Personnel hired from a temporary employment agency are not included. of purchased materials and fuels, transport-related activities in vehicles is included in the rent and not measured. The same challenge applies to not owned or controlled by the reporting entity, electricity-related activinon-hazardous waste from some offices. The water consumption has been Female leaders (%) ties (e.g. T&D losses) not covered by scope 2, outsourced activities, waste estimated, either by the local company or by Group EHS. Leaders are defined as having staff responsibility, i.e. they have people redisposal, etc. porting to them. 43 | S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 7 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity Non-Danes in Group positions (%) ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Global Risk Assessment Executive positions are defined as Mercer band level 1 to 4, corresponding Compliance workshops Grundfos has engaged with an external party to conduct an enterapproximately to “top 100” leaders in Grundfos (these positions were preDuring 2017, one compliance workshop was arranged, which was part of prise-wide assessment of the corruption and bribery risks faced by the viously referred to as key group positions). the new Finance Managers workshop. The concept was launched in 2009, Grundfos group. and Grundfos Corporate Internal Control (CIC) conducted many workshops Employees with reduced work capacity (%) to educate the whole organisation. Workshops are now mainly conducted The object of this assessment is to clarify the anti-bribery and corruption The indicator is calculated as the number of employees working in the for new finance managers. This means that CIC expects to conduct one or risks that Grundfos is exposed to world-wide, and includes a risk register company on a valid Grundfos contract who have reduced working capacity two workshops each year. and a high-level response plan advising how to mitigate the risks that are due to a permanent health issue rooted in physical, mental or social chalidentified. lenges or disabilities. Group entities audited, Grundfos Code of Conduct Grundfos CIC visits a selected number of Grundfos companies every year. The assessment is based on the United Nations Global Compact A Guide In cases where a Grundfos employee has reduced work capacity, work reThe purpose is to review and rate the internal control environment and to for Anti-Corruption Risk Assessment as well as an analysis of Grundfos' quirements can be amended or adjusted accordingly. This can include the submit observations, risk descriptions and recommendations for improvposition compared to Transparency International's Corruption Perception working hours, flexibility or mobility that are expected of them, and by ing business processes and controls, including in relation to the Grundfos Index (CPI). adjusting the content of the job and nature of the work. The purpose is Code of Conduct. to enable the employee to continue working despite the reduced working Employee Motivation Survey capacity. Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption The EMS provides a good overview of employee satisfaction, motivation This includes breaches reported to the Ethics Committees or discovered by and loyalty. Since there is a link between employee motivation and cusPerformance Development Dialogue (PDD) Grundfos CIC etc. tomer loyalty, we can see the EMS results as an indicator of the future sucThe Performance and Development Dialogue (PDD) is a formal dialogue cess of Grundfos. conducted in the first quarter of each year between a manager and an emSystem and process audits ployee. The purpose of the PDD is to create meaningful and motivational System audits are quality audits of potential and existing suppliers. System The EMS is run by Group HR in cooperation with the Danish consultant direction in the core areas for any Grundfos employee: performance and audits include social and environmental aspects related to the Grundfos company, Ennova. When Ennova delivers survey data to Grundfos, it endevelopment. Supplier Code of Conduct. During 2013, process audits were introduced to sures the full anonymity of employees. The rules of anonymity are respectThe objectives of PDD are: sharpen the scope and increase the pool of resources able to conduct aued; an individual response cannot be identified by comparing different To discuss, agree, finalise and document the goals for the year in three dits, enabling Grundfos to carry out the audits where and how they provide reports or results against each other. information on age, seniority and categories: incentivised, non-incentivised and development the greatest value. Process audits, however, do not include social and envigender are only used at an overall level and only if the report contains at To discuss, agree, finalise and document the competencies required for ronmental aspects. least 100 answers. Ennova will not disclose to Grundfos any Grundfos emperformance and development ployee’s identity together with their reply in any survey. To discuss, agree and document other areas relating to the employee’s Sustainability audits work life, such as general reflections and career aspirations Through Grundfos´ Suppliers Code of Conduct we communicate to our All active employees with at least three months' service (incl. both permasuppliers that we expect them to operate in accordance with local and innent or temporary employees) can take part in the survey. Employees on A global system called Success Factors supports the process. The figures ternational standards in regards to human rights, labour rights, the envilong-term sick/maternity/paternity leave will not participate. Messengers, in the report are based on registrations in the system. Data from 2012 and ronment and anti-corruption. In order to assess to what extent Grundfos´ office helpers, student workers, external consultants or outsourced people 2013 are not comparable with 2014 and 2015 as we changed the data source Suppliers Code of Conduct is embedded in suppliers’ operations, sustainaare not surveyed. in 2014. In 2016, the Employee Development Dialogue (EDD) process was bility audits are performed on selected suppliers. The scope of these audits merged with the Employee Performance Dialogue (EPD). We implementis Grundfos’ Suppliers Code of Conduct, and they are performed by an exThe survey questions have been created in collaboration with the Global ed one Performance & Development Dialogue (PDD) and a new system, perienced third party selected by Grundfos. HR Management team and relevant stakeholders. The EMS is translated Success Factor, which have affected the numbers and the comparison in into 33 languages. The questions are answered on a 10-point scale. 2016 onwards. 44 | S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 7 For further information about Grundfos and sustainability, visit www.grundfos.com/sustainability We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity GRI content index We use the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) for voluntary reporting of sustainable development. GRI Standard Disclosure Page Explanations SDG Strategy GRI Standard Disclosure Page Explanations SDG 102-14 Statement from senior 4 decision-maker General Disclosures Ethics & integrity Organisational Profile 102-16 values, principles, standards, 6 More information: Values and purpose and Code of Conduct GRI 102 102-1 Name of the organisation 5 Grundfos Holding A/S Group and norms of behaviour GENERAL DISCLOSURES 102-2 Activities, products and 5-6 102-18 Governance structure 5 More on Grundfos Governance Structure. services 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 11 102-3 Location of headquarters 5 102-41 Collective bargaining In all our companies, we respect the employees’ right to organise according 102-4 Location of operations 2, 6 agreements to local legislations. The proportion of union members varies from country to country; it is highest in the West European countries where we operate. 102-5 Ownership and legal form 5 See also our Code of Conduct chapter 13: Working Environment. 102-42 Identifying and selecting 11 102-6 Markets served 2, 5-6 stakeholders 102-7 Scale of the organisation 2, 5 See also About Grundfos. Additional information in Annual Report 2017, SDG 8 102-43 Approach to stakeholder 11 pages 11, 17-33. engagement 102-8 Information on employees 2, 26 102-44 Key topics and concerns 11 102-9 Supply chain 6 See also Annual Report 2017, pages 4-7 raised 102-10 Significant changes to the 6 See also Annual Report 2017, pages 4-7. 102-45 Entities included in the See Annual Report 2017 pages 54-55. organisation and its supply chain consolidated financial statements 102-11 Precautionary principle or Primary instrument across operations is ISO 14001-certification, under 102-46 Defining report content and 7-8 approach which both legal compliance and annual environmental aspect evaluation topic boundaries are included. Our approach towards environmental risk mapping is our 102-47 List of material topics 8 “environmental aspect evaluation” which is part of IMS. 102-48 Restatements of informa40 In terms of product development, the main instrument is to ensure complition ance with relevant environmental legislation in respective markets. Here we 102-49 Changes in reporting 40 As in the previous year, we organised the report based on the four main do not have full transparency across the global value chain. ways that we target responsibility. See Sustainability Report . 102-50 Reporting period 40 102-12 External initiatives • UN Global Compact (2002) 102-51 Date of most recent report 40 • CEO Water Mandate (2012) 102-52 Reporting cycle 40 102-53 Contact point for questions 40 102-13 Membership of associations • ESR SDG 17 regarding the report • BSR 102-54 Claims of reporting in ac40 • Business & Sustainable Development Commission cordance with the GRI standards • 2030 Water Resources Group • Sustainia 102-55 GRI content index 45 • Members of steering committee: USAID-Securing Water for Food Trust 102-56 External assurance It is a self-assessed report. More on page 40 Fund • Members of steering committee: UNEP-DHI Fresh Water Resource GRI 201: ECO201-1 Direct economic value generNot applicable. Management NOMIC PERFORated and distributed • Confederation of Danish Industries MANCE Reason: We calculate our direct economic value generated and distribut• European Heat and Power ed differently to the way required by the GRI Standards. Read our Annual • Association of Danish Pump Manufacturers Report 2017 pages 11-38. • European Heat Pump Association 201-2 Financial implications and Information unavailable. • European Heating Industry other risks and opportunities due • Danish Environmental Association, WssTP to climate change Reason: We do not collect this information at Group level. 45 | S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 7 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity GRI Standard Disclosure Page Explanations SDG GRI Standard Disclosure Page Explanations SDG GRI 203: 203-1 Infrastructure investments We believe we can do business while doing good. Our products and solutions 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Information unavailable SDG 13 INDIRECT and services supported have significant impacts on local communities, either directly or indirectly. ExECONOMIC amples include the Pay-As-You-Save business model in Cambodia, Water2Life Reason: We do not collect data at Group level. IMPACTS project in Vietnam, AQtap kiosks in Kenya and reducing floods in Asia. We are 305-6 Emissions of ozoneInformation unavailable in constant dialogue with local authorities to support the delivery of clean depleting substances (ODS) water wherever needed. Reason: We do not collect this data. GRI 205: 205-1 Operations assessed for risks 36 SDG 16 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur Information unavailable. ANTIrelated to corruption oxides (SOX), and other significant CORRUPTION air emissions Reason: We do not collect this data. 205-2 Communication and training 36, 38 We communicated to all Grundfos employees, including governance body SDG 16 GRI 306: EF306-1 Water discharge by quality Information unavailable about anti-corruption policies and members. FLUENTS AND and destination procedures WASTE Reason: We do not collect this data 205-3 Confirmed incidents of cor36 SDG 16 306-2 Waste by type and disposal 19, 41 Not all information requested is available at this time. ruption and actions taken method GRI 206: 206-1 Legal actions for anti-compet36 SDG 16 Reason: We do not collect data at Group level. We comply with local permits ANTIitive behaviour, anti-trust, which are monitored locally. COMPETITIVE and monopoly practices 306-3 Significant spills Information unavailable. BEHAVIOUR GRI 301: 301-1 Materials used by weight or Not applicable. Reason: We do not collect data at Group level. We comply with local permits MATERIALS volume which are monitored locally. Reason: Our systems are not designed to calculate total materials. 306-4 Transport of hazardous Information unavailable. 301-2 Recycled input materials 17 Read more about our product life-cycle: SDG 12 waste used product recycling journey and follow our path to greater sustainability. Reason: We do not collect this data. 301-3 Reclaimed products and their 17-19, SDG 12 306-5 Water bodies affected by Information unavailable. packaging materials 41 water discharges and/or runoff GRI 302: 302-1 Energy consumption within 18-19, SDG 13 Reason: We do not collect data at Group level. We discharge water in comENERGY the organisation 41 pliance with local permits, back to municipal treatment plants. 302-2 Energy consumption outside Information unavailable. GRI 307: ENVI307-1 Non-compliance with envi19 SDG 16 of the organisation RONMENTAL ronmental laws and regulations Reason: We do not collect this data. COMPLIANCE 302-3 Energy intensity Information unavailable GRI 308: SUP308-1 Supplier environmental 39, 41 SDG 16 Reason: We do not collect this data PLIER ENVIassessment RONMENTAL 302-4 Reduction of energy con18-19, SDG 13 ASSESSMENT sumption 41 308-2 Negative environment 39 SDG 16 302-5 Reductions in energy require14, 41 SDG 13 impacts in the supply chain and ments of products and services action taken GRI 303: 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 18-19 SDG 6 GRI 401: 401-1 New employee hires and 26 WATER EMPLOYMENT employee turnover 303-2 Water sources significantly Information unavailable. 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time Information unavailable. affected by withdrawal of water employees that are not provided to Reason: We do not collect data at Group level. We comply with local permits temporary or part-time employees Reason: Details requested are not available at this time. which are monitored locally. 401-3 Parental leave Information unavailable. 303-3 Water recycled and reused 19 One of our strategies to reduce water consumption is harvesting more rainSDG 6 water. Read more about rainwater harvesting. Reason: We do not track this data at Group level. GRI 305: 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emis18-19, SDG 13 GRI 403: 403-1 Workers representation in Information unavailable. EMISSIONS sions 41 OCCUPATIONAL formal joint management–worker 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) 18-19, SDG 13 HEALTH AND health and safety committees Reason: Worker representation is defined locally in accordance with local GHG emissions 41 SAFETY rules and legislations. 74% of our production companies are OHSAS 18.001 certified and they are obliged to ensure worker representation. 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG Information unavailable. emissions Wherever we have a presence, workers (as defined by the GRI standards) are Reason: We do not collect data at Group level. included. 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Information unavailable 403-2 Types of injury and rates of 28 injury, occupational diseases, We track lost time injuries per million working hours. Reason: We do not collect data at Group level. lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 46 | S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 7 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity GRI Standard Disclosure Page Explanations SDG GRI Standard Disclosure Page Explanations SDG 403-3 Workers with high incidence Information unavailable. GRI 416: 416-1 Assessment of the health 17 or high risk of diseases CUSTOMER and safety impacts of product and related to their occupation Reason: We do not track this data at Group level. HEALTH AND service categories SAFETY 403-4 Health and safety topics Information unavailable. 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance 17 covered in formal agreements with concerning the health and safety trade unions Reason: We do not track this data at Group level. impacts of products and services GRI 404: 404-1 Average hours of training per Information unavailable. SDG 8 GRI 417: 417-1 Requirements for product and 1. Grundfos does not communicate sourcing information to the customer; SDG 16 TRAINING AND year per employee MARKETING service information and labeling 2. Grundfos products must comply with the Grundfos Focus List. DocuEDUCATION Reason: Details requested are not available at this time. AND LABELLING ments on Product Chemical Compliance, Export Control, Recycling and Conflict Minerals are available upon request; 404-2 Programmes for upgrading 29-30 SDG 8 3. Safe use of the product is communicated in the product I&O manual or employee skills and transition Not all information requested is available at this time. Safety Manual (IOS) in accordance with legal requirements. assistance programs 4. Information regarding the ErP directive and our end-of-life products and solutions 404-3 Percentage of employees 26, 41 SDG 8 receiving regular performance and 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance 17 SDG 16 career development reviews concerning product and service information and labeling GRI 405: 405-1 Diversity of governance bod26, SDG 8 DIVERSITY ies and employees 31-32, 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance To the best of our knowledge we do not have any incidents of non-compliSDG 16 AND EQUAL 41 concerning marketing communiance concerning marketing communications. OPPORTUNITY cations 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and Information unavailable. GRI 418: 418-1 Substantiated complaints Data privacy is a fundamental right. We will eliminate, or at least mitigate, SDG 16 remuneration of women to men CUSTOMER concerning breaches of customer the risk of infringing applicable personal data rules, while continuing to Reason: Details requested are not available at this time. PRIVACY privacy and losses of customer operate as the world's largest pump producer. We have a Data Privacy Comdata pliance Manual that aims to achieve this. GRI 406: 406-1 Incidents of discrimination Our Whistleblower system data reflect no breaches related to discriminaSDG 8 NON-DISCRIMIand corrective actions taken tion. We have two main types of personal data: NATION • HR data (data on Grundfos employees) • Third-party data, including business contacts and end-users. GRI 409: 409-1 Operations and suppliers 37 SDG 8 FORCED AND at significant risk for incidents of A working group has been established to find ways to support compliance COMPULSORY forced and compulsory labour with the new EU regulation at a Group level. We have also started ensuring LABOUR that international transfers of personal data will be compliant and launched GRI 412: 412-1 Operations that have been 37 SDG 8 data-mapping at Group level to help to achieve this. The data-mapping will HUMAN RIGHTS subject to human rights reviews or include global processes in Grundfos. Data privacy is considered a top priorASSESSMENT impact assessments ity by Group Legal, which is preparing legal solutions to support the Group 412-2 Employee training on human 36, 38 and local companies, as well as employees on an ad hoc basis. Our local rights policies or procedures companies are expected to be in compliance with local law and data privacy legislation, and support the Group regarding personal data initiatives. Staff GRI 413: LOCAL 413-1 Operations with local 33 For accounts of our local community engagement, see Grundfos Social have been appointed at local company level to be responsible for ensuring COMMUNITIES community engagement, impact Responsibility. compliance with personal data rules and to train colleagues in observance assessments and development of them. programs 413-2 Operations with significant To the best of our knowledge, none of our companies has an actual or poTo the best of our knowledge, we did not breach any violations related to actual and potential negative tential negative impact on local communities. customer privacy. impacts on local communities GRI 414: 414-1 New suppliers that were 39 SDG 8, SUPPLIER screened using social criteria SDG 16 SOCIAL ASSESSMENT 414-2 Negative social impacts in 39 SDG 8, the supply chain and actions taken SDG 16 GRI 415: 415-1 Political contributions In all of our public policy activities we do not, either directly or indirectly, SDG 16 PUBLIC POLICY make any monetary or in-kind political contributions 47 | S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 7 We are Green Passionate Ethics and at Heart Responsible Grundfos about Water Integrity Sustainability Report 2017/Engagement & responsibility/05-2018 “ The fight for water for all is not a fight for just one day. It is a fight for today, tomorrow and every following day. We must find a way to tackle the serious water issues, and ensure universal The name Grundfos, the Grundfos logo, and be think innovate are registered trademarks water access by 2030.” Mads Nipper, Grundfos CEO owned by Grundfos Holding A/S or Grundfos A/S, Denmark. All rights reserved worldwide. GRUNDFOS Holding A/S Poul Due Jensens Vej 7 DK-8850 Bjerringbro Tel: +45 87 50 14 00 www.grundfos.com
