Sustainability Report Part of Stora Enso’s Annual Report 2017 Everything made with fossil-based materials today can be made from a tree tomorrow. Part of the bioeconomy, Stora Enso is a leading provider of renewable solutions in packaging, biomaterials, wooden constructions, and paper globally. Our materials are renewable, reusable, and recyclable, and form the building blocks for a range of innovative solutions that can help replace products based on fossil fuels and other non-renewable materials. We employ some 26 000 people and our shares are listed on the Helsinki (STEAV, STERV) and Stockholm (STE A, STE R) stock exchanges. Stora Enso’s Annual Report 2017 consists of four reports: Progress Book, Sustainability Report, Financial Report, and Corporate Governance Report. The Progress Book explains The Sustainability Report Stora Enso’s strategy, how we covers Stora Enso’s social, create value, and how our work environmental, and economic is progressing. sustainability performance. The Corporate The Financial Report consists of the Governance Report report of the Board of Directors and covers Stora Enso’s governance the financial statements, Stora Enso in policy, practices, and actions as capital markets, and our tax footprint. well as remuneration in 2017. You can find the highlights of the year and the online Financial Report at storaenso.com/annualreport, where all reports can be downloaded. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 1 Governance Social Contents agenda We are creating a renewable future Environmental Governance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 agenda Strategy, governance, and stakeholders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Economic agenda in the bioeconomy. Our targets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 Human rights . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 Data and Social agenda . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 assurance Employees and wider workforce . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 Community . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 Business ethics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 Environmental agenda . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29 Materials, water, and energy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 Carbon dioxide . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40 Forests, plantations, and land use . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47 Economic agenda . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55 Customers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56 Suppliers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60 Investors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64 External recognition . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66 Data and assurance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67 Reporting scope . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68 Data by production unit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69 Assurance report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72 Human rights are Renewable materials We drive change integrated into help combat global through responsible our sustainability warming. sourcing. The report contents have been assured by an independent thirdagenda. party assurance provider with a level of Limited Assurance. A level of Reasonable Assurance has been provided for our direct and indirect fossil CO 2 emissions. Read more on page 9 Read more on page 40 Read more on page 60 The GRI index is available at storaenso.com/gri Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 2 Governance Sustainability 100% of the Social agenda -31% actions in our Human Rights Environmental agenda Economic highlights 2017 Action plan were concluded. Combatting global warming agenda We are the first forest products For us, sustainability means realising concrete company, to set science-based Data and greenhouse gas reduction targets Ensuring the sustainability assurance actions that will help us fulfil our Purpose – in line with the 2°C limit set by of wood 92% Do good for people and the planet. Replace fossilthe Paris Agreement. based materials with renewable solutions. Here are some of the highlights of our journey in 2017. of the lands we own or manage were covered by forest certification schemes. High standards for sourcing 95% Community investment In 2017, we supported 403 projects around the world. of our spending on goods, materials, and services was covered by our Supplier Code of Conduct. Reusing waste 98% Ethical performance as a supplier Sustainable New Safety Leadership We received the highest profitable growth Roadmap performance recognition level, Gold, for Our transformation strategy In 2017, we started to 81% of our employees sustainability management continued to deliver with implement a new Safety reported that their by Ecovadis Supplier four consecutive quarters Roadmap to drive a stepmanager was able Sustainability Ratings. The utilisation rate for our process of sales growth. change in performance. to create diverse teams. residuals and waste was 98%. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Governance 3 Governance Social agenda Environmental agenda Economic agenda Data and assurance Governance Strategy, governance, and stakeholders 4 Our targets 8 Human rights 9 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Governance – Strategy, governance, and stakeholders 4 Governance Stora Enso’s Sustainability Agenda encompasses the social, environmental, and economic responsibility of our operations Strategy, governance, Strategy, throughout the value chain. The agenda is based on the Triple governance, and Bottom Line framework widely used in corporate responsibility stakeholders work. It addresses the ten sustainability topics identified as and stakeholders material to Stora Enso and our key stakeholders: Employees Our targets and wider workforce; Community; Business ethics; Materials, Human rights water, and energy; Carbon dioxide; Forests, plantations, and land use; Customers; Suppliers; and Investors. Respect for human rights is considered to be so integral to our longSocial term success that human rights topics are progressed as agenda an overarching theme. We also periodically assess how well Our sustainability strategy underpins the wider company aligned the agenda is with the expectations and perceptions of Environmental our key stakeholders. agenda strategy to replace fossil-based materials with renewable ones. In line with our Sustainability Agenda, we have set ambitious targets and key performance indicators (KPIs) Economic for our sustainability work. Progress is regularly monitored agenda at group-level and via division-level business reviews. Consolidated results on our sustainability performance are reported annually in the Sustainability Report. Selected Data and sustainability indicators are also reported quarterly in our assurance Interim Reports. Sustainability embedded in strategy Our Sustainability Policy describes our overall approach and governance model. At the same time, our Code of Conduct and other policies, guidelines, and statements on specific sustainability topics all further elaborate our approach, while also guiding our employees in their everyday work. These documents are available at storaenso.com/sustainability. Following a comprehensive review of the company’s existing sustainability policies, guidelines, and statements in 2016, Stora Enso introduced a revised Sustainability Policy as well as revised policies and guidelines steering our environmental work in 2017. In 2018, we will focus on the alignment of social sustainability policies, guidelines, and statements. Adopting the Sustainable Development Goals Stora Enso acknowledges the importance of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as part of a commonly agreed global ambition to end poverty, protect our planet, and ensure prosperity for all. Companies have a major contribution to make toward the SDGs by aligning their business models in a way that meets the needs of future generations. This can be done by integrating the SDGs that represent the most material risks and opportunities into our sustainability strategy and core business processes. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Governance – Strategy, governance, and stakeholders 5 Governance The Board of Directors’ Sustainability and Ethics Stakeholder input Committee oversees the implementation of our Materiality Strategy, sustainability strategy and the ethics and compliance governance, and strategy. The committee met four times in 2017 and it has stakeholders reviewed the disclosures in this report. The main focus areas of the committee in 2017 are described in our Our targets Corporate Governance Report. Human rights Social At Stora Enso, sustainability work is led by the Executive agenda Vice President, Sustainability, who reports directly to Social Employees and Community Business the CEO and is part of the Group Leadership Team. wider workforce ethics Everyday sustainability topics are managed by our group agenda Sustainability team together with our Human Resources, Legal, Wood Supply, and Sourcing and Logistics functions, Environmental Human rights and our divisions (Consumer Board, Packaging Solutions, agenda Biomaterials, Wood Products, and Paper). Each of our Environmental business divisions has its own Head of Sustainability, that agenda reports directly to the Executive Vice President of the division. Economic agenda Materials, water, Carbon Forests, plantations, Other key functions, such as Wood Supply and Sourcing and energy dioxide and land use and Logistics, have sustainability organisations to support their management teams. The everyday implementation of Data and Stora Enso’s Sustainability Agenda is the responsibility of line assurance management supported by functional experts at all levels. Economic Stora Enso’s sustainability work is steered by our agenda Sustainability Council, which includes members from our five divisions, our Sourcing and Logistics function, and subject Customers Suppliers Investors matter experts from our group Sustainability team. Their work involves sharing good practices and identifying longer-term opportunities and challenges that may require a groupwide response. The Sustainability Council met eleven times Total Contribution during 2017. The GLT is periodically informed of sustainability to Society (TCS) developments, as is the Board of Directors when appropriate, through its Sustainability and Ethics Committee. Sustainability is one of the performance metrics in the Our Sustainability Agenda is based on the classic Triple Bottom Line model. It addresses the ten sustainability topics identified as material to Stora Enso. GLT members’ remuneration through Short Term Incentive programmes. Different members of the GLT can be assigned appropriate sustainability indicators. For more information on remuneration see our Remuneration Statement. Our work to integrate the SDGs into our strategy continued Initiative (GRI), the UN Global Compact (UNGC), and the World Sustainability governance of joint operations in 2017. We engaged with our divisions and functions and Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). Our joint operations in Brazil (Veracel) and Uruguay our stakeholders with external expert support. In 2017, The SDG Compass introduces five steps for companies to (Montes del Plata) have their own sustainability teams and Stora Enso’s CEO and Group Leadership Team also engaged maximise their contribution. sustainability topics are regularly discussed by their boards, in this work. In 2018, we will conclude this process and set out which include representatives from their parent companies. a roadmap for the prioritised SDGs most relevant to Sustainability governance Sustainability is also regularly covered by Stora Enso’s joint Stora Enso. This will allow us to communicate and measure Sustainability is promoted by the Board of Directors, the operation steering committees for Veracel and Montes del progress on our selected SDGs until 2030. CEO, and the Group Leadership Team (GLT). The CEO has the Plata. In addition, Stora Enso is represented on the boards of Our way of working is in line with the SDG Compass ultimate responsibility for the successful implementation of our the forestry companies Tornator and Bergvik Skog in Finland guide for companies, developed by the Global Reporting sustainability strategy. and Sweden respectively. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Governance – Strategy, governance, and stakeholders 6 Governance Stakeholder engagement • human rights and business ethics, and responsible sourcing Open dialogue with our key stakeholders is crucial if we are • sustainable forest management and our commitment to Strategy, to successfully identify stakeholder concerns, global trends combat global warming governance, and and market expectations. Our stakeholder engagement work • bio-based materials and products, in terms of innovation, stakeholders is based on both structured and ad hoc interaction, as well as waste reduction and product safety surveys on topics such as customer and employee satisfaction • community investment and a wider social responsibility Our targets and investor expectations. We also obtain important context. Human rights information through formal grievance channels. Engaging with stakeholders in social media has become increasingly The consultation was an important exercise to gauge the important for us in understanding our stakeholders’ opinions perception of a number of group-level stakeholders regarding Social and concerns locally around our units, as well as on divisional Stora Enso’s Sustainability Agenda and, to identify priority agenda and group level. We actively monitor social media discussions areas for further consideration. The results are used to address and respond, where appropriate, to stakeholder queries in the challenges and opportunities in our sustainability work and Environmental social channels. will feed into our work on the UN Sustainable Development agenda Goals. They also influenced the content balance of our 2017 Materiality review sustainability reporting and guided the content design where Economic In 2017, we carried out a focused materiality review with an necessary. agenda external expert organisation, that consulted with 124 grouplevel stakeholders around the world in order to assess if our Collaboration with non-governmental organisations Sustainability Agenda and external communications are Stora Enso actively cooperates with international and nonData and still focused on the right topics. The consulted stakeholders governmental organisations (NGOs) and industry associations. assurance included campaigners (including NGOs), customers and Through such cooperation, we are involved in developing corporate peers, experts, investors, partners and suppliers, industry practices related to combatting global warming, and media. circular and bioeconomy, sustainable forestry, human In the materiality survey, stakeholders were asked to rights, and business ethics, as well as the harmonisation of SDGs: The way forward for companies rank the aspects of Stora Enso’s Sustainability Agenda they sustainability reporting and assurance thereof. Examples of In 2015, the United Nations defined 17 Sustainable consider to be most important, and to indicate if anything our collaboration during 2017 can be found on page 7 and in Development Goals (SDGs) addressing key social and significant was missing. The most important sustainability the relevant sections of this report. economic issues. The aim is to encourage key sectors topics for our stakeholders were sustainable forestry, human In 2017, Stora Enso actively participated in the World of society, including businesses, to work towards these rights, global warming, business ethics, sustainable materials Business Council for Sustainable Development’s (WBCSD) vital goals. and responsible sourcing. Other elements in our existing Redefining Value (RV) Board. The RV Board is made-up of eight “It’s important for companies to actively shape their Sustainability Agenda were also considered important. WBCSD member company executives, that provide strategic sustainability strategies to align with the SDG agenda Although not fully comparable due to different terminology, guidance for the RV programme, for instance on international – especially by finding ways to address their negative the results are largely in line with our previous materiality reporting frameworks, materiality assessment standards, and impacts,” says Filippo Veglio, Managing Director survey carried out in 2014. data assurance methodologies. In 2017, Stora Enso’s work with of Social Capital in the World Business Council for In addition to ranking the importance of different RV included providing practical guidance on the integration Sustainable Development (WBCSD). sustainability topics, the consultation identified opportunities of sustainability into Enterprise Risk Management and our to further clarify the links between topics within our approach to assurance. For more information about our risk Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability Sustainability Agenda. The most important ones are: management, see our Financial Report. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Governance – Strategy, governance, and stakeholders 7 Governance About this report Creating value for society How we create value as This Sustainability Report is structured to reflect our Strategy, As a renewable materials company, Stora Enso has Sustainability Agenda, with the agenda’s ten elements governance, and a range of positive financial, social, and environmental a renewable materials company addressed through a common four-tier framework: stakeholders impacts on society, such as direct and indirect employment, taxes and dividends, and products Our targets providing renewable alternatives to non-renewable Human rights materials. For more information about how we create Opportunities and challenges value, see our Progress Book. For details of Stora Enso’s annual tax footprint in the countries we operate, see These sections examine the external factors Social our Financial Report. and global trends currently affecting the topics agenda Stora Enso continues to explore ways to define included in our Sustainability Agenda. Please and report on the monetary value associated with the note that our corporate risk management assessment Environmental company’s non-financial sustainability impacts and appears in the Financial Report. agenda actions. In 2017, this work included cooperation with the KTH Royal Institute of Technology in Stockholm on Our policies Economic an assignment known as Total Contribution to Society agenda – a mapping and evaluation of approaches by leading These sections set out the strategies and policies we corporations. use to address key opportunities and challenges. Data and Read more about how we create value in our Progress Book How we work assurance These sections describe the processes, procedures, and systems we deploy to realise our strategies and policies. Progress Particularly significant stakeholder groups In 2017, Stora Enso actively collaborated These sections report on our performance for Stora Enso include: with a range of international organisations: during 2017. • Consumers • BSR, pages 18 and 42 • Customers • International Finance Corporation (IFC), page 13 • Employees • International Labour Organisation (ILO), page 13 External assurance • Forest owners • Science Based Targets initiative, page 40 The report contents have been assured by an independent • Governments • The Prince of Wales’s Corporate Leaders Group third-party provider with a level of Limited Assurance. • Investors (CLG), page 31 Given our commitment to combat global warming, a level • Local communities • Transparency International, page 26 of Reasonable Assurance has been provided for our direct • Media • UN Global Compact, page 68 and indirect fossil CO 2 emissions. Stora Enso is one of the • NGOs • We Mean Business Coalition, page 42 few companies in the world that assures its CO 2 reporting • Partners and suppliers • World Business Council for Sustainable Development for stakeholders at Reasonable Level. We are looking into • Trade unions (WBCSD), pages 6, 31, and 48 further developing the external assurance of our sustainability • WWF, pages 48 and 51 reporting over the coming years. For more information on assurance, see page 68. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Governance – Our targets 8 Governance Our sustainability targets and key performance indicators (KPIs) Strategy, governance, and Key performance indicator (KPI) 2017 2016 Targets Progress stakeholders Human rights Implementation of Human Rights 88% 86% of the actions To complete all remaining actions not involving regular Achieved Action Plan1 of the actions completed and 96% review by the end of 2017. Our targets completed2 and 100% concluded concluded Human rights Employees and Lost-time accident (LTA) rate3 5.3 4.4 4.0 by the end of 2017 Not achieved wider workforce In 2018, the TRI rate will be the new group-level KPI, Social which we will start reporting on in the Q1/2018. agenda Leadership Index4 81 80 80 by the end of 2018 Achieved Community Total community investment5 Reporting to start for n/a To establish a group-wide KPI during 2017. Achieved Environmental 2018 agenda Economic Business ethics Code of Conduct Index4 83 81 Positive trend Achieved agenda Data and assurance Materials, Number of significant environmental incidents6 10 n/a Zero significant incidents6 Not achieved water, and energy Materials: Process residuals utilisation rate (%)7 98% 98% To establish a group-wide KPI during 2017. Achieved Water: Total water withdrawal per saleable tonne of pulp, paper, 56 57 Decreasing trend Achieved and board (m3/tonne) Water: Process water discharge per saleable tonne of pulp, paper, 26 27 Decreasing trend Achieved and board (m3/tonne) Energy: Reduction in electricity and heat consumption per -4.2% -4.0%8 -15% by the end of 2020 from a 2010 base-year In progress saleable tonne of pulp, paper, and board (kWh/tonne) Carbon dioxide Reduction in CO2 emissions per saleable tonne of pulp, paper, -40% -40%8 -35% by the end of 2025 from a 2006 base-year Achieved and board (kg/tonne) New Science Based Targets to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from operations 31% per tonne of pulp, paper and board produced by 2030 from a 2010 base-year. Fossil CO2 emissions per total energy consumed (kg of CO2 /MWh) 64 63 Will be reviewed by the end of 2017. Achieved Forests, % of the lands owned and managed by the company covered by 92% 90% 96% by the end of 2017 Not achieved plantations, forest certification schemes and land use The KPI will be redefined and a new target set during In progress 2018. Suppliers % of supplier spend covered by our Supplier Code of Conduct 95% 92% 95% of total supplier spend covered by the end of 2017. Achieved New target is planned to be communicated in the Interim Report for Q1/2018. 1 Stora Enso carried out a group-wide Human Rights Assessment during 2014. Action plans to address the findings were 5 Total community investments covering cash, employee voluntary working hours, and in-kind. A new KPI established in 2017. defined during the first half of 2015. 6 Environmental incidents involving a non-compliance with local environmental legislation or permits. For more details, see page 39. 2 Process for completion is in place for three group-level actions, but the completion is carried forward into 2018. 7 Utilisation rate for process residuals excluding, for example, tall oil, turpentine, and wood chips. 2017 and 2016 figures not fully 3 Number of lost-time accidents among our own employees per one million hours worked. comparable due to data scope changes. 4 Measured in the annual employee survey. 8 Historical figures recalculated due to accuracy improvements. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Governance – Human rights 9 Governance Opportunities and challenges Human rights Strategy, Operating in high-risk markets governance, and When it comes to human rights, Stora Enso’s stakeholders operations cover challenging markets such as China, Laos, and Brazil. Many of the human rights challenges we face are Our targets deeply rooted in local society, and can only be effectively Human rights addressed through a long-term commitment and close Our commitment to respect human rights covers all cooperation with global and local stakeholders. The UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Social our operations, including our employees, contractors, Rights emphasise that companies have an ongoing agenda suppliers, and surrounding communities. responsibility to respect human rights, even where government actions and regulatory frameworks are Environmental inadequate. Compliance with the UN Guiding Principles on agenda Business and Human Rights requires companies to conduct human rights due diligence procedures to identify, assess, Economic and address the human rights risks and impacts of their agenda operations, products, and services. Our policies Data and assurance Implementing international human rights standards In addition to our commitment to the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, our Sustainability Agenda is aligned with the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, including its principles on human rights. Stora Enso also respects and follows the legal reporting requirements of the UK Modern Slavery Act. Relevant Stora Enso policies and statements on human rights include our: • Code of Conduct, expressing our respect for international human and labour rights. • Supplier Code of Conduct, imposing strict contractual requirements regarding human rights on our suppliers. • Human Rights Statement, expressing our respect for international human rights instruments including: »» The UN International Bill of Human Rights »» The core labour rights conventions of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) »» ILO Convention no. 169 on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, including the principle of Free, Prior, and Informed Consent and Participation »» The OECD’s Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises »» The Children’s Rights and Business Principles developed by UNICEF, the UN Global Compact, and Save the Children Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Governance – Human rights 10 Governance How we work group-wide Minimum Human Resources requirements – The Action Plan included specific measures to: Labour Conditions, and Supplier Code of Conduct. Our • monitor compliance with labour rights and the working Strategy, On-going human rights due diligence human rights strategy and due diligence programme, conditions of third-party on-site employees. governance, and Human rights risks are required to be taken into which are currently under development, will define additional • promote diversity and inclusion among Stora Enso’s stakeholders account throughout our operations, including investment elements in accordance with the UN Guiding Principles. workforce. decisions related to mergers, acquisitions, and divestments. In 2017, Stora Enso conducted human rights training and • improve overtime practices and entry-level wages at certain Our targets Our investment guidelines stipulate that environmental and divisional sustainability expert capacity building. This was units. Human rights social risks and impacts, including those related to human part of the process of identifying Stora Enso’s priority human • develop guidance and procedures for the protection of rights, must be duly identified, assessed, and addressed prior rights issues and the development of a human rights strategy. employee privacy. to any investments in projects with business-critical risks. The strategy will be further refined during 2018. • ensure opportunities for supporting and facilitating Social Business ethics risks and specific investment compliance with collective bargaining. agenda our Code of Conduct and Business Practice Policy are also Environmental and social impact assessments • improve occupational health and safety practices at certain assessed. On-going human rights due diligence continues Significant new investments can entail local environmental units. Environmental with Environmental and Social Impact Assessments (ESIAs), and social impacts affecting human rights. To map and mitigate • strengthen grievance mechanisms. agenda and the periodic monitoring of compliance with Stora Enso’s these impacts, we conduct ESIAs for all new projects that • improve environmental and social impact assessment could directly or indirectly cause significant adverse effects in procedures. Economic local communities. Such projects include board, pulp, paper, • enhance policies and procedures for security management. agenda or sawmills built on greenfield sites, industrial scale plantation • continue to implement our Supplier Code of Conduct. projects, and any large-scale expansions of existing facilities. • ensure that human rights impacts are duly considered and Data and In 2017, all the actions in One important element of any ESIA involves assessing the operational context from a social impact perspective, including addressed through responsible supply chain management. assurance the Human Rights Action human rights, and establishing dialogues with local residents, Grievance and remediation mechanisms Plan were brought to an members of local organisations, experts, researchers, and other stakeholders. This is done through interviews, meetings, In accordance with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and our own Human Rights Statement, Stora Enso appropriate conclusion. workshops, and public hearings. The results of ESIAs give is committed to remedy any situation where our activities have us valuable information on how local communities may caused or contributed to adverse human rights impacts. In be affected by changes in their socio-economic situation circumstances where human rights violations are committed and any impacts on cultural heritage, while also setting out by third parties with links to Stora Enso through our operations, implications for community health, safety, and security. products or services, we strive to use our influence together with relevant stakeholders to ensure that those impacts are remedied. Human Rights Assessment and Action Plan A third-party-administered grievance channel is available Stora Enso conducted a comprehensive group-wide to all our employees. The channel enables them to report Human Rights Assessment in 2014, consisting of separate instances where their rights may have been infringed, or assessments for 93 operational entities in 22 countries. The where they have observed violations of Stora Enso’s Code of assessment included all of our production, wood supply, and Conduct. forestry operations, joint operations in Brazil and Uruguay, and our equity-accounted minority investment in Pakistan that was divested in 2017. Progress on the implementation of preventive As part of this process, Stora Enso and the Danish Institute and remediation actions 31 Dec 2017 for Human Rights (DIHR) developed a customised Human On Not on Regular Rights Compliance Assessment tool that covers 43 human Completed¹ track track Closed2 review 3 rights issues. The resulting Human Rights Assessment report, Implementation consolidated by DIHR was published in February 2015. progress, % of all A Human Rights Action Plan was developed during the actions 88% 0% 0% 9% 3% 2015, based on the findings and recommendations of the 1 Process for completion is in place for three group-level actions, but the completion is A local grievance channel serves communities in Guangxi, China. assessment report. The implementation of the action plan carried forward into 2018. commenced in Q3/2015 and all actions were progressed to 2 Issues that were identified in the Human Rights assessments but were closed Anyone can call an anonymous hotline number, write to us, visit us, following reassessment of their validity in specific local contexts. or talk to our field personnel. an appropriate conclusion by the end of 2017. 3 Longer-term actions without a targeted end-date that require continuous review. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Governance – Human rights 11 Governance We have also established local grievance channels for communities and other external stakeholders associated with Strategy, our plantations and mill in Guangxi, China. We encourage governance, and anyone with concerns to call an anonymous hotline stakeholders number, write to us, visit us, or talk to our field personnel. Stora Enso’s employees are trained to distribute information Our targets about our operations in local villages, and to duly process Human rights any grievances, even in villages not engaged in any kind of business relationship with the company. Similar local grievance channels exist for our project in Social Laos, and our joint operations Veracel in Brazil and Montes del agenda Plata in Uruguay. In 2017, we initiated a process to map all of our existing Environmental community grievance mechanisms to ensure alignment with agenda the UN Guiding Principles effectiveness criteria. Similarly, in 2017 we undertook a process to map the existing security Economic arrangements in all our operating units, as the first step to agenda identify, assess and address any human rights risks or impacts. For more information on the group’s formal grievance mechanism, which is also open to external stakeholders in Data and countries where the law allows, see page 27. assurance Communicating our performance During 2017, details of our progress on implementing our Human Rights Action Plan were published in our quarterly Interim Reports, which also covered other human rights related topics, such as supply chain management. Stora Enso is also following the legal requirements of the UK Modern Slavery Act to enhance our transparency and reporting regarding modern slavery. This act requires organisations conducting business activities in the UK and with a global turnover of greater than 36 million British pounds to publish annual Slavery and Human Trafficking Reports. The report must set out what the organisation does to ensure that slavery and human trafficking do not take place in any part of their own business or their supply chains. Stora Enso’s first report was published in 2017 at storaenso.com/sustainability. Progress In Brazil, Veracel’s community engagement focuses on land use, and local social and economic development. Human Rights Action Plan finalised In 2017, our focus was on finalising the implementation of the Human Rights Action Plan that resulted from our groupBy the end of 2017, a total of 88% (86% at the end of 2016) based on the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human wide Human Rights Assessment conducted in 2014 and a of the preventive and remediation actions were completed Rights and criteria created in collaboration with the DIHR. related report published in 2015. During the year, an internal and 100% of the actions were brought to an appropriate As all actions were progressed to an appropriate conclusion assurance process was carried out to ensure that actions are conclusion. 9% of the actions were closed and 3% were during 2017, the reporting on the Human Rights Action Plan adequately concluded and evidence documented. identified as actions requiring continuous review. Actions were progress will stop. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Governance – Human rights 12 Governance Certain country-specific actions that have been of special interest to our stakeholders in 2017 are described below. Strategy, Partnering with ILO in Pakistan governance, and Guangxi, China Since 2015, Stora Enso has worked with the International stakeholders Stora Enso’s operations in Guangxi consist of tree plantations Labour Organisation (ILO) in Pakistan, where we previously had in various parts of the province and a consumer board mill a minority holding in Bulleh Shah Packaging (BSP). The ILO has Our targets in the Tieshangang industrial zone, about 40 km from Beihai mapped BSP’s supply chains and raised awareness of child Human rights city. Stora Enso owns 83% of the operations, the International labour and decent working conditions. Finance Corporation owns 5%, and the remainder is owned “Working with companies gives the ILO new tools and by two state-owned organisations: Guangxi Forestry Group leverage to reach out to society,” says Ingrid Christensen, Social Co Ltd and the Beihai Forestry Investment and Development the ILO’s Country Director for Pakistan. agenda Company. During 2017, our human rights work in Guangxi focused on Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability Environmental training staff in human rights and progressing the remaining agenda actions of our Human Rights Action Plan to a conclusion. Economic Key actions: agenda • Human rights training for key employees, including those working with sourcing, legal issues, human resources and sustainability, as well as for external security service providers. Veracel, Brazil also supports programmes designed to strengthen the cultural Data and • Continuing to develop a Transportation Impact Management Veracel, our 50/50 joint operation with the Brazilian company identity of the 29 Pataxó and three Tupinambá communities. assurance Plan including safety guidelines reviewed together with Fibria, manages a pulp mill, eucalyptus plantations and related Local indigenous communities are calling for the expansion of contractors, with a special focus on road safety in local logistics in southern Bahía State. Veracel’s active community the Barra Velha Indian Reserve. The extension would include villages. engagement focuses on land use, and local social and hundreds of land properties, including 3 219 hectares of land • Implementing and compliance monitoring of our Supplier economic development. acquired by Veracel before the indigenous peoples first made Code of Conduct and Responsible Sourcing Programme. During 2017, Veracel focused on progressing the remaining claim to the land. At the end of 2017, this case was still being For more information about responsible sourcing, actions of our Human Rights Action Plan to a conclusion. processed by the regional federal court. Veracel remains see pages 60–63. committed to fully comply with the court’s eventual decision. Key actions: As the Beihai Mill continued to ramp-up in 2017, we drew on • Continuing to implement the Sustainable Settlements Pakistan our ongoing work and started to develop a comprehensive Initiative for disputes related to land and landless movements, In September, Stora Enso completed the divestment of its 35% human rights due diligence programme, which covers both and indigenous people’s rights. Read more on page 23. minority holding in the equity accounted investment Bulleh our forestry and manufacturing operations, in accordance • Continuing to implement Veracel’s supplier code of conduct Shah Packaging (Private) Ltd. (BSP) in Pakistan to the main with the requirements of the UN Guiding Principles. The pilot and associated training, audits and follow-up procedures. owner Packages Ltd. Due to a changing business environment human rights work began with security service providers for in Pakistan, the BSP asset with its product mix and related Stora Enso in Guangxi, and will continue in 2018. Additional human rights training is provided annually to future outlook, was a non-strategic fit in our consumer board When required, adequate consultation with community employees working as guards for Veracel’s security service roadmap. stakeholders, including Free, Prior and Informed Consent provider. Until the divestment, Stora Enso’s focus in Pakistan was (FPIC), continues to be a key element in our human rights Veracel has been criticised in the past for issues related on implementing Stora Enso’s Human Rights Action Plan, due diligence and forestry operations in Guangxi. Our to landless people’s social movements and the rights of including actions to systematically address child labour forestry employees work in dialogue with the communities indigenous peoples. In 2017, Veracel continued its dialogue with in supply chains; the implementation of BSP’s Supplier neighbouring tree plantations to maintain good community the landless movements and the Bahía State government to Sustainability Requirements; training employees on ethics; and relations, and to understand and address the potential social address issues of land distribution in Bahía. Veracel’s ongoing ensuring adequate contractor wages and working conditions. impacts of our operations. Our work to further improve our implementation of the Sustainable Settlements Initiative in The Human Rights Action Plan in Pakistan was progressed to local community consultation processes continued in 2017. response to this issue continued in 2017. For more information an appropriate conclusion in 2017. During the year, we also continued to focus on about landless people’s social movements in Bahía and To ensure a responsible exit from Pakistan, an external sustainable land management in Guangxi. For more details, Veracel’s community engagement, see pages 22–23. Veracel expert organisation provided additional advice on human see page 53. maintains good relations with local indigenous villages, and rights issues at Stora Enso’s request. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Governance – Human rights 13 Governance Stora Enso will continue its Public Private Partnership with Stora Enso supports six schools in cooperation with employees (130). During 2017, our human rights work in Laos the International Labour Organisation (ILO) until the end of 2018. the Pakistani non-governmental organisation Idara-efocused on progressing the remaining actions of our Human Strategy, The partnership was signed in 2015 for a two-year duration. Taleem-o-Aagahi. Since 2015, these schools have provided Rights Action Plan to an appropriate conclusion. governance, and In 2017, it was extended until the end of 2018. During the education for children previously identified as child workers in stakeholders partnership, Stora Enso and ILO have conducted research into BSP’s supply chain. The schools have the capacity to educate up Key actions: the promotion of decent work and elimination of child labour to 640 children. The contract for the school programme, together • An Environmental and Social Management and Monitoring Our targets in BSP’s supply chains; trained suppliers and personnel on with Stora Enso’s funding, will remain in place until 2023. Plan was launched and implemented. The Plan is based Human rights decent work, child labour and other fundamental rights at Stora Enso has commissioned a mobile medical health on the previous ESIA, which was largely carried out by the work; organised community awareness-raising sessions on care clinic, created together with the Yunus Center of the International Union for Conservation (IUCN), the Swedish these rights together with the local government; arranged for Asian Institute of Technology, in order to provide basic health University of Agriculture (SLU), and the United Nations Social a review of BSP policies by ILO with a focus on the prevention services to local communities. Stora Enso’s support for the Development Programme (UNDP). Environmental and social agenda and elimination of child labour; co-hosted a Child Labour mobile medical clinic continued until the end of 2017. The clinic monitoring was adapted to meet the criteria of the Forest Platform meeting to start scaling up the good practices from has been transferred to BSP to be operated by a local medical Stewardship Council1 (FSC®) and ISO 14001 certifications. Environmental the partnership through cross sectoral collaboration; and facility based in Lahore. • Extensive training of employees to ensure correct agenda conducted a session at the Annual Child Labour Platform implementation and social monitoring from a human rights meeting with a focus on the lessons learned from the Laos perspective, including training on safety. Economic partnership. Stora Enso has continued to develop trial plantations in the • Mapping supply chains and assessing supplier compliance agenda After the divestment of BSP, Stora Enso continued to Saravane and Savannakhet provinces of southern Laos in with Stora Enso’s Supplier Code of Conduct. support its share of the two programmes it has been funding in areas totalling 3 731 hectares (3 900 in 2016), of which 2 988 • Implementing an improved community grievance Pakistan. (2 995) are planted with eucalyptus. Stora Enso Laos has 125 mechanism, created in cooperation with the International Data and Finance Corporation (IFC). The improved grievance assurance mechanism was communicated to the communities neighbouring our operations. • Measures to enhance stakeholder engagement and communications to ensure that Free, Prior, and Informed Consent (FPIC) procedures are duly followed in Stora Enso’s land use and land leasing when applicable. In 2017, Stora Enso focused on gender issues and land leasing procedures to further strengthen community consultation. Stora Enso’s tree plantations in Laos are located in the vicinity of villages that are culturally and ethnically diverse. This makes it essential for us to engage in community dialogues in a culturally appropriate way, based on informed consultation and participation, and obtain their consent for our projects. In 2017, we completed a project with IFC and an NGO specialised in enhancing local leadership development, Village Focus International, to train Stora Enso employees on stakeholder engagement and community consultation, particularly considering the interests of women and vulnerable groups. In 2017, Stora Enso and Village Focus International jointly launched a set of community consultation tools. The aim is to empower the communities to gain a deeper understanding of our agroforestry model, its benefits and impacts on their villages, and to enable the entire community to participate in decision-making in relation to Stora Enso’s activities. In 2017, we focused on gender issues and land leasing procedures to strengthen community consultation in Laos. 1 Stora Enso Communications’ FSC® trademark license number is FSC-N001919. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Social agenda 14 Governance Social agenda Environmental agenda Economic agenda Data and assurance Social agenda Employees and wider workforce 15 Community 20 Business ethics 25 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Social agenda – Employees and wider workforce 15 Governance Opportunities and challenges Employees and Change through people Social Stora Enso’s transition into the renewable materials agenda growth company requires nurturing the competencies and wider workforce skills needed to meet future demands. Our operations are Employees based in various locations with different challenges and and wider opportunities. For example, some locations might have a workforce shortage of skilled workers, whereas others may be preparing Community for a generational change in their workforce. Managing our opportunities and challenges responsibly, together with issues Business such as health and safety, requires systematic workforce ethics We strive to provide a safe and rewarding workplace for planning and leadership. our employees, and aspire to be an attractive employer. Our policies Environmental agenda Driving performance and culture Stora Enso’s People Strategy guides our efforts to Economic create engagement and motivation among our employees, agenda and to build a capable organisation that can help us realise our business strategy. Key areas in the People Strategy Data and include: leadership development, performance management, assurance workforce planning, talent management and employer branding. Read more about People and Leadership in our Progress Book. Our Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) function works to realise Stora Enso’s Health and Safety Policy and our OHS Mode of Operation. These policies define how we manage OHS topics in practice and integrate them into annual planning and reporting. Other key policies applied in our people and safety management include our: • Code of Conduct • Supplier Code of Conduct • Minimum Human Resources Requirements – Labour Conditions • Diversity Policy. How we work Everybody home safe, every day Stora Enso’s main occupational health and safety goal is to be an accident-free workplace. Encouraging a company-wide safety culture means that everyone is responsible for making every workday healthy and safe – from our top management and throughout the company. Safety management at Stora Enso is based on international standards such as OHSAS 18001, but our processes go Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Social agenda – Employees and wider workforce 16 Governance beyond these requirements. Responsibility for implementing each tool and programme in our units lies with line management, supported by local staff and OHS professionals. The best kind of workplace safety Social Local OHS committees and working groups at our goes home with you agenda units provide forums for raising safety-related topics and In Sweden, Nymölla paper mill’s manager Michael Lindemann suggestions. Our country-level OHS networks in Finland, has found new ways to improve safety at the mill – but a strong Employees Sweden, Germany, and China also share good practices safety culture requires continuous work. At Stora Enso, safety and wider and organise training to enhance our safety procedures starts at the top, but it is also everyone’s personal responsibility workforce and competencies. On group level, OHS was moved from to work safely. Community HR into the Sustainability function in 2017. As a result, OHS “If you can have one day without accidents, you can governance was reviewed, which led to the establishment of have two, and four, and a hundred,” Michael says. “It is my Business two new cross-company teams to better align and anchor key responsibility as a leader to make sure people adopt new ethics actions on safety: routines.” • The Safety Steering Group is made up of divisional operations Environmental managers and other senior managers from relevant units. It Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability agenda directs strategic long-term planning at group level, steers the implementation of our Safety Roadmap, and oversees the work of the Safety Management Team. Economic • The Safety Management Team includes group and divisional agenda safety representatives and some mill safety managers. It develops and aligns group-wide safety programmes Data and endorsed by the Safety Steering Group, and where assurance necessary, the Group Leadership Team and the Sustainability and Ethics Committee of the Board of the Directors. Leadership in focus gender balance of 70% male and 30% female among senior Our units report monthly on safety performance data, Leadership is a top priority for Stora Enso, as we believe it is managers by the end of 2018. At the end of 2017, the ratio including incident rates, absenteeism statistics, and safety the strongest driver behind company performance, wellbeing, was 79% (79%) male and 21% (21%) female. The gender observations. Stora Enso also monitors the number of and culture. We measure our progress in this area by using distribution in the Group Leadership Team has improved accidents among on-site and forestry contractors. an overall Leadership Index that measures employees’ from four female members out of 13 in 2016, to five out of 12 perceptions of their managers. Read more about People and in 2017. When asked about diversity in the annual employee Promoting contractor safety Leadership in our Progress Book. survey, 81% (78%) of our employees reported that their Stora Enso’s approach to safety extends to contractors, Improving the performance and engagement of our management was able to create diverse teams. Our objective suppliers, and on-site visitors. We encourage everyone to give employees is another priority for us. We set targets for both our was that 80% should respond positively. feedback and provide ideas on how to further improve safety. business and our people, provide continuous feedback and We also cooperate closely with our joint operations. follow up on targets and expectations during annual employee Hiring locally performance appraisals. It is important that our new operations have managers and We annually review our organisational capabilities, talent employees that are well-grounded in local cultures. While there pool, and succession plans for key positions. This ensures we is often an initial need for expatriate employees, local hiring continuously develop a capable organisation, with the right is usually initiated as early as possible, bringing economic structure, competencies, and people in place to successfully benefits to the local community. A company-wide safety deliver on our business strategy. As an example, at the end of 2017, 80% of our employees in culture means that everyone Diversity Guangxi, China, were local (77% at the end of 2016), while local management teams included 19 managers of Chinese origin is responsible for making We believe that diversity is key to driving innovation and (14 in 2016) and 8 expatriates (12 in 2016). every workday safe. strengthening our competitiveness. When we refer to diversity, we mean various aspects of diversity including Fair working conditions gender, age, skills, educational level, culture, and personality. We care for all our employees and are committed to fully When it comes to gender diversity, our aim is to achieve a respecting human rights throughout our operations. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Social agenda – Employees and wider workforce 17 Governance assessment conducted during 2017. Units with improvement to 7.7 (11.7). In 2018, the TRI rate will be the new group-level needs have action plans in place to become fully compliant safety KPI, which we will start reporting on in the first quarter Social We believe that diversity with the requirements. of 2018. In March 2017, an employee working at the Wood Products agenda is key to driving innovation Progress unit in Murów, Poland, was performing a visual analysis of a Employees and strengthening our Enhancing safety and machine when it inadvertently activated and resulted in him tragically losing his life. A root cause analysis was conducted, and wider competitiveness. leadership performance and corrective actions have been implemented. To prevent workforce From January 2017, Stora Enso has applied Occupational similar accidents from occurring in the future, our groupCommunity Health and Safety Administration (OHSA) definitions in the relevel practices and requirements, including de-energising porting of total recordable incident (TRI) and lost-time accident practices, are being reviewed and revised. Business All Stora Enso units are expected to work systematically to (LTA) rates to better align with international standards and to With regard to occupational health, Stora Enso measures ethics ensure that employees are treated with respect and fairness. allow for future benchmarking with peers and companies in illness-related absenteeism with a focus on encouraging All Stora Enso units should additionally comply with a set of other sectors. Due to this change, 2017 safety data is not fully units to invest in proactive health management. In 2017, Environmental minimum requirements for labour conditions in order to create comparable with historical data. illness-related absenteeism amounted to 3.1% (2.9%) of total agenda an environment where workers are both willing and able to In our safety work, the LTA rate was our priority key theoretical working hours. perform their tasks. These requirements address areas such performance indicator (KPI) in 2017. Stora Enso’s short-term By the end of the year, 82 Stora Enso units had appointed as working hours, basic worker rights, working conditions, and milestone for the LTA rate was 4.0 by the end of 2017. The joint safety committees (73), covering 90% (77%) of our Economic non-discrimination. The vast majority of our production units target was not achieved as the group-wide LTA rate increased total workforce. The average number of safety observations agenda are in compliance with these requirements, according to a selfto 5.3 in 2017 (4.4 in 2016). In 2017, our TRI rate decreased reported per employee was 9.0 (8.9). Data and assurance Total recordable incident rates (TRI)1 2 Lost-time accident rates (LTA)1 2 Number of incidents among our own employees Number of lost-time accidents among our own per one million hours worked employees per one million hours worked 25 16 20 12 15 8 10 4 5 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 China 2.0 0.9 0.8 0.9 1.0 China 3.7 2.9 2.4 2.8 1.4 Finland 10.5 9.3 7.8 5.0 8.7 Finland 19.9 21.7 16.6 19.0 11.5 Germany 5.9 6.1 5.4 6.0 3.6 Germany 20.8 17.3 18.8 13.8 13.6 Poland 2.8 3.8 3.9 3.0 4.1 Poland 3.6 4.7 4.2 5.1 4.4 Russia 5.6 1.6 4.7 4.2 3.2 Russia 6.1 2.6 8.3 6.3 5.3 Sweden 6.7 6.9 6.6 8.4 8.4 Sweden 19.9 19.2 17.4 19.4 12.0 Group 6.0 5.2 4.7 4.4 5.3 Group 14.0 12.5 11.0 11.7 7.7 1 For Stora Enso employees, excluding joint operations. 2 As of January 2017 Stora Enso applies new Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) definitions in the reporting of TRI and LTA rates to better align with international At Stora Enso, we believe that leadership is the strongest driver behind standards. Due to this change, the 2017 figures are not fully comparable with historical figures. company performance, wellbeing, and culture. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Social agenda – Employees and wider workforce 18 Governance Other focus areas in our OHS management work that they had taken part in a performance review during the past during 2017: 12 months (90%). • The group OHS function was moved from HR into the Social Sustainability function. Providing living wages and monitoring working hours agenda • The Safety Management Team and Safety Steering Group Every other year, the global non-profit organisation BSR were set up to better govern the topic. supports us in defining and calculating living wages in relevant Employees • Management approved a Safety Roadmap until the end of locations. In 2017, we reviewed the current situations in Brazil, and wider 2019. The roadmap drives step by step improvements in China, Russia, Laos, and Uruguay. The results of this study workforce performance, focusing on enhancing governance and ways indicate that overall, Stora Enso pays minimum/entry level Community of working, control and compliance with standards, and wages above the living wages defined by BSR. building on leadership and best practices. At Stora Enso, all units are expected to comply with Business • Roll-out of the new group OHS reporting tool in order to our Minimum Human Resources Requirements Labour ethics further improve data reliability. Conditions that set the requirements for working hours, basic • Implementation of better monitoring and reporting on worker rights, working conditions, and non-discrimination. Environmental process safety incidents. In late 2017, Stora Enso’s Internal Audit discovered working agenda hour recording errors in Stora Enso’s China Packaging Contractor accidents operations. Employees had been paid for overtime hours Stora Enso’s reporting of accidents involving contractors has as bonus, not on a monthly payroll. This practice aimed at Economic been developed in recent years. From early 2017, contractor hiding overtime hours exceeding customer requirements agenda accidents have been reported in separate categories for and possibly the standards set by Chinese law. We are on-site accidents and logistics incidents, to allow better investigating the case thoroughly in cooperation with an Data and comparability with statistics from other companies. external lawfirm. We have also made detailed action plans to assurance correct the errors immediately as well as long-term actions Flying robot to the rescue! Leadership and performance management to ensure future full compliance with applicable overtime Stora Enso is testing how drones can make woodyard Stora Enso’s key performance indicator (KPI) for leadership, the requirements. inventories safer by reducing the need for people to walk Leadership Index, measures employees’ perceptions of their around woodyards, where injuries and accidents may managers. The index is calculated based on our annual employee occur. We are also piloting a flying firefighter robot at Imatra survey. Our target was to achieve an index of 80/100 by 2018. This Mills in Finland. target was reached ahead of schedule in 2016, with a Leadership “Drones can help our first response team to better Index of 80, and it further improved to 81 in 2017. The response Our lowest wages compared to local minimum wages1 locate any problems, give us information about relevant rate to our employee survey remained high at 91% (90%). Ratio of our lowest wage to the local minimum wage weather conditions, and help us react faster,” explains During 2017, we continued to further develop our leaders 2017 2016 Imatra Mills’ Fire Safety Manager Mikko Parikka. in all parts of the organisation, through our own management Brazil2 1.1 1.1 training programme “Lead Through People”. A part of this Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability programme addresses practical ways to improve the company’s China3 1.3 1.4 safety culture, and approximately 450 managers participated Estonia 1.0 1.1 during the year. To further develop sales leadership capabilities, Laos 1.3 1.1 we launched a new programme in 2017 specifically addressing Latvia 1.2 1.2 this area, involving approximately 250 managers during the year. Read more in our Progress Book. Poland 1.0 1.0 We promote employee performance management by Russia 1.0 1.0 setting clear expectations with team and individual goals Uruguay4 1.1 1.1 and development objectives, providing regular coaching and 1 In material locations of operations, compared to minimum wage levels set at national, feedback, and ensuring employees understand the wider state, or provincial level as applicable. The ratio shows how many times larger our context of how they contribute to the success of the company. lowest wage is compared to the local minimum wage. 2 Including employees of our 50%-owned joint operation Veracel. All Stora Enso employees should be involved in at least one 3 Due to variations in regional minimum wages the ratio is calculated as a weighted formal performance review meeting with their manager each average for Stora Enso’s units in China. The weighting is based on the units’ total number of employees. year. In 2017, 91% of our employee survey respondents stated 4 Including employees of our 50%-owned joint operation Montes del Plata. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Social agenda – Employees and wider workforce 19 Governance Share of female employees at Stora Enso Employee distribution by gender and employee turnover1 2017 2016 China4 Finland Germany Poland Russia Sweden Group total Social Total number of employees Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male agenda at year-end1 24 960 24 723 Employees Share of women among by gender 48% 52% 20% 80% 21% 79% 18% 82% 23% 77% 20% 80% Employees all employees (%) 26% 26% Employee and wider Share of women among turnover 46% 49% 4% 5% 4% 5% 4% 4% 11% 6% 6% 6% 15% workforce senior managers (%) 21% 21% Number Women in the Group of hires2 1 200 1 440 70 220 30 40 20 70 20 60 90 250 3 920 Community Leadership Team 5 out of 12 4 out of 13 Number Business Women on the Board of Directors 3 out of 9 2 out of 8 of leavings3 1 150 1 310 60 230 10 40 20 70 30 50 70 250 3 680 ethics ¹ Excluding employees of our 50%-owned joint operations Montes del Plata ¹ Figures for the six largest countries in terms of the total number of employees. and Veracel. ² Hires: numbers of permanent employees joining the company. Excluding hires due to acquisitions. Rounded to the nearest 10. ³ Leavings: numbers of permanent employees leaving voluntarily or due to restructuring, retirement, or death. Excluding leavings due to divestments. Rounded to the nearest 10. Environmental 4 The employee turnover in China mainly comes from Stora Enso China Packaging units. agenda Compensation and equal opportunity1 Economic Ratio of highest individual Female employees’ remuneration agenda salary to median salary 2 as a proportion of male employees’3 2017 2016 2017 2016 Data and China 63 57 100% 100% assurance Finland 14 12 97% 97% Germany 5 6 97% 96% Poland 18 21 n/a n/a Russia 27 27 n/a n/a Sweden 28 27 100% 100% ¹ Figures for the six largest countries in terms of the total number of employees. ² The ratio shows how many times larger the highest individual salary is compared to the median salary. ³ Calculated using weighted averages based on gender comparisons within each country’s employee categories as applicable. Figures in Finland and Sweden are based on evaluations covering approximately 30% (Finland) and 75% (Sweden) of the total workforce. Employee distribution by country1 Employee distribution by age and region Finland 25% Group China Finland Germany Poland Russia Sweden by age China 21% Sweden 20% Up to 30 47% 10% 14% 19% 17% 12% 21% Poland 8% 31–50 51% 51% 42% 55% 71% 43% 51% Germany 4% 51 and over 2% 39% 44% 26% 12% 45% 28% Russia 4% Other Europe 16% 1 Figures for the six largest countries in terms of the total number of employees. Latin America and USA 1% Other countries 1% Our approach to safety extends to contractors, suppliers, ­­and 1 Excluding employees of our 50%-owned joint operations ­­on-site visitors. Montes del Plata and Veracel. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Social agenda – Community 20 Governance Opportunities and challenges Community Partnering with local communities Social Global companies can make a positive contribution in agenda local communities through active corporate citizenship. Such voluntary investments can benefit both communities and the Employees company over the long-term. and wider Stora Enso’s operations are heavily dependent on local workforce Communities living near our mills and forestry communities for a motivated and competitive workforce, as well as sourcing of our most important raw material, wood. Community operations form one of Stora Enso’s most important Therefore, the communities we influence must be resilient and Business stakeholder groups. We aim to contribute to the vitality able to thrive economically, socially, and environmentally in the ethics long-term. and resilience of these communities. Stora Enso’s operations also generate emissions and our Environmental tree plantations influence local land use that may adversely agenda impact communities associated with these operations. Our socio-environmental impacts must be managed responsibly, in order to minimise negative impacts, maximise our positive Economic influence, maintain cooperative community relations, and agenda ensure our long-term license to operate. Data and Our policies assurance A comprehensive approach to community work The policies that guide Stora Enso’s community relations include our: • Sponsorship and Donations Policy • Community Investment Guidelines • Code of Conduct • Business Practice Policy • Guidelines for Social Responsibility • Human Rights Statement • Tax Policy. Our joint operations have each developed formal procedures for their respective community work to reflect Stora Enso’s requirements. How we work Managing our local impact In many locations, Stora Enso is a major employer, tax-payer, and partner for local entrepreneurs, which positively impacts the local economy. In addition to implementing mandatory and regulated contributions to communities, we apply precautionary management actions to mitigate and remedy potential adverse environmental Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Social agenda – Community 21 Governance and social impacts on neighbouring communities. These Community investment development, and social welfare. Based on the first year of include: Building on the local community work Stora Enso has carried reporting, the total contribution of these activities consists • Environmental and social impact assessments (ESIAs) out over many years, we implemented a new group-wide of our input in cash (68% of total contribution), volunteered Social conducted for all new projects that could cause framework for our community investment work in 2017. working time (20%), and in-kind (12%). agenda significant adverse effects in local communities. For more Stora Enso defines community investment as the voluntary information, see page 10. donation of cash, working hours, and in-kind for non-profit Local community activities Employees • Due diligence assessments, which are invariably realised as purposes or non-profit community organisations following During 2017, we engaged with the communities around and wider part of Stora Enso’s acquisition and investment processes the LBG framework, a globally recognised framework for our operations in various ways, including investments in workforce prior to any critical decision. These assessments cover measuring corporate community investment. For Stora Enso, agroforestry programmes, socio-economic development and Community relevant factors related to environmental, social, and community investments are strategic, proactive, and local, capacity building projects. business practices. They play an important role in building where the community is the main beneficiary – but where we Business our understanding of local operating environments, while recognise that the company also benefits over the long-term. Europe ethics also helping us to build constructive relationships with In 2017, Stora Enso took the first steps to systematically In Europe, Stora Enso’s community investment particularly stakeholders such as governments, business partners, monitor and measure its input to community investment focuses on enhancing the attractiveness of communities Environmental local communities, and NGOs. Any subsequent investment globally. We also established for the first time a key near our sites for our existing and potential future employees. agenda decision must consider our ability to mitigate and manage performance indicator (KPI) to measure our total community To support the potential local workforce, we participated in any identified adverse impacts. investment covering three inputs: cash, working hours, and programmes that promote education and youth training, and • Third-party certified Environmental management systems in-kind. provide internship and research opportunities. We also strive Economic at our production units, applying international standards to promote diversity in our local workforce by participating in agenda such as ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and ISO 50001 for our Progress programmes that facilitate the employment of disabled people production units. and refugees. Data and • Third-party forest management certification for our own Measuring our community investment To support the everyday vitality of communities, we also assurance forestry operations and suppliers, such as the Forest As a global company with a strong local presence, financially support local associations, including sports clubs Stewardship Council (FSC) and the Programme for the particularly through wood procurement, we are committed to and cultural activities. Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC). numerous community investment activities. In 2017, the total • When necessary, restructuring processes and closure of number of Stora Enso’s community investment projects was operations realised in cooperation with the authorities to 403, including those facilitated by our joint operations Veracel support the communities through related changes, and to in Brazil and Montes del Plata in Uruguay. The focus areas of create opportunities for new business initiatives. our community investment projects are education, economic Total community investment Total community investment Total community investment Community investment by contribution type1 by area1 by country1 projects by country 2 Education 36% Finland 26% By number of projects (In total 403 projects) Economic Sweden 26% Finland 37% development 21% Brazil 26% Sweden 20% Social welfare 12% China 6% Cash 68% Russia 15% Health 12% Uruguay 4% Working hours 20% China 5% Environment 10% Russia 3% In-kind 12% Austria 4% Arts/Culture 3% Laos 3% Laos 3% Emergency relief 1% Poland 3% Brazil 3% Other support 5% Belgium 2% Poland 3% Other 1% Belgium 2% 1 Total community investment includes cash, voluntary working 1 Total community investment includes cash, voluntary working 1 Total community investment includes cash, voluntary working Other 8% hours, and in-kind as defined in the LBG framework. Includes hours, and in-kind as defined in the LBG framework. Includes hours, and in-kind as defined in the LBG framework. Includes 50% of joint operations Veracel in Brazil and Montes del Plata in 50% of joint operations Veracel in Brazil and Montes del Plata in 50% of joint operations Veracel in Brazil and Montes del Plata in 1 Total community investment includes cash, voluntary working hours and Uruguay. in-kind as defined in the LBG framework. Uruguay. Uruguay. 2 Including joint operations Veracel in Brazil and Montes del Plata Includes 50% of joint operations Veracel in Brazil and Montes del Plata in Uruguay. in Uruguay. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Social agenda – Community 22 Governance Guangxi, China and technical support. The Agrovida farming programme aims Stora Enso leases 82 591 hectares of land in Guangxi, to produce food for the local community and to trade surplus China, where engagement with local communities is a key production in regional markets. The Roça do Povo project Social element of our everyday operations. Stora Enso’s field staff supports local families cultivating cassava and other crops. agenda and social engagement officers speak regularly with local By the end of 2017, the Agrovida initiative involved 153 people impacted by our plantations and mill, and along our (150 in 2016) farmers cultivating 208 (208) hectares, while the Employees transportation routes, to inform them about Stora Enso’s Roça do Povo scheme assisted 82 (79) farmers cultivating 80 and wider operations and to enable them to express their concerns (80) hectares. workforce and contribute ideas. Our aim is to understand social risks in Veracel also enables local beekeepers to keep their hives Community advance, so we can properly mitigate and remedy them. on the company’s land, and provides training in beekeeping. During 2017, we continued socio-economic profiling In 2017, a total of 155 (136 in 2016) honey producers, mostly Business of local villages in order to better understand and address working through local cooperatives, benefitted from this ethics ethnic structures, opportunities for development, and other support, producing approximately 99 (87) tonnes of honey characteristics that can help us maximise the positive impacts during the year. Environmental of our operations, and mitigate any negative impacts. During In 2017, Veracel also continued to support local fishing agenda the year, we also advanced Free, Prior, and Informed Consent communities working at Veracel’s ports of Belmonte, Santa (FPIC) processes in land leasing where applicable. For more Cruz Cabrália, and Santo Antônio. The cooperation includes information, see page 12. support for studying the dynamics and development Economic Employees at our Beihai Mill are volunteering with the opportunities for local fishing, and providing infrastructure for agenda Guangxi Biodiversity Research and Conservation Association its commercialisation. (BRC) to clean up the coastline in Beihai by collecting plastic Data and waste. The goal is also to inspire locals to care for their natural assurance environment over the long-term through various awarenessTo save a horseshoe crab from plastic raising initiatives. Ocean waste coming in with the tide is affecting wildlife Our forestry operations in Guangxi run community projects and local livelihoods near Stora Enso’s Beihai Mill in to address the challenges in rural villages near our plantations. Southern China. A community project run by Stora Enso During 2017, Stora Enso supported nine community projects and the Guangxi Biodiversity Research and Conservation focusing for instance on improving sanitation and the Association (BRC) is tackling the problem with beach availability of clean drinking water. cleaning and awareness building events. “We’ve already seen how volunteers have gone from not Veracel, Brazil knowing much about the topic to taking action proactively. Veracel owns 213 500 hectares and leases 12 500 hectares And we’ve only just begun!” says Hongxu Zhao, BRC’s of land in Bahía, Brazil. Supporting income generation and Project Communication Officer. employment for local communities are the top priorities of Veracel’s sustainability agenda. Since 2012, Veracel Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability has been involved in the Pact for the Development of the Discovery Coast. Under this agreement, the government has committed to reimburse Veracel ICMS tax credits paid by the company, in return for the company’s investments in local development programmes. The pact’s projects contribute to the sustainable development of family farming by forming associations for small producers and indigenous communities. During 2017, the pact supported two projects related to cassava production. Supporting multiple land uses Veracel is also supporting local livelihoods by making some of Veracel supports family farming and local producers through several its land available to family farmers, and by providing training initiatives. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Social agenda – Community 23 Governance In 2017, work continued on a related Sustainable Settlement Initiative launched in 2012 to provide farm land and technical Making money from honey and educational support to help hundreds of local families Social At a time when bee populations worldwide are in serious improve their incomes. This initiative is facilitated by the agenda decline, millions of bees are using eucalyptus plantations as Government of the State of Bahía through the Secretariat of a source of nectar around Stora Enso’s joint operation Veracel Rural Development (SDR), and conducted in cooperation with Employees in Brazil. Local beekeepers are turning it into exportable honey. the landless people’s social movements and INCRA. Through and wider “Veracel’s support has been crucial in forming cooperatives this initiative, the social movements have pledged to leave workforce and making our operations more professional,” says Matthew areas occupied since July 2011, while Veracel has agreed Community Martinez Valverde, a beekeeper from Eunápolis. not to seek to repossess areas occupied before that date. The initiative relates to a total area of approximately 16 500 Business Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability hectares of Veracel’s lands designated for the settlements ethics to be purchased from the company by INCRA. In addition to advancing this process during 2017, Veracel also provided Environmental socio-economic support for the landless people’s social agenda movements, including support for agricultural activities and literacy enhancement. At the end of 2017, additional areas of Veracel’s productive Economic land totalling 3 043 hectares (3 499 hectares at the end of agenda 2016) were occupied by landless groups not involved in the Sustainable Settlement Initiative. During the year, Veracel Data and continued to seek repossession of these areas through legal assurance processes, and the company resumed forest management activities on a total total of 456 hectares (1 962 hectares in Investing in local social welfare and causes abuse and exploitation in the municipalities of Porto Seguro, 2016). Stora Enso also reports on this additional occupied area To strengthen the labour market in neighbouring communities, Santa Cruz de Cabralia, and Eunápolis in South Bahía. in the group’s Interim Reports. Veracel is cooperating with several NGOs to prepare young The cooperation included formulating, implementing, and people for the labour market. In 2017, such cooperation strengthening public policies related to child exploitation, Montes del Plata, Uruguay covered training on coastal and marine environments together and providing training for professionals. In 2017, Stora Enso, Montes del Plata, our 50/50 joint operation owned together with the NGO Instituto Mae Terra. During the year, the company Veracel, and Childhood Brasil signed a one-year continuation with the Chilean company Arauco, runs a pulp mill at Punta also cooperated with the National Business Apprenticeship of the contract. Pereira in Colonia, in southwestern Uruguay, together with Service (SENAC) and the municipality of Eunápolis to help 28 For information on Veracel’s engagement with indigenous associated eucalyptus plantations mainly located in central people graduate with a degree in administration. communities, see page 12. and north-western parts of the country. Montes del Plata owns During 2013–2015 Stora Enso and Veracel successfully 190 000 hectares of land and leases 56 500 hectares of land. cooperated with the NGO Childhood Brasil to combat child Continuous dialogue with the landless people’s movement Dialogue with landless people is important for Veracel, Enhancing livelihoods particularly as certain groups have occupied some of the Montes del Plata seeks to create positive impacts in company’s land since 2008. During 2017, Veracel continued to local communities near the mill by fostering employment engage in dialogue with the Government of the State of Bahía, opportunities, maximising local hiring, participating in Stora Enso’s operations the National Institute of Colonisation and Agrarian Reform mentoring programmes, and by promoting local education are heavily dependent (INCRA), and the representatives of six officially recognised landless people’s social movements: and an entrepreneurial spirit among young people. During 2017, Montes del Plata also continued to work on on local communities • The Movement of Landless Workers (MST) the Alianzas programme that provides additional income for for a motivated and • The Federation of Agricultural Workers (Fetag) • The Movement for the Struggle for Land (MLT) local farmers by enabling them to use their land to produce timber as well as agricultural crops. At the end of the year, competitive workforce. • The Peasant Resistance Movement (MRC) 374 (339 in 2016) farmers with lands totalling 56 500 (55 000) • The Front of Free Workers (FTL) hectares, of which 45 000 (44 000) are planted with eucalyptus, • The Association Unidos Venceremos (Aprunve). participated in the programme. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Social agenda – Community 24 Governance truck drivers from 16 different transportation companies. Montes del Plata carefully trains all drivers before they start working for the company. Quarterly workshops on safety and Social social responsibility are organised for the truck drivers and agenda regular meetings are held with the owners of the transportation companies to follow up on safety indicators. Employees Montes del Plata, together with its contractors and their and wider truck drivers, works to raise awareness of traffic safety issues workforce in the locations most severely affected by the company’s Community traffic. In 2017, this work included cooperation with 13 schools on local road safety development projects. Business ethics Laos Stora Enso’s plantations in Laos have been established in a Environmental way that enables local farmers to grow rice and cash crops agenda between the trees. Before establishing plantations, Stora Enso makes the land safe by removing unexploded bomblets. The bombs were dropped over Laos during the Vietnam War. Economic In Laos, we have also established a village development agenda fund to share benefits among local villagers, and to further support local development and livelihoods. Most of the Data and funding allocated during 2017 was directed to infrastructure assurance projects such as electricity and water supply connections, road upgrading, and purchases of livestock to enhance food security. These projects have been designed together with the villagers according to their needs and requirements. All the projects are also approved by the local authorities. For more information about our human rights work in Laos, see page 13. Bulleh Shah Packaging, Pakistan In September 2017, Stora Enso completed the divestment of its 35% holding in the equity-accounted investment Bulleh Shah In Uruguay, Montes del Plata seeks to create positive impacts on local communities by maximising local hiring, participating in mentoring Packaging. For more information on Stora Enso’s continuing programmes, and by promoting local education. efforts to support human rights and community work in Pakistan, see pages 12–13. Alianzas also promotes the diverse use of Montes del to the mill, Montes del Plata’s tree nursery, the main port, and Plata’s lands, for purposes such as cattle grazing and honey the company-owned Bioparque M’Bopicuá environmental production. By the end of the year, 183 farmers were keeping centre. The environmental centre, which received over 2 100 cattle on Montes del Plata’s lands, varying from over 20 000 visitors during the year, promotes education as well as enables up to 60 000 heads of cattle during the year, while 39 farmers visitors to experience native wildlife at first hand and to learn In many locations, Stora Enso produced honey in approximately 6 500 beehives, of which how ecosystems function. 2 000 are currently organic-certified. The diverse use of land is a major employer, taximproves local livelihoods, reduces forest fire risks, and helps Mitigating negative impacts from logistics payer, and partner for local to build stronger relationships with the community. The company has a long-term strategy for the sustainable Montes del Plata aims for the local community to transportation of wood, including annual action plans involving entrepreneurs. become better acquainted with its operations. Stakeholder truck drivers, transport companies, and local communities. engagement work in 2017 included several educational visits Montes del Plata’s wood supply is operated by some 700 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Social agenda – Business ethics 25 Governance Opportunities and challenges Business ethics Broad ethical approach Social beyond compliance agenda Compliance with laws and regulations is always the highest priority for us. However, as a value-driven organisation we believe Employees that adopting a wider ethical approach is also crucially important. and wider Stora Enso operates in locations including high-risk markets workforce For Stora Enso, business ethics means more than that offer good business opportunities, but may also entail exposure to serious risks relating to topics such as corruption and Community complying with regulations. Promoting an ethical fraud. Joint venture agreements may also involve risks related Business company culture helps us enhance our reputation to competition law. The UK Bribery Act and the US Foreign ethics Corrupt Practices Act are examples of effective legislation and succeed in business as a reliable partner. that governments and authorities have introduced to combat Environmental corruption. These laws place high demands on company agenda controlling mechanisms, but they also help to build accountability and trust among employees, partners, and other stakeholders. In today’s increasingly digital and information-intensive Economic business environment, cybersecurity and privacy issues are agenda a key concern for organisations. Stora Enso takes measures designed to ensure the privacy of our customers, suppliers, Data and employees, and other stakeholders, and works actively to assurance mitigate risks and prevent all forms of fraud. New legislation such as the EU Data Protection Regulation additionally sets requirements concerning the processing of personal data, with heavy fines imposed for infringements. Our policies Comprehensive approach to ethics and compliance The Stora Enso Code of Conduct is a single set of values defined for all our employees, to provide guidance on our approach to ethical business practices, environmental values, and human and labour rights. These same values are applied wherever we operate. Other policies relevant to ethics and compliance include our: • Business Practice Policy • Data Privacy Policy • Supplier Code of Conduct. How we work Combatting misconduct on all fronts Stora Enso’s Ethics and Compliance function is a sub-function operating under our Legal team, headed by our General Counsel, who reports directly to the CEO. Our Ethics and Compliance Management Committee (formerly known Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Social agenda – Business ethics 26 Governance Data Privacy Policy was launched in April 2016. The policy aims to protect the company against risks related to breaches What if a competitor suggests price fixing? of data privacy, to let our employees know how Stora Enso Social Business ethics and fair play on global markets is about collects and uses their personal data, and to ensure that agenda making the right choices every day. Competition law protects the privacy rights of our employees, business partners, and businesses and consumers against anti-competitive other stakeholders are protected. The Data Privacy Policy Employees behaviour, eventually resulting in wider choice for consumers. and related practical guidance have been rolled out through and wider “We believe that promoting a wider ethical approach an e-learning and every white-collar employee is required to workforce also helps us enhance our good reputation and succeed in complete the training. By the end of 2017, 10 069 employees Community business as a reliable partner,” says Pontus Selderman, had been trained. Ethics and Compliance Lead Counsel at Stora Enso. Business Anti-corruption and bribery ethics Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability Stora Enso is committed to conducting its business free from any form of corruption. It is also our policy to use our Environmental best endeavours to ensure that external business partners agenda acting on our behalf are aware of and share our commitment to conducting business ethically. We have a zero tolerance towards all forms of corruption and bribery, and our Code of Economic Conduct and Business Practice Policy provide guidance on agenda how to conduct business in a fair, ethical, and legal manner. All suspicions of corruption or bribery of any kind are thoroughly Data and investigated and reported by our Ethics and Compliance team assurance and Internal Audit organisation. as the Ethics and Compliance Board), a governance body to provide related information for employees within their reIn 2017, the Stora Enso Group Leadership Team decided appointed by the CEO, monitors Stora Enso’s legal compliance spective organisations. that members of leadership or management teams or and ethical business conduct by following up on our Ethics In line with workshops organised for employees in employees in a position that could influence sourcing and Compliance Action List. The Committee met four times managerial positions in recent years, a dedicated ethics decisions shall not accept any gifts, hospitality, expenses or during 2017. workshop was arranged with the Stora Enso Board of Directors any other positive special treatment from suppliers. Stora Enso’s ethics and compliance strategy forms the during 2017. The workshop provided training and promoted basis for annual action plans. The strategy has five focus discussions on ethical issues. Intensified efforts in risk areas areas: Operating in high-risk markets and entering into joint ventures • Top level commitment Training for all employees can entail exposure to serious risks. Our risk assessment • Improved communication and training Our communication strategy for ethics and compliance aims procedures on compliance cover all our units. The most • Intensified efforts in countries with heightened concerns to ensure that Stora Enso’s employees and business partners significant compliance risks in our global operations relate to • Developing our grievance channels all understand what ethical behaviour is, and how they should anti-trust and corruption. • Ethics and compliance as a competitive edge. respond to any ethical dilemmas that arise. Our employees receive Code of Conduct training, either Stora Enso is represented in Transparency International’s through an e-learning tool, or through face-to-face training Steering Committee for Business Principles for Countering provided for those who do not have direct access to computers. Bribery, where we actively participate in the network’s efforts We aim to ensure that our new employees receive such training to combat corruption globally and nationally. within their first month of employment. In addition, an in-depth e-learning course on anti-trust and anti-corruption is mandatory Stora Enso has a zero Top level commitment In our efforts to make Stora Enso a more value-driven organifor all members of our Group Leadership Team, for divisional and mill management teams, and for employees dealing with tolerance towards all forms sation, we highlight the significance of top level commitment to competitor contacts, purchasing, marketing, and sales. This of corruption and bribery. business ethics. All managers in key positions are required to course has been run since 2013. participate in training and make a personal commitment to our To protect personal data throughout our operations and Code of Conduct and our Business Practice Policy, and ensure that we comply with all applicable laws, the Stora Enso Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Social agenda – Business ethics 27 Governance The management and employees of our totally or jointly owned operations in Brazil, Russia, and China receive extensive face-to-face training on our Business Practice Social Policy. Employees in our joint operations in Brazil and Uruguay agenda additionally receive training on their operation’s respective Codes of Conduct and Business Practice Principles. Training Employees sessions cover topics such as human rights, environmental and wider impacts, safety, and ethical practices. Anti-trust guidelines workforce designed for our joint ventures are implemented with the help Community of related training in Uruguay, Brazil, and China. During 2017, our Ethics and Compliance team continued Business its series of trainings in the USA and the high-risk Russian ethics market. These trainings were held to meet with local employees and managers face-to-face, to gain a better Environmental understanding of local ethical dilemmas, and to train local agenda personnel on key topics. Formal grievance mechanisms Economic Our employees are encouraged to report any suspected cases agenda of misconduct or unethical behaviour to their supervisor, or to our Human Resources or Legal functions. Employees may also Data and report their concerns in confidentiality to the Head of Internal assurance Audit. Our Supplier Code of Conduct also obliges our suppliers to report any non-compliance with the Code to Stora Enso’s Head of Internal Audit. Stora Enso uses an additional external service through which our employees globally, and in certain locations also external stakeholders, can anonymously report potential noncompliance cases by phone, mail, or online. This service is available 24/7. All potential non-compliance cases are duly investigated. The consequent findings are recorded and reviewed by the heads of our Internal Audit, and Ethics and Compliance functions, and reported both to our Ethics and Compliance Management Committee, and to our Board of Directors’ Financial and Audit Committee. Proven cases of noncompliance can lead to disciplinary or legal action. Our joint operations Veracel and Montes del Plata each have their own local grievance channels. In 2017, a total of 61 reports received through Stora Enso’s various grievance channels were identified as potential non-compliance cases (58 in 2016). Proven misconduct leading to disciplinary actions, legal actions, and/or process improvements was identified in 14 (18) of the completed investigations, while 22 (5) further complaints were found to be valid without involving misconduct. None of the proven misconduct cases were related to child labour, forced labour, or discrimination. We comply with all applicable local, national and international laws, regulations, and voluntary commitments wherever we do business. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Social agenda – Business ethics 28 Governance Progress key functions and divisions to assess risks and monitor compliance is presented to help managers to communicate compliance. and discuss ethical topics with their teams, with the help of Comprehensive training and monitoring Our Ethics and Compliance Self-Assessment Tool (T. E. S. T.), related material and communications kits. Social We have developed an index that enables us to introduced in 2015, was run once in 2017. This tool has been The Ethics Ambassadors network established in 2016 has agenda monitor and evaluate our employee perceptions of our work designed to give our divisions and functions a better overview of continued its work in voluntarily supporting our Ethics and on topics covered by our Code of Conduct. The index is based the progress their units are making on implementing our policies Compliance function by promoting and implementing ethical Employees on employee responses to related questions in our annual and compliance measures, while also identifying possible gaps values in their own locations. The first workshop with some of and wider employee survey. In 2017, this index improved to 83 (81 in and risks related to compliance. The results were addressed the Ethics Ambassadors was held during 2017 to share good workforce 2016). Our goal is to maintain this positive trend. By the end of through the compliance forums, with action plans subsequently practices and better understand the different ethical dilemmas Community 2017, 18 001 Stora Enso employees had received training on developed, implemented, and monitored as necessary. our employees face in their operations around the world. our Code of Conduct. Compliance rules can be complicated, and ensuring that Business Following the establishment of the Division Compliance Ethics and compliance in the spotlight each and every employee knows the company’s purpose, ethics Forums and the Group Function Compliance Forum in recent Our internal communications concept “Ethical Spotlight of the values, goals, and policies can be challenging. In 2017, the years, a separate China Compliance Forum was established month” has continued to be used throughout the company. Do What’s Right mobile application was re-designed to Environmental during 2017. These forums bring together the heads of Every other month, a specific topic related to ethics and provide our employees with improved access to all relevant agenda compliance policies whenever and wherever needed. The app now allows employees to report suspected violations – making it even easier for our employees to react when faced with Economic potential misconduct issues. agenda Enhanced compliance control processes Data and Ensuring effective compliance control is an essential part of assurance our business. Stora Enso is committed to fully comply with applicable competition law. To avoid the risk of employee conflicts of interest, several enhancements were made to internal processes and tools, such as the use of the Customer Relationship Management tool and the Sourcing tracker during 2017. In addition, clearer instructions were developed and implemented during the year. Breakdown of potential non-compliance cases 2017 2016 Anti-trust 8 2 Conflict of interest 6 7 Corruption 14 20 Fraud 4 5 General human resources 16 13 Health and safety 2 0 Miscellaneous 11 11 Total 61 58 Our Ethics Ambassadors promote ethical values in their own units. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Environmental agenda 29 Governance Social agenda Environmental agenda Economic agenda Data and assurance Environmental agenda Materials, water, and energy 30 Carbon dioxide 40 Forests, plantations, and land use 47 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Environmental agenda – Materials, water, and energy 30 Governance Opportunities and challenges Materials, water, Reduced waste, maximum value Social Global megatrends such as global warming, agenda population growth, eco-awareness, and urbanisation are and energy affecting consumer and corporate decision-making around Environmental the world. At Stora Enso, we are proactively responding to agenda these trends by developing products and solutions based on materials that are both renewable and recyclable. Materials, water, and Materials energy As a renewable materials company, Stora Enso operates at Carbon dioxide Resource efficiency benefits our business, but also the heart of the bioeconomy and contributes to a circular economy. In a circular economy, waste is minimised as the environment and society at large. By using materials materials are reused and recycled to maximise environmental Forests, plantations, efficiently and replacing non-renewable materials, and financial added value. The European Commission (EC) has adopted several legislative proposals on waste reduction and land use Stora Enso operates at the heart of the bioeconomy. within its Circular Economy Package, as well as an action plan aiming to optimise product life cycles through recycling and Economic reuse. The objectives of these ambitions provide business agenda opportunities for Stora Enso. Data and Water assurance Water plays a central role in Stora Enso’s production, heating, cooling, and cleaning processes, and in generating renewable electricity from the hydropower we purchase. Our forests and plantations also need rainwater. While water is relatively abundant in most of our production unit locations, global water scarcity may still impact our operations through our supply chains, and as controls on pollution, recycling, and water pricing are tightened. At the same time, such developments give us opportunities to reduce costs by using water more efficiently. Energy The EU’s 2020 Climate and Energy Package, 2030 Climate and Energy Framework (currently under revision), and 2050 LowCarbon Economy Roadmap outline the way forward for industrial energy. Forthcoming revisions may include changes in the Emissions Trading System (for more information, see page 40) and tougher requirements on industrial energy efficiency. A high proportion of biomass is used in the internal energy production of most of our mills. This renewable energy is generated from by-products and residuals from our own production processes, harvesting residues, recovered wood, and wastes. The EU’s Renewable Energy Directive sets member states a binding collective target to derive 20% of their final energy Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Environmental agenda – Materials, water, and energy 31 Governance consumption from renewable sources by 2020. With its high proportion of biomass-based energy, the forest industry can help the EU achieve this target. High in energy, low in carbon Social 80% of Stora Enso’s carbon dioxide emissions is fossil-free. agenda Our policies Some of our mills run on 100% renewable energy, while some buy 100% renewable electricity, and we are fully self-sufficient Environmental Guidance throughout the supply chain in terms of heat generation. agenda Stora Enso’s policies relevant to our use of materials, “All of these factors have helped Stora Enso to reduce water, and energy include our: its direct and indirect fossil CO 2 emissions by 40% since Materials, • Code of Conduct, guiding us on issues related to resource 2006,” says Johan Holm, Head of Environmental Policies and water, and use. Programmes. energy • Supplier Code of Conduct, Practical Instructions for Stora Enso’s Suppliers, Purchasers’ Instructions, Sourcing Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability Carbon dioxide Policy, and Sourcing Guidelines: a guiding framework for the Forests, responsible sourcing of materials and energy. plantations, • Policy on Wood and Fibre Sourcing, and Land Management, and land use our commitment to the responsible integration of forestry, land use, sourcing, and water stewardship into our sustainable forest management and land use practices. Economic • Policy on Energy and Carbon, a revised policy stating our (32 in 2016). These units corresponded to 91% of our total Corporate Leaders Group report on resource productivity. agenda ambitions in combatting global warming. energy consumption in 2017 (92%). For unit-specific information In 2017, we also joined WBCSD’s new circular economy • Environmental Guidelines, a comprehensive overview of our on certificates, see page 69. initiative – Factor10 – as one of the founding members. Data and policy objectives and how we work to achieve them. The emissions generated by each of our mills are regulated A new biocomposite granule production is scheduled to assurance by the relevant authorities, with limits set through environmental begin at our Hylte Mill in Sweden in 2018. These granules How we work permit processes that consider local environmental conditions, will consist of both wood fibres and synthetic polymers, stakeholders, and legislation. Compliance with these permits is significantly reducing the amount of fossil-based raw materials External initiatives guiding our work monitored by the relevant environmental authorities and by the in future plastic products. The environmental work at our mills, including water mill in question. Non-compliances and incidents are reported and energy management and resource efficiency, is supported by mills to group management on a quarterly basis. Significant Virgin fibre and Paper for Recycling by third-party-certified environmental management systems. incidents are reported immediately. For details of all significant Wood and fibre are the main raw materials in Stora Enso’s All our board, pulp, and paper mills are certified to the ISO 14001 incidents and violations of environmental permits occurring in production processes. Materials made with virgin fibre are environmental management system standard, along with all 2017, see page 39. used for products with special safety requirements such as but four of our sawmills and corrugated packaging mills. By Environmental improvements at our production units food packaging and pharmaceuticals. For more information the end of 2017, 40 of our production units were certified to the are driven by regional conditions. The EU’s Best Available about our wood procurement, see page 48. ISO 50001 energy efficiency management system standard Techniques (BAT) Reference Documents have limits for Virgin fibre is also needed in the paper recycling process. effluents and emissions to air, and the BAT conclusions for After about seven recycling rounds, paper fibres become pulp and paper, as well as medium and large combustion too short to be reused but can then be burned for bioenergy, plants apply to all board, pulp, paper, and sawmills in Europe. prompting the need for new virgin fibre. Stora Enso also The related investment needs are proactively planned as part uses paper for recycling (PfR) wherever it makes good sense In a circular economy, waste of group investment processes. These investments fit into the environmentally and economically. Seven of Stora Enso’s mills company’s normal capital expenditure framework and policy. currently use PfR. Recycled newspapers and magazines are is minimised as materials are used to produce certain paper grades at Langerbrugge Mill reused and recycled to maximise Contributing to the bioeconomy in Belgium (where they account for 100% of sourced fibre), environmental and financial Stora Enso works proactively to support the transition towards Sachsen Mill (100%) and Maxau Mill (approximately 75%) in a global bioeconomy. In 2017, our resource efficiency work was Germany, Dawang Mill in China (95%), and Hylte Mill in Sweden added value. featured in two important documents highlighting the role of (50%). Recovered board is used to make specific containerboard the bioeconomy as a solution to global warming: grades at Ostrołęka Mill in Poland (85% of fibre sourced for WBCSD’s CEO Guide to the Circular Economy, and the containerboard production) and at Varkaus Mill in Finland. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Environmental agenda – Materials, water, and energy 32 Governance Stora Enso’s water withdrawal Social and consumption agenda Environmental agenda Materials, water, and energy Carbon dioxide Forests, Almost 96% of the water we withdraw is plantations, recycled back to the local environment after and land use being carefully purified. Some 4% of the water we withdraw is Economic consumed in our production. agenda Data and assurance 91% of our total energy consumption is covered by the ISO 50001 energy efficiency management system. Through cooperation with local authorities and waste Optimising residuals and waste Responsible water use management companies, and our own collection facilities, Stora Enso’s production processes generate various residuals Production at Stora Enso’s mills requires large amounts we secure a sufficient supply of PfR from industrial and and wastes, including ash, sawdust, bark, and wastewater of water. However, only around 4% is consumed in our commercial sources such as printers and retailers, as well as treatment sludge. Many of these materials are used in our production processes while almost 96% is returned to the local from households. In Poland, we own and manage a network of internal bioenergy generation and pulp production, or supplied environment. Process water is purified by our treatment plants 21 depots where PfR is collected and baled for transportation to to partners to be used in agriculture, brick manufacturing, or and then discharged, whereas cooling and other non-process our Ostrołęka Mill. road construction, for instance. We are constantly innovating water can be safely released without treatment. According to The Confederation of European Paper to improve resource efficiency and make profitable use of Stora Enso uses high-performing wastewater treatment Industries (CEPI), Europe’s overall PfR collection rate materials that would otherwise end up as waste. systems to ensure that discharged water is ecologically safe has been high for many years (72.5% in 2016). This is a We ensure that hazardous waste is safely processed at and meets all regulatory requirements. Water is recycled within noteworthy achievement as not all paper can currently be suitable facilities or incinerators, and we report on hazardous our mills whenever possible to reduce the need for water intake. recycled, such as tissue paper. While overall collection rates waste disposal in accordance with the relevant regulations. Optimising our water use also reduces the need for water within the EU are relatively high, certain Central and Southern Our mills’ third-party-certified ISO 14001 systems form part of pumping and heating, which creates energy savings and makes European countries still have potential to grow. Focusing on the on-site management procedures for handling chemicals the purification of the remaining wastewater more efficient. We countries with collection rates below 60%, Stora Enso and and waste. Expertise and best practices related to optimising are also experimenting with refining wastewater residues into the paper industry are actively supporting best practices material flows are shared within the company by expert products. For example, our Skoghall Mill in Sweden is working while these countries establish sustainable collection networks focusing on environment, materials, PfR, chemical together with the University of Karlstad to use wastewater systems. safety, and product safety. residues to create bio-based products such as bioplastics. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Environmental agenda – Materials, water, and energy 33 Governance As a public commitment to water resource management Water use and water stress are key aspects when and the development of sustainable water strategies, considering new operations or projects. In 2017, we further Stora Enso signed the United Nations Global Compact’s strengthened the role of water stewardship in our group-level Social CEO Water Mandate in 2009. We have also used the Global investment guidelines. agenda Water Tool devised by WBCSD to assess related risks at our production units, and we actively follow the latest water Long-term energy supply contracts Environmental footprint methodology developed by researchers and Board, pulp, and paper production processes are the most agenda standardisation bodies. energy intensive phases in Stora Enso’s value chain, which makes it essential for our mills to have access to a reliable Materials, energy supply at a reasonable cost. Stora Enso’s energy water, and supply is managed under long-term contracts, direct market energy access through energy exchanges, efficient combined heat Carbon dioxide We constantly innovate and power production, and shareholdings in power generation companies such as Pohjolan Voima Oy and Teollisuuden Forests, to make use of materials Voima Oy in Finland. For more information on these plantations, that would otherwise partnerships, see our Financial Report (Note 14). Stora Enso is committed to continuous improvements and land use end up as waste. in energy efficiency and energy self-sufficiency. We always assess the opportunities to use biomass fuels or other lowEconomic carbon options in connection with energy investments. agenda Data and Water can only be loaned – nothing is for free assurance In Sweden, water has always played a central role at Stora Enso’s 100-year-old Skoghall Mill, where all the water released from the mill back into the local environment is ecologically safe and meets all regulatory requirements. “We have started to replace fresh water with filtrated water in one of our board machines, and can now also recover fibre from water so that it can be used as raw material for new board,” Klas Norborg, Development Engineer at Skoghall Mill explains. Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability Wood and fibre are the main raw materials in our production processes. Materials made with virgin fibre are used for products with special safety requirements such as food packaging and pharmaceuticals. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Environmental agenda – Materials, water, and energy 34 Governance Utilisation of process waste and residual materials1 2 Nine Stora Enso’s board and paper mills in Europe, and five of our Nordic sawmills, monitor energy efficiency online in real Energy generation 63% time. All Stora Enso’s board, pulp, and paper mills are part of Social Wood pellet and chipboard an energy efficiency best practice network. agenda manufacturing 21% Pulp manufacturing 5% Progress Landscaping, landfill, and road Environmental construction 3% agenda Materials Other 5% Stora Enso’s utilisation rate for process residuals and Process waste to landfill 2% Materials, waste across the group includes internal and external uses Agricultural use 1% water, and (98% in 2017 compared to 98% in 2016). In 2017, we reviewed energy 1 Covers all Stora Enso production units, as dry tonnes. Excluding joint operations. this key performance indicator (KPI) that will drive innovation by 2 Definition changed for 2017 reporting to exclude, for example, wood chips, tall oil, further enhancing our performance in material utilisation, while Carbon dioxide and turpentine. finding new ways to reduce waste to landfill. Through identifying Forests, company projects that could support this KPI, we formed a plantations, baseline in 2017 for both performance and initiatives to be and land use Process waste to landfill1 developed in our operational efficiency work in 2018. 68 758 tonnes In 2017, Stora Enso’s revenues derived from residuals and Fly ash 51% by-products, including tall oil, amounted to EUR 78 million Economic Green liquor dregs 26% What are the safest ways to use chemicals? (EUR 70 million in 2016). During 2017, Stora Enso’s production agenda Bottom ash 9% Stora Enso uses chemicals to strengthen paper, enhance units generated a total of 3 858 tonnes of hazardous waste, Wood handling waste 9% product brightness, and extract cellulose from wood slightly up from 3 489 tonnes in 2016. This waste includes Data and Lime mud 1% fibre, but we also make bio-based chemicals from pulp oils, solvents, paints, laboratory chemicals, and batteries. assurance Sludge 1% production sidestreams. In addition, 16 276 tonnes of sludge classified as hazardous Other process related waste 3% Chemical safety has always been an important part waste was generated at the disused Falun copper mine in of our sustainability work, but over the past decade our Sweden (23 247 tonnes). Stora Enso used 2.5 million tonnes of customers and employees have taken even more interest paper for recycling (PfR) in 2017 (2.41 million tonnes), making us 1 Covers all Stora Enso production units. Excluding joint operations. In addition to process waste to landfill, Stora Enso’s production units in the issue. one of the largest PfR consumers in Europe. The PfR utilisation created a total of 1 844 tonnes of non-process waste, and 80 106 tonnes rate in our paper and board production was 26% (26%1). of process waste was sent to on-site storage facilities. Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability Chemical safety management During 2017, Stora Enso established group-wide Chemicals Management Instructions, which outline the minimum Paper for recycling: procurement by origin Thousand tonnes1 Structured approach to energy management requirements for all our units globally, including occupational Western Europe 1 253 (51%) Stora Enso’s Energy Services team is responsible for procuring health and safety, and environmental safety. During the year, Central Europe 722 (29%) energy and managing the implementation of our energy we identified the properties for chemicals that need restricted Nordic Countries 377 (15%) efficiency strategy. This work involves the hedging of energy use or should be replaced. To further improve chemical safety, Other countries 120 (5%) prices, managing the sales of emission rights, consulting we have implemented new routines that help us share lessons the mills on a wide range of energy topics, trading in green learned between all divisions. certificates, monitoring our carbon dioxide allowance balance, and following energy legislation. Water The biomass used for energy within Stora Enso is mainly We continued to identify mill-specific water-related challenges purchased by our Wood Supply organisation, whereas and opportunities in 2017. The work focused on assessing 1 Total amounts of Paper for Recycling (recovered paper and board) procured each mill is individually responsible for the procurement of water-saving opportunities at Skutskär and Skoghall mills within these regions for delivery to our mills. most other fuels. Mills are also responsible for optimising in Sweden, and resulted in systematic water use mapping, their energy efficiency using internal tools and certified and calculating water-related costs that are to be applied environmental and energy management systems, with support from our energy efficiency teams. 1 Restated due to definition change from dried to delivered tonnes. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Environmental agenda – Materials, water, and energy 35 Governance when building business cases on water savings. The work will Water withdrawal and consumption1 2 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Trend 13–17 continue at other mills in 2018 as part of our new approach to Total water withdrawal (million m3) water and energy stewardship using new KPIs. Social Process water 287 287 306 297 291 1% During 2017, we introduced a new total water withdrawal per agenda saleable tonne key performance indicator (KPI) at our board, Cooling water (net) 333 323 283 301 304 -9% pulp and paper mills. The objective is to drive a decreasing trend Total 620 610 589 598 595 -4% Environmental from our 2016 baseline of 57 cubic meters per saleable tonne. In m3/tonne 59 61 58 57 56 -5% agenda 2017, the performance was 56. We also continued to monitor our normalised process water discharges. In 2017, we discharged Process water withdrawal efficiency Materials, 26 cubic meters per saleable tonne (27 in 2016). m3/tonne 27 29 30 28 28 3% water, and Stora Enso’s EUR 13 million investment to reduce energy wastewater effluents at Veitsiluoto Mill was completed in 2017. Total water consumption The investment will reduce chemical and energy use in pulp Carbon dioxide million m3 26 25 23 23 25 -4% production and wastewater management, create cost savings, and improve pulp quality. m3/tonne 2.4 2.5 2.2 2.2 2.3 -4% Forests, plantations, Process water discharges and land use million m3 272 266 272 280 272 0% m3/tonne 26 27 27 27 26 0% Economic agenda We use high-performing ¹ Figures from pulp, paper, and board production units. Normalised figures are reported per unit of sales production. wastewater treatment ² Historical figures recalculated due to changes in baseline following divestments or accuracy improvements. Data and systems to ensure assurance that discharged water is ecologically safe. Phosphorus1 2 Nitrogen1 2 Absorbable organic halogen Chemical oxygen demand (COD)1 compounds (AOX)1 2 135 14 1.4 130 110 11 500 100 120 12 1.3 120 100 9 400 80 105 10 1.2 110 90 7 90 8 1.1 100 300 60 80 5 75 6 1.0 90 200 40 70 3 60 4 0.9 80 100 20 60 1 Trend Trend Trend Trend 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 13–17 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 13–17 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 13–17 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 13–17 tonnes 103 108 124 109 111 8% 1 000 tonnes 389 302 312 282 290 -25% 1 000 tonnes 1.27 1.19 1.13 1.12 1.21 -5% tonnes 91 93 96 92 93 2.2% g/tonne 9.7 10.7 12.1 10.4 10.5 8% g/tonne 92 72 75 68 71 -23% g/tonne 120 118 111 107 114 -5% kg/tonne 8.6 9.3 9.4 8.8 8.8 2.3% ¹ Figures from bleached chemical pulp production units only. ¹ Figures from pulp, paper, and board production units. ¹ Figures from pulp, paper, and board production units. Excluding joint operations. Normalised figures are reported Excluding joint operations. Normalised figures are reported per Excluding joint operations. Normalised figures are reported per per unit of bleached chemical pulp production. ¹ Figures from pulp, paper, and board production units. Excluding unit of sales production. unit of sales production. ² Historical figures recalculated due to accuracy improvements joint operations. Normalised figures are reported per unit of sales ² Historical figures recalculated due to accuracy improvements. ² Historical figures recalculated due to accuracy improvements. and a previous calculation error. production. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Environmental agenda – Materials, water, and energy 36 Governance Social The share of biomass in our agenda internal energy production was 82%. Environmental agenda Materials, Local water initiatives water, and Stora Enso actively supports and participates in international energy and local initiatives related to water, both in our operations and in the surrounding communities. For example, in 2017, Carbon dioxide Stora Enso’s Beihai Mill in China worked with an environmental Forests, organisation known as the Guangxi Biodiversity Research and plantations, Conservation Association (BRC) and local stakeholders to clean and land use up a stretch of the Beibu Gulf coastline in the South China Sea, and to educate residents about environmental protection. Economic Energy agenda Our group-wide target is to reduce specific electricity and heat consumption per tonne of pulp, paper, and board production Data and by 15% by 2020, compared with the baseline year of 2010. In assurance 2017, this indicator was 4.2% lower than the 2010 benchmark level (4.0% in 2016). Stora Enso’s KPI on carbon intensity focuses on fossil CO 2 emissions in relation to total energy consumption. For more information, see page 41. In 2017, our total energy self-sufficiency rate1 was 63% (63%). The share of biomass in internal energy production was 82% (82%). In 2017, our electricity self-sufficiency level1 was 43% (43%). Some 86% (89%) of our purchased electricity1 was generated from low-fossil carbon sources, including nuclear and renewable energy. Existing contracts and our internal electricity generation capacity are estimated to cover around 80% of our needs for the next five years (81% in 2016). Energy accounted for 10% of Stora Enso’s variable costs in 2017 (10% in 2016). In line with Stora Enso’s policy to give preference to energy from low-fossil carbon sources, our sawmills in Austria, Germany, Poland, and the Czech Republic began purchasing 100% renewable electricity at the beginning of 2017. Energy efficiency high on the agenda Stora Enso continued to enhance energy efficiency throughout the group’s operations in 2017. Eight sawmills received ISO 50001 We are constantly looking for ways to improve our environmental performance. We are investing EUR 16 million in total to improve ¹ Electricity from Pohjolan Voima Oy (PVO), where Stora Enso is a minority shareholder, the environmental performance of our pulp mill in Skutskär, Sweden, by reducing sulphur emissions. is considered purchased electricity in the energy consumption figures. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Environmental agenda – Materials, water, and energy 37 Governance energy management certification during the year: Varkaus LVL Sachsen Mill; and allowing Stora Enso land to be used for wind Emissions to air unit in Finland, Planá Sawmill in Czech Republic, Launkalne turbine construction near our Langerbrugge Mill in Belgium, Our atmospheric emissions mainly result from the Sawmill in Latvia, Brand Sawmill in Austria, Impilahti and Nebolchi to provide the mill with an opportunity to purchase fossil-free combustion of fuels used to generate energy. These Social sawmills in Russia, and Ala and Gruvön sawmills in Sweden. energy. When fully implemented, the projects financed in 2017 emissions include carbon dioxide (CO 2), sulphur dioxide agenda We are committed to the voluntary Energy Intensive are estimated to generate annual energy savings of at least (SO 2), nitrogen oxides (NO x), and fine particles. When not Industries Agreement managed by Finnish Forest Industries 247 GWh (53 GWh electricity and 194 GWh heat). These figures properly controlled, CO 2 contributes to global warming while Environmental (FFI), which aims at a national 4% energy use reduction are equivalent to 0.4% of our annual electricity consumption SO 2 and NO x emissions affect air quality and cause acid rain agenda among its signatories over the period 2017–2020, and a 3.5% and 0.7% of our annual heat consumption. These projects will and soil acidification. reduction (cumulative, in MWh) during 2021-2025. Stora Enso eliminate over 24 000 tonnes of annual fossil CO 2 emissions. We work to reduce our air emissions by using more Materials, is represented in FFI’s Energy Efficiency Committee, renewable energy, improving our energy efficiency, and water, and established in 2017. The committee plans, executes, and using advanced technologies, such as scrubbers and boiler energy monitors new energy saving projects, as well as cooperates process control systems. Stora Enso has made two major with the Finnish Ministry of Economic Affairs and Employment. related investments in Sweden. At Skutskär Mill, a weak gas Carbon dioxide We also participate in national groups that share industry system has been installed to reduce sulphur emissions from Forests, best practices on energy efficiency in Finland, and promote liquor towers and process equipment. At Skoghall Mill, a new plantations, energy efficiency at our most energy intensive mills. chemical plant will have a more closed process with enhanced and land use We actively seek ways to optimise fuel use and increase chemical production monitoring, reducing the already low the share of biomass in our energy production. In 2017, our air emissions of SO 2 and CO2, and improving safety and the Honkalahti Sawmill in Finland started-up a new biomass boiler working environment at the mill. Economic and is now fossil-fuel free. At Imatra Mills, Stora Enso is investing EUR 14 million to agenda replace and modernise its odorous gas treatment system. Stora Enso’s energy efficiency fund The boiler, taken into use in 2017, will reduce Imatra Mills’ NOx Data and Another fundamental part of our work is a central energy and SO2 emissions and improve air quality in the surrounding assurance efficiency investment fund. In 2017, this fund amounted to residential areas. The investment will be completed in 2018. EUR 10 million (EUR 15 million in 2016) and was earmarked In 2017, Stora Enso’s group-wide SO 2 emissions amounted to be used in our mills’ energy efficiency work. It supported to 3 000 tonnes (3 600 tonnes in 2016), NOx emissions totalled 28 (52) projects during the year, including: increasing fibre In 2017, Stora Enso’s revenues derived from residuals and by-products, 10 900 tonnes (10 800 tonnes), and emissions of fine particles sludge purchases for bioenergy from nearby companies at including tall oil, amounted to EUR 78 million. amounted to 2 200 tonnes (1 900 tonnes). Fuels1 Electricity1 Heat consumption1 2 3 Electricity consumption1 2 Biomass 82% Purchased: nuclear 42% 100 10.0 15 1.35 Gas 6% Internally generated 42% 95 9.5 14 1.30 Coal 5% Purchased: fossil 8% Peat 3% Purchased: hydro 5% 90 9.0 13 1.25 Oil 2% Purchased: other 85 8.5 12 1.20 Other fossil 2% renewable 3% 80 8.0 11 1.15 75 7.5 10 1.10 Trend Trend 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 13–17 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 13–17 Our total annual fuel consumption was 150 857 terajoules (TJ) During 2017, we generated and purchased 12.8 terawatt hours (TWh) of electricity and consumed 12.4 TWh (12.6 and 12.2 during PJ4 94.2 91.2 90.2 94.0 94.0 -0.2% TWh 13.2 12.2 12.1 12.3 12.4 -6.1% in 2017 (152 097 TJ in 2016). 1 TJ = 10¹² joules 2016). 0.4 TWh was sold (0.4). TWh (terawatt hour) = 109 kilowatt GJ/ MWh/ 1 Figures cover pulp, paper, and board production units. hours. tonne 8.90 9.07 8.85 9.00 8.88 -0.2% tonne 1.25 1.22 1.19 1.17 1.18 -5.6% Excluding joint operations. 1 Figures cover pulp, paper, and board production units. Excluding ¹ Figures cover pulp, paper, and board production units. Excluding ¹ Figures cover pulp, paper, and board production units. Excluding joint operations. joint operations. Normalised figures are reported per unit of sales joint operations. Normalised figures are reported per unit of sales production. production. ² Excluding heat used for electricity generation. ² Historical figures recalculated due to accuracy improvements. 3 Historical figures recalculated due to accuracy improvements. 4 1 PJ = 1015 joules. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Environmental agenda – Materials, water, and energy 38 Governance Material use and production in 20171 Social agenda Environmental agenda Materials, Externally delivered water, and electricity / heat / steam energy Water 1.2 TWh 595 million m³, of Carbon dioxide which 96% is returned Forests, Wood back to the local plantations, 34.8 million m³ environment and land use Market pulp 1.4 million tonnes Containerboard 1.3 million tonnes Economic agenda Data and assurance Pigments, fillers, Consumer board Purchased pulp and starch, and other 2.9 million tonnes paper for recycling chemicals 2.7 million tonnes 2.0 million tonnes Wood products Paper 5.8 million m³ 4.7 million tonnes External Fossil fuels biomass energy 27.5 PJ 19.8 PJ Residuals for beneficial use2 1.7 million tonnes ¹ Covers all Stora Enso production units. Excluding joint operations. ² Residuals and waste utilised by external stakeholders. Definition changed for 2017 reporting to exclude for example wood chips, tall oil and turpentine The illustration shows the key materials used in our processes, together with our production figures for 2017 as reported in our environmental reporting system. For a comprehensive illustration on how we create value see our Progress Book. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Environmental agenda – Materials, water, and energy 39 Governance Environmental incidents in 2017 During 2017, Stora Enso improved its group-wide reporting and management processes for environmental incidents at our production units. Social The list below gives details of environmental incidents involving a non-compliance with the local environmental legislation or permit. agenda Environmental Unit Incident Corrective actions agenda Heinola Fluting Mill The mill’s monthly limit for effluent containing phosphorus was slightly exceeded in March due Precipitation chemicals were deployed at the flotation basin of the wastewater treatment plant, to the release of larger loads into the wastewater treatment plant. and the level of phosphorus returned to below-limit levels in a few days. Levels are now Materials, measured more frequently to ensure a quicker reaction in the future. water, and energy A wastewater leakage was found at the bio-sludge treatment plant reactor in May. A seam in the The reactor was emptied and the leaking seam was repaired. The authorities were informed and bottom plates had corroded and started to leak. the corrective actions approved. Carbon dioxide In April, about 2 m3 of nitric acid (60% concentration) leaked over an 82 hour period from a pipe The faulty valve was changed. The piping was rerouted to direct any future leaks into the Forests, connected to the Kymenvirta river via the clean water channel. The leakage was caused by a wastewater treatment process. A revision of the mill’s risk assessment and mitigation was done plantations, faulty valve switch that did not close properly. When reaching the river, the acid concentration and an action plan put in place to reduce risks. The authorities were informed and the proposed and land use was quickly diluted, making the environmental impact of the discharge minor. actions approved. Up to 1 200 m3 of untreated process water was discharged to the Kymijoki river on 22 April due Maintenance routines were improved, including operator training, the more frequent control of Economic to a control failure. The total chemical oxygen demand (COD) discharge to the river was up to 34 surface measurement switches, and the improved marking of valves. agenda tonnes in one day, exceeding the daily permit limit of 15 tonnes. However, the mill’s monthly COD permit limit was not exceeded for April as a whole. Data and Hylte Mill The mill’s monthly dioxin and furan emission limits for Boiler 4 were exceeded in September. The mixture of fuels was changed in 2017. Boiler temperatures will be increased in 2018 by assurance installing new valves at the maintenance stop. Monitoring the boiler will continue in 2018. Oulu Mill 10 m3 of black liquor leaked from the pulp mill into local waterways in August when sewer Potential impacts from the leak have been monitored. The mill’s pumping capacities have been pumping was not turned on while draining an evaporation plant. The leakage did not have any assessed, and the alarm system has been updated so that it will sound until the recovery pump significant effect on the water area and no immediate impact to the local fish stock was is turned on. Mill personnel have received training and revised instructions for pumping. observed. Sunila Mill The dust emission permit limit was exceeded at one recovery boiler in December. Work is ongoing to clarify the need for environmental investments to reduce dust emissions from the recovery boilers. Varkaus laminated veneer The mill’s monthly limit for Total Organic Carbon (Volatile Organic Compounds, gaseous) was An investment study of air emissions from the drying process has been completed. Together lumber (LVL) plant exceeded in its first operating year. with the authorities, the mill is selecting the most suitable technology. Wood Supply Sweden During a pre-commercial, manual thinning in June, a nature reserve was accidentally damaged A review of current forest management practices has been initiated. More detailed procedures when the operators did not notice the border to the reserve. The County Administrative Board for field visits and the marking of borders will be completed during 2018. notified the local police department. Ždírec Sawmill The mill’s limit for noise was slightly exceeded at two locations in September. The case and possible noise reduction measures are being discussed with the local environmental authority. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Environmental agenda – Carbon dioxide 40 Governance Opportunities and challenges Carbon dioxide Contributing to a low-carbon economy Social The use of renewable materials enables us agenda to contribute towards a low-carbon economy. Trees in sustainably managed forests absorb carbon dioxide (CO 2) Environmental from the atmosphere and together with wood-based products agenda act as carbon storage. Our products help our customers and As a leading renewable materials company society at large to reduce CO 2 emissions by providing lowMaterials, carbon alternatives to solutions based on fossil fuels and other water, and with access to carbon neutral biomass, we are non-renewable materials. energy in a unique position to combat global warming. The first truly global climate agreement was approved at the Paris Climate Conference (COP21) in 2015 and entered Carbon dioxide into force in November 2016. Ahead of COP21, Stora Enso Forests, signed a pledge to combat global warming with science-based plantations, reduction targets for greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. In and land use December 2017, as the first forest products company, the Science Based Targets initiative approved our ambitious targets to address significant emissions along our value chain. Economic The targets were announced in early January 2018 and are agenda in line with the 2°C limit set for global warming by the Paris Agreement. Data and The Science Based Targets initiative is a collaboration assurance between CDP, World Resources Institute (WRI), the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), and the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). It is also one of the commitments of the We Mean Business Coalition to drive ambitious corporate climate actions. The EU’s Emissions Trading System (ETS) is the largest mandatory international system for trading greenhouse gas emission allowances, and a major element of the EU’s efforts to combat global warming. The ETS grants “carbon leakage” status to industries where it is considered that costs related to climate policies might cause businesses to transfer production to countries with less demanding requirements to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The forest industry currently has carbon leakage status for the period 2015–2019. Plans for the period beyond 2020 are under consideration within the EU. Our policies Comprehensive carbon strategy As stated in our carbon strategy, it is our firm intention to drive down our fossil fuel use, so that we get as close to zero as possible within a decade using technically and commercially feasible means. Relevant policies guiding and steering our efforts to combat global warming include our: Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Environmental agenda – Carbon dioxide 41 Governance • Policy for Energy and Carbon the group’s management approach (for more details see our Detailed carbon reporting • Environmental Guidelines, a more comprehensive overview Financial Report). We routinely calculate the financial impacts We publicly report on our greenhouse gas emissions in three of our policy objectives and how we work to achieve them. of potential cost increases in relation to emission allowances, categories: Social • Supplier Code of Conduct and Practical Guide for Suppliers, including the impacts of possible increases in energy prices. • Fossil CO2 emissions from operations we directly own or agenda guiding us on how CO 2 emissions can be reduced in our Our production units systematically work to meet their control, including on-site energy generation facilities and supply chain. environmental regulatory requirements and to improve their our own processes, power boilers, lime kilns and on-site Environmental energy efficiency. Their work is supported by international vehicles (scope 1). agenda How we work third-party-certified systems such as the environmental • Fossil CO2 emissions related to the electricity and heat we management standard ISO 14001 and the energy management purchase externally for use in our operations (scope 2). Materials, Focusing on carbon intensity standard ISO 50001. For unit-specific information on • Estimated fossil CO2 emissions from other indirect sources water, and For over a decade we have been actively reducing certification, see page 69. along our value chain (scope 3). energy the energy intensity of our operations – and in many places also our dependency on fossil fuels. In 2016, we began to Carbon dioxide measure our progress based on fossil CO 2 emissions (kg) Forests, from all our operations per total energy consumed (MWh) as plantations, a new key performance indicator (KPI). The KPI measures our and land use decarbonisation progress in a transparent way. For related The carbon intensity of Stora Enso’s operations data, see page 44. Economic Improving our energy efficiency Our related KPI measures fossil CO2 emissions in relation to total energy consumption agenda Greenhouse gases emitted by our operations include carbon (kg of CO2 per MWh). In 2017, our carbon intensity level was 64 kg/MWh. dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide – with carbon dioxide Data and being by far the most significant. The most effective ways to assurance reduce our direct fossil CO 2 emissions are to further improve our energy efficiency, and to continue to increase the use of biomass fuels. Significant investments in recent years, Fossil CO2 particularly in multi-fuel boilers, have successfully generated emissions significant reductions in our fossil CO 2 intensity. Management systems supporting our work A proactive approach to decreasing our dependency on fossil fuels and reducing our direct and indirect fossil CO 2 emissions creates new business opportunities and helps us manage our costs and risks. Stora Enso evaluates risks and opportunities related to global warming through the annual Enterprise Risk Purchased Purchased fuels Management (ERM) process, which forms an integral part of electricity e.g. biomass, coal, and heat oil, gas Stora Enso mill y u erg We Stora Enso is the first forest se en Stora Enso sells part of the heat products company to set ambitious in te as s and electricity that it produces to rn al other companies and households. science-based reduction targets for al b io idu This heat and electricity is included m a s sba s e d r es in calculations of Stora Enso’s greenhouse gas emissions. carbon intensity level, in line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Environmental agenda – Carbon dioxide 42 Governance All our units report quarterly on carbon emissions for scopes 1 and 2. A group-level estimate for scope 3 emissions is updated biannually. Our carbon footprint accounting is based Social on guidelines provided by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol of agenda the World Resource Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). In 2017, we Environmental continued to have the reporting of our direct and indirect agenda fossil CO2 emissions (scopes 1 and 2) externally assured to a Reasonable Level – as one of the few companies in the world to Materials, do so. For more details, see page 68. water, and The CO2 factors we use for calculating the emissions for energy purchased electricity (scope 2) largely follow the market-based methodology, which means that almost all our units apply the Carbon dioxide more accurate CO2 factors provided by their energy suppliers, Forests, instead of average location-based factors for the countries of plantations, operation. and land use Partnerships to combat global warming Ahead of COP21 in 2015, Stora Enso joined the We Mean Economic Business coalition. The coalition brings together non-profit agenda organisations, businesses, and investors who recognise that transitioning to a low-carbon economy is the only way to Data and secure sustainable economic growth. assurance In 2017, Stora Enso, BSR and CDP hosted a workshop at Stora Enso’s Sickla Innovation Centre focusing on emission reductions through value chain partnerships. The event gathered attendees from a range of companies to discuss science-based emission targets, opportunities for collaboration, and the benefits of bold climate targets in achieving scalable action. Progress Setting ambitious science-based emission reduction targets In January 2018, Stora Enso announced a new and ambitious set of science-based reduction targets for greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. We are committed to reducing GHG emissions from our operations by 31% per tonne of pulp, paper and board produced by 2030 from a 2010 baseline, in line with the 2°C limit set for global warming by the Paris Agreement. We will report on our progress in our Sustainability Report. Since 2007, our target has been to reduce our fossil CO 2 emissions per saleable tonne of board, pulp, and paper by 35% from 2006 levels by the end of 2025. In 2017, our fossil CO 2 emissions per saleable tonne of board, pulp, and paper were 40% lower than the 2006 We are working to reduce fossil carbon dioxide emissions within our operations, by improving energy efficiency, and by increasing the share of benchmark level (40% lower in 2016). In absolute terms, our biomass in our internal energy generation. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Environmental agenda – Carbon dioxide 43 Governance Wooden buildings – heroes Social in combatting global warming agenda Wooden building elements are renewable and easy to assemble on-site, and they can store carbon for decades. Environmental Designers and city planners around the world are showing agenda greater interest in multi-storey wooden buildings. “The carbon footprint of lightweight concrete, for example, Materials, is almost three times bigger than that of dry timber. The more water, and we can increase the use of wood as a building material energy around the world, the better,” says Jari Suominen, who leads Stora Enso’s Wood Products division. Carbon dioxide Forests, Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability plantations, and land use Economic agenda Pellets are made from sawmill by-products and provide a cost-effective Data and and renewable biomass for energy. assurance direct and indirect fossil CO 2 emissions were 52% lower than in We strive to increase the share of biomass in our internal other side streams from our production processes to power 2006. Direct fossil CO 2 emissions per unit of sales production energy generation. At Veitsiluoto Mill in Finland, for example, the mill. The medium-term objective is to annually replace were 20% lower than in 2006. The fossil CO2 emissions direct CO2 emissions decreased by 22% or 47 000 tonnes in 2017 10 000 tonnes of coal with these steps. For more information resulting from the generation of purchased electricity and compared to 2016, largely due to the increased use of biomass. about our coal sourcing, see page 63. heat during 2017 were 62% lower than in 2006 per unit of sales At Ostrołęka Mill in Poland, the increased use of biomass in production. This means we have already reached our 2025 the mill’s boiler in 2017 helped to reduce the mill’s direct fossil Carbon neutral emissions target, although the group’s CO 2 intensity has been adversely CO2 emissions by 9% compared to 2016, corresponding to Carbon neutral CO2 emissions are fossil-free emissions affected by the coal-based energy consumption at our Beihai approximately 31 000 tonnes of CO 2. generated during the combustion of biomass-based fuels Mill in China. In line with Stora Enso’s policy to give preference to energy sourced from sustainably managed forests1. These emissions The total direct and indirect fossil CO 2 emissions from from low-fossil carbon sources, our sawmills in Austria, are carbon neutral as the forests are regenerated and the new Stora Enso’s board, pulp, and paper mills amounted to 3.04 Germany, Poland, and the Czech Republic began purchasing generation of trees absorb CO 2 while growing. When forests million tonnes in 2017 (2.98 million tonnes in 2016). 100% renewable electricity at the beginning of 2017. Thirteen of Stora Enso’s mills use production process residuals to create and provide renewable energy to local Investigating non-fossil fuel alternatives for Beihai Mill district heating systems (approximately 80%) and industrial At our Beihai Mill in Guangxi province, China, coal is currently partners (approximately 20%). In most cases the heat supplied the only feasible energy source for an industrial project of ​ roducts made from P from our production units directly reduces the use of oil and other fossil fuels in these localities. In 2017, a total of 3.3 PJ this scale in the region, as there are inadequate sustainable supply chains for non-fossil fuels in southern China at renewable materials help of heat was sold to these district heating systems (3.7 PJ in present. We have continued to investigate long-term options combat global warming. 2016). Using this amount of renewable energy instead of, to gradually move away from coal to biomass and other for example, light fuel oil for heating resulted in estimated non-fossil fuels. The power boiler at Beihai Mill is technically emission reductions amounting to 0.25 million tonnes of CO 2 able to use a variety of fuel mixes, and in 2017 we have used (0.28 million tonnes). modest amounts of wastewater sludge, forest residuals and 1 Recommendations on Biomass Carbon Neutrality, WBCSD 2015. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Environmental agenda – Carbon dioxide 44 Governance are sustainably managed, this cycle can continue indefinitely. Stora Enso’s operations utilise renewable biomass-based fuels to a large extent, which means that the proportion of carbon Social neutral CO2 emissions in our total emissions is high. In 2017, agenda 80% (80%) of the total CO 2 emissions from our own operations were carbon neutral. Environmental agenda Our carbon footprint Direct emissions from our operations account for 22% (23% Materials, in 2016) of our carbon footprint, while emissions related to water, and the electricity and heat we purchase for use in our operations energy account for 11% (9%) of our total carbon emissions. According to our estimates, the majority of the emissions in our carbon Carbon dioxide footprint – 67% (68%) – are generated elsewhere along the Forests, value chain: in the sourcing and manufacturing of our raw plantations, materials and services (42% of the total scope 3 emissions); and land use in the further processing of our products by customers (33%); and in the transportation of raw materials to our mills and our final products to our customers (25%). To identify potential Economic for further reducing our emissions in scopes 1, 2, and 3, we agenda strengthened our internal steering processes in accordance with the actions agreed in our science-based targets during Data and 2017. We also continued to implement methodologies for assurance calculating the quantities of carbon sequestered in forests and plantations owned and managed by Stora Enso and our associate companies. We continued our work with external experts to identify a credible methodology to calculate the positive substitution effect our renewable products have when compared to fossil-CO2 -intensive alternatives. Stora Enso’s operations utilise renewable biomass-based fuels to a large extent, which means that the proportion of carbon neutral CO 2 emissions in our total emissions is high. In 2017,80% of the total CO 2 emissions from our own operations were carbon neutral. Fossil CO 2 emissions in relation to production1 2 Fossil CO 2 emissions in relation to our energy consumption1 2 Million tonnes kg/tonne Fossil CO2 emissions (kg) per unit of energy consumption (MWh) 7.0 490 kg/MWh 6.0 430 120 5.0 370 100 4.0 310 80 3.0 250 60 2.0 190 40 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Trend 06-17 20 Million tonnes 6.32 5.57 4.64 3.66 4.17 3.47 3.37 3.50 3.38 3.03 2.98 3.04 -52% 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Trend 06-17 kg/tonne 479 432 389 371 374 318 311 331 336 297 285 288 -40% kg/MWh 104 94 85 83 83 72 70 74 73 67 63 64 -38% 1 Covering direct and indirect fossil CO2 emissions (scope 1 and 2) from pulp, paper, and board production units. 1 Covering direct and indirect fossil CO2 emissions (scope 1 and 2) from all production units. Excluding joint operations. Excluding joint operations. Normalised figures are reported per unit of sales production. ² Historical figures recalculated due to accuracy improvements. ² Historical figures recalculated due to accuracy improvements. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Environmental agenda – Forests, plantations, and land use 45 Governance Value chain emissions The CO2 emissions generated during the transportation of our raw materials and products, which are the most significant Choose the climate, Social environmental impacts associated with our logistical operations, choose renewable materials agenda are mainly produced by external logistics service providers. Did you know that products made from renewable Transportation accounts for 25% of our scope 3 CO2 emissions. materials are a part of the solution to global warming? Environmental As an example of our ambition to reduce CO2 in our value Watch our video to find out how carbon absorbed from agenda chain, we request our wood transport suppliers in Sweden to the atmosphere stays in the fibres of trees when they are report the proportion of renewable fuels they use. Our objective made into products – even through recycling. The carbon Materials, in 2017 was to increase the proportion of renewable fuels to dioxide released while making wood-based products will water, and 30%, and at the end of the year this share in our Swedish wood be absorbed by new generations of trees. energy transportation amounted to approximately 31%. Transportation by sea accounts for approximately 90% of all Watch the film at storaenso.com/sustainability Carbon dioxide our product transportation by weight and distance, while road Forests, and rail transportation account for 8% and 2% respectively. plantations, Our commitment to science-based targets includes and land use engagement targets for scope 3. To reduce emissions in the value chain, Stora Enso commits to having 70% of its non-fiber raw material suppliers and downstream transportation suppliers Economic in terms of spend set their own greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction agenda targets by 2025, towards the aim that they adopt science-based GHG reduction targets by 2030. In addition, the company will Data and educate 100% of customer-facing staff on the advantages of assurance setting science-based targets by 2020. Stora Enso’s carbon footprint 2013–20171 2 Fossil CO 2 equivalent (million tonnes)3 Trend 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 13–17 Scope 1: Direct emissions from our operations. 2.47 2.39 2.24 2.40 2.33 -6% Scope 2: Emissions related to purchased energy consumed in our operations.4 1.50 1.45 1.23 1.02 1.14 -24% Scope 3: Emissions from other sources along our value chain. 7.22 6.83 6.92 7.06 7.11 -2% Total 11.19 10.67 10.39 10.48 10.58 -5% ¹ Covers all Stora Enso production units. Excluding joint operations. ² Historical figures recalculated due to accuracy improvements. 3 CO2 equivalent also includes other greenhouse gases in addition to CO 2. 4 The CO2 factors we use for purchased energy (scope 2) largely follow the marketbased methodology, which means that almost all our units apply CO 2 factors provided by their energy suppliers, instead of average location-based factors for the location of operation. When applying average location-based factors, our scope 2 emissions for We believe that combatting global warming involves the use of renewable materials, resource and energy efficient production, and sustainable 2017 were 1.36 million tonnes of CO2 equivalents. forest management. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Environmental agenda – Carbon dioxide 46 Governance Stora Enso’s carbon footprint1 Social agenda Our direct emissions Indirect emissions 22% 11% Environmental agenda Materials, water, and energy Indirect emissions along the value chain 67% Carbon dioxide On-site electricity Electricity and heat Forests, and heat production purchased for our plantations, operations and land use Economic agenda Production Data and of fuels assurance Production of purchased materials and services: pulp, recycled paper and board, pigments, fillers Processing of products by our customers Harvesting Transportation and distribution of our products to customers globally Transportation of purchased raw materials and fuels Scope 1: Direct emissions from our operations. Scope 2: Emissions related to purchased energy consumed in our operations. Scope 3: Emissions from other sources along our value chain. 1 Covers all Stora Enso production units, a total of 10.58 million tonnes of fossil CO 2 equivalent (10.48 million tonnes in 2016). Excluding joint operations. CO 2 equivalents also include other greenhouse gases in addition to CO 2. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Environmental agenda – Forests, plantations, and land use 47 Governance Opportunities and challenges Forests, plantations, The role of forests in a changing world Social Forests and plantations are an increasingly important agenda part of a wider global sustainable development agenda, and land use particularly in relation to combatting global warming. As a Environmental renewable natural resource, wood represents a favourable agenda alternative to fossil-based materials. Trees absorb carbon dioxide (CO2) from the atmosphere, and together with woodMaterials, based products act as carbon storage. Sustainable forest water, and management ensures that new generations of trees replace energy those that are logged. The growing trees absorb more carbon Carbon dioxide Sustainable forest management safeguards forest health from the atmosphere than is released, increasing the role of forests as carbon storage. and productivity, helps combat global warming, and protects The role of Land Use, Land Use Change and Forestry Forests, plantations, biodiversity – whilst securing the long-term availability of our (LULUCF) in combating global warming has been broadly recognised, but the ways to include it in regulation have been and land use renewable resources. subject to intense debate. Within the EU, the role of forests in achieving European climate objectives are elaborated in Economic the proposals for LULUCF and Renewable Energy Directives, agenda for example, which aim to influence the development of a sustainable forest-based bioeconomy. For Stora Enso, it Data and is essential that any EU policy fully utilises the potential of assurance sustainable renewable materials and supports Europe’s transition towards a bio-based circular economy. Global warming entails physical challenges and opportunities in relation to forests and plantations, due to changing patterns of temperature, wind, and rainfall, which can all be expected to impact our operational environment. Wellmanaged forests can make entire ecosystems more resilient to negative impacts, and even benefit from the positive effects. Global challenges such as population growth, increasing demand for agricultural land, and the widening gap between the supply and demand for wood, all require us to use natural resources even more efficiently, and to produce more raw materials from less land. Because the need to conserve our remaining natural ecosystems is also increasing, we must find new ways to integrate competing land uses. Simultaneously, the trend for more forest-owners to be based in cities away from their landholdings brings new challenges in relation to wood procurement, as forest-owners have less connection to the day-to-day operations. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Environmental agenda – Forests, plantations, and land use 48 Governance Our policies Other relevant policies that promote sustainable forestry the economic, social, and environmental aspects of include our: sustainability. Compliance with national legislation and Committed to sustainable • Environmental Guidelines, a more comprehensive overview regulatory obligations is only the starting point for our Social wood and fibre sourcing of our policy objectives and how we work to achieve them. work; we actively support and implement voluntary forest agenda Stora Enso’s policy on Wood and Fibre Sourcing, and Land • Code of Conduct. conservation and restoration measures on lands owned, Management covers the entire cycle of forest and tree • Supplier Code of Conduct. leased, and managed by Stora Enso, and in other areas Environmental plantation management. The policy requires sustainable forest where we purchase wood. agenda management, through responsible sourcing and land use, to How we work Stora Enso continued its cooperation with WWF in safeguard the health and ecological functions of ecosystems several countries and platforms in 2017, including the New Materials, and to help conserve biodiversity, soil and water resources. In Ensuring the sustainability of fibre Generation Plantations (NGP) platform, which focuses on water, and order to achieve this, we maintain an open dialogue with our Stora Enso’s approach to responsible forest the institutional and technological aspects of responsible energy stakeholders. and tree plantation management takes into account plantation management. Stora Enso is also cooperating with WWF Finland to promote the conservation and sustainable use Carbon dioxide of forests. This work includes promoting alternative harvesting Forests, practices among private forest-owners. plantations, We are active members of numerous local and global forestry associations, networks, and programmes. Stora Enso and land use Carbon circulates endlessly between the atmosphere, has been a member of the Forest Solutions Group (FSG) of the Economic growing trees and wood-based products World Business Council for Sustainable Development since the late 1990s. In 2017, we actively supported a strategic review agenda to redefine FSG’s role as the global engagement platform on sustainable forestry and forest products. We also continued to Data and support and participate in The Forests Dialogue (TFD), which is assurance CO2 a platform for multi-stakeholder discussion and collaboration on the most pressing local and global issues facing forests and people. Strengthening and developing our operations To cover all aspects of sustainability in our forest and plantation operations, we apply the same comprehensive wood procurement process in all regions in which we operate. In 2017, we reorganised our Wood Supply organisation to utilise our expertise more efficiently and to increase synergies. The Wood Supply organisation consists of regional wood supply units that secure wood sourcing for Stora Enso mills. Our wood procurement process covers the entire management cycle in forests and plantations, including: • Forest and plantation planning • Silvicultural operations (everyday forest and plantation management) • Wood harvesting • Regeneration of forests and plantations • Monitoring of each part of the process, for example through audits and self-assessments. Forests have a central role in carbon cycle. Young forests absorb carbon when they grow and old forests release it as they decay. Carbon is stored In 2017, the total amount of wood (including roundwood, wood in forest products until they decay or are burned at the end of their life when the carbon dioxide is released back into the atmosphere. Growing chips, and sawdust) delivered to our mills was 37.5 million m3 forest reabsorb carbon from the air. (solid under bark) (37.6 million m3 in 2016). Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Environmental agenda – Forests, plantations, and land use 49 Governance Social Trees absorb carbon dioxide agenda from the atmosphere Environmental as they grow. agenda Materials, water, and energy Carbon dioxide Long-term forestry planning Forests, As trees take many years or decades to mature, long-term plantations, forestry planning is essential. Such planning involves and land use ecological landscape plans and biodiversity assessments to identify, conserve, and restore vital ecosystems and ecological features. In 2017, 88% (90%) of Stora Enso’s wood Economic came from managed semi-natural forests in Europe where agenda most forests are privately owned. Forest planning involves finding ways to optimise wood production and conservation. Data and We work together with forest-owners to identify sensitive assurance forest areas in need of protection. Our experts are trained to identify such areas and we regularly consult the authorities on these matters. In 2017, 12% of Stora Enso’s wood came from tree plantations (10%). When establishing new plantations, we use internationally approved principles such as the Food and Agriculture Organisation’s (FAO) Voluntary Guidelines on Planted Forests, and we also certify our commercial plantations to ensure all aspects of sustainability are duly Approximately half of Veracel’s 213 500 hectares of land in Brazil is dedicated to rainforest preservation. taken into consideration. Stora Enso never establishes plantations in natural forests, protected areas, or water sensitive locations. We only use land with low biodiversity Protecting biodiversity with sustainable harvesting Wood procurement by region1 value, such as former pasturelands. Stora Enso’s employees Stora Enso closely monitors the management of the forests 37.5 million m³ and forestry contractors are given on-the-job training in and plantations from which it sources wood. Wood harvesting Finland 13.5 (36%) ecological management, and we regularly monitor the is planned to suit the particular characteristics of each Sweden 9.4 (25%) impacts of our operations on biodiversity, soil, and water harvesting site, making use of appropriate harvesting methods Central Europe 5.2 (14%) resources. and technologies. Wood harvesting volumes are aligned with Russia 2.8 (7%) As we recognise that our plantations are an integral part the long-term carrying capacity of the particular forests and Uruguay2 2.3 (6%) of local land use, we evaluate and define sustainable land plantations. Baltic Countries 2.0 (5%) use practices specifically for each location. After determining All roundwood, chips, sawdust, and externally purchased Brazil2 1.9 (5%) the scope of expected impacts and possible remedies, we pulp supplied to our mills come from sustainable sources. China 0.3 (1%) decide on whether or not to proceed with a proposed project. We use a range of tools to ensure this, and to guarantee Stora Enso subsequently remains in constant dialogue with the sustainability of each part of the forest management 1 Total amounts of wood (roundwood, chips, and sawdust) procured stakeholders, and strives to make sure that land contracts are cycle. These tools include forest certification and thirdwithin these regions for delivery to our mills (million m³, solid under bark). 2 Figures for Brazil and Uruguay include 50% of the wood procurement legitimate and fair. party traceability systems such as the Forest Stewardship of our joint operations Veracel and Montes del Plata. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Environmental agenda – Forests, plantations, and land use 50 Governance impacts on biodiversity, soil, and water resources. We regularly audit our suppliers and work together with respected local Jaguar caught on camera! institutions to ensure everything is done according to the Social The rare sighting of a jaguar in 2017 is proof that Veracel’s standards set by certification schemes and our own policies. agenda efforts in rainforest restoration are paying off: if jaguars can In Guangxi, China, an exceptional cooperation lasting survive, their smaller prey species must also be faring well. seven years came to an end in 2017 as the non-governmental Environmental It also tells us how tree plantations may affect biodiversity. organisation Fauna & Flora International finalised an extensive agenda “Tree plantations resemble natural forests more than biodiversity monitoring project together with Stora Enso. many other land uses, attracting small vertebrates like birds During the seven-year project, we have monitored both Materials, – and eventually large predators such as jaguars,” says migratory and resident birds at eucalyptus plantations as well water, and Elson Fernandes de Lima, Project Manager at Casa da as in the non-eucalyptus woodlands. The long monitoring energy Floresta, an organisation that helps Veracel to monitor period that has involved the entire life cycle of a eucalyptus rainforest restoration and biodiversity. plantation, enabled us to follow the various impacts on Carbon dioxide biodiversity and improve the sustainability of our plantation Forests, Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability operations. plantations, and land use Tree breeding Stora Enso is continuously working towards the long-term goal of improving the productivity and quality of the eucalyptus Economic trees grown in our plantations, so as to sustainably enhance agenda wood production per unit of land. Tree breeding primarily targets increased biomass production (i.e. volume and density) Data and assurance Council’s (FSC) Chain of Custody/Controlled Wood scheme, regeneration is complemented by natural seed dispersal from the Chain of Custody/Due Diligence System of the Programme nearby forests, by leaving seed trees standing in the harvesting for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC), and the area or by coppicing. Whatever the methods used, we always ISO 14001 environmental management standard. In addition, ensure the forest will regenerate. our Supplier Code of Conduct complements these tools by In Brazil, our joint operation Veracel goes beyond imposing strict contractual requirements on our suppliers. We regeneration by conserving and restoring areas of natural actively work with our stakeholders to promote sustainable Atlantic Rainforest. Approximately half of Veracel’s 213 500 forest management and the wider use of certification systems. hectares of land is dedicated to rainforest preservation. As certification programmes cover all three aspects of Where natural regeneration is not possible, areas are carefully sustainability, they are an important indicator of responsible planted. Veracel aims to restore approximately 400 hectares of forestry. For this reason, we follow our progress with a key rainforest habitat every year through local partnerships. A total performance indicator measuring the proportion of land of 6 495 hectares of forest have been restored between 1994 owned and managed by Stora Enso that is covered by forest and the end of 2017. This work is part of a regional restoration certification schemes. programme that helps to connect the remaining areas of In Sweden, for instance, almost five hundred harvesting valuable natural habitat with forest corridors, enabling wildlife operators, contractors, and forestry experts were trained to move more freely from one area to another. during the year, with a focus on forest wetlands and water The Veracel Station visitor centre, established in an area of streams. The training was organised together with the preserved rainforest habitat, conducts research, conserves Swedish Forest Agency. native and endangered ecosystems, and raises environmental awareness among visitors. Regenerating forests and tree plantations We always ensure that the forests and plantations we harvest Detailed monitoring wood from are duly regenerated. This is often done through We closely monitor the sustainability of our operations Veracel’s pulp mill and its eucalyptus plantations are located in an area active planting or sowing, although in many areas active throughout the forest management cycle, focusing on their that is becoming a popular destination for birdwatchers. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Environmental agenda – Forests, plantations, and land use 51 Governance and cellulose yield. Other targets may include improved be unsafe or otherwise not permitted. Currently we have rooting or resistance to frost, drought, pests, or diseases, no plans to plant genetically engineered trees in any of our depending on local conditions and the species in question. commercial plantations. Social We test and apply modern scientific tools for tree improvement agenda and the management of genetic diversity. This may involve Progress selecting “elite trees”, or conducting marker-assisted breeding Environmental and genetic engineering. Steady advances on certification agenda Our genetic engineering activities are in the research and Globally, Stora Enso owns or leases lands with a total development phase. As with traditional clone improvements, area of 972 600 hectares. We follow our progress on Materials, it will take many years to develop genetically engineered responsible forestry with a key performance indicator (KPI) water, and clones. We continued the process to establish field trials in that measures the percentage of these lands covered by energy areas totalling less than 30 hectares in Brazil. These trials will certification systems. Our target was to reach 96% coverage fully comply with the relevant national regulations. Stora Enso by the end of 2017. The KPI will be redefined and a new target Carbon dioxide will not carry out any trials considered by the authorities to set to reflect this during 2018. Forests, plantations, and land use Economic agenda Data and assurance Is there life at tree plantations? Stora Enso and the non-profit organisation Fauna & Flora International concluded an extensive seven-year biodiversity monitoring project in Beihai, China’s Guangxi province, in 2017. The project also informed local residents and Stora Enso’s employees about the importance of nature conservation. “Understanding and protecting the biodiversity of our plantations is crucial for our business,” says Ian Blanden, Stora Enso’s General Manager for Forestry Operations in Beihai. Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability Regeneration of forests and tree plantations is often done through active planting or sowing. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Environmental agenda – Forests, plantations, and land use 52 Governance In 2017, coverage amounted to 92% (90% in 2016). The share of certified wood in our total wood supply was 85% (83%). In Russia, we continued to work with WWF Russia during Social 2017 to expand Stora Enso’s FSC certification groups and agenda to make certification more accessible and cost-efficient for small and medium-sized companies. In 2017, two new logging Environmental companies joined FSC certification groups managed by agenda Stora Enso in Russia. This increased the total area covered by group certifications to 1 336 000 hectares (940 000 hectares in Materials, 2016). During the year, we provided training to all members of water, and Stora Enso’s FSC certification groups in Russia. Stora Enso’s energy Russian subsidiary companies have been FSC-certified since 2006, and are included in the total certified area. Stora Enso Carbon dioxide also continued to actively promote economically viable and Forests, ecologically responsible forestry across Russia during 2017 plantations, through cooperation with the Boreal Forest Platform (BFP), and land use which is a stakeholder forum organised by WWF Russia. Economic agenda Data and We always ensure that assurance forests and tree plantations are duly regenerated. In addition to their economic value, forests also have important As trees take many years to mature, long-term forestry planning is essential. Such planning involves ecological landscape plans and biodiversity recreational and ecological value, for example related to fishing, assessments to identify, conserve, and restore vital ecosystems. hunting, and picking wild berries. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Environmental agenda – Forests, plantations, and land use 53 Governance Since 2011, Veracel has promoted group certification sourcing wood from this region, and with Greenpeace among its tree farmers in Brazil. In 2014, Aspex, an association Russia. In Sweden, NGOs expressed concern over Swedish representing certified tree farms, took over the management forestry practices and governance, and Stora Enso’s wood Social of the certification process, using certificates granted by procurement areas in Northwestern Sweden, particularly agenda both FSC and Cerflor (PEFC). By the end of 2017, dual forest around Lake Messlingen. Stora Enso communicated its certificates had been obtained by 74 farmers (71 at the end position of not having any ongoing harvesting operations in the Environmental of 2016) for areas totalling 37 831 hectares (37 876), of which area. We will make a new assessment of practices in the area in agenda 15 895 hectares (16 147) are planted with eucalyptus. 2018, and will not perform any forestry operations there until the In 2017, our trial tree plantations in Laos received FSC Forest assessment is complete. Materials, Management and Chain of Custody certificates, making them In our stakeholder communications during the year, water, and one of the first FSC-certified tree plantations in the country. we stressed our commitment to forest certification, wood energy traceability, and open stakeholder dialogues, and that we A proactive approach to land use always ensure that all the wood we use comes from sustainably Carbon dioxide Stora Enso recognises that the areas where we operate are of managed sources. We believe that the most sustainable way to Forests, value to different stakeholders. We have therefore adopted an protect Intact Forest Landscapes and other High Conservation plantations, integrated approach to land use around our plantations, for Values is through the national and regional multi-stakeholder and land use example by applying locally developed agroforestry models. processes that have developed these concepts. During the We have duly developed innovative land use models in Laos, year, Stora Enso engaged in continuous dialogues with NGOs Uruguay, and Brazil to benefit local farmers and communities and other stakeholders and we also encouraged our business Economic as well the company. For details of these integrated land use partners and NGOs to participate in such engagement. Bug life on dead wood agenda practices, see pages 22–24. Decaying wood provides habitats for many insects, Managing land contracts in Guangxi, China which in turn provide food for larger animals and birds. Data and NGOs campaigning to protect Northern forests Stora Enso leases a total of 82 591 hectares of land in four It also ensures that nutrients are recycled in forest assurance In 2017, sustainable forestry in the Northern hemisphere regions of Guangxi, of which 29 581 hectares (30 500 hectares ecosystems and become available again to future became a major stakeholder interest, with environmental in 2016), corresponding to 36% (37%) of the total area, is social generations of growing trees. NGOs including Greenpeace widely calling for forests to be land leased from village collectives, individual households, “Decaying wood has been identified as one of the key better protected. and local forest farms. In many cases, these social lands had factors affecting forest biodiversity, and safeguarding it is In Finland, NGOs were concerned about harvesting volumes already been sub-leased, sometimes repeatedly, resulting in high on Stora Enso’s agenda,” says Pekka Kallio-Mannila, and the harvesting activities of the state-owned enterprise chains of sub-leases. Often the original owners did not benefit Head of Sustainability at Stora Enso’s Wood Supply Metsähallitus in Kainuu, Northeast Finland, where NGOs called from increased land rental prices because of these chains. Finland. for more forests to be protected. During the year, Stora Enso Stora Enso has been reviewing and correcting land lease communicated its position of not receiving any roundwood contracts in Guangxi since 2009, when irregularities in the Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability from the disputed areas in Kainuu until the situation has been contract chains were first discovered. By the end of 2017, 66% resolved through dialogue. In Russia, Greenpeace called on of the contracts were found to be free from contractual defects companies with wood supply chains in the Arkhangelsk region, (66% by the end of 2016) corresponding to 16 267 hectares including Stora Enso, to enhance forest protection. During the (16 480) of social land. In irreconcilable cases, we terminate year, Stora Enso was in continuous dialogue with its suppliers leases in a responsible manner, considering all potential impacts. When contracts have no defects, this means that the ownership of land is clear or resolved, and that contracting procedures have proven to be legal, authentic and valid. As announced on 19 January 2017, Stora Enso is In 2017, the share of reconsidering its plans to build a chemical pulp mill in Beihai, and to decrease the area of its leased forestland in the Guangxi certified wood in our total region. As part of this process, Stora Enso aims to only lease wood supply was 85%. land that is free of contractual defects. Stora Enso has moved from contract correction to normal contract management and will consequently stop reporting on the contract correction progress. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Environmental agenda – Forests, plantations, and land use 54 Governance Forests, plantations, and lands owned by Stora Enso¹ as of 31 December 2017 Unit Area Certification coverage Details of local landscapes and protected areas Social Montes del Plata plantations and lands, 190 279 ha, of which 101 823 ha planted PEFC and FSC for 190 279 ha Mainly pasturelands and agricultural fields. Remnants of native ecosystems, such as agenda Uruguay (joint operation with Arauco) grasslands and riparian forests, are protected within the company’s lands. Environmental agenda Veracel plantations and lands, Bahía, Brazil 213 594 ha, of which 75 386 ha planted for CERFLOR (PEFC) for 185 796 ha; Dominated by pasturelands cleared from Atlantic rainforest between the 1950s and 1980s. (joint operation with Fibria) pulp production FSC for 185 796 ha 112 746 ha of Veracel’s lands are protected, including a 6 063 ha Private Natural Heritage Materials, Reserve. These protected areas mostly consist of native forest remnants at different stages of regeneration. water, and energy Plantations and lands, Rio Grande do Sul, 43 412 ha, of which 20 743 ha planted Mainly pasturelands and agricultural fields. 14 000 ha of the total area is protected, Brazil including native grasslands, riparian forests, and other habitats. Carbon dioxide Forests, Wood Supply, Estonia 137 ha, of which 124 ha planted No protected areas within this area. plantations, and land use Economic ¹ Including operations where Stora Enso’s shareholding is at least 50% and size of the area exceeds 100 hectares. In addition to the forest and plantation areas listed above, Stora Enso owns: 49% of Bergvik Skog, which owns 2.3 million hectares of land in Sweden and 0.1 million hectares in Latvia; and 41% of Tornator, which owns 0.6 million hectares of forestland in Finland, 60 000 hectares in Estonia, and 12 000 hectares in Romania. agenda Data and assurance Forests and plantations leased, and managed by Stora Enso¹ as of 31 December 2017 Unit Area Certification coverage Details of local landscapes and protected areas Wood Supply, Russia 369 422 ha FSC group certificate In Russia, protected areas are generally excluded from lease agreements. Areas amounting to 2 266 ha are protected as natural monuments including genetic pine reserves and watercourses. Plantations and lands, Guangxi, China 82 591 ha, of which 76 936 ha planted Chinese Forest Certification Council Mosaic landscape including agricultural crop fields, forest plantations, and settlements. certificate (PEFC) for 82 591 ha; No native ecosystems are found in the leased lands. Areas totalling around 1 300 ha are FSC for 82 591 ha protected (including 184 ha of public benefit forest), consisting of steep slopes, buffer zones, and other important areas for watershed protection. Montes del Plata 56 649 ha, of which 44 864 ha planted PEFC and FSC for 51 846 ha Mainly pasturelands and agricultural fields. Protected and sensitive areas are excluded from lease agreements. Veracel 12 633 ha, of which 4 870 ha planted FSC for 12 209 ha; PEFC for 12 209 ha 5 404 ha of leased lands are protected, mostly consisting of native forest remnants at different stages of regeneration. Trial plantations, Laos 3 731 ha, of which 2 988 ha planted FSC for 2 988 ha The plantations are located within a mosaic of intensive shifting cultivation lands and traditionally protected remnants of native forests. One plantation area is located close to a National Biodiversity Conservation Area. The majority of the total area is covered by agroforestry production schemes. ¹ Including operations where Stora Enso’s shareholding is at least 50% and size of the area exceeds 100 hectares. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Economic agenda 55 Governance Social agenda Environmental agenda Economic agenda Data and assurance Economic agenda Customers 56 Suppliers 60 Investors 64 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Economic agenda – Customers 56 Governance Opportunities and challenges Customers Responding to a global demand Social for sustainability agenda In many countries around the world, the middle class is growing at a pace greater than the global population on Environmental average, which is leading to an increased demand for agenda lifestyles that can seriously burden the planet. At the same Growing consumer awareness of sustainability around the time, consumer awareness of limited natural resources, the environmental impacts of products, and social responsibility Economic world is encouraging companies and brand owners to look is growing, creating pressure for brand owners to pay agenda for smart and safe solutions made with renewable materials. more attention to product and supply chain responsibility. Combined with policies, regulations and economic incentives, Customers these megatrends are also driving our customers to use Suppliers renewable raw materials and to increase the recycling of products and materials. Investors In the long-term, we believe the world is looking to replace fossil-based materials with renewable alternatives. Data and Stora Enso’s various wood and fibre-based products, assurance including bio-based chemicals and biocomposites, are wellpositioned to respond to these demands. Our policies A singel set of values The Stora Enso Code of Conduct constitutes a single set of values, expectations, and ambitions related to our global approach to ethical business practices, environmental values, and human and labour rights. These values are applied wherever we operate, and in all dealings with customers. How we work Renewable alternatives for multiple sectors At Stora Enso, we are strengthening our expertise in renewable materials and products with high sustainability performance to meet the needs of our current and future customers. Our business is organised into five divisions, each with their own focus areas and products that cater to a broad range of customers. Our product portfolio includes various boards for packaging and printing, several pulp grades, wood and fibre-based products for construction, energy pellets, paper products made from virgin and recycled fibre, and lignin, which can be used to replace fossil-based phenols, for instance. Our products are made from wood, a renewable and recyclable raw material. Stora Enso promotes and participates in successful recycling schemes, particularly for paper and board. We also Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Economic agenda – Customers 57 Governance sell and reuse a variety of valuable by-products and residuals Prioritising product safety from our production processes. For more information, see Stora Enso’s products covered by specific safety regulations page 32. and demands include food contact materials, materials Social We actively work together with our customers to improve for toys, packaging for pharmaceuticals, and construction agenda material efficiency, and decrease the environmental impact of materials. Our in-house product safety and quality control our products and the related production processes. We also systems cover product development, raw material sourcing, Environmental systematically measure customer satisfaction. and the manufacturing and delivery of products. In 2017, agenda We foresee many possibilities for bio-based chemicals, product safety work in the Consumer Board division focused bio-barriers, lignin, and biocomposites to meet industry and on compliance with the revised food contact standards in consumer demands for more sustainable solutions that can China. We also oblige our suppliers to comply with our product Economic replace fossil-based alternatives. safety requirements. agenda Customers Suppliers Investors Data and Reuse, recycle, renew: assurance making the most out of a tree Stora Enso’s renewable products contribute to the bioeconomy – and their recyclability makes them part of the circular economy. Both of these economy models reject the traditional “take-make-dispose” model, and instead focus on using resources as efficiently as possible. “Over the past 50 years Stora Enso has doubled the number of cartons that can be produced from the same amount of wood,” says Ola Svending, Sustainability Director at Stora Enso’s Consumer Board division. Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability Our Wood Products division offers its customers sustainable materials and solutions that enable buildings to obtain environmental and energy efficiency certification. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Economic agenda – Customers 58 Governance Our units producing sensitive packaging materials follow Good Manufacturing Practice, a set of widely recognised guidelines incorporated into EU regulations. All our Social Consumer Board mills and most of our Packaging Solutions agenda mills are additionally certified according to recognised hygiene management standards. Food safety compliance for essential Environmental raw materials is also verified with our suppliers prior to any agenda purchasing decision. We additionally provide our customers with information on product hygiene and safety aspects through compliance declarations. Economic We follow legislation designed to protect our employees’ agenda health, public health, and the environment, including the EU’s REACH, Biocidal Products, as well as Classification, Labelling, Customers and Packaging regulations, in addition to relevant food contact Suppliers legislation and demands concerning food safety. When producing food contact materials, we only use chemicals Investors that have been specifically approved for that purpose, after verifying their safety and legal compliance. Many of our wood Data and products are CE-marked to guarantee that they comply with assurance the relevant EU legislation. Our divisions have Product Safety Networks in place, and all our mills work to ensure that their products meet the relevant product safety requirements. ISO 22000, FSSC 22000, and FDA product safety certificates issued to many of our units further ensure that we apply a systematic approach to food safety issues. In addition, ISO 9001 certified quality management systems help our units to identify and meet customer requirements, and systematically improve product quality. For unit-specific details of our sustainability certificates, see page 69. In 2017, we achieved the highest recognition level, Gold, in the Ecovadis ethical supplier rating. Unlike many competing materials, Stora Enso’s raw materials are both renewable and recyclable, contributing to a sustainable bioeconomy as well as to a circular economy. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Economic agenda – Customers 59 Governance Life cycle assessments and ecolabels the final paper product. They encourage discussions about Stora Enso’s experts collect product-specific life cycle certificates, ecolabels, on-product labelling, and efficient ways inventory (LCI) data, which is typically used in life cycle to print and convert certified paper. Social assessments (LCAs) conducted by our own experts, our In 2017, together with 13 other companies, Stora Enso’s agenda customers, or brand owners. The environmental performance Consumer Board division signed an agreement with the of our paper and board products is reported in line with the Alliance for Beverage Cartons and the Environment (ACE Environmental voluntary Paper Profile initiative. Paper Profiles have been UK) to enhance paper cup recycling in the United Kingdom. agenda calculated for all of our paper and containerboard products, The companies, including many of our customers and their and all main paperboard products. customers, will fund a programme making paper cup recycling More than 90% of our Paper division’s own brands are available to more people. Economic covered by one or more recognised ecolabels, including the Our Consumer Board division also worked with customers agenda EU Ecolabel, the Nordic Ecolabel, and the German Blue Angel to create an alternative to small plastic cups used in the dairy (Blauer Engel). Many of our graphical board brands are also industry. The new liquid packaging, called FibreCup, will have Customers available as EU Ecolabel certified. Ecolabel criteria cover a reduced climate impact and can be recycled together with Suppliers the entire life cycle of a product, from the extraction of raw other fibre-based packaging. materials through to production, product use, and disposal. Our Biomaterials division, together with its other pulp Investors Ecolabels are voluntary tools created to help customers and customers, is collaborating with the fashion industry to create consumers identify products and services with environmental a more sustainable and traceable value chain for clothing Data and excellence compared to other similar products. products. The trick to attracting responsible assurance Many Stora Enso products are also sold as FSC or consumers? Stay one step ahead PEFC-certified, validating that they have been produced Certified sustainability in product stewardship Consumers increasingly want to buy more sustainable using wood from responsibly managed sources, and that the In 2017, Stora Enso’s Wood Products division continued to be products, so responsible retailers need to stay one step entire journey of the raw material – from forest to store shelf – a member of the stakeholder committee of the Sustainable ahead – by rethinking packaging sizes and materials, has been verified by a third party. For more information about Biomass Program (SBP) certification system, with Gruvön for example. our responsible forestry and forest certification work, see Mill in Sweden obtaining its own SBP certificate. The SBP “Consumers care about sustainability, but they need pages 48–50. certification system enables verification of the legal and information. The better alternatives need to be there Environmental Product Declarations (EPDs) offer sustainable sources of wood and greenhouse gas emissions first, for them to be able to make the right choices”, says transparent and comparable independent information about throughout the supply chain. New ENplus™ certifications were Emma Hernell, Senior Analyst at the strategy firm the environmental footprint of a product throughout its life implemented in 2017 at Gruvön and Ala pellet mills in Sweden. United Minds. cycle. Stora Enso’s EPDs for Classic Sawn Timber and ENplus™ certification includes criteria for product quality, Cross Laminated Timber (CLT) were third-party verified wood origin, and greenhouse gas emissions. Listen to the podcast at storaenso.com/renewablefuture in 2017. Sharing information as a supplier Progress By the end of 2017, 26 (26 in 2016) of Stora Enso’s mills were registered and active in the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange Continuous customer engagement (Sedex). Sedex gives us a platform to share information Customer needs are a key element in developing with customers on our compliance with the Ethical Trading our products, services, and processes – both through Initiative’s base code and other key sustainability topics systematic feedback and exchanging expertise with us on throughout the supply chain. Sedex allows customers to various sustainability topics. When it comes to new products, use the same approach with several suppliers, instead of such as lignin and biocomposites, we collaborate closely developing their own systems and running individual queries. with customers to create applications that meet their needs It also means that suppliers only need to provide sustainabilitythroughout the value chain. related data once, which follows the common Sedex format We also provide training and support for customers on and level of detail, and is regularly updated. sustainability topics. Stora Enso conducted three Paper & Stora Enso is also a member of the ethical supplier rating Print Academy training sessions with over 50 paper customers system Ecovadis. In 2017, we obtained a score of 80/100 and in 2017. The sessions enable participants to follow the entire were included in the top 1% performers, achieving the highest supply chain – from forest management and harvesting to recognition level, Gold. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Economic agenda – Suppliers 60 Governance Opportunities and challenges Suppliers Developing sustainable supplier networks Social As a global business with an extensive supplier base agenda worldwide, Stora Enso can use its purchasing power to drive its suppliers towards more sustainable operations. We can Environmental also help create a larger pool of more sustainable suppliers agenda globally. On the other hand, developing a full understanding of In addition to wood and fibre, Stora Enso sources a supplier’s sustainability performance remains a challenge, even with very strict supply chain processes in place. Economic other raw materials, products, and services from over Although Stora Enso works in a variety of regulatory agenda 20 000 suppliers globally. We have strict sustainability environments, we consistently respond to our stakeholders’ demands concerning transparency and the sustainability Customers requirements for all our suppliers. performance of our suppliers. The UK Modern Slavery Act, Suppliers for example, requires our continuous commitment to monitoring and assessing the risk of modern slavery in our Investors supply chains, and digitalisation brings new opportunities to increase supply chain transparency. Imposing sustainability Data and requirements on our direct suppliers encourages them to assurance develop their capacity to meet such new demands and improve their performance. Our policies A robust framework for responsible sourcing The Stora Enso Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC) is the cornerstone of our approach to responsible sourcing. The code is a legally binding document that imposes supplier sustainability requirements on human and labour rights, occupational health and safety, environmental commitments, and responsible business practices. It applies to all our sourcing categories globally. Several other Stora Enso policies and documents also support responsible sourcing, including our: • Sourcing Policy, our statement on the sourcing framework and objectives. • Sourcing Guideline, defining how sourcing should be executed, managed, and controlled. • Practical Instructions for Stora Enso Suppliers, detailed guidance and examples on the topics included in the SCoC. • Instructions for Purchasers, practical guidance for our purchasers to help them address challenges related to sustainability. • Policy on Wood and Fibre Sourcing, and Land Management, with standards that apply to our suppliers. • Environmental Guidelines, guiding us on how to reduce our environmental impact through sourcing. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Economic agenda – Suppliers 61 Governance How we work supports our purchasers in making risk assessments. Based on a pre-evaluation of a supplier’s social and environmental Our sourcing process Social Materials and products sourced by Stora Enso risk profile, they may be selected for a third-party sustainability audit, conducted together with the purchaser. In 2017, 95% of our total agenda include wood and fibre-based materials such as pulp and Any suspected SCoC non-conformances brought to our spend was covered by our Environmental paper for recycling (PfR), chemicals, fillers, energy, fuels, and spare parts, as well as maintenance, logistics, and attention are investigated and followed up. Similarly, any non-conformances identified during audits are followed up Supplier Code of Conduct. agenda IT services. In 2017, purchases of materials, goods, and with supplier meetings where the findings are discussed services represented 49% of our total variable cost while fibre and corrective action plans devised. Suppliers must sign procurement accounted for 51%. up to these plans, and our purchasers will monitor their Economic For Stora Enso, responsible sourcing means drawing implementation. If a supplier does not take the necessary agenda on our deep commitment to sustainability, addressing the corrective actions, new discussions are held to examine the sourcing process also applies to them. While contractors are concerns of key stakeholders, complying with regulatory reasons, at a higher management level if necessary. In cases primarily responsible for their own employees, we make every Customers frameworks, adhering to best practices, and managing supply when a supplier is not willing to improve their performance, the effort to ensure that everyone working on our premises is Suppliers risks. These principles are put into practice every day by our relationship is terminated. treated fairly and receives adequate safety training. employees working with sourcing. Some of our suppliers are contractors hired for longInvestors Sourcing is a centrally led function at Stora Enso, serving term work, such as forest and plantation management, and Pulp procurement the entire group and enabling clear and transparent decision some for shorter periods of time, for example in large-scale Most of the pulp used in Stora Enso’s operations is produced Data and making. Sourcing initiatives are reviewed and resolved by investment and mill maintenance projects. Our SCoC and internally at our mills (97% in 2017). For quality and logistical assurance dedicated sourcing committees that meet when the sourcing need is specified, during the tendering process, and when a contract is drafted. All suppliers wishing to do business with Stora Enso must first pre-qualify, during tendering or at the latest before a contract is drafted. Instead of using our own supplier Managing supplier sustainability risks at Stora Enso numbering, we use D-U-N-S® numbering, which is a globally recognised system for identifying companies. To pre-qualify, suppliers must complete a questionnaire, submit confirmation of their compliance with our SCoC, and since 2017, also complete our Safety Trail training. Our suppliers are asked to provide information about their own suppliers, including subsuppliers operating in high-risk countries. PreRisk Audit CAP* follow-up qualification Assesment and Supplier Risk mapping and auditing developmet In addition to enforcing our SCoC, we actively help our suppliers improve their sustainability performance. In 2017, we introduced Safety Trail, an online e-learning to educate our suppliers in proactive safety management, and initiated topic-based “deep • Supplier Code • Category • Risk assesment • Corrective dives” or thorough reviews of specific supply chains. Deep of Conduct • Geography • High risk areas actions dives help us better understand the operations, opportunities, • Safety Trail • Other • Global category focus • Verification and challenges of a supply chain related to a specific topic or category, and also serve the information needs of our customers. In addition, we conduct on-site visits and focused Supplier Code of Conduct Steering Group supplier audits, to monitor and improve supplier sustainability Consultation and decision body, follows progress performance. Focused audits are conducted based on risk assessments or concerns raised by our stakeholders. * Corrective action plan Stora Enso’s supplier sustainability risk mapping tool, created in collaboration with the non-profit organisation BSR, Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Economic agenda – Suppliers 62 Governance Social In 2017, we introduced agenda the Safety Trail campaign to promote occupational Environmental agenda safety among our suppliers. Economic agenda Customers Suppliers Investors Breakdown of raw material and service costs % of our total variable costs Data and Fibre1 51% assurance Logistics and commissions 16% Chemicals and fillers 13% Energy 10% Production services and materials 10% 1 Wood, Paper for Recycling and purchased pulp While contractors are primarily responsible for their own employees, we make every effort to ensure that everyone working on our premises is treated fairly and receives adequate safety training. reasons, a small proportion of the pulp for our paper and Paper for recycling our SCoC, including all categories and regions. By the end of board production is purchased from external suppliers Stora Enso sources paper for recycling (PfR) from various 2017, 95% of Stora Enso’s total spend on materials, goods, and (3%). Pulp from our joint operation Veracel in Brazil is local authorities and waste management companies. For more services was duly covered (92% at the end of 2016), meeting considered internally produced in these figures. As with details of our PfR use, see page 31. the target of 95% for the year. Invoicing by customs, bank fees, wood procurement, we ensure that all the pulp we purchase intellectual property rights (IPR), leasing fees, and financial is sustainably sourced by applying third-party-verified Progress trading are not included in the total supplier spend. traceability systems and forest certification systems, and by In 2017, we introduced the Safety Trail campaign to complying with the relevant regulations. For more information Capacity building on safety promote better occupational safety among our suppliers. about our approach to sustainable wood procurement, Stora Enso’s related key performance indicator (KPI) Safety Trail is a safety capacity building e-learning for existing see page 47. measures the proportion of our total supplier spend covered by suppliers and a mandatory element in the pre-qualification Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Economic agenda – Suppliers 63 Governance process for potential suppliers. At least one supplier Supplier audits: human and labour rights in focus employee must complete the training and commit to sharing In 2017, Stora Enso continued to conduct third-party supplier it within their organisation. Our short-term target for 2017 was audits with a focus on suppliers in high-risk areas, and on Social to cover 50% of our total supplier spend with Safety Trail, chemical sourcing as well as people-intensive sourcing agenda and this target was achieved with a coverage of 65% by year categories such as service providers and logistics. These end. The target will be reviewed in 2018. For more information categories were chosen because of increased stakeholder Environmental about Stora Enso’s approach to occupational health and interest in chemicals sourced from mining and agriculture, and agenda safety, see page 15. because of our continuous effort to thoroughly understand our potential human rights risks and impacts. Revised strategy and vision During 2017, we conducted a total of 26 third-party supplier Economic Our sourcing and logistics work was reviewed and the ambition audits (47 in 2016). These audits revealed non-conformances agenda level was raised in 2017, with sustainability as a defining particularly related to working hours, basic workers’ rights and component. We received stakeholder feedback on this work preparedness for emergency situations in the workplace. No Customers through our group materiality assessment during the spring supplier relationships needed to be terminated in 2017 (three Suppliers 2017. Occupational safety and fossil CO 2 emissions are our top in 2016). Other related work in 2017 included the introduction priorities when evaluating supplier sustainability performance. of a checklist template for our purchasers to assist in making Investors In 2018, our aim is to include these priorities as specific criteria observations during supplier visits. We also developed a in our tenders for existing and potential new suppliers, as part specific audit approach for product safety. Data and of the supplier selection process. High ambitions for supply chain sustainability assurance Sourcing developments in China and the USA Stora Enso buys goods and services from over 20 000 Coal sourcing for Beihai Mill in China suppliers around the world. To ensure that all of them In southern China, coal is currently the only feasible energy respect our sustainability requirements, we have clear source for an industrial facility as large as Stora Enso’s Beihai and systematic sourcing processes in which sustainability Mill. However, as part of our long-term planning, we are is deeply embedded. investigating opportunities to use more renewable energy – “Our direct suppliers must also carefully select for more information, see page 43. In 2017, we continued to and monitor the suppliers they work with,” says Johanna look for more sustainable alternatives to coal, and monitored Hagelberg, who leads our Sourcing and Logistics function. our current supplier’s performance with on-site visits and regular discussions. We also continued to expand our Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability network of potential local suppliers with the aim to identify a supplier that best fulfils our criteria. Audits of mineral suppliers are rare in China, as mining companies typically do not allow customers to visit their mines. In 2017, Stora Enso was able to audit its entire coal supply chain, excluding shipping, and a social impact demonstration plant purchases bagasse, a residual from assessment was conducted in villages near the mine as the sugar-making process, from a nearby sugar mill. well as along the logistics chain. Corrective actions for the Due to the seasonal nature of the work and the shortage supply chain were followed up with another audit, and while of available local workers, the sugar industry in Louisiana is some advancement was observed, further improvement dependent on seasonal migrant foreign workers for harvesting, is required. transportation and sugar-making during a compressed 100-day period of production. Since there is no federal Sourcing sugar industry by-products legislation in the USA, nor state legislation in Louisiana, directly Stora Enso has completed the construction of a limiting maximum working hours, Stora Enso is monitoring demonstration and market development plant in Raceland, labour rights in its bagasse supply chain to ensure that working Louisiana, USA, to validate extraction and separation hour schedules do not have adverse impacts on workers’ technologies. The plant converts cellulosic biomass into health and safety. We will continue to monitor and support our highly refined xylose sugars. The first batches of xylose will bagasse supplier in adopting our SCoC requirements, while Various chemicals are needed to enhance the quality of our products. be produced at the plant during 2018. For feedstock, the continuously pushing for improvements. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Economic agenda – Investors 64 Governance Opportunities and challenges Investors Sustainability drives competitiveness Social Sustainability is increasingly important for a growing agenda number of socially responsible investors (SRIs), and the incorporation of environmental, social, and governance (ESG) Environmental performance into mainstream investment decision-making agenda is accelerating. Both of these trends encourage companies We strive to continuously improve our sustainability to aim for more sustainable operations. Simultaneously, shareholders expect financial rewards from their investments. Economic performance and reporting to keep investors informed At Stora Enso, we believe that only truly sustainable agenda of our progress, future direction, and ambitions. operations can ensure long-term financial success. Stora Enso’s Investor Relations work is guided by several Customers laws and regulations, including the EU’s Market Abuse Suppliers Regulation (MAR), the Finnish Securities Markets Act, Nasdaq rules in Helsinki and Stockholm, and the standards of the Investors Finnish Financial Supervisory Authority. Data and Our policies assurance Guiding our Investor Relations Company policies and guidelines related to Stora Enso’s Investor Relations include our: • Disclosure Policy, a set of rules covering all our communications with investors and other stakeholders, and encompassing insider guidelines, closed periods, communications governance, and communications procedures. • Code of Conduct, applied to all our operations around the world, including Investor Relations. How we work Consistent and transparent communications Various aspects of sustainability, such as global warming and sustainable forest management, are important to Stora Enso’s investors. Our main shareholders are longterm investors that place high value on sustainable business practices and continuously follow and evaluate our performance. For more information on how we create value with a sustainable business model, see our Progress Book. For details of Stora Enso’s ownership distribution see our Financial Report. Timely and transparent communication with shareholders is a top priority for Stora Enso. We actively maintain open dialogue with our investors on ESG matters through face-toface meetings, conference calls, seminars, and webcasts. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Economic agenda – Investors 65 Governance Social agenda Environmental agenda Economic agenda Customers Suppliers Investors Data and assurance How can we identify what really matters? Corporate sustainability can be a jungle of voluntary standards, policies, and initiatives. Stora Enso believes that the key is to focus on credible, non-financial reporting and materiality – which means identifying the most relevant Many investors today are committed to integrating ESG factors into their investments. We actively maintain open dialogues with our investors on ESG sustainability challenges and opportunities. matters. “Sustainability can only be the outcome of a carefully thought through business strategy, and not a separate job function, report, or department,” says Rodney Irwin, We also regularly share updated information on our prioritise Stora Enso’s participation in questionnaires and Managing Director for Redefining Value and Education at sustainability performance with our shareholders in our Interim assessments for the ESG index and ratings schemes that are the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and Annual Reports, stakeholder letters, web updates, and most material for our investors. (WBCSD). investor newsletters. We regularly participate in sustainability In the long-term, Stora Enso’s goal is to work with funding events of interest to investors. For more information about our partners who have sustainability as a key part of their Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability investor relations, see storaenso.com/investors. lending agenda. We aim at contributing to a scenario where the sustainability of business is a key metric for credit risk Progress Focus on material sustainability ratings assessment. In December 2017, Stora Enso signed a new In 2017, our Investor Relations function organised 13 Revolving Credit Facility (RCF) loan where part of the pricing investor meetings focusing on ESG-related topics, including At Stora Enso we believe that is based on Stora Enso’s ability to reduce greenhouse gas one-to-one meetings, conference calls, and one webinar. only truly sustainable operations emissions per tonne of pulp, paper, and board produced, The focus was on Stora Enso’s sustainability strategy and agreed in accordance with the Science Based Targets activities. In total, approximately 40 investor representatives can ensure long-term financial initiative. The facility size is EUR 600 million with maturity participated in these meetings. success. in January 2023. The purpose of the facility is to act as an During the year, we also continued our strategy to enhance undrawn back-stop facility. 13 commercial banks participated the availability of ESG information to shareholders, and in the RCF loan as lenders. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Economic agenda – External recognition 66 Governance ESG indices and other external recognition in 2017 Social agenda Environmental Ecovadis Science Based Targets initiative Member 2017/2018 STOXX ESG indices agenda Stora Enso is included in the top 1% As the first forest products company, Stora Enso is included in several of the Ecovadis ethical supplier rating Stora Enso set science-based targets STOXX ESG indices. These indices rate system, and achieved the highest for its greenhouse gases in 2017, in line leading global companies according to Economic recognition level (Gold). with the 2°C limit set for global warming environmental, social, and governance agenda by the Paris Agreement. criteria. Customers Suppliers Euronext Vigeo Oekom Research Stora Enso is listed in the Euronext CDP Stora Enso is classified as “Prime” by Investors Vigeo World, Europe, and Eurozone 120 Stora Enso received an Ascore as a Oekom Research’s environmental, social indices as one of the 120 most advanced result of its response to CDP’s annual and governance rating methodology. Data and companies in terms of environmental, climate change questionnaire in 2017. assurance social, and governance performance. Stockholm School of Economics Ethibel Investment Register Stora Enso was top-ranked in the 2017 FTSE4Good Index Stora Enso is listed in Forum ETHIBEL’s “Walking the talk” study on sustainability Stora Enso is included in the Ethibel EXCELLENCE Investment communications by the Mistra Center FTSE4Good Index Series. These indices Register and Ethibel PIONEER register. for Sustainable Markets (Misum) at the measure the performance of companies Stockholm School of Economics. The that meet globally recognised corporate study included 88 Large Cap companies responsibility standards. at the Stockholm stock exchange. OMX GES Sustainability Finland index Stora Enso is included in the NASDAQ ECPI Ethical Indices OMX and GES Investment Service’s ReportWatch Stora Enso is included in the ECPI EMU OMX GES Sustainability Finland index. Stora Enso’s Annual Report 2016, Ethical Equity index, which covers including the Sustainability Report, environmental, social, and governance was included in ReportWatch’s Best criteria. Practices in Annual Sustainability MSCI Reporting. Stora Enso was also Stora Enso is included in several of top-ranked in its industry category. MSCI’s ESG indices. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Data and assurance 67 Governance Social agenda Environmental agenda Economic agenda Data and assurance Data and assurance Reporting scope 68 Data by production unit 69 Independent assurance report 72 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Data and assurance – Reporting scope 68 Governance Reporting scope are yearly averages. Certain administrative functions and sales offices are not included in the group’s consolidated . Social At Stora Enso, we regularly review the priorities in our occupational health and safety (OHS) data due to data agenda Sustainability Agenda and ensure that our reporting duly availability and lower occupational safety risk compared to addresses them. When defining the materiality of issues production units. Environmental impacting our sustainable business model, we consider the agenda expectations of significant internal and external stakeholders. Significant changes in scope during 2017 For more information on our approach to materiality, In September 2017, Stora Enso completed the divestment of see page 6. its 35% minority holding in the equity-accounted investment Economic Bulleh Shah Packaging (Private) Ltd, which reduced the group’s agenda related reporting on human rights and community work. In Data boundaries February, the group announced the closure of paper machine Data and Unless otherwise stated, the group’s consolidated 8 at Kvarnsveden Mill, Sweden. The closure was completed assurance performance data expressed in this report covers the parent during September and affected approximately 120 people. company, Stora Enso Oyj, and all companies in which In November, the group divested the Finnish Puumerkki Oy Reporting we hold over 50% of voting rights directly or indirectly. and the Estonian Puumerkki AS, affecting approximately 170 scope The consolidated figures and reporting on human rights, people. Also in November, the group announced the divestment community, and forests, plantations, and land use also of Baienfurt sheeting centre in Germany. The divestment was Data by include the 50% owned joint operations Veracel in Brazil completed in January 2018, affecting approximately 60 people. production and Montes del Plata in Uruguay, due to their materiality For more information on the group’s acquisitions and disposals, unit to the group’s sustainability impacts and stakeholder see note 4 in the Financial Report 2017. Assurance interest in these topics. For the same reason the report also In our environmental and energy reporting, divestments report covers specific material topics related to human rights and and closures are managed according to the Greenhouse Gas community work of 35% owned equity-accounted investment Protocol. This means that, when necessary, figures for the Bulleh Shah Packaging, which the group completed the historical performance are recalculated following the removal divestment of in September 2017. Otherwise the consolidated of divested units from the baseline. However, closed units are figures and reporting do not include equity-accounted maintained in the environment and energy target and trend investments where Stora Enso’s ownership is between 20% calculation baselines. and 50%, or companies in which our ownership share is less than 20%. Following the GRI framework Our consolidated environmental and energy data covers This report corresponds to the ‘Comprehensive’ level our production units. As expressed in the respective footnotes, in the G4 reporting framework of the Global Reporting Stora Enso’s sawmills and converting facilities are excluded Initiative (GRI). This means that our reporting covers all the from water, energy, and certain CO 2 indicators that are Standard Disclosures of the G4 framework, as well as all normalised per tonne of sales production. This is due to the the sustainability aspects we have identified as material lower materiality of sawmills and converting facilities in the in our operations. Our GRI index (storaenso.com/gri) lists group’s related performance and different metric for sales our Standard Disclosures with reference to G4 categories, production, compared to pulp, paper, and board mills. aspects, and indicators, and refers to the chapter names or Human resources (HR) data is derived from separately locations where these issues are addressed in our annual collected HR statistics, except for numbers of employees, reporting publications and/or other information channels. which are derived from financial accounting. Unlike in References to chapter names or locations are our Financial Reporting, consolidated HR data in this complemented with additional reporting in the index as Sustainability Report excludes employees of our 50%-owned necessary. Impacts that make sustainability topics relevant joint operations Montes del Plata and Veracel. All the HR to us may occur outside Stora Enso, or they may be material data presented here covers our permanent and temporary only for some of our operations or locations. When our employees as of 31 December 2017, except for the unitreporting on a sustainability aspect or indicator only concerns specific numbers of employees on pages 69–71, which specific units, geographical regions, or other data collection Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Data and assurance – Data by production unit 69 Governance Data by production unit Social This table presents unit-specific information on environmental performance, production, certificates, and numbers of employees. agenda Joint operations and divested or closed units are excluded. Environmental agenda Certificates Fossil CO2 emissions ISO 14001 Economic FSSC 22000 OHSAS 18001 PEFCTM CoC agenda ISO 9001 ISO 22000 ISO 50001 FSC® CoC Process Carbon neutral Number of Production Recovered waste to Hazardous NOx as CO2, on-site CO2, biomass Process water Data and employees a) capacity b) Products fibre c) FDA landfill waste d) SO2 e) NO2 Direct CO2 Indirect CO2 transportation fuels f) g) f) f) f) COD AOX Phosphorus Nitrogen discharges assurance Unit 1 000 t t t t t t t t t t t t t 1 000 m3 Belgium Reporting Langerbrugge 340 555 4 x x x x x x x 6 129 63 4 260 113 557 25 217 1 400 566 435 1 067 0.8 6.1 29.1 6 665 scope China Beihai h) 424 390 1 x x x x x x 367 40 121 171 356 974 171 707 1 072 43 667 234 2.5 11.8 4 402 Data by Dawang 224 140 4 x x x x x 0 1 136 203 2 53 2.0 1 077 production Gabou, Dongguan 1 313 50* 3 x x x x 0 5 3 315 10 24 unit Jiashan, Zhejiang 450 10* 3 x x x x 0 3 1 825 11 0 6 Qian´an, Hebei 1 876 55* 3 x x x x 0 2 14 567 90 0 2 Assurance Estonia report Tallinn 28 15* 3 x x x x 0 0 103 180 24 1 Finland Anjala/Ingerois 544 435/280 1 4 x x x i) x i) x x x x 0 85 9 302 108 554 99 349 1 530 160 196 3 328 5.4 137.4 10 112 Enocell 176 475 2 x x x x x x 8 653 19 113 967 49 524 3 991 144 1 495 089 8 383 52.0 2.0 49.0 22 394 Heinola Fluting 174 300 1 x x x x x x x 1 150 182 384 388 145 620 6 212 176 184 284 1 117 1.9 24.5 1 376 Heinola j) 133 100* 3 x x x x x x 0 23 1 078 113 12 Imatra 1 108 1 155 1 2 x x x x x x x x x 514 423 154 2 202 179 015 57 963 1 712 2 205 064 19 476 88.0 13.7 212.0 60 844 Kristiinankaupunki 47 20* 3 x x x x x x 0 1 180 63 24 Lahti 183 40* 3 x x x x x x 0 107 3 808 102 2 0 0.2 13 Oulu 612 1 080 2 4 x x x x x x 23 264 366 1 135 240 186 29 529 3 083 1 168 101 9 373 43.0 9.9 87.0 19 112 Sunila 155 375 2 6 x x x x x x 4 103 85 55 688 27 396 2 457 509 848 782 5 735 29.9 6.0 30.1 14 494 Varkaus 237 390 1 x x x x x x x x 2 450 54 128 569 71 185 13 710 523 713 074 2 456 5.0 64.0 14 713 Veitsiluoto 529 790 4 x x x x x x 662 38 277 903 169 589 29 629 308 1 007 812 8 104 19.5 6.3 124.0 9 761 Germany Maxau 427 530 4 x x x x x x x 3 179 3 300 115 327 155 752 3 313 693 1 473 0.6 2.9 12.3 5 594 Sachsen 258 310 2 4 x x x x x x x 23 18 4 138 163 098 1 717 780 38 055 738 0.5 0.5 13.8 3 509 Latvia Riga 143 100* 3 x x x x 0 84 2 3 617 148 7 Lithuania Kaunas 49 20* 3 x x x x 0 2 1 539 71 3 Poland Łódz 249 120* 3 x x x x x x 0 0 3 3 570 8 017 Mosina 101 25* 3 x x x x x x 0 69 310 1 602 46 4 Ostrołęka k) 1 236 723 1 3 4 x l) x x x m) x x x 1 083 37 195 268 332 325 155 189 1 460 418 345 1 080 4.3 18.8 8 240 Tychy 147 110* 3 x x x x x x 0 3 2 854 4 075 171 13 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Data and assurance – Data by production unit 70 Governance Certificates Fossil CO2 emissions ISO 14001 Social FSSC 22000 OHSAS 18001 agenda ISO 9001 ISO 22000 ISO 50001 FSC® CoC PEFCTM CoC Process Carbon neutral Number of Production Recovered waste to Hazardous NOx as CO2, on-site CO2, biomass Process water Environmental employees a) capacity b) Products fibre c) FDA landfill waste d) SO2 e) NO2 Direct CO2 Indirect CO2 transportation fuels f) g) f) f) f) COD AOX Phosphorus Nitrogen discharges agenda Unit 1 000 t t t t t t t t t t t t t 1 000 m3 Russia Economic Arzamas 170 100* 3 x x x 15 10 1 5 3 094 12 679 79 9 0 0.4 27 Balabanovo 331 165* 3 x x x 86 5 1 2 5 273 22 123 105 12 0.1 0.4 34 agenda Lukhovitsy 133 80* 3 x x x 63 1 2 2 503 13 565 115 3 0 0.1 19 Sweden Data and Falu Rödfärg n) 7 x x 0 16 276 3 512 assurance Fors 588 455 1 x x x x x x x 0 77 6 111 2 467 91 496 252 579 1 665 0.5 0.9 23.9 4 623 Hylte 420 480 4 5 o) x x x x x x x 26 268 100 114 3 398 157 870 228 428 842 3.8 1.6 19.0 5 163 Jönköping 186 100* 3 x x x 0 6 265 522 32 12 Reporting Kvarnsveden p) 558 665 4 x x x x x x 0 148 16 108 11 608 281 239 607 2 053 0.6 1.8 52.2 9 201 scope Nymölla 572 485 2 4 x x x x x x 0 329 517 540 -10 707 57 1 845 713 159 12 110 0.1 13.0 85.0 25 551 Data by Skene 149 100* 3 x x x 0 1 29 40 0 14 Skoghall 728 855 1 2 x x x x x x x x 3 586 800 132 499 53 317 134 2 027 956 196 8 769 14.6 7.8 89.8 25 411 production Skoghall (Forshaga) 105 120 1 x x x x x x x x x 0 8 1 394 4 196 unit Skutskär 389 540 2 x x x x x x 0 28 511 724 123 8 793 1 625 1 516 687 5 256 43.0 20.0 122.0 19 312 Assurance Vikingstad 59 75* 3 x x x 0 3 1 050 75 1 19 report Total pulp, paper, 11 528 q) 55 178 19 581 2 998 10 401 2 153 668 987 822 20 941 13 069 252 93 362 296.9 111.4 1 208.7 271 740 board, converted products Total, wood products Wood products units s) s) s) s) s) s) s) s) s) s) 13 581 554 26 517 1 440 149 832 16 173 456 523 Grand total All units 68 758 20 134 3 024 10 918 2 155 108 1 137 654 37 114 13 525 775 93 362 296.9 111.4 1 208.7 271 740 . k) Ostrołęka Mill corrugated board unit included in data. Products: l) Kraft paper unit uses recycled fibre. 1 board and packaging paper m) Covers only corrugated board unit. 2 market pulp n) Does not have its own personnel but hires personnel from Stora Enso AB. 3 converted products (e.g. cores, corrugated board) o) A new biocomposite granule production is scheduled to begin at Hylte Mill in 2018. 4 paper p) PM8 closed in 2017, impacting environmental data from Kvarnsveden Mill compared to 5 biocomposite 2016. 6 lignin q) Excluding total corrugated board capacity 1 285 million m2. 7 red paint pigment r) Production capacities for sawn timber 5 440 000 m3 and for wood pellets 430 000 t. s) See separate table for Wood Products units. The figure 0 (zero) in the table signifies that such discharges, emissions, or waste did not occur or were below the group’s reporting threshold. Where cells are left blank, this signifies that the parameter is considered not relevant for that unit. Certificate documents can be found at storaenso.com/certificates. * million m2 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Data and assurance – Data by production unit 71 Governance Social Capacities Certificates Fossil CO2 emissions agenda Process Carbon neutral Number of Sawn Further Wood ISO ISO ISO OHSAS FSC® PEFCTM waste to Hazardous CO2, on-site CO2, biomass Environmental employees a) products processed CLT LVL pellets 9001 14001 50001 18001 CoC CoC SBP landfill waste b) SO2 NOx as NO2 Direct CO2 c) Indirect CO2 c) transportation fuels c) d) c) agenda Unit 1 000 m3 1 000 m3 1 000 m3 1 000 m3 1 000 t t t t t t t t t Wood Products units Austria Economic Bad St. Leonhard 237 350 105 72 x x x x x x 0 51 4 0 e) 1 agenda Brand 191 440 255 x x x x x x 0 39 0 e) 1 Ybbs 358 550 430 78 x x x x x x 0 112 0 e) 1 Czech Republic Data and Planá 232 360 220 x x x x x x 456 29 1.2 54 0 e) 2 007 31 000 assurance Ždírec 274 550 220 65 x x x x x x 3 650 48 2.3 120 0 e) 2 203 118 426 Estonia Reporting Imavere 324 335 155 100 x x x x x x 2 378 56 5.4 54 66 50 154 1 746 60 252 scope Näpi 89 40 120 15 x x x x x 0 14 0.7 7 26 12 564 363 7 073 Finland Data by Honkalahti 101 310 70 x x x x x x 0 9 29 218 3 084 685 production Kitee 82 260 110 25 x x x x x x 10 10 24 2 138 420 38 240 Uimaharju 53 240 20 x x x x x x 0 18 13 807 531 unit Varkaus 103 125 65 x x x x x x 77 81 6 631 682 Veitsiluoto f) 52 200 x x x x x x 0 0 8.0 19 6 430 592 Assurance Germany report Pfarrkirchen 94 130 x x x x x x 0 7 2.1 15 0 e) 264 6 620 Latvia Launkalne 128 190 20 x x x x x x 466 3 38 286 1 879 3 27 720 Lithuania Alytus 216 200 90 x x x x x x 0 38 2.0 16 2 500 1 220 27 925 The Netherlands Amsterdam 40 50 x x x x x 17 1 12 1 015 3 Poland Murow 232 250 210 x x 0 31 2.4 23 0 e) 1 16 160 Russia Impilahti 98 120 10 15 x x x x x x 1 174 0 5 16 475 992 14 508 Nebolchi 163 180 30 35 x x x x x x x 5 352 0 0.5 48 31 523 1 179 25 474 Sweden Ala 154 370 45 75 x x x x x x 0 0 1.6 63 9 1 875 83 126 Gruvön 101 370 150 100 x x x x x x x 0 8 832 1 623 1 403 Wood products units total 5 440 2 440 150 65 430 13 581 554 26.2 517 1 440 149 832 16 173 456 523 . Certificate documents can be found at storaenso.com/certificates. Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance GRI index Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2017 Data and assurance – Assurance report 72 Governance Independent obtain limited assurance whether any matters come to our attention that cause us to believe that the Sustainability • Performing analytical review procedures and testing data on a sample basis to assess the reasonability of Deloitte Oy applies International Standard on Quality Control 1 and accordingly maintains Social assurance Information has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting criteria. In addition, we the presented Sustainability information; • Performing site visits to Beihai in China, Sachsen a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding report agenda have a responsibility to form an independent conclusion, in Germany and Veitsiluoto and Imatra in Finland to compliance with ethical requirements, professional based on our reasonable assurance procedures, on review compliance to reporting policies, to assess the standards and applicable legal and regulatory Environmental whether the fossil direct and indirect CO2 emissions as a reliability of the Sustainability data reporting process requirements. This engagement was conducted by agenda whole are reported, in all material respects, in accordance as well as to test the data collected for Sustainability a multidisciplinary team including assurance and To the Management of Stora Enso Oyj with the reporting criteria. reporting purposes on a sample basis; sustainability expertise with professional qualifications. We have been engaged by Stora Enso Oyj (hereafter We did not perform any assurance procedures on the • Assessing that the Sustainability Information has Our team is experienced in providing sustainability Economic Stora Enso) to provide limited assurance on Stora Enso’s prospective information, such as targets, expectations been prepared in accordance with the Sustainability reporting assurance. agenda Sustainability information and reasonable assurance and ambitions, disclosed in the Sustainability Information. Reporting Guidelines (G4 Comprehensive) of the on Stora Enso’s direct and indirect (scopes 1+2) fossil Consequently, we draw no conclusion on the prospective Global Reporting Initiative. Limited assurance conclusion Data and CO 2 emissions as a whole within the Sustainability information. Our assurance report is made in accordance On the basis of the procedures we have performed, assurance Information for the reporting period of January 1, 2017 with the terms of our engagement with Stora Enso. We do The reasonable assurance engagement involved nothing has come to our attention that causes us to to December 31, 2017. The information subject to the not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than performing procedures to obtain evidence about the believe that the information subject to the assurance Reporting assurance engagement is the Sustainability Report Stora Enso for our work, for this assurance report, or for direct and indirect fossil CO 2 emissions as a whole. engagement is not prepared, in all material respects, in scope 2017 and the Sustainability information disclosed in the conclusions we have reached. In addition to the limited assurance work, our key accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines the Progress Book 2017 on pages 5–13 (hereafter: A limited assurance engagement with respect assurance procedures have included an evaluation of (G4 Comprehensive) of the Global Reporting Initiative Data by Sustainability Information). to Sustainability related data involves performing the operating effectiveness of internal controls and the or that the Sustainability Information is not reliable, in all production procedures to obtain evidence about the Sustainability systems and processes for collecting and processing material respects, with regard to the Reporting criteria. unit Management’s responsibility Information. The procedures performed depend on the the direct and indirect fossil CO 2 emissions data. Assurance Management is responsible for the preparation of practitioner’s judgment, but their nature is different from, Furthermore, we have performed testing on a sample Reasonable assurance conclusion report the Sustainability Information in accordance with the and their extent is less than, a reasonable assurance basis at selected sites, chosen based on an evaluation On the basis of the procedures we have performed, in our Reporting criteria as set out in Stora Enso’s reporting engagement. It does not include detailed testing of of significance, as well as general and specific risks, to opinion, Stora Enso’s reporting on direct and indirect principles on page 68 of the Sustainability Report source data or the operating effectiveness of processes evaluate whether direct and indirect fossil CO 2 emissions fossil CO2 emissions as a whole is prepared in accordance and the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4 and internal controls and consequently they do not as a whole presented in the Sustainability Information with the Reporting criteria and is reliable, in all material Comprehensive) of the Global Reporting Initiative. enable us to obtain the assurance necessary to become are reported according to the Reporting Criteria. respects, with regard to the Reporting criteria. This includes: designing, implementing and maintaining aware of all significant matters that might be identified in We believe that the evidence we have obtained is Our assurance report should be read in internal control relevant to the preparation and fair a reasonable assurance engagement. sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conjunction with the inherent limitations of accuracy presentation of the Sustainability Information that are conclusion. and completeness for Sustainability information. This free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud Our procedures on the limited assurance included: independent assurance report should not be used on its or error, selecting and applying appropriate criteria • Conducting interviews with senior management Our independence, quality control own as a basis for interpreting Stora Enso’s performance and making estimates that are reasonable in the responsible for Sustainability at Stora Enso to gain an and competences in relation to its policies of sustainability. circumstances. understanding of Stora Enso’s targets for Sustainability We complied with Deloitte’s independence policies as part of the business strategy and operations; which address and, in certain cases, exceed Helsinki 12 February 2018 Assurance provider’s responsibility • Reviewing internal and external documentation to the requirements of the International Federation Deloitte Oy Our responsibility is to express an assurance conclusion verify to what extent these documents and data of Accountants Code of Ethics for Professional on the Sustainability Information based on our support the information included in the Sustainability Accountants in their role as independent assurance engagement. We conducted our assurance engagement Information and evaluating whether the information providers and in particular preclude us from taking in accordance with International Standard on Assurance presented in the Sustainability Information is in financial, commercial, governance and ownership Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised) to provide limited line with our overall knowledge of Sustainability positions which might affect, or be perceived to affect, Jukka Vattulainen assurance on performance data and statements within at Stora Enso; our independence and impartiality and from any Authorized Public Accountant the Sustainability Information, and in accordance with • Conducting interviews with employees responsible involvement in the preparation of the report. We have ISAE 3410 to provide reasonable assurance on direct for the collection and reporting of the Sustainability maintained our independence and objectivity throughout and indirect (scopes 1+2) fossil CO2 emissions as a whole. Information and reviewing of the processes and the year and there were no events or prohibited services This requires that we comply with ethical requirements systems for data gathering, including the aggregation provided which could impair our independence Lasse Ingström and plan and perform the assurance engagement to of the data for the Sustainability Information; and objectivity. Authorized Public Accountant Stora Enso Oyj P.O. Box 309 FI-00101 Helsinki, Finland Visiting address: Kanavaranta 1 Tel. +358 2046 131 Stora Enso AB P.O. Box 70395 SE-107 24 Stockholm, Sweden Visiting address: World Trade Center Klarabergsviadukten 70 Tel. +46 1046 46 000 storaenso.com/sustainability group.communications@storaenso.com Concept, design, and illustrations: Miltton Oy Photography: Jonathan Andrew, Lasse Arvidson, Petri Artturi Asikainen, Xiaoxian Cai, Jouni Harala, Tuomas Harjumaaskola, Jarmo Hietaranta, Andreas Hillergren, Petri Juntunen, Kaapo Kamu, Henrik Kettunen, Tuukka Koski, Aleksi Koskinen, Teemu Kuusimurto, Veikko Kähkönen, Eduardo Moody, Hanna Myllyntausta, Tiina Nykänen, Felix Odell, Ediney de Oliveira Magalhães, Sami Saarenheimo, Niklas Sandström, Olavi Silkelä, Christian Stummer, Mattias Södermark, Ernst Tobisch, C-Stummer Photography, and MODE Artes Visuales. It should be noted that Stora Enso and its business are exposed to various risks and uncertainties and certain statements herein which are not historical facts, including, without limitation those regarding expectations for market growth and developments; expectations for growth and profitability; and statements preceded by “believes”, “expects”, “anticipates”, “foresees”, or similar expressions, are forward-looking statements. Since these statements are based on current plans, estimates and projections, they involve risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to materially differ from those expressed in such forward-looking statements. Such factors include, but are not limited to: (1) operating factors such as continued success of manufacturing activities and the achievement of efficiencies therein, continued success of product development, acceptance of new products or services by the group’s targeted customers, success of the existing and future collaboration arrangements, changes in business strategy or development plans or targets, changes in the degree of protection created by the group’s patents and other intellectual property rights, the availability of capital on acceptable terms; (2) industry conditions, such as strength of product demand, intensity of competition, prevailing and future global market prices for the group’s products and the pricing pressures thereto, price fluctuations in raw materials, financial condition of the customers and the competitors of the group, the potential introduction of competing products and technologies by competitors; and (3) general economic conditions, such as rates of economic growth in the group’s principal geographic markets or fluctuations in exchange and interest rates. All statements are based on management’s best assumptions and beliefs in light of the information currently available to it and Stora Enso assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forwardlooking statement except to the extent legally required.
