UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 A differently-abled student mentored by a teacher at Quaid-e-Azam Rangers Special Children School, Karachi being supported by Pakistan Petroleum Limited Principle 1 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Pakistan Petroleum Limited Commitment Pakistan Petroleum Limited (PPL) respects the dignity and rights of its human resource. Through our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Programme, we also support the right to education, healthcare, basic civic amenities and healthy recreation for communities. 3 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 Strategic System for Organizational and Human Development ! Posting of staff between fields and head office, on a rollingbasis, has been streamlined. Also, regular lateral staff rotation within head office has ACTIONS assisted employees in diversifying their learning and Organizational Surveys assisted company to benefit from their experiences. Performance ! One PPL scholar is pursuing master’s degree from Aberdeen PPL conducts and participates regularly in organizational University, United Kingdom surveys, enabling the company management to review and under PPL’s Foreign adopt best practices from benchmark companies. This Scholarship Programme. proactive approach helps in continuous improvement of systems and procedures. ! 38 graduates were inducted, following a strict-merit-based ! The company participates in various countrywide Human process, in July 2017 for a twoResource (HR) benchmarking surveys to assess prevailing and year on-job training in the emergent trends. The findings enable PPL to align its HR second cycle of Associate system with leading companies and consolidate best practices Pakistan Petroleum Limited Programme. Besides crossalready followed by the company. Based on the results of functional rotation, associates Employee Engagement Survey conducted earlier, an action are being given exposure to plan would be developed to address the identified gaps and fields. Earlier, a batch of 70 enhance staff confidence building. graduates inducted as Associates in March 2016, will Capacity Building soon be completing their twoyear on-job training. Those with above average performance Performance during the two years would be Staff capacity building followed the skills-based matrix considered for regular developed in 2015 in line with employee job requirements as employment based on available part of key performance objectives. To this end, the company positions. The programme is organized over 150 training sessions during the year to fill-in geared towards developing and both technical and soft skills gap and equip employees with maintaining the talent pipeline, current business trends. Besides, informal learning through aligned with operational mentoring programme and staff rotation was also streamlined. requirements. ! The company-wide skills and training matrix developed across ! 39 Special Trainees were the disciplines during 2015 was further strengthened and inducted for a two-year on-job effectively implemented through organized, need-based training programme in October capacity building sessions, targeting both technical and soft 2016 as part of capacity building skills. From a total of over 150 session during the reporting of young professional engineers period, 44 technical sessions were facilitated by foreign trainers and diploma holders belonging at in-house training centres based in Karachi. to company’s producing fields. ! Under the leadership development programme, an annual The trainees have completed training matrix derived from the skills matrix was developed to their cross-functional rotation foster desired behaviours & leadership framework. Moreover, a during the first year. They have Leadership Competency Framework was also developed to not now been placed in their core only refine current leadership but also identify and groom future functional areas for a focused leaders. Senior management is being trained in these role during the second year. competencies, enabling them to consistently perform and ! PPL has a Technical deliver effective results. Management Centre that ! PPL’s e-LEARN programme, started in 2015 under the esubscribes to leading industry learning portal in collaboration with International Human journals as well as other Resources Development Corporation offered more than 1500 resources to keep staff updated online courses for oil and gas industry professionals. Moreover, with the latest trends and use of technology in the Exploration 4 online soft skills training is provided through globally acknowledged Harvard Business Review. and Production sector. UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress ! Current reading material, including newspapers, magazines and periodicals are provided to keep staff updated on latest trends and information. ! The company’s monthly newsletter Progress, now in its 62nd 2 Industrial Relations and Employees year of publication regularly reports on company activities and industry related news. The Urdu version of Progress, initiated in January 2011, reaches to staff and stakeholders who are ACTIONS otherwise not able to get first-hand information due to language barrier. Fair Investigation ! Staff is kept updated on company activities through posting photographs of various corporate events on intranet portal. Procedures Besides, press clippings on oil and gas and energy sectors from leading newspapers is posted daily on the portal and Performance circulated to senior management. PPL protects employee rights, ensuring equitable treatment and opportunity for all to voice their views. ! The company has an effective policy for redressal of staff Pakistan Petroleum Limited grievances, if any. ! Based on laws relevant to its various locations, PPL follows the Standing (Orders) Ordinance 1968 for official reprimand of staff. ! The company regularly organizes town hall meetings for staff at all locations to share new developments, concern and issues in an open communication with senior management. Benefits Performance PPL provides its staff with competitive remuneration packages as well as strives to facilitate enabling working environment with ample capacity development and career progression opportunities. ! In line with Companies Profits (Worker's Participation) Act 1968, PPL contributes five percent of its net profit to the Workers Participation Fund. ! PPL follows the Employees Old Age Benefits (EOB) Act 1976, contributing five percent of minimum basic salary to EOB institutions with employees' participation of 1 percent. ! The company pays Statutory 5 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Bonus under Section 10-C of the West Pakistan Industrial and ! The company maintains fullyCommercial Employment (Standing Order) Ordinance 1968 as equipped health and fitness well as Annual Settlement Bonus to non-management staff. facility at head office as well as ! Annual Leave Fare Assistance is given to non-management proper indoor games/ recreation staff in addition to monthly remuneration. facilities at field locations to keep its employees mentally ! PPL also extends loans to staff for house construction/ and physically fit. Head Office renovation and purchase of vehicle. Sports Club remains available ! The company offers 13 annual scholarships to children of for staff recreation during lunch permanent non-management staff, with four scholarships for break and after working hours. post-intermediate and professional and 9 for post-matriculation The club at Sui Gas Field education. (SGF) and Kandhot Gas Field ! Free bachelor accommodation along with necessary utilities is has a jogging track, badminton, given to field-stationed staff. tennis and squash courts and a ! Gratis Hajj and Umrah facilities are provided to workers. swimming pool for staff use. ! PPL provides pick-and-drop transport facility to women staff. ! PPL also organizes indoor games competition among head ! The company provides a nutritious and balanced lunch facility office and field employees. for management staff and women employees at head office and fields. ! PPL organizes musical and Pakistan Petroleum Limited other cultural programmes for employees. Employee Recognition ! Company management and staff celebrate religious and Performance cultural festivals as well as national days. PPL follows fair and transparent policies and procedures to recognize and reward high standards of performance and enhance staff motivation. Preventing Forcible ! Performance Awards are given on an annual basis to employees together with departments in recognition of their Displacement outstanding achievements. The company recognizes and rewards individual and department’s efforts for extraordinary of Individuals performance, innovation, creativity, cost savings, productivity gains and complexity reduction, waste elimination and Performance outstanding QHSE contribution. Besides employee’s notable Due to its strict adherence to social contributions are also rewarded. The scheme also sets prescribed laws, PPL has never out to establish role models within the organization that other had a case of forcible employees can emulate. displacement of employees. ! PPL considers human capital its premium asset and acknowledges longevity of service, ranging from 15 to 40 Employment Policy for years, through annual long service awards. Handicapped and ! The company arranges farewells for retiring staff in Disabled People appreciation of their services. ! PPL follows the Disabled Persons (Employment and Rehabilitation) Ordinance 1981 Healthy Entertainment for Employees and ensures employment of handicapped personnel. Performance ! In line with the Workmen PPL attaches great importance to providing sports facilities Compensation Act in matters and entertainment for staff. related to disability, alternate ! PPL encourages sports among employees and regularly job assignments are given to organizes events such as Annual Inter-location Cricket disabled staff. Tournaments and in-door games to engage staff at head office and fields in healthy recreation. Besides, the company has teams for various sports such as cricket and table tennis that participate in contests/ matches with other organizations. 6 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 3 Employee Safety and Security ! Safety and fire drills are regularly conducted as per Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) requirements at head office and all field locations. ACTIONS ! HSE awareness and training sessions are regularly held. To Safe Working Conditions further focus on increased understanding and Performance improvement in the use of Employee safety and security is one of PPL’s top priorities. safety procedures, a The company’s senior management is committed to specialized mandatory training recognising QHSE as a core value for sustainable business campaign for all staff is in place growth and profitability. PPL has dedicated Security and to build capacity in fulfilling QHSE departments to ensure hazard-free working conditions. basic QHSE protocols, The following initiatives are taken to help protect company including firefighting, incident employees from risky situations and conditions: investigation and reporting, ! To ensure safe plant operations and proactively avoid defensive driving, firefighting incidental environmental releases, Process Safety and first aid, over the period of Pakistan Petroleum Limited Management (PSM), based on OSHA (Occupational Safety four years. and Health Administration Series) 3132 principles, has been ! ‘Hazard Identification, Risk implemented. This came through a comprehensive PSM Assessment and Management’ benchmarking study undertaken by DuPont a couple of years processes are shared with staff back. For implementation, PPL used three core dimensions for for compliance. Field-based Process Safety: leadership, culture and values; competence QHSE representatives provide and information / hazard analysis. For this, leadership training for conducting risk workshops were organized and staff were engaged through assessment of routine and training and seminars. Competence framework was developed, project activities. procedures strengthened and hazard identification and hazard ! Moreover, automation of & operability studies completed across the board as some of incident investigation and risk the key deliverables. assessment processes have ! PPL continues to ensure contractors’ safety through various been initiated to ensure pre-emptive measures, including pre-mobilisation workshops, integrated risk reduction and pre-spud meetings, audits and placement of additional QHSE improved performance. human resource on seismic and drilling sites. ! Head Count System in the form ! In order to improve quality of risk assessment and proactive of T-card is implemented at all precautionary response in mitigating risks, automation of ‘Risk PPL fields, drilling sites, Management’ and ‘Incident Management’ processes are regional office in Islamabad and completed in collaboration with globally renowned QHSE IT West Wharf as a quick and Software solution provider. accurate estimation of ! For monitoring progress on health and safety measures, personnel’s location at various especially at fields and facilities, senior management regularly sites. undertakes Safety Observation & Feedback Tour Audit of ! Lost Time Injury Frequency assets/ locations beyond the set target. (LTIF) has been on a decline ! VELOCITY EHS, a comprehensive software went live to over the years due to PPL’s effectively manage, report and monitor various QHSE commitment to PSM and initiatives. A number of hands on training sessions were implementation of QHSE conducted for staff, representing fields & departments, procedures. LTIF of the resulting in improved quality of reporting. company remained 0.05 during the reporting period. ! Personal protective equipment (PPE) and clothing have been reviewed for improved staff safety at work according to the nature of the job. ! Safety alerts and travel advisories are regularly sent to employees. 7 ! Security passes are compulsory for PPL employees at the head office and field locations. UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Employee Travel Safety Performance 4 Health PPL has a comprehensive Road Transport Safety framework, focussing on safety of company staff as well as safe ACTIONS transport of hydrocarbons Healthy Environment ! A comprehensive framework is introduced on Road Transport Safety (RTS) which focuses on passenger safety with basic for Employees guidelines on hydrocarbon transport. l Detailed gap assessment criteria developed in line with Performance RTS framework and implemented at fields and offices. PPL supports a safe and healthy l Behavioural monitoring of drivers and passengers is workplace by enhancing staff focussed to improve Journey Risk Management plans and health and well-being. developing base stations. ! Periodic check-ups are carried l Any unsafe driving practices, travel route issues, vehicle or out for fire extinguishers, fire employee complaints regarding transport are reported to alarms and sprinklers at all field Administration Department for necessary countermeasures. locations. Pakistan Petroleum Limited l All company vehicles are regularly inspected for fitness/ ! Ergonomics survey has been tuning/ service at designated workshops/ garages. initiated to review working ! Wearing seat belts is mandatory for company transport drivers postures/ conditions of and employees using company vehicles. A policy is in place to employees at workplace. bind staff to wear seat belts. ! Kitchen hygiene and ! All PPL employees are insured while travelling locally, inspections are a regular domestically or internationally. feature along with medical screening of food handlers. ! Use of mobile phones is prohibited while driving company vehicles. ! Implementation of revised Occupational Health Manual ! First aid boxes, fire extinguishers, safety cones, toe chain/ (OHM) with phased approach is strop are placed in all company vehicles. in progress at PPL-operated ! Road Transport Safety guidelines are being prepared to further fields. Gap analysis against the emphasize company’s focus on safe road travel. OHM has already been ! Driving Safety Handbook has been introduced at PPL drilling initiated. sites. ! An assessment was carried out in coordination with relevant assets to establish current baseline (nature, scope and overall Basic Health Facilities risk documented) on transport of hydrocarbons. ! QHSE technical input (laws & standards) incorporated in the Performance ongoing service procurement process for transportation of PPL extends a comprehensive crude oil by road from Adhi Field to Attock Refinery Limited. health plan and medical policy to employees and their families. The company has qualified doctors for providing medical consultation and treatment at head office and field locations. ! The company provides medical assistance to all employees, including their immediate family, and pensioners as per medical policy. ! PPL maintains a city clinic in Karachi, providing services throughout the day and on weekends to ensure easy access for employees and their families. Besides, PPL has a 8 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress full-fledged hospital located within the SGF premises. At other Library at Sui in 2010 for company fields and locations, Kandhkot, Adhi, Mazarani, Adam general public. Kalsoft, an and Gambat South, proper arrangements for emergency Information Technology medical care are in place. company, was engaged to ! The company has initiated hospitalization facility through operate the centre. So far, 900 insurance services in order to further facilitate the process for locals have been trained employees and their dependents through basic and advanced certificate courses. Besides, ! PPL follows the Factories Act 1934, Mines Act 1923 and Oil over 700 residents are and Gas (Safety in Drilling and Production) Regulations -1974, registered library users. which include employee personal hygiene, environment, emergency medical assistance and periodic medical check-ups. ! The company provides free-ofcost transport facility to ! Health awareness sessions are regularly conducted by students of Taaleem Foundation company doctors and guest consultants for informing and Grammar School (TFGS) and updating staff on preventive measures and treatment of Federal Government Public common diseases and outbreaks. School (FGPS), Sui. Besides, ! Ex-gratia payments are made to staff in case of prolonged PPL has extended infrastructure sickness. and in-kind support to both ! Clean drinking water is provided to staff at all locations. schools, including construction Pakistan Petroleum Limited of three family residences and chain-link fence at FGPS, recently. 5 ! PPL regularly provides the Corporate Social following scholarships for local students residing around its Responsibility operational fields to enable them to acquire quality education at renowned PPL stands committed to improving the quality of institutions: life for deserving population around its operational l Higher Professional areas as well as in large urban areas through Education Scholarship provision of education, healthcare, infrastructure (HPES) scheme was initiated in 2005 to support both boys development, livelihood generation, sports and and girls in District Dera Bugti cultural conservation and has allocated a minimum to pursue education in 1.5 percent of its pre-tax profit for CSR activities. reputable institutions across the country. The scheme was The company spent over Rs. 950 million for CSR extended to include local initiatives during March 2017 to February 2018, students around PPL’s other operated producing assets which is over and above its minimum commitment. during 2009. To date, HPES has benefited nearly 300 ACTIONS students. l Four-year scholarship Education programme offers 40 annual scholarships for students of Performance grade IX to XII from Balochistan to study at PPL believes that the only sustainable way of improving reputed educational livelihoods well-being of underserved communities is by institutions across the providing them access to quality education. country. Starting 2011-2012, ! The company has been providing quality education to children over 220 students have of staff and locals at Sui Model School (SMS) since 1957. SMS benefitted from the scheme. was upgraded to a girls’ college in 2009. Currently, the school l Under National Talent Hunt caters to nearly 3000 local boys and girls students, including Programme of Institute of 95 at the college. 9 Business Administration, ! The company established Computer Training Centre and Karachi (IBA), PPL sponsored UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 6 students from Balochistan and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa to ! PPL was one of the key study at IBA at a cost of Rs. 12 million since 2012-2013. sponsors with a contribution of Currently, 2 students are studying under the PPL Rs.4.5 million for 9th Karachi scholarship. Literature Festival held in l The company has extended 100 scholarships for students of February 2018. FC College Sui. With an annual cost of Rs. 2.5 million, the ! PPL continues to provide scholarship enables 10 deserving girls and boys each from operational expenses for Virtual grade 1 up to 10 to study free of cost education. PPL has University (VU), Sui campus also contributed Rs. 20 million towards constructed of a FC which was earlier established Girls college. by PPL with an input of about l 30 scholarships are extended at a cost of Rs. 2.5 million for the Rs. 20 million. The VU campus hearing challenged students from Matiari and Sanghar districts is equipped with an advanced in Sindh to study at Family Education Services Pakistan which computer lab comprising 32 has enabled them to study free of cost for a year. systems and an 8-MB fiber optic value-added network ! The company regularly covers operational expenses of its two providing online courses adopted schools in District Kambar Shahdadkot, Sindh. leading to a bachelors, ! PPL established and operationalized three primary schools in masters and doctorate in a host Kandhkot in partnership with The Citizen’s Foundation in 2011 of disciplines. The campus is Pakistan Petroleum Limited with an input of Rs. 83 million. To date, over 650 students, both run by Taaleem Foundation. girls and boys, are enrolled at these schools. One of the ! The company continues to campuses have been upgraded to a secondary school. support education of 10 ! PPL donated Rs. 6.85 million to Association for Children with deserving students at Quaid-eEmotional and Learning Problems for equipment of vocational Azam Rangers Special Children training workshops and a student transport vehicle. School, Karachi in the second ! PPL donated Rs. 1 million to Professional Education Foundation year with a commitment to for raising funds for deserving students’ professional education. cover their education over a ! In line with PPL’s effort to strengthen academia-industry period of 10 years until they partnership and promote research and development in disciplines complete their matriculation with relevant to the industry, the company has established chairs at a donated of Rs. 3.6 million. prominent universities. PPL Chair in Petroleum Engineering was ! To further its efforts in recently operationalized at Mehran University of Engineering and promoting education, especially Technology (MUET), Jamshoro while a similar chair is operational in remote areas, PPL has made at NED University of Engineering and Technology, Karachi. PPL contribution/ donations and has allocated about Rs. 50 million for each chair. provided support to the following institutions, including: Institutions/ Initiatives Spending during April 2017March 2018 (Rs. in millions) MUET, Jamshoro for Petro Week 2017 0.400 Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE), Pakistan: NED University of Engineering & Technology for Petro bowl 2017 0.250 Pakistan Association of Petroleum Geoscientists (PAPG) for field trip 0.100 SPE, Pakistan for a session 0.236 Construction of facilities Government Girls Primary School Chechi Noor, Rawalpindi for boundary wall and sanitary facility 1.500 Government Boys High School, Naban Janjua, Tehsil Gujjar Khan for examination hall 1.67 Government Girls Primary School, Kak, Tehsil Gujjar Khan for academic block 2.16 Government Boys Elementary School, Adil Colony, Sui Town, District Dera Bugti for three classrooms, sanitary facility, boundary wall and repair of school building 4.48 10 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Healthcare Initiatives ! PPL installed 40 kw solar power system at district headquarter hospital Kalat at a cost of Rs. 7 Performance million to provide uninterrupted The company has provided extensive healthcare facilities in electricity to laboratory, X-ray unit, some of the remotest regions of Pakistan through building and operation theatre, emergency & assisting hospitals, mother and child healthcare centres, mobile intensive care unit. dispensaries and medical camps. ! PPL installed two generators of ! PPL runs Sui Field Hospital (SFH) since 1964. In addition to PPL 100 kw capacity at Shahdadpur staff and those of partners, SFH provides free-of-cost medical Institute of Medical Sciences, facilities to a large number of local patients. SFH is equipped with District Sanghar to ensure latest medical facilities, including a 24-hour emergency ward to uninterrupted supply of electricity. cater to trauma and accident patients. ! PPL donated Rs. 12.72 million to ! Fully-equipped mobile medical dispensaries (MMD) regularly visit Sindh Institute of Urology and more than 70 villages/ locations around SGF, Kandhkot, Transplantation for setting up a Mazarani and producing fields of Hala and Gambat South on a 10-bed dialysis unit at its satellite weekly/ bimonthly basis to provide free-ofcost consultation and centre, Mehrunnisa Hospital in treatment to resident communities. Approximately 100,000 Karachi. patients are reached annually through these MMDs. PPL has ! PPL donated Rs. 10 million to Pakistan Petroleum Limited also developed e-monitoring software to review MMDs impact Bait-ul-Sukoon Cancer Hospital and its staff performance. for annual operational expenses ! The 50-bed PPL Public Welfare Hospital (PPL PWH) was of its day care clinic located at constructed, furnished and equipped by PPL at a cost of over Rs. purpose-built premises in 350 million on land provided by Government of Balochistan in Sui Karachi. Town. The hospital became autonomous with an independent ! The company donated Rs. 20 board. Hiring of chief and deputy chief executives, doctors and million to Indus Hospital for nurses nearly completed. The out-patient department construction and setting-up of commenced operations in December 2013 and caters to 200 an 8-bed general ward at its patients on a daily basis. PPLPWH has necessary facilities, upcoming Lahore-based facility. including gynaecology and obstetrics, emergency, operation theatres, laboratory and pharmacy. ! PPL donated Rs. 9.02 million to Lady Dufferin Hospital, Karachi for ! PPL organizes bi-annual free-of-cost surgical eye camps around purchasing equipment for its its operational fields in partnership with Al-Shifa Trust Eye operation theatre. Hospital. Each camp benefits about 1600 patients for testing and provision of glasses with over 200 patients undergoing onsite ! PPL donated Rs. 2.5 million to cataract surgery. Murshid Hospital and Healthcare to cover the treatment cost of local ! PPL has adopted Marie Adelaide Leprosy Centre’s Triple Merger patients coming from Sindh and Centres at Turbat, Balochistan and Kandhkot, Sindh since 2005. Balochistan’s remote areas The company provides annual operational expenses at a cost of Rs. 3 million. The centres extend free-ofcost treatment for ! To support viable community leprosy, blindness and tuberculosis to local communities. healthcare projects and services, PPL has provided donations/ ! PPL constructed Thalassaemia Diagnostic, Prevention and sponsorships to the following Research Centre in Badin at a cost of Rs. 30 million. institution: Institutions/ Initiatives Spending during April 2017March 2018 (Rs. in millions) Koohi Goth Hospital for newsletter 0.050 11 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Enhancing Livelihood Opportunities at districts Lasbela, Kharan and Awaran ! The company completed Performance construction of water supply PPL believes in creating livelihood generation options to schemes at 8 villages, including assist marginalized communities in raising their quality of 4 at far-flung mountainous life. The company has substantially invested in projects to region of union council Lohi in engage people, both men and women, in earning livelihoods District Lasbela. through sustained income sources. ! PPL has started construction of ! The company set-up a Women Welfare Centre in Sui in 2006 26 water supply schemes to provide skill learning opportunities for local women. The across the country, including 16 centre trained over 400 local women until 2015 when it was in Balochistan. shifted to a purpose-built facility. Developed at a cost of nearly ! PPL provides free-of-cost gas Rs. 20 million within TFGS premises, the Vocational Training and water supplies to over Institute (VIT) provides training to both women and men with 65000 residents of Sui town access to market. VIT is run by Taaleem Foundation. and villages around SGF. An ! PPL provides scholarship to local youth around producing average of 4 to 5 MMscfd free assets to study at The Hunnar Foundation – recognized by gas and more than two million City and Guilds United Kingdom – for a 6-month diploma in gallons of drinking water is Pakistan Petroleum Limited vocational training. Starting off with Sui-based students in pumped daily to Sui town at an 2009, the company has so far extended 125 scholarships to annual cost of about Rs. 110 youth in Sui, Matiari and Sanghar. million and Rs. 215 million, ! Women Vocational Training Centre (WVTC), Mastala near Adhi respectively. Field was established in 2011 to facilitate local women in ! To provide free-of-cost potable increasing their income potential. PPL regularly provides water to over 3000 residents of resource material and operational expenses for the centre Ghaibi Dero town and its which is run by Behbud Association of Pakistan, a nonsurrounding villages near governmental organization. WVTC trains women in Mazarani Gas Field, District embroidery, tailoring and basic literacy skills. To date, over 500 Kamber Shahdadkot, Sindh, local women have been trained. These include those women PPL runs a water supply who are regularly engaged to carryout traditional embroidery scheme using a bowzer facility on dresses sold at Behbud-run outlets. since 2010 at an annual cost of about Rs. 4 million. Institutions/ Initiatives Spending during April 2017March 2018 ! Repaired and maintained water (Rs. in millions) purification plant installed at Distinguished Secretaries Society of Pakistan for village Sunjar Khan Junejo at 46th Annual Gala 2017 0.040 Rs. 0.3 million. Petroleum Institute of Pakistan (PIP) for ADIPEC 2017 1.529 ! A 15-km new road is being constructed near Kandhkot Gas PIP for Pakistan Oil and Gas Conference 2017 1.500 Field, District Kashmore. PAPG for Annual Technical Conference 2017 & PPL stall 2.675 Pakistan Society for Training & Development (PSTD) for 5th Annual Learning Conference 0.150 Infrastructure Development Performance Provision of meaningful, durable infrastructure is a key to development and sustained economic growth, especially in the far-flung areas of Pakistan. The company has focused on developing infrastructure and civic amenities not only for its own use but also for local communities. ! PPL has completed five solar-powered water supply schemes 12 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Social Welfare Performance The company has a diverse, need-based social welfare policy. With a minimum pre-tax profit of 1.5 percent, PPL’s CSR initiatives go well beyond obligatory requirements to support the disadvantage communities. To ensure optimum on-ground implementation and impact, PPL works through government, local civil society organizations and local communities. ! The company won the Pakistan Corporate Philanthropy Award instituted by Pakistan Centre for Philanthropy for 13 consecutive years from 2004 to 2016 as one of the largest corporate giver in terms of volume of donations. ! The company organized three mega football tournaments in Balochistan: ‘PPL Balochistan Football Cup, starting 2016. The latest one concluded on March 30, 2018, PPL Balochistan Football Cup 2018, is the largest-ever sponsored football tournament in the country. The tournaments aimed at engaging local youth in healthy recreation and providing them an opportunity to demonstrate their talent. The two champions, Dukki and Panjgur, of 2017 and 2018 tournaments, respectively, have set the example of showing the potential and Pakistan Petroleum Limited courage to compete traditional strong opponents to lift the trophy, despite hailing from the lesser-known regions of Balochistan. ! The company organized 1st PPL Blind Cricket Championship 2017 in collaboration with Islamabad Cricket Club at Bhutto Cricket Ground, Islamabad. ! The company also conducted impact analysis of its CSR projects in three producing fields ─ Adhi, Kandhkot and Sui. ! To support organizations providing welfare services, enabling neglected societal segments to prosper and promoting environmental and cultural values, PPL has given generous donations to the following: Institutions/ Initiatives Spending during April 2017March 2018 (Rs. in millions) PSTD for 4th National HSE and Sustainable Development Conference 0.150 PAPG for Tape Ball Night Cricket Tournament 0.100 SPE Pakistan for Golf Tournament 0.150 Pakistan Petroleum Exploration and Production Companies Association (PPEPCA) for publishing a newsletter 0.022 PMI Karachi Pakistan Chapter for Gala & Award Ceremony 2017 0.350 Federal Urdu University (Department of Geology) for Conference on Mining and Fuel industries 0.100 13 Principle 2 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Pakistan Petroleum Limited Commitment PPL is highly committed to conducting its business in accordance with the highest ethical and legal standards. 14 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 ETHICS filling-in performance appraisals as a mandatory step towards form submission. ! PPL requires its employees to maintain an environment free ACTIONS from prejudice, harassment and disruptive activities. Adherence to Highest Corporate Values ! In compliance with Oil & Gas Regulatory Authority’s directives Performance to implement ‘Protection PPL's vision, mission and values are testament to the Against Harassment of Women importance the company places on corporate ethics. As such, at Workplace (PAHWW) Act the company expects its employees to adhere to the following 2010’, the company took the core values: following measures: ! Promote leadership, empowerment and accountability l Circulated brochures on ! Pursue highest standards of integrity salient features of the Act, ! Value people as the most important resource including instructions on compliance, to all employees. ! Promote innovation and value creation Pakistan Petroleum Limited Company’s harassment policy ! Ensure excellence in all spheres of performance l was prominently placed on ! Advocate teamwork aligned with business objectives PPL website and portal. ! Conserve environment by minimizing carbon footprint l A three-member committee, including a women staff, was constituted to address staff Code of Conduct grievances. ! Awareness raising sessions for Performance staff were organized on Ethical commitments and values remain the centre piece of PAHWW Act 2010 and PPL’s PPL's Code of Conduct, compliance to which is mandatory harassment policy in January for all employees. 2016 which continued in 2017 with a mandatory requirement ! PPL believes in carrying out its business with integrity and for each staff to participate. honesty, adhering to the principles of good corporate governance and best practices. The company’s Code of ! Any suspected violations or Conduct, approved by the Board of Directors, provide actions that create hostile or guidelines to employees for planning, managing and executing offensive work environment work. The Code is available to all employees through the such as sexual harassment or company’s portal and website. Besides, periodic reinforcement insensitive comments is done through notice boards, brochures and on-screen popconcerning gender, religion, ups on employees’ desktops/ laptops. race, disability or age are promptly reported to ! To ensure adherence to the code of conduct, PPL launched a management that ensures comprehensive e-learning course which enables staff to appropriate actions in line with access modular content over the given duration. Satisfactory Standard Operating Procedures. completion of course by participants is ensured through formal assessment. ! Violations of the Code of Conduct are viewed seriously ! All incoming employees and trainees sign and submit an and have often resulted in undertaking to ensure clear understanding and acceptance disciplinary actions and, in and uphold the company’s Code of Conduct. More recently, some cases, led to termination employees’ acceptance and adherence to the Code of Conduct of service. is further ensured through online undertaking at the time of 15 Principle 3 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Pakistan Petroleum Limited Commitment We acknowledge and respect rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining. We are committed to addressing issues, problems and grievances proactively to regulate the company's operations with dignity of labour, minimization of animosity and fostering a relationship of trust between management and workers. 16 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 Industrial Relations ! The office bearers of the trade union enjoy freedom to discharge their legal responsibilities without any interference from management. ACTIONS ! All terms and conditions of employment of workers are Freedom of Association reviewed biennially and discussed in a friendly Performance environment with CBA. After The company believes in the freedom of opinion and bilateral negotiations, a expression of all stakeholders and seeks to ensure a handsome increase in wages congenial and equitable working environment as per law. and other allowances are paid ! The company complies with the Industrial Relations Act, through settlement. wherein employees are free to join any trade union of their ! Policies on salaries and choice. allowances as well as other ! PPL has a registered trade union, Pakistan Petroleum Workers benefits such as medical, leave Union, of which most workers are members. and travel are duly discussed and finalized with the CBA Pakistan Petroleum Limited every two years. Collective Bargaining ! The company provides special leave to CBA union/employees for appearance in court cases, Performance if it is party to disputes. The company management and Collective Bargaining Agent (CBA) work towards creating a cordial working environment for workers at all field locations. ! The CBA together with stewards and union members, coordinates with management to improve working conditions and redress job-related issues. ! Negotiations of the Charter of Demands are always settled amicably with CBA representatives. ! Initiatives for change are undertaken by incorporating the union's suggestions to ensure hassle-free implementation. 17 Principle 4 Business should support the UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5 Business should support the effective abolition of child labour. Pakistan Petroleum Limited Commitment PPL supports abolition of child labour and elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour in its areas of operations or by any of its business partners and contractors. 18 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 Employees ! Either party can terminate employment contracts within the notice period. ! Exit notice period for workers is ACTIONS 30 days and for management, professional and technical staff Procedure for Preventing Under-age is 90 days. ! Exit interviews are taken to Employment solicit feedback and institute corrective measures, if Performance necessary. The company strictly forbids child labour and actively prevents hiring under-age workers. ! All PPL permanent workers are in the adult person (18 years Record of Checking and above) category, in accordance with the law. Minimum Wage Rate ! To prevent under-age hiring, the ages of all workers are confirmed through national identity cards, birth certificates, Against Regulated educational certificates or Form 'B' issued by the National Amount Pakistan Petroleum Limited Database and Registration Authority. Performance The company keeps its wage policy in line with governmental Procedure for Preventing Forced directives to ensure fair Labour corporate governance. ! All workers in the company Performance (both permanent and contract) are employed above the The company follows strict procedures to prevent forced minimum wage rate as labour. specified by the government ! Employment agreement clearly states terms and conditions of and paid competitively in service, voluntary nature of employment, freedom to leave and accordance with market norms. any conditions associated with departure or cessation of work. ! Employment agreements do not violate any human rights or labour laws. 19 Principle 6 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Pakistan Petroleum Limited Commitment PPL is committed to providing equal opportunities for employment as well as growth without any discrimination on the basis of race, gender, religion, language, social origin, birth or other status. 20 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 Recruitment 2 Employees ACTION ACTIONS Equal Employment Opportunity Enabling working conditions for Performance PPL's employment policy provides equal opportunities for diversified workforce employment and discourages all forms of employee discrimination. Performance ! PPL is an equal opportunity employer and provides equal As a leading employer and opportunity to women employees. responsible corporate citizen, ! Women employees are placed at various levels in the PPL provides an enabling organization, ranging from non-management to senior environment for professional management positions. growth, with equity, security and human dignity, irrespective of Pakistan Petroleum Limited ! The company employs men and women employees under gender or religion. standard screening processes based on merit and job suitability. ! PPL has a diversified workforce and does not discriminate on ! There are equitable career paths and opportunities for women the basis of race, colour, employees. gender, religion, disability or ! To further emphasize equitable participation of working women family status in recruitment, and address their issues at workplace, the company celebrates training or advancement of its International Women's Day and Working Women's Day. employees. Dedicated sessions are organized for women employees to ! Minorities are given special increase awareness about their role and responsibilities and holidays in accordance with address their issues. their religious festivals to ensure an open and moderate culture across the company. Career Plan: No Discrimination in Staff Promotions Performance ! Hiring and promotions are done on merit, professional performance and qualification. 21 Principle 7 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Pakistan Petroleum Limited Commitment PPL is committed to environmental conservation by complying with National Environmental Quality Standards (NEQS). 22 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 Environmental Management ! Independent Environmental Monitoring is carried out for all seismic and drilling operations, especially in environmentally sensitive areas, through reputed ACTIONS consultants to ensure compliance with environment Quality, Health, Safety and Environment management plan that includes recommended methodologies, Performance legal requirements and ! The company’s QHSE policy is in place to ensure quality in all company’s HSE standards to company operations with emphasis on ‘embedding green address environmental issues practices, proactive risk management, complying with relevant while meeting stakeholders’ laws and maintaining communication with stakeholders to expectations. promote sustainability. The policy is displayed at prominent ! All PPL-operated fields are locations at head, regional and field offices and can be accessed registered with Federal EPA through the company’s website: under Self-Monitoring and https://www.ppl.com.pk/content/policies Reporting Programme for ! PPL has a well-defined HSE Management System developed in monthly testing through external Pakistan Petroleum Limited line with internationally recognized ISO 14001 EMS and OHSAS laboratory and reporting against 18001. The system provides continuous assessment and emission parameters prescribed monitoring against standard parameters to ensure the highest by NEQS. Also, monitoring of level of safety and minimal damage to surrounding natural vehicular emissions against environment. parameters such as smoke, CO ! Annual QHSE targets are set and implemented within all and Noise (dBA) was conducted. business segments/ assets. Monitoring of environmental key Subsequently, emissions, performance parameters (KPIs) is embedded in the standardized, exceeding NEQS/ PEQS regular QHSE reporting framework. Corporate environmental parameters, have been identified guidelines/ procedures, management tools and reporting have for root cause analysis and enabled the company to improve environmental performance. rectification. Besides, QHSE Monthly Performance Report structure has been significantly upgraded to add on KPIs, improvise data gathering structure and facilitate analysis and inferring useful results for Precautionary continual improvement. Measures ! PPL is an active member of PPEPCA and participates in its HSE committee meetings. These meetings provide a forum to discuss latest industry practices, use of technology and benchmarking in Performance HSE management system. ! Noise monitoring and abatement is ensured for safe working environment in high noise areas. For this, enclosures, sound barriers and PPE are provided, Environmental Studies as appropriate. ! To control accidental leakage, Performance adequate control arrangements ! Initial Environment Examination (IEE) and Environment Impact such as barriers and spill control Assessment (EIA) studies are consistently undertaken for all kits are available at all development initiatives, including drilling, seismic operations and operational areas. Besides, projects, in compliance with Pakistan Environmental Protection designated trained contingency Act, 1997. IEE/ EIA aim to identify potential environmental teams are available to handle impacts at development sites and advise mitigation measures incidental spills. accordingly. The studies are submitted to relevant provincial Environmental Protection Agencies (EPA) for approval. Once approved, IEE/ EIA provide a benchmark for regular internal and external monitoring against suggested mitigation measures. 23 Principle 8 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Pakistan Petroleum Limited Commitment PPL ensures proactive acceptance of its responsibility and accountability for environmental imperatives. The company recognizes that operational excellence cannot be achieved without embedding HSE considerations into business decision making processes. PPL remains committed to raising environmental awareness among staff, suppliers and contractors for encouraging ecofriendly practices. 24 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 Environmental Management 2 Environmental Responsibility Enhancing Environmental Awareness ACTIONS Performance Eco-friendly practices ! Awareness raising sessions and training, focusing on environment and sustainability, are regularly held to apprise Performance staff on emerging issues. QHSE safety talk, alerts and bulletin PPL is adopting eco-friendly boards are effectively utilized to promote conservation. practices to minimize damage to ! Besides, QHSE weeks and international days such as World natural resources through its Environment Day are regularly celebrated through special operations in line with its sessions and activities to foster conservation efforts, green commitment towards practices and safe working culture. sustainability. The following ! Comprehensive QHSE guidelines for projects have been green practices are adopted by developed in line with best international environmental PPL: Pakistan Petroleum Limited standards and effective risk management planning using the ! Light-Emitting Diode (LED) latest environment-friendly technologies. technology is used in all new ! ‘Sustainable Energy Management’ was introduced in 2011 to projects and expansion promote energy conservation at all fields. Initially, baseline activities as well as several data for consumption pattern at each field was collected. Since existing projects, replacing then, significant improvement has been achieved against each conventional lights. LEDs has year’s benchmark in conserving electricity, gas, fuel and water many advantages over as well as waste generation, especially at field locations. traditional incandescent light sources, including lower energy ! PPL offices and fields have been declared ‘No Smoking Zone’ consumption, longer lifetime, and separate smoking areas are designated for smokers. The improved physical robustness, non-smoking policy is displayed in all departments and smaller size and faster locations. switching. ! PPL is a corporate member of the Pakistan Chapter of World ! Tree cutting is avoided during Business Council for Sustainable Development as well as seismic activities and site leading environmental organizations, including World Wide restoration is simultaneously Fund for Nature. carried out for even minor removal of flora/ vegetation through green teams. ! Tree plantation campaigns are undertaken at companyoperated fields and exploration assets to off-set emissions and improve ambience. ! Water-based mud, which is known for compatibility with natural soil, is preferred over oil-based mud that requires special treatment for disposal for all drilling operations. ! Biodegradable explosives are used during seismic surveys. ! Electronic communication together with duplex printing is promoted to reduce paper usage. ! More recently, PPL engaged a 25 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress consultant to conduct Naturally Occurring Radioactive Material Survey at Kandhkot Gas Field (both plant areas & wells) and PPL Core Lab in Karachi. The purpose was to assess radioactive material coming out from land along with hydrocarbons. Radiation meter was used to measure levels of different forms of radiations (alpha, beta, gamma etc.) in background as well as in close proximity of oil & gas installations. Radiation levels were found to be within safe limits set by international standards and local regulations. Evaluation of HSE Performance Performance ! Integrated QHSE audits aligned with ISO 14001 EMS, ISO 9001 Quality Management System (QMS) and OHSAS 18001 have been successfully launched in 2015 to optimize cost and Pakistan Petroleum Limited operational synergies. In order to enhance staff competency, trainings and refresher courses on advanced (2015) version of ISO standards have been initiated during 2016 which continued in 2017. ! Internal and external audits/ monitoring of departments/ fields are carried out to assess compliance of standardized procedures at site and implementation of QHSE Management System and performance. Inspections, spot checks and suggestion forms are used during the process with staff participation. ! The pool of ISO certified departments, fields and facilities has expanded as per annual plan while sustaining those which are already certified. As a result, 16 assets, departments and facilities stand certified for ISO 9001 Quality Management System, 13 for ISO 14001 Environmental Management System and 14 for OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series. These include Adhi, Kandhkot and Hala/ Gambat South /Mazarani assets, Sui Production, Sui Field Gas Compressor Station, Sui Field Hospital, Sui Field Utility and Drilling and Well Engineering, QHSE, Projects, Exploration and Construction departments. ! QHSE Audit Module in SAP made functional with work in progress to automate processes, including incident investigation, monthly performance monitoring and sustainability reporting. 26 Principle 9 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Pakistan Petroleum Limited Commitment PPL believes in the use of emerging environmentfriendly technologies, especially for new projects, to reduce its carbon footprint. 27 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 Environment-friendly Technologies ! Further, advanced analytical software tools have been applied on stack emissions to conduct dispersion modelling of significant pollutants such as ACTION H2S from hot flares and cold stacks to safeguard surrounding Waste management and community, flora and fauna from its detrimental effects. emission control ! Metal analysis of stack emissions continues at SGF, Performance Mazarani and producing assets The company seeks to minimize adverse environmental of Gambat South and Hala for impact of its operations through the use of innovative assessing potential technologies. Besides, PPL is focussing on adopting/ environmental impact. Set embedding environment-friendly technology in all new parameters for various metals, project designs. including lead, mercury, cadmium, arsenic, copper, ! PPL has a well-defined waste disposal and management antimony and zinc, were found procedure, which is effectively implemented across the Pakistan Petroleum Limited to be below detectable limits. company. This includes minimization, segregation at source, recycling and reuse, safe handling and disposal of hazardous ! Process water is contained in waste as per standard environment-friendly procedures. ponds lined with pit line for evaporation. Alternatively, ! Effective arrangements such as landfill and incinerators are wastewater evaporator and employed for safe disposal of waste, besides acquiring forced draft evaporation services of specialized contractors for disposal of hazardous systems are also utilized for waste and oily sludge recovered from operations. Moreover, treating effluent water in order composting of food waste is also carried out. to eliminate soil and ground! Corporate procedure on waste management has been water contamination. reviewed to include technological advancements and end user feedback for adopting more effective and environmentally safe processes. The procedure has been issued with emphasis on existing waste disposal measures. Moreover, to ensure effective implementation of waste management procedure by contractors, PPL staff visits contractors’ waste disposal sites to verify the adequacy of disposal protocols as part of its commitment to ensure environmental sustainability. ! Emissions from all equipment at company facilities are controlled through in-house maintenance programmes and end of pipeline solutions. Going beyond minimum legal compliance, PPL carries out ambient air monitoring in and around its fields/ sites since 2015 to proactively control air pollution with a focus on containing levels of CO, H2S, NOx, particulate matter, SOx, O3, CO2 . 28 Principle 10 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Pakistan Petroleum Limited Commitment PPL is committed to eliminating corruption through implementation of ethical codes and policies that govern business operations and relationships with external stakeholders. 29 Management Systems 1 2 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress External Employees Interfaces ACTIONS ACTION Code of Conduct Credible Disclosure of Performance Information to The company has zero-tolerance for all forms of corruption, Investors and including bribery and extortion. Stakeholders ! All employees are required to sign the Code of Conduct at the time of joining as well as undergo online training especially Performance designed to increase awareness on the Code. ! PPL ensures transparency in ! All employees are forbidden to give or receive any bribes or business transactions and other payments intended to influence business decision or rejects any business practice, compromise fair judgment. which may deem improper. ! No employee can give money to obtain business for the ! All financial reports are properly company or receive money for giving company business to an audited by external auditors. Pakistan Petroleum Limited external agency. ! Quarterly briefing on financial ! All employees are forbidden to accept gifts from suppliers, statements is given to contractors, dealers or competitors, who have or wish to have management. a business relationship with the company. ! Meeting of PPL’s Board of ! Rumour mongering and gossiping is strictly prohibited. Directors is held on a quarterly ! All employees are required to declare their assets on a yearly basis. basis. ! Media/ press briefings and interviews are given on demand. ! Consultative meetings with Corporate Governance CSR partners are held for social development initiatives. Performance ! The company ensures timely ! PPL promotes fair business practices and ensures compliance payment of taxes. with regulatory and legal requirements. ! Checks such as annual ! The company uses internationally acceptable accounting declaration of assets, notifying standards to maintain transparency. the company in case of receipt of gifts above a certain value, ! All funds, assets, receipts and disbursements are properly hospitality and potential recorded in the books of the company. conflicts of interest are inbuilt ! The company complies with regulations of the Security and into the system to preempt Exchange Commission of Pakistan. corruption. ! Signed statement of compliance is included in the company’s ! Similar checks and balances annual reports. are built into organizational ! No incident of corruption has been reported in the company. processes, governing ! All business units are analyzed for risks related to corruption. procurement, materials and personnel in accordance with ! Regular checks by Internal Audit Department are carried out the Manual on Delegation of for all departments to ensure compliance with company Authority and Public procedures and ensure course correction, if required. Procurement Regulatory Authority, a public sector entity to monitor procurement in a transparent manner. 30 4th Floor, PIDC House Dr. Ziauddin Ahmed Road P. O. Box 3942, Karachi-75530 UAN: +92-21-111-568-568 Tel. Nos: +92-21-35651480-89 Fax Nos: +92-21-35680005 & 35682125 Email: info@ppl.com.pk Website: www.ppl.com.pkt
