ExecuTrain of Jakarta UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 2017 Report Content o From our Director o Company Identity o ExecuTrain of Jakarta’s Services o Implementation of UNGC Principles o Human Rights o Labor Standard o Environment o Anti – Corruption o Partnership in Support of UN Goals o Distribution of this COP From our Director ExecuTrain of Jakarta as the training institute for professionals since its first existence has been committed to improve the productivities and performance of business professionals & executives. As part of the worldwide learning organization, ExecuTrain of Jakarta since 1995 endures cooperation with various national and multinational partners in Indonesia to improve their performance in finding beneficial Information Technology as well as improving the human resources qualities through sequence of management & business skills training program. With our mission “Building people’s skills and behavior through sequences of quality training to support the success of their business.‟ therefore, we are committed to continuously expand our quality and the number of various training programs, and as a member of the Global Compact, we believe that our business policies incorporate the ten principles. Our board fully supports our actions in working towards sustainability goals – in particular that contained in the UN Global Compact – and endorses the future priorities and specific targets we set out in our report. Through our support of the United Nations Global Compact, we also aim to move the agenda forward on performance related to human rights, labor rights, the environment and the fight against bribery and corruption. In our annual report, we have summarized the progress we have made against each of these principles and we will continue to follow them up in future reports. Here we provide an index to our performance with cross-references to the related GC principles. o Company Name : ExecuTrain Nusantarajaya COMPANY IDENTITY o Address : Setiabudi 2 Building, Suite 606. Jl. HR. Rasuna Said. Kav. 62. Jakarta Selatan. 12920 o Country : Indonesia o Contact Name : Mrs. Maya Tanama o Contact Position : Director o Contact Telephone : +62 21 521 0793 o Membership Date : 2008-03-06 o No of Employees : 50 o Sector : Education & Service ExecuTrain Nusantarajaya has been in the business since 1995 and has helped many customers in leveraging both technical competency and COMPANY IDENTITY productivity of their professionals. And to reach out Brief Description of Nature Business that goal, we cooperate with some strategic partnership:  Microsoft  Hewlett-Packard  Person VUE  Sophos During years of our service, ExecuTrain Nusantarajaya has been awarded as: • Top IT Training 2015-2016 at Top IT & Telco Award • The Best Microsoft Authorized Training Center • The Rising Star as LAEC (Lotus Authorized Education Center) in ASEAN • The Best Microsoft Certified Technical Education Center (CTEC) • The Best Microsoft CPLS of the Year  Vision “To be the world’s most imaginative, resourceful training and Productivity Company, providing customer-focused solutions COMPANY IDENTITY tailored to individual client needs.” Vision, Mission, and Values  Mission “Building people skills through sequences of quality training to support the success of their business.”  Values  Operate with a passion for training excellence, quality, and unrivaled customer service, providing the best learning experience to professional users in partnership with their organizations.  Constantly listen to customers and act as one organization worldwide to design, develop and deliver products and services to meet their needs.  Achieve superior results by leveraging the strengths of our worldwide network of learning centers and the dedication and teamwork of our people.  Make ExecuTrain the best place to work in our industry, focusing on the growth of our employees, and the success of our franchise operators and affiliates.  Promote respect for individuals, open communications and the highest level of integrity throughout our organization. 10 UNGC Principles • Principle 1: Businesses should support and • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the respect the protection of internationally freedom of association and the effective proclaimed human rights; and recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of • Principle 2: make sure that they are not forced and compulsory labour; complicit in human rights abuses. • Principle 5: the effective abolition of HUMAN LABOUR child labour; and RIGHTS • Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. • Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 10: Businesses should work against ANTI ENVIRONMENT corruption in all its forms, including extortion and CORRUPTION bribery. • Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Our support and respect to the International declaration of Human right has been our commitment since years ago as the implementation of our social responsibility. Internally, we facilitate our employee with, working safety environment, health insurance, and freedom in belief of HUMAN RIGHTS such religion. Externally, we do provide customer care program to support customer satisfaction and gave quickly feed-backed when arise complaints, both for our products and services. ExecuTrain have to make sure that everyone in this company has contribution to the success of company Principle 1: Businesses should support target achievement with no any discrimination. We and respect the protection of ensure that there is no employee in the work place under internationally proclaimed human intimidation and threaten in expressing their ideas. rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not Outcomes: complicit in human rights abuses. • ExecuTrain provides prayer room for Muslim employees and customers to represent our commitment on supporting the freedom in belief of such religion • ExecuTrain has a refreshment corner for customers and employee that provides snack, coffee and tea to refresh their mind after or during training and working. HUMAN RIGHTS ExecuTrain’s refreshment area  Refer to ExecuTrain Nusantarajaya Company Regulation chapter 10 about Employee’s Right, company gives the same right for every employee to develop theirself according to their jobs needs WORKING CONDITION and priority Outcomes:  ExecuTrain renews employee’s compensation every year based on yearly evaluation  Opportunities to get a free seat-in courses for our employee to increase their productivity related to their jobs needs.  Instructor Certification Program (ICP) is a special course that designed for our trainers to help them to develop their softskills and train their hardskills before they ready to teach. Future Target: In 2018, ExecuTrain maintain this policy to remain the same  ExecuTrain Nusantarajaya established a comprehensive compensation and benefit and WORKING CONDITION adequate allowance including medical, health insurance,and pension plan. Outcome:  ExecuTrain give health protection for every single employee by using Manulife health insurance  All of ExecuTrain’s employees are covered by BPJS Ketenagakerjaan to protect their pension plan. Future Target: Starts from 2018, ExecuTrain will add new protection for each employee with BPJS Kesehatan  ExecuTrain Nusantarajaya encourage the employees to bound with any kind of bounding WORKING CONDITION activity due to implement equality within workplace. Outcomes:  ExecuTrain staffs enjoy the potluck together at least once by two months  ExecuTrain facilitate the kickoff meeting annually to communicate what company been achieved through years.  Our employee relationship increases, they have a better communication with one other  No boundaries between employees and the management team WORKING CONDITION • Kick Off Meeting 2017 WORKING CONDITION Socialization about IGCN for all employees at Kick Off Meeting WORKING CONDITION  To encourage employee to have a healthy life, ExecuTrain participating PT. Jakarta Setiabudi International’s monthly event, a blood donor program. Outcomes:  Every employee had the chance to donate and join this blood donor program every month. WORKING CONDITION • Internal training session • Employee Birthday Activities • Employee farewell party MEDIA PRESENCE  ExecuTrain give opportunity to employee to develop their hidden skill on writing by joining our newsletter team, as a writer  The articles represent themes that are of our business interest, covering organizational effectiveness, softskill and technology updates. MEDIA PRESENCE ExceLEARN ExecuTrain’s quarterly newsletter ExecuTrain opens the communication between employee/internal through some communication programs to address their aspirations to management and vice Internal versa. Some of the programs are: Communication  Kick off meeting An annual meeting at the beginning of the business year, attended by all employees to recognize the achievers and communicate company’s business direction and strategy.  Internal session training The Training is a quarterly class for employee to sharpen their knowledge or help their productivity in using Microsoft Office application for daily duties.  ExecuTrain quarterly newsletter ExceLEARN as our company quarterly newsletter, gives our staff the opportunity to unleash their talent on writing and creativity.  Outcomes:  Kick off meetings: 1. Effective to communicate business new direction 2. Inspire all employees to improve the business  By submitting the articles in the newsletter, ExecuTrain is not only unleash their staff talent but also recognize their talent by providing a media to express their knowledge and concern  Future Target: We will release the weekly e-Newsletter. LABOR  Instructor Certification Program (ICP) Every new trainer and sales/marketing is eligible to get training in order to develop their interpersonal and communication skill to support their daily jobs on handling customer or students. This code of conduct has been applied since 1995 at the starting of the company and is certified by ExecuTrain principal.  Businesses Should Uphold The Freedom Of Association And The Effective Recognition Of The Right To Collective Bargaining LABOR Company gives opportunity to all employees to enhance their skills and knowledge to have its members express their ideas and communicate among them freely in the work place and let their representatives who are not subject to any discrimination, deliver to management. We do also give facility opportunity to all employees whatever the level and qualification to have time and place for their religious activities based on their own beliefs.  The Elimination Of All Forms Of Forced And Compulsory Labor We have committed to recruit employee based on the legal rules by conducting conversation to set up agreement including job description and payment. We also committed not to resort to any forms of force and compulsory labor.  The Effective Abolition Of Child Labor We do strongly committed against child labor and we apply such standard of employment based on legal rules.  The Elimination Of Discrimination In Respect Of Employment And Occupation LABOR Since the very beginning, we strongly avoid any forms of discriminations in recruitment, promotion, training and career development. We provide fair opportunity to all employees to get higher salary improvement based on individual achievement and performance appraisal. Personal evaluation is done independently by other employees at the same level who close relate in the work place. Promotion procedures are based on personal performance which evaluated by immediate superior, head of department and human capital department. It is, therefore, different person get different amount or percentage of salary improvement annually. ENVIRONMENT  In 2015, all the IT Technical courses were using the digital book (DMOC) to reduce papers.  In electricity and water usage we are targeting to reduce 10% in compare to last year.  Encourage the use of recycled paper and print any documentation wisely.  We plan to make biopori as employee’s activities. ANTI CORRUPTION  We have committed and agreed with this principle and will not tolerate any kind of corruption in our personal life as well as business activity. We do not practice the bribery as well as corruption which do not allow in our business and personal life activities. ACTIVITIES IN INDONESIA GLOBAL COMPACT NETWORK Participating on IGCN Forum 2017 “Making Global Goals Local Business” ACTIVITIES IN INDONESIA GLOBAL COMPACT NETWORK Participating on IGCN Forum 2017 “Making Global Goals Local Business” Thank You www.executrain.co.id | sylvia@executrain.co.id
