The joy of being a family Sustainability Report 2015 & 2016 CONTENTS 22 EATING, DRINKING, PLAYING 12 GROWTH 24 14 Quality management MAMWhat can a company milestones do to ensure the high quality of its More than 40 years products? A few have passed since things: At MAM, a our first soother number of control came onto the market. processes are used A lot has happened in to test, measure the meantime – with and evaluate in our assortment, our detail – going locations and for us. beyond international In short: We’ve grown standards. quite a lot! 4 Foreword 16 Interview with Peter Röhrig 27 Awards What to expect The founder of MAM talks Awards for our products in this report about development and being in the constant service 28 Research 6 The Company of babies and parents Dr. Yvonne Wagner A short introduction with on the reduced risk facts and figures 19 Value chain of malocclusions with From raw materials to the MAM Perfect 8 Strategy disposal – everything at The MAM mission and a glance 29 Service for parents why we do what we do Two digital offers with 20 Product news added value 10 Materiality Matrix Good innovators are These topics are important good listeners 30 Plastics to our stakeholders An interview with Photos: Egger & Lerch, Reinhard Lang; Philipp Tomsich (bottom) MAM material specialist Norbert Polatschek 2 CONTENTS 44 RELATIONSHIPS 46 Family-friendliness 56 Summary & Goals How MAM helps to Background information reconcile work and about this report and 32 ENVIRONMENT family life our CSR measures for the future 48 Working at MAM 34 Energy Principles, staff 58 GRI Standards Responsible growth: Energy composition and offers Content Index audit and expansion of for our employees Global Reporting MAM production in Hungary Initiative (GRI) figures 52 Anti-corruption in this report About our code of 36 conduct and ethically correct action at MAM Sustainable 53 Educational work in Thailand Sharing knowledge “without words” but with Not one kilowattmedical expertise hour more than necessary – that was the principle behind the new production facility in Kabin Buri. 54 Foresightful planning Corporate pays off: Over 1,000 tons of CO2 are saved Volunteering annually. Social responsibility means working together for a good life. This, of course, 39 Emissions affects not only our We help parents Photos: Egger & Lerch, Reinhard Lang; Philipp Tomsich (bottom) stakeholders, but also reduce energy people needing help in general. MAM teams Imprint 40 Natural materials from eleven countries Published by: MAM Babyartikel GmbH, Latex production in Hat Yai Lorenz-Mandl-Gasse 50, 1160 Vienna tell us about their www.mambaby.com, Tel.: +43 1 49 141 0, Fax: and a day in the life of a charity events. +43 1 49 141 404 ∙ Editing and layout: Egger & rubber farmer Lerch, www.egger-lerch.at ∙ Technical consulting: denkstatt GmbH, www.denkstatt.at ∙ Photos: MAM Babyartikel unless otherwise 42 Upcycling noted ∙ Printing: gugler GmbH, www.gugler.at Employees demonstrate: Giving used soothers a second chance carbon positive printed 3 FOREWORD We want to make babies and parents happy This has been the focus of all our thoughts involved, the greater and more diverse and actions here at MAM* for over 40 the MAM family becomes. In short: With years now. That we are on the right path the growth of MAM, our responsibility with this mission is demonstrated by the also increases. We also take this into global success of our products and the account here in our third MAM sustainagrowth of our company: In the past few bility report. years, we have opened up many new countries and markets and continue Our CSR reporting to develop on a permanent basis. This is outstanding... development process is, of course, not In the report for 2013 and 2014 we closely yet finished. Like our little consumers, examined the life cycle of our products. the babies, we continue to grow, learn We were able to show that environmental constantly and use new skills and even and social responsibility at MAM regardmore know-how. We are curious, like to ing the development of our products, their try things out and look with confidence production, the transport and use all the toward the future. This has a direct impact way to disposal counts. We managed to on our economic success, our products, achieve a balancing act between an easy our relationship to the environment and to understand and entertaining magazine our social relationships, as shown by the and a professional sustainability report. four chapters of this sustainability report. This concept not only enthused our stakeholders, but also the juries from compeMAM is growing – and our titions that have awarded our publication responsibility grows with us many times over (see pg.18). We want to FEEDBACK Development at MAM is also accombuild on this success. panied by major challenges. We need How do you like the 2015 & 2016 to think about how we can satisfy the ...and sustainability is part of MAM sustainability report? Is there ever-increasing demand for our products our strategy anything you’d like to tell us? and at the same time guarantee qualIn the current report for the period of We look forward to your feedback on ity and delivery reliability. Changes in 2015 and 2016, we discuss the develcsr-team@mambaby.com society, for example through globalisation opment of MAM in the past, present and digitisation, have an impact on our and future, and show which sustainable stakeholders and therefore directly on measures we have already implementour company. We also have to consider ed and those we are working toward. *For easier reading, “the Bamed/MAM Group” our corporate culture, since the more The report is based on the new Standis shortened to MAM. countries, locations and employees are ards of the Global Reporting Initiative 4 102-14 FOREWORD (GRI) and thus fulfils all the criteria of a our activities on a long-term basis and Peter Röhrig is the founder of MAM contemporary report. We also address incorporate environmental protection current global challenges: Our targets into everything we consider. The best for sustainability are based on the global example is our new energy-efficient goals for sustainable development set factory in Kabin Buri, Thailand (see pp. by the UN (see pg. 9). We are also part 36–38). You can read about this and other of the Austrian network of the UN Global sustainability measures in this report. Compact, a worldwide pact between the And because our employees know best United Nations and businesses, to make what makes MAM tick, what we do and globalisation more social and ecological. why we do it, they are represented on As you see, we take sustainability very nearly every page from the cover that seriously. This is why it is also anchored in shows MAM parents with their children Niklaus Schertenleib is the chairman of the Bamed/ our corporate strategy. and throughout the report with individual MAM Group articles in which they have their say. The Baby health and product safety worldwide success of MAM is above all to is everything for us their credit – and for that we thank them What are you going to find on these 60 very much! pages? Something on all key MAM issues related to sustainability during the report... and we will be there for ing period of 2015 and 2016. However, babies in the future we did not define these alone. We also MAM will continue to grow and surveyed our stakeholders (see pp. 10 –11). develop in the future. As corporate There are two things most important to management we’re not just running them: the health of babies and the safety CSR up the flagpole, we are also living of our products. We agree without excepup to sustainability. And there is one tion! This is also the prerequisite for us constant at MAM from which we do not to successfully complete our mission – to stray: We want to be there for parents make babies and parents happy. and babies, to listen to them and make their lives happier and nicer with our We've already achieved products and valuable services. Because quite a lot... babies are our future, and what could We are constantly striving to ensure be more responsible than working for the quality of our products, go beyond their health and safety? legal standards (see pp. 24 –26) and put our plastics expertise to work (see pp. 30 –31). The fact that research and development are paying off at the highest level can be seen, for example, with our MAM Perfect, which has recently been proven in an airtight, long-term Peter Röhrig, Niklaus Schertenleib, Chairman of study (see pg. 28). We think about all MAM Founder the Bamed/MAM Group GRI 102-14 5 THE COMPANY An introduction to MAM Product range MAM Group Soothers Bottles & Oral care & locations They are developed cups teethers with medical experts MAM bottles are They ensure perfect and designers OFFICE LOCATIONS available for every cleaning and promote and produced in baby age and in the positive development many sizes. Wollerau, Switzerland: different styles. of babies’ teeth and jaws. International sales and production coordination Vienna, Austria: International marketing and design centre Siegendorf, Austria: Research & Development Europe: France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Spain, Breastfeeding Eating Cleaning & Sweden, UK Practical breast pads, Our colourful Learn to sterilising North America: USA breast pumps etc. Eat products are perfectly South America: Brazil Functionality is a big make everyday life suited to the skills and priority with our cleaning Asia: China (from 2017) easier for mothers learning behaviour products. and offer maximum of babies and young comfort. children. PRODUCTION CENTRES Vaskeresztes, Hungary: MAM-Hungária Kft. MAM products are sold in about Hat Yai, Thailand: Thaimed 60 countries Babyproducts Co. Ltd. Kabin Buri, Thailand: on all 5 continents Thaimed Hightech Co. Ltd. (end of 2016) TOP 5 COUNTRIES (TURNOVER): FRANCE, GERMANY, SWEDEN, UK, USA 6 GRI 102-2, 102-3, 102-4, 102-6, 102-7 THE COMPANY Facebook members worldwide: Turnover 1,500,000 MAM Club members worldwide: 600,000 60 % 27 % USA Europe MAM employs 13 % Rest 930 people We are the market leaders for soothers in Brazil, Chile, Denmark, Finland, France, Israel, Norway, Austria, the Czech Republic, Sweden, Switzerland worldwide of which and the USA 76 % are women and 24 % are men. If all of the soothers produced in one year were placed end MAM is part of to end, it would result in a chain 9 sustainability initiatives and 8 international scientific 2,600 km and standardisation long. That’s the distance between committees Rome and Oslo. We work with more than 2 MAM products are sold 20 medical partners worldwide to develop our products. every second. GRI 102-7 7 STRATEGY We work for families … Total commitment. We are on a mission with our products and services. We want to make life for parents and babies better. This ambition guides our thinking and actions. To be successful as a brand today it is no longer enough to talk about what we do and how we do it. Above all, we need to explain why we do it, so our stakeholders THE MAM MISSION can identify with our values”, explains Michaela Reisenbichler, We work for International Brand Director Michaela International Brand Director babies and parents. Reisenbichler. Parents, medical experts, With our longlasting expertise of suppliers, trading partners and our more than 40 years we manuemployees should have a clear picture facture premium quality baby of how MAM works and what drives us. products that are 100% safe, Therefore, in a company-wide process in functional and easy to use. Their which employees of all hierarchy levels thought-through designs function took part, we wrapped up our brand perfectly; they are scientifically awareness in a nutshell. To what purtested and support the developpose? “The MAM Mission is the reference ment of babies. We also provide point for all of our activities as a comservice and expert information pany and as a brand”, says Michaela. of today are the parents of tomorrow.” for parents and healthcare “It’s not an invention but rather a part of The fact that we think and act sustainably professionals. our DNA.” is not just lip service: The implementation of appropriate environmental and social How we work Because babies are our future measures across the entire value chain All MAM products are develNaturally, this credo also has an impact (see pg. 19) as well as our participation Photo: Egger & Lerch, Reinhard Lang oped in an ongoing dialogue with parents and international on our CSR commitment, which we have in various sustainability initiatives and medical experts. We identify expanded and professionalised in recent projects (see pg. 17) are testimony to this. and anticipate trends and work years. In this area we have oriented The best proof of this is this report itself, on real innovations. We take ourselves to a clear vision: in which we have carefully implemented responsibility for our employees, “We want to use our abilities to make the new guidelines of the Global Rethe environment and society. the world better. More responsible. porting Initiative (GRI Standards) for the More fare-sighted. Because the babies preparation of sustainability reports. 8 GRI 102-16 STRATEGY … and make a global contribution Sustainable Development Goals. We accept social and environmental responsibility: MAM is committed to the United Nations global Goals for Sustainable Development. Their integration into our innovation process is on the agenda for 2017. We don’t just think about babies, parents But we are also realistic: Although and which products help them. We MAM operates worldwide, our sphere also think about the huge challenges to of influence is limited by the size of the society – from energy and environmental company. All the same, it is our social protection to education and health to a responsibility to make a solid contribudignified life and peace. We are guided tion to the best of our abilities. here by the United Nations: They have defined 17 goals for sustainable developWe let actions speak As a member of the UN ment (Sustainable Development Goals, That is why in 2016, in cooperation with Global Compact, MAM is also committed to the UN SDGs) in the scope of their “Agenda the Krems University of Applied Sciences, goals. Through our actions 2030” that concern people the world we conducted several workshops involvwe have made a concrete over and are worth fighting for. We want ing colleagues from a variety of departcontribution to ten of these to ensure that they are reached as soon ments, on how MAM can integrate the (highlighted). as possible. goals of the UN in its own daily activities, especially in the innovation process. We have already focused on this in the 2015 and 2016 reporting period: It was important for us to link the key topics for the stakeholders from the materiality matrix (see pp. 10–11) to the SDGs. This shows that we are looking beyond the boundaries of our own industry. To find which CSR activities correspond to which of the global SDGs, see the icons on the upper right corner of the pages. Photo: Egger & Lerch, Reinhard Lang GRI 102-12, 102-16 9 MATERIALITY MATRIX high Sustainability to the point Online survey. We asked our stakeholders about the sustainability topics that matter to them about MAM. The result was clear: There is nothing more important than the health of babies and the safety of our products. Our thoughts exactly! Water & biodiversity Diversity, equal opportunities and continuing education Market presence Data protection Sustainability management for suppliers Relevance from the stakeholder’s viewpoint Occupational health and safety Handling complaints Regional added value Regional Procurement minor Environmental and social impact from the viewpoint of MAM minor 10 GRI 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44, 102-46, 102-47, 102-49, 103-1 MATERIALITY MATRIX Our Stakeholders Parents, medical experts, ­distribution partners, suppliers, the owners and our employees are our most important stakeholder Customer health and groups. We defined these in a product safety workshop. We regularly ask them for their opinions on our sustainability activities and what aspects Compliance are particularly important to them. The stakeholder survey In November, MAM launched the largest online survey to date on the Strict avoidance of child, forced subject with very good response: or compulsory labour and other 300 stakeholders participated! aspects of human rights We evaluated their responses and converted them into a materiality matrix, which forms the basis for this report. Good employer Eleven topics in four chapters The eleven topics, which are Sustainable products and the most important from the carbon footprint ­perspective of the stakeholders and from MAM have been divided into the four chapters. MAM has already successfully implemented sustainability measures in all of these areas. There are no decisive Resources & materials changes in comparison to the 2013/2014 CSR report – a sign that MAM is on the right track. All topics shown in grey have a lower signifiWaste reduction and handling cance from a stakeholder perspective, also have a minimal impact on sustainability and are therefore Fighting corruption not included in this report. Energy & emissions GROWTH, PAGE 12 FF. EATING, DRINKING, PLAYING, PAGE 22 FF. ENVIRONMENT, PAGE 32 FF. RELATIONSHIPS, PAGE 44 FF. The size of the circles expresses the economic significance: The larger the circles are, the more economically significant the respective effect is for MAM. high GRI 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44, 102-46, 102-47, 102-49, 103-1 11 Photos: Egger & Lerch, Reinhard Lang; shutterstock.com (leaf) Economic sustainability OUR GOAL: A long-term and stable sustainable growth strategy 3 x invested: plant extension in Hungary, new production facility in Thailand, new R&D Centre being planned New affiliate: MAM Italy 144% growth in sales over the last 10 years Over 70,000,000 products sold worldwide Market leader for soothers in 8 European countries 12 Photos: Egger & Lerch, Reinhard Lang; shutterstock.com (leaf) “We are growing together” “Right now I am experiencing how a baby is growing inside me. Growth always means change, which is something I see every day at MAM: Our company is steadily Growth evolving – now with subsidiaries in 13 countries.” Li Zhen Arroyave-Gao, International Country Coordinator, with her husband Daniel 13 MAM MILESTONES In the first year we M A M manufactured barely Years o f a million products while today we make 70 million a year. In ily and A M h a s g rown stead order to produce even In four dec ades, M improved more efficiently, we v o lv e w it h new and are concentrating on ed to e nd has continu n a l b u s in ess areas a itio automation in the rough add al subsidia ries. products, th te rn a ti o n future. s well as in locations a Katalin Kiss, General Manager MAM Hungária in Vaskeresztes, Hungary Production. The first production centre is opened in Hungary. Soother. The first MAM soother Distribution Centre. comes on the market. Its The international sales child-friendly and ergonomic and production centre is Germany. design mark the first step in a established in Switzerland. MAM Germany 40 year success story. is founded. 1976 1987 1990 1975 1989 1991 1994 Company name. UK & Sweden. MAM UK is With a team of designers, established in Great Britain. In the Peter Röhrig begins work We were the pioneers following year, Swedish market on developing a soother of the button-soother leader Bambino was bought prototype. Inspired by in Scandinavia, now (Bambino MAM). typical baby talk, the we are market leaders. name MAM is born. In the future, we want to get even closer to our customers. Teethers. They support healthy Ingrid Grönfeldt, General Manager jaw development and encourage Bambino MAM Scandinavia active learning. In 1989, MAM was a European niche brand for quality soothers. Today we have more than 70 product lines on the market and are number 2 for soothers in the UK. Lisa Parkhill, General Manager MAM UK 14 MAM MILESTONES Toothbrushes. New in the Oral Care portfolio: Developed with dentists, the brushes help get accustomed to oral hygiene. Over the past 40 years, MAM has evolved from being a one-man business into a global company. We Growth Expansion of production. are now established The group’s own Thaimed latex in about 60 countries production begins operation in on five continents and Thailand. Working conditions there is still potential go far beyond local standards. for growth. Bettina McDermott, International Sales Director Brazil & Hungary. The first MAM Perfect. A product star is expansion outside born: The soother with the espeof Europe and cially thin and flexible teat neck MAM Hungary begins its own success story. gets started. Company anniversary. MAM celebrates its 40th birthday. 1998 2000 2002 2007 Umwelt 1997 2004 2008 2011/12 2016 Research & Development. The MAM product development France & Greece. department moves to Siegendorf. Establishment of two more MAM companies. In the beginning, there Anti-Colic. After were only four intensive market USA & Spain. MAM of us but today the R&D research and scientific companies established in department comprises evaluation, the first the USA and Spain. 28 colleagues. Our focus MAM Anti-Colic bottle is on innovation: How is launched. It remains can we create special one of the most Toys. With the MAM Friends, ideas and implement popular MAM products made of natural rubber, the them quickly to have today. first collection of develophappier babies? mental toys hits the market. Dietmar Rainprecht, Head of Packaging Development and Strategic Technical Purchasing 15 INTERVIEW WITH PETER RÖHRIG “Our recipe for success is functionality, design and medicine.” Where does the journey lead? In a personal conversation, the founder and managing director of MAM explains where the journey leads and why sustainability is a core part of the business. You started thinking about soothers If the combination of functionality, as a young plastics engineer. design, and medical know-how was Today you are leading a global a major challenge at the outset: company. Did you ever expect What’s the toughest thing today? this kind of success? The question remains the same. More Peter Röhrig: No, I never could have and more mothers in more and more imagined that, though I always wanted to countries have this specific demand achieve something. There were several for baby products. We’re seeing that in Peter Röhrig foundfactors involved: I found – certainly with China, for example: I never would have ed MAM in 1976. In some luck – the right partners and we dreamed that MAM had a chance in this the coming years set out from the start with an unbeatable market! And that we are market leaders he will hand over combination of functionality, design, and in Israel and Brazil today was unimagdaily operations to his son Stefan. medical backup. Mothers understood inable for me. This combination is our this immediately. In addition, major social recipe for success. upheavals were taking place at the time. After the war, people only bought what China is one of your most important they really needed. In the 60s and 70s markets for the future. In which they became more demanding and countries do you still see growth suddenly wanted to have good products. potential for MAM? This increased with the rising age of There are plenty of countries where we mothers, which in the meantime had are not yet number 1 (laughing). There, risen to over 30. And on top of that, our we want to convince other mothers of products are not very expensive. A baby our products – and we are continuously carriage can cost more than 1,000 Euros growing. today. The best soother or the best bottle is something anyone can afford to buy That includes the product for their baby. range, too. 16 GRI 102-14 INTERVIEW WITH PETER RÖHRIG INFO BOX We are committed to ­s ustainability Exactly right. For example, we just benefits but that’s not why they are here. MAM participates voluntarily in launched our first electric product for It’s because they feel a sense of purpose many initiatives and projects that Growth heating and sterilising milk: the Electric in what they do. have put sustainability up front. Steriliser & Express Bottle Warmer. But Here are a few: I don’t want to veer too far from our The topic of sustainability has Co-founder of ARA (Altstoff Recybasic premise. We are still specialists ­b ecome a part of public awareness cling Austria): Austria’s leading for ­products that have to do with babies’ in recent years. When did you first recycling specialist for packaging mouths. And there are always plenty of start thinking about environmental UN Global Compact: worldwide chances to do something better. and social responsibility? largest initiative for CSR and I was thinking very early on about the sustainable development What does the strong ­d emand proper use of plastics. In the early 90s respACT: Austria‘s leading for MAM products mean I was involved in the establishment of platform for CSR and Sustainable for the p ­ roduction sites and Altstoff Recycling Austria AG, or ARA Development ­m anufacturing methods? for short. If you will, I co-organised that At the moment we are expanding our plastic in Austria doesn’t float down the klima aktiv mobil Partner: Climate main assembly plant in Hungary and we Danube or simply get buried somewhere, protection initiative of the Austrian just finished building a new energy-efbut rather that up to 97% of it is recycled. It Federal Ministry of Agriculture, ficient factory in Kabin Buri, Thailand. In really paid off: There are only six or seven Forestry, Environment and Water manufacturing, we are increasingly focuscountries in the world that are on the Management ing on automation to guarantee delivery same level as we are. Austrian Plastics Cycle (Österof our products. So we have even more reichischer Kunststoffkreislauf, precise quality control. Along with this, by You mentioned the new ­p roduction ÖKK): Association for the recycling the way, the thing I’m most proud of and facility in Kabin Buri. It is a of plastic packaging my biggest fear are the same: In over 40 ­m asterpiece of energy efficiency. Association of Austrian Orthoyears, there has never been a serious Why is that so important to you? dontists (Verein österreichischer accident with a MAM product that's We all have to deal with the topics of Kieferorthopäden, VÖK): voluntary sensational! And we work hard to make energy, resources and the environment. union of dentists specialising in sure that it will never be the case. Through a variety of interdependent orthodontics in Austria measures and clever planning we save Austrian Society of PaediatGrowth, internationalisation and over a thousand tons of CO2 per year. It rics and Adolescent Medicine ­a utomation – does the family will take eight years to amortise the costs, (Österreichische Gesellschaft für ­b usiness culture get lost in all of this? so it is a long-term investment. But it Kinderund Jugendheilkunde, I try to manage MAM very personally. In would simply be senseless not to take adÖGKJ): Association of over 1,600 the very beginning it was just me (laughs). vantage of the conditions – after all, it is paediatric specialists from private It was only in the 90s that we really startalways hot and mostly sunny in Thailand. practice and hospitals ed hiring in a big way and we’ve been (Mr. Röhrig pulls out his smart phone and SIDS Austria: Organisation for growing ever since. But our business opens an app. A line diagram shows the the prevention of Sudden Infant area is and remains highly emotional: We power generation from the photovoltaic Death Syndrome work for babies. That brings us together system per day.) You can see exactly Montanuniversität Leoben: and contributes to the great atmosphere how many kilowatt-hours of electricity we Funding contributor to plastics and the extraordinary commitment of our generate per day – even when clouds technology employees. Naturally, they are happy pass over our plant. I follow it every day, about financial advantages and company it’s great fun! GRI 102-12, 102-13 GRI 102-14 17 INTERVIEW WITH PETER RÖHRIG INFO BOX Outstanding CSR reporting Our MAM 2013/2014 CSR report impressed not only the readers but also a number of expert juries. We were thrilled about the nominations and awards from these competitions: Austrian Sustainability Reporting Award (ASRA): Gold in the category “Best Sustainability Report SME” FOX Finance Award: Gold in the category “Best Sustainability Report” And just how sustainable are MAM Econ Award: products? Nominated in the category “Sustainability report / CSR report” We pay close attention to energy efficiency European Business Awards for the Environment (EBAE): and environmental protection throughout Nominated in the category “CSR Management” the entire product life cycle – you can read about this in detail in this report. And we are constantly working to get even better. Another focus is on helping consumers with CO2 and energy savings – for example, by not boiling our bottle on the stove top but sterilising it in the microwave. We also think about the functionality of This thinking about function determines is very important to us as well. We work our products in a sustainable way. While our way of working at MAM, a beautiful intensively with nurses and doctors, who developing the microwave steriliser we design comes afterwards. Consumers look at our products closely and always asked mothers what they need. It's two often don’t notice what is behind all this. bring us new ideas. things: They have to clean the bottles and, Form follows function – not the other way if they are not breastfeeding, be able to around! quickly warm the milk at night. So we Let's take a look at the future: combined several functions into one unit, MAM is known for regularly surveying What are the major MAM goals for even steam cooking is possible. Naturally, its stakeholders, like when asking the next 40 years? this is much more practical and sensible mothers about an electric ­s teriliser. In three to five years my younger son than having six different appliances in the How important is market research Stefan will take over the company. He has kitchen cabinet. You just have to put some for product development? a technical and economic education, he thought into it. Very important! And I would like to clarify was involved in setting up MAM USA and here what we mean by market research: at the moment, he’s running a start-up in How do functionality and design We don’t just conduct surveys but we give the USA. The direction of MAM will be the go together? mothers working products that they can same in the future as it was 40 years ago: As a technician, regarding the construcactually use and evaluate. They then give We do not want to offer any gimmicks, tion of a product, I first think about the us feedback on which we can improve. but to develop concrete products and requirements for that product. From the Our good fortune is that the mothers solutions that meet a need. People should very beginning, I have worked together are happy to do this and like that they say: Yes, MAM products really work for with designers who are always thinking: can share with us what they know. We me! That we work for babies sounds very How will a soother or bottle be used? have an incredibly high return rate. The simple – and that is precisely why it is so How do the hands and the brain work? feedback from healthcare professionals convincing. 18 GRI 102-14 VALUE CHAIN Responsibility across the board CSR step by step. We have invested a lot of energy to make our activities more sustainable in recent years. We consider the entire MAM value chain and don’t spare a single area of business – from raw materials all the way to disposal. And all that in Growth nearly 60 countries on five continents where our products are sold. On the following pages we will show you how we bring CSR to life in every division of the company. Material flow Value chain Cash flow Bamed/MAM Group INPUT MAM BUSINESS ACTIVITIES OUTPUT Supply chain Raw materials / Production / Subsidiaries/ Distribution partners / Parents & Recycling / Parts Assembly Sales companies Retail partners Babies Disposal Research & Development Research & (focus in Austria) Development Production (Hungary and Thailand) MAM Marketing, Sales & Customer Service (worldwide) Human Resources (worldwide) Supply Chain & Finance (worldwide) CSR (worldwide) GRI 102-9 19 NEW PRODUCTS Thank you for your Feedback! 40 years of experience have taught us something: Only those who listen can develop products that satisfy real needs. This is why we so highly value the opinion of parents – also when it is about making existing products even better. A MAM product doesn’t have it easy: improving products? “Once the product Before it hits the market it is tested is on the market, the sales figures are countless times, squashed, bitten, an important indicator. We also follow twisted – and evaluated by parents. “Their discussions on Facebook and what feedback is very important to us. As early parents write about in the MAM Club,” as the development phase there are four the expert tells us. rounds of market research with consumThomas Rohaczek, Head ers”, says Thomas Rohaczek, Head of Sustainable product development of Product Design & Development Product Design & Development. In the An interdisciplinary team consisting of period from 2010 to 2016, a total of 227 employees from marketing, product MAM studies were carried out, in which development, product management and 43,081 consumers from 15 countries were packaging development takes care of the interviewed. “We also get feedback from optimisation process. Thanks to extensive doctors, midwives and other medical feedback from parents, we have been experts who are involved in product able to sustainably improve some of our development, says Thomas. products and broaden existing product lines – and MAM develops along with Always getting better the products. Verena Aringer-Zach, If a product makes it onto the shelf, it has Teamlead Product its hardest days behind it and can finally Management do what it’s meant for: making the lives of parents and babes easier and nicer. But it has to constantly prove itself because even existing products are tested. “For example, it is very important to parents that bottles and soothers are accepted by babies. We conducted market research on this and found: Our soothers have a sensational acceptance of 94%” says Verena Aringer-Zach, Team Lead Product Management. What other sources are helpful when it comes to the potential for 20 NEW PRODUCTS MAM Clip-It Always nice to stay clean Today’s mothers and fathers find: The perfect soother has to be versatile since babies need it in different situations. That’s why the new generation of soother clips have a clever length adjustment: It makes sure the soother is always at hand and ready to use while it stays clean. MAM Easy StartTM Growth Anti Colic 320 ml Voilà, the bigger bottle! Our Anti-Colic bottle has been an absolute hit on the shelves for the last ten years. Thanks to the patented base vent, babies drink more relaxed and 80% of mothers confirm less colic. But parents wanted even more: They wanted a larger version, so now it is available in a 320 ml size – ideal for babies from four months. With the self-sterilising function parents can also save energy at home (see pg. 39) and the two-sided printing keeps babies entertained while drinking. MAM Air Night Luminous and airy-light The Night soothers are a blessing for babies and parents especially at night: Since they glow, they are easy to find in the dark. For lightness while sleeping, extra-large air holes ensure that they are especially friendly to babies’ soft skin. MAM Perfect Double Pack Twice as perfect Scientifically proven thanks to a long-term study (see pg. 28): The MAM Perfect, with its especially thin and flexible teat neck prevents malocclusions – a big contribution to baby health! At the request of parents it is now also available as a double pack in the practical transport and steriliser box, with new designs, as well as a night model. MAM Friends 100% natural, handmade, and very soft They are called Max, Bob, Ellie and Lucy, and they are the first developmental toys for babies to explore with all of their senses. The little animals come in bright colours and are made of 100% natural rubber from our plant in Thailand (see pp. 40 –41). Why? Because parents explicitly wanted these products made of natural material. 21 Photos: Philipp Tomsich; shutterstock.com (flower) Product-specific sustainability OUR GOAL: The health of babies and product safety as our highest priority 350,000 2,500 tested with MAM products quality checks in 2016 MAM Products free from BPA, BPS und phthalates More than 85% of our product partssuppliers from Austria 27 technical inventions in 120 patents and 4 registered designs protected 52 market research studies with 12,000 parents from 10 countries (2016) 22 Photos: Philipp Tomsich; shutterstock.com (flower) “We are always curious” “My Emma learns something new every day. Her curiousity is boundless and infectious. This is good because when developing our products at MAM, creativity and openness are vital for new ideas.” Eating, drinking, playing Josef Pogatsch, Technical Product Manager, with his daughter Emma (4 months) 23 QUALITY MANAGEMENT Only the best make it to the shelf Product tests. Our soothers, bottles and Co. must do more than just make it through our boot camp where they are squeezed, bitten, boiled and thrown to the ground. Our understanding of quality goes beyond that. By the time one of our products lands in a Pungor, Head of Quality Management, baby’s hands it already has a long, tough from our production plant in Hungary. road behind it: It is examined, evaluated, Day after day, they and their teams tested and not exactly handled with kid ensure that the soothers, bottles and gloves. Quite the opposite, actually. There teethers reach – and maintain – the are two people in particular who know highest possible level of quality. That’s a exactly what needs to be done: Hortenzia lot of work. Hortenzia Csiczár, Csiszár, Head of Compliance, and László MAM-Compliance Manager Standards alphabet? We know it by heart. Let’s start at the very beginning, in the product development phase. This is where compliance expert Hortenzia comes into play: “We make sure that the QUALITY MANAGEMENT BY THE NUMBERS product meets MAM requirements before it goes into production. We have defined In 2016, MAM internal tests and quality controls accounted our own standards which go above for over10,000 working hours. and beyond international standards.” There were over 2,500 tests conducted That’s because the strictest regulations worldwide for design, materials etc. are on over 350,000 products. for MAM the bare minimum. This is the For MAM soothers there are 40 test procedures, only way to guarantee maximum safety, which must be the highest priority for 28 for MAM bottles. baby products. This requires extensive The complaint rate 2016 amounted to knowledge of all regulations – from 42 per one million products Brazil to the USA to Europe. “We are proficient in a world of standards since (2015: 42, 2014: 68). there are fundamental differences from 24 GRI 416-1 QUALITY MANAGEMENT Our Hungarian laboratory quality management team: Bettina Nagy, Zsuzsanna Harkai, Szilvia Szalay, Gáborné Kovács, Cecilia Hidegh (Head of Laboratory), Márta Fehér, László Pungor (Head of Quality Management) and Klotild Obersinner (left-to-right) INFO BOX Eating, drinking, playing Still good enough? In addition to strict quality control during the production process, the MAM laboratory conducts annual tests on existing products. Soothers and bottles have to go through the country to country. To be able to define a are conducted by external, accredited complete testing programme that they passed during the developMAM standard, one must know all of the laboratories such as TÜV SÜD, Swiss ment phase once more. “Our main national standards and always stay up to Quality Testing Services or SGS Fresenius goal is to offer the highest quality date”, says Hortenzia. Together with MAM Institut. “We have the materials tested for and greatest level of safety. Befounder Peter Röhrig, the compliance heavy metals as well as BPA and BPS, sides that, it is very important for us expert also works with official committees phthalates and PVC. These are materials to keep rejection and defect rates responsible for the that must not be present in our products”, as low as possible”, says László. development of new standards. MAM explains Hortenzia. The colours are also And it works: The corresponding expertise leads to concrete results here. tested there – both those contained in the rates are extremely low. For example, EN 14350, the standard for raw materials as well as those printed on baby bottles and EN 1400, the standard the soothers and bottles. for soothers were developed with help from MAM. Off to boot camp! If the soother or bottle passes the first How should a baby product series of tests and the product conforms be designed? to all standards and regulations, it goes According to strict MAM guidelines, for to László Pungor and his team. “Our example, it should not have sharp edges soothers are boiled, pulled on, squeezed or corners. It cannot be easy to bite and bitten. We throw our bottles in a filled through or swallow and should not be state from a height of more than one too fragile. It has to be made of clean and meter to the floor. The aim is to expose safe materials and have instructions for our products to all kinds of mechanical use and possible hazards. When a new stress, as this is the only way to achieve product is developed, the prototype quickthe highest possible quality,” says the ly lands in the hands of Hortenzia and her quality management leader. And, before Under the microteam, where it is checked and evaluated the products even have to pass all of scope: Every MAM against these standards. Chemical tests these tests, all possible scenarios are product is closely also take place during this phase. These recreated – we leave soothers in the oven examined. 25 QUALITY MANAGEMENT How much can the teat stand? The pull test will find out. STANDARDS In some cases, MAM voluntarily goes beyond the following European standards: EN 14350: Standard for baby bottles EN 1400: Standard for soothers EN 12586: Standard for soother clips EN 12868: Standard for products for babies and toddlers EN 14372: Standard for cutlery Is the scale on the and dishware for babies bottle accurate? and toddlers That is checked with the scale. The quality management team is responsible for system certificates. To date, MAM Hungary is certified to the international quality manfor a week at 70 degrees Celsius and boil stage, the team checks whether the eleagement standard ISO 9001 and the environmental management them in water for ten minutes. We freeze phants, butterflies and other motifs have system ISO 14001. ISO 50001, the the bottles and wash them hundreds been printed correctly on the soothers energy management standard, is of times in the dishwasher. The MAM and above all, on the bottles: Are they in currently under review. The complilaboratory can be seen as a kind of boot the right place? Do they come off? Is the ance team takes care of the product camp for baby products, where nothing scale printed on the bottle accurate? certification tests for the US and is spared. If the soother or bottle survives the EU. Each year, between 100 and the torture, it takes a big step forward: The third and final step is all about the 150 of these tests are performed. into series production. packaging. “Packages prepared for shipping are opened again and checked Three-stage quality control whether the right products are in the during production correct numbers and colours and if the Quality assurance is now performed as EAN codes are in order”, says László. If a three-stage process. In the first step, everything is correct, the packages are the receiving department inspection cleared for shipment – and soon mothers’ team examine the newly arrived parts and children’s hands will be able to pull – plastics, latex, cardboard, and so on. the items off the shelf. They check whether the parts meet our strict quality criteria. If everything is in order, step two follows: quality control in production, a most important and sensitive operation. To ensure that production runs smoothly, the Can the soother pull test is carried out in which a machine withstand firm checks the tensile strength of every single biting? This soother. Furthermore, the quality control machine performs team performs additional random tensile that test. strength tests. The shape and surface of the soother is also carefully examined with the aid of a digital camera. At this 26 GRI 103-2 AWARDS Our distinguished products Our MAM Anti-Colic Bottle is one of our premier flagship products. The first model was launched over ten years ago. We have been continuously investing in improvements ever since: from the teat with a more comfortable shape to energy saving microwave sterilisation to the patented base vent with the scientifically proven effect of preventing colic. These innovations have not gone unnoticed. In the last two years our product – in 160, 260 and 320 ml sizes and with various designs – has received numerous awards. Eating, drinking, playing Evolving from the first MAM soother The MAM Bite&Play teether was named The MAM Bite & Brush Teether is four decades ago, the MAM Perfect Best Toy for Tactile Play for 0 –12-monthpart of our relatively new range of oral is a timeless, quality product. The old babies at the 2015 Harper’s Bazaar hygiene and dental care products. Proreaders of “American Baby Magazine,” Junior Toy Awards in Singapore. duct development in consultation with a subsidiary of the American journal medical experts was rewarded with a “Parents,” think so, too. Over 60,000 win in both the 2015 WhatToExpect.com votes were cast at the 2015 AmeriEditor's Choice Award and the 2016 Natcan Baby Bests Awards. The MAM ural Child World Eco-Excellence Awards. Perfect and the MAM Mini Air were the winners in the category Best Pacifier . We also received further accolades for our MAM Trainer (Gold at the Prima Baby Awards 2015), the MAM Mini Teether (The Bump Best of Baby Award 2015), the MAM Learn to Brush Set (Harper‘s Bazaar Junior Most Loved Baby Care Award 2015), our MAM Breast Pump (Gold in its category at the Mother & Baby Awards 2016), the MAM Friends (Silver in their category at the Mother & Baby Awards 2016), our MAM Bite & Relax and our MAM Oral Care Rabbit (Winners in their categories at the Harper‘s Bazaar Junior Toy Award 2016) as well as the MAM Heat Sensitive Feeding Spoon (Silver at the Netmoms Mommy Awards 2016). 27 RESEARCH Dr. Yvonne W ag ner, dentist at the MAM PERFEC T FACTS Jena Univers ity Clinic for Prev entive Developed in close cooperation Dentistry with dentists and paediatricians to provide support for healthy tooth and jaw development. Proven Compared with regular soothers, the MAM Perfect is, on average, 60 percent thinner and 4 times more Perfect flexible * (64 models were compared in 3 test groups), so less pressure is exerted on the teeth and jaws. Symmetrical teat, so the soother always sits properly in the mouth Study. Compared to conventional soothers the MAM Perfect reduces the risk for tooth and jaw Large air holes for increased comfort misalignment and helps with weaning off the and healthy skin soother. Now, scientifically proven. Hygienic self-sterilising in the microwavable carry box – quick, easy and energy-saving * Average values: between 32% and 83% thinner – 1.1 INFO BOX – 19.5 times more flexible than a conventional silicone soother The most important study results The risk of malocclusions such as overbite (overjet) and open The 12-month study was conducted with numerous studies have clearly shown. bite are reduced with the 86 children aged 16 to 24 months, who Six children in the study could not be MAM Perfect. already suffered from malocclusions. successfully weaned off the soother With an acceptance of 94%, They were randomly divided into three and three started thumb sucking. The the MAM Perfect offers an groups. Group 1 switched to the MAM MAM Perfect can help here, too: It alternative to conventional Perfect, group 2 kept their regular soother makes gradual weaning easier. This soothers, which can have a and group 3 was to wean off the soother as well as other studies show that detrimental effect on tooth during the course of the study. The chilthe MAM Perfect positively supports and jaw development due dren were examined every three months dental development. to their significantly thicker during the study. teat neck. The final examination showed Good for the teeth that the MAM Perfect was Weaning off the soother is best for dental just as effective in regard development. If this is not successful, to a horizontal overbite as the risk of malocclusions such as an weaning off a soother entirely. open bite and overbite while using a very thin and flexible soother is less than when using a conventional one. However, weaning off a soother is often not very easy. Many children switch to thumb sucking – with corresponding adverse effects on the teeth and jaw, as 28 SERVICE FOR PARENTS Our Online-Duo for Millennial Parents Digital helpers. We have the needs of children and their parents constantly in focus – and it goes beyond just soothers and the like. That’s Little Big Heart why, in addition to MAM products, we also Our onlin e maga zine is also avail able as an app. offer free value-added services. Millennials want independent information and no ads, says Susanne. “And, they prefer to have it on their Eating, drinking, playing smart phone.” Thus came the idea for a maga zine for new mothers and fathers (to be), featuring wellresearched articles with substance and a sense of humour. “It all revolves around babies: pregn ancy, childbirth, the first months, but also lifestyle Susanne Pohlert, and Team Lead Digital Brand fashion , says the expert. The magazine webs ite went Management online in May of 2016 and the app has been available since November, allowing users to access intere sting content anytime and anywhere with their smart phone. Another plus: Articles can still be read using the convenient oﬄine mode when there is no, or only a very poor, internet connection. MAM Diary App A digital baby diary conquers the world. The first tooth, the first step, the first time baby says INFO BOX “mama”: Life with a baby is full of firsts. The MAM Diary App records milestones that are often forgotten in the We protect the privacy of our course of the year, explains Susanne Pohlert, Team Lead customers Digital Brand Management. Apart from this, everyWorld-wide, MAM has about day events like going for a walk, a visit with a friend or 1.5 million Facebook followers and other practical information can also be documented. 600,000 MAM Club members. PerFor example: When did I last breastfeed or change sonal information obtained via our diapers? The nicest photos can be put into an album, social media activities, MAM Club and best of all: Users can share it all with their partners. registration, the MAM Baby Diary The reactions so far? We interviewed 200 users and App and the MAM Online Shop, the overwhelming majority are thrilled, Susanne said. is handled and stored safely and In 2016 alone, the app was downloaded 35,000 times securely. There were no substantiatin the seven countries in which it was available (Austria, ed complaints concerning breaches Germany, UK, Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Brazil). 2017 of customer privacy or losses of sees the launch in Italy and new features are already in customer data during the reporting the works. period. GRI 418-1 29 PLASTICS “We want to be much better than the standards require.” Material expertise. Norbert Polatschek, Head of Technical Research, feels at home in the world of plastics. He knows what materials and substances can be trusted and which have no place in MAM products. An interview about trends in materials, voluntarily exceeding standards and why it’s sometimes better to take your time. structure similar to BPA. Although there is but we set our limits higher just to be no standard yet, we have had all of our sure. That’s why we have a so-called products tested for BPS and we can now MAM standard: If the rule says you have say that they are also completely safe in to stress a soother with 12 kilos, we say this respect. To give parents a choice other it has to stand much more than that. than plastics, which are perfect and safe We want to be much better than the for baby products, we have developed standards require. a glass bottle as an alternative. We also Norbert Polatschek, Head exchange information with our suppliers Why do you use two materials, of Technical Research and the largest material manufacturers. silicone and natural latex, We always try to think ahead, and for the for soothers? long-term. We don’t follow every trend. They both have their advantages: Silicone As Head of Technical Research you can withstand high temperatures and deal with trends in the development So you don’t take action boiling and is completely safe for contact of plastics – a delicate issue with too quickly. with skin and saliva. In addition, it has the baby products. What’s happening Exactly. The principle at MAM is: Quality appearance of being hygienically clean at MAM? comes before time. If, for whatever reasince it is practically crystal clear. For the Norbert Polatschek: We are absolutely son, a material trend arises, we analyse it consumer, it simply looks ‘clean’. Latex or certain that the materials we currently use, first. If there are any concerns – no matter natural rubber, on the other hand, is highly including polypropylene and silicone, are how small – we are through with it. A lot bite-resistant. One thing's for sure: Both the safest materials available. They are of materials disappear from the market materials are completely safe! materials which are also used in medical quicker than they arrived. This does not technology because they are completely mean, however, that we don’t always Why doesn’t MAM use recycled harmless to health. Nevertheless, we are want to be faster and more efficient with or bio-based plastics from natural constantly looking at alternatives. We ask our innovations. raw materials? ourselves what new technologies should Company founder Peter Röhrig was we be dealing with or what standards Why do many of your products personally active in starting the Austrian we would have to meet. We follow go beyond legal standards? Plastics Cycle (Österreichischer Kunstdiscussions in the media. A current topic, We do believe that the global standards stoffkreislauf, ÖKK). This in itself is a sign for example, is BPS; a substance with a are sufficient for the safety of babies, that the topics of environmental protection 30 PLASTICS Silicone Latex Both materials have their advantages: Silicone is crystal clear and looks “clean”. Latex is especially biteresistant. and resource conservation are important to INFO BOX us. From the tens of thousands of plastics A little glossary of plastics available, we select only those few that are Bio-based plastics: plastics of renewable raw materials such Eating, drinking, playing best suitable. However, if we do not know exactly which materials have been recycled as sugar beets, for example. They are currently not used in and absolute purity of the varieties of maMAM products because they are not sufficiently heat and break terial can not be assured, then we cannot resistant. provide a sufficient guarantee of quality. Bisphenol A (BPA): a chemical substance used in the producThat’s why recycled plastics are out of the tion of PC. Strongly criticised since it may harm the endocrine question for us. Bio plastics are another insystem and other bodily functions. BPA has been prohibited by teresting subject, which we look at in terms law in baby bottles since 2011 and long before that at MAM. of their technical properties in order to Bisphenol S (BPS): a chemical compound, which is also used maintain a high quality standard. A soother for the production of polysulfones and can be found in thermal must not disintegrate if it is sterilised in paper and printing inks. Possible health risks have not yet been boiling water – this is often the case with scientifically proven, but are under investigation. MAM products degradable plastics. There are also matedo not contain BPS. rials from renewable resources. We always Natural rubber: a natural raw material obtained from the lahave technical and sustainability questions tex milk of the rubber tree. MAM uses fresh, natural rubber from in mind for future decision possibilities. Thailand, where it is directly processed to make teats. Polycarbonate (PC): a thermoplastic, water-resistant, What are the challenges that transparent and stable polymer which contains BPA. CDs, for MAM faces in regard to plastics example, are made from PC. Not used in MAM products since technology? potential health hazards cannot be ruled out. Deciding on which of the many hundreds of ideas we have are actually technically Polypropylene (PP): odourless and skin-friendly material with a chemical structure similar to candle wax. It does not contain feasible or may be possible in the future, plasticisers and is used in MAM products instead of polycarwill bring long-term success, and satisfy bonate (PC), which contains Bisphenol A (BPA). customer requirements. To accomplish this you have to keep an open mind to Polyvinyl chloride (PVC): a synthetic, brittle plastic which may everything, ask the right questions and contain phthalates (substances used as plasticisers) to make it work with experienced partners and more flexible. Used for flooring surfaces. Since phthalates can suppliers. We look at technologies in other leach out and be absorbed by the body, MAM products do not industries and ask ourselves how we – contain phthalates or PVC. and especially parents and babies – can Silicone: a transparent substance often used in medicine benefit from technical trends. We realise consisting of silicon and oxygen, the structure of which is very that we do not know everything and, similar to quartz. Is used in MAM teats, because it is harmless when necessary, actively seek advice from to health. outside experts. GRI 301-2 31 Photos: Egger & Lerch, Reinhard Lang; shutterstock.com (leaf) Environmental sustainability OUR GOAL: Continuous reduction of energy consumption and CO2 emissions over the entire product life cycle. Parents can reduce energy and CO2 emissions by up to 85% when sterilising our products Optimal energy use thanks to an energy audit in Vaskeresztes 1,000 tons of CO2 per year saved through energy efficient systems in Kabin Buri CO2 neutral mobility in Vienna An increase from 15% to about 40% in renewable materials (natural rubber) at the Hat Yai facility 32 Photos: Egger & Lerch, Reinhard Lang; shutterstock.com (leaf) “We take care of our environment.” “It’s important to me that my children are conscious of their environment and that they treat nature with respect. I also live this belief on the job. It helps me make our company more sustainable and environmentally friendly.” Environment László Pungor, Head of Quality Management, with his twin sons Mark and Mate (6 years) 33 ENERGY A Hungarian bundle of energy Factory audit. At our location in Vaskeresztes, there is quite a lot going on. Production is always busy and then there are expansions related to increased product demand. But we are also constantly investing in energy efficiency improvements, too. Heating with the window open, leaving the lights on at night and even ignoring We grow with the needs how hot the back of the old refrigerator is for a couple of months. We all know how things like this waste energy. But Warehouse: Some of the windows what if the room is a warehouse and, include a heat recovery system. LED lighting with instead of a refrigerator, it’s the climate motion sensors and more energy-efficient control system for a nearly 15,000 forklifts are being used. square metre factory unnecessarily eating up electricity? In the long term, Maintenance room: Maintenance resource-conserving practices in proand repair work are now performed under ideal duction not only pay off for us, but for lighting conditions. the environment as well. Training centre: New employees More space, less consumption learn about their jobs in the comfort of colourful, In its 26 years of existence our factory upholstered chairs. Refresher courses, workshops in Vaskeresztes has increased in size and other events also take place here. by nearly a factor of forty. In 2015, the steadily increasing demand for our Offices: Natural lighting and efficient temperature products finally necessitated a particucontrol are not only good for the environment, they larly large expansion. We have used also provide a pleasant work atmosphere. this as an opportunity to invest in clever ways to save energy. Since 2016, not Relaxation area: Here, the employees only the new buildings, but all areas in come to unwind in their non-working time – or they use have been equipped with motion use the fully equipped fitness room (pg. 48). detectors for efficient lighting. With planning the new areas, a well-lighted interior through the use of large windows and energy-saving light shafts was important to us. 34 GRI 103-2 ENERGY Air conditioning systems and heat exchangers on the roof of the plant provide energyefficient temperature control throughout the production area. Tips from the pro Fit – not just for electric use Our on-site management team continuOur environmental initiatives in ously discusses possible improvements Vaskeresztes go even further: We during monthly plant walk-throughs. We constantly improve our work processes. even let the experts have a closer look. The For example, we have invested in new consulting firm Menerko carried out an equipment for product printing and prointensive audit in July 2016 and provided duction – with a longer service life and us with further proposals for optimisation. more economical use of raw materials. The ceiling fans in the warehouse circulate Other resource-conserving measures warm air downwards into the working include increased waste separation and area during winter. Solar collectors on the waste prevention, the recycling proroof now provide hot water for the new gramme and waste compacting project locker rooms. Even a compressor with a as well as the change from particular heat recovery system was even installed. hazardous chemicals to environmentally The recovered thermal energy is then used friendly materials (for waste & disposal for heating. see pg.42, for materials see pg. 40). Environment INFO BOX Austria: Energy consumption within Award for good management the organisation in MWh In 2016, and for the third time in a row, 2014 2015 2016 Öko Business Plan Vienna recognised Hungary 2,816 2,688 3,507 MAM as an Ökoprofit company. Öko Natural gas 1,408 1,105 1,664 Business Plan supports companies with Electricity 1,408 1,583 1,843 the implementation of environmentally Thailand 1,266 1,795 1,652 relevant actions and presents possibiliHeating oil 818 1,210 1,088 ties to reduce operating costs. Switching Electricity 448 585 564 to green electricity, employee training Total 4.,082 4,483 5,159 for saving fuel and initiatives related to cycling to work are direct results of GRI 302-1 this. MAM has also been CO2 neutral regarding travel for two years. All of our business trips are constantly being offset. Energy efficiency is an essential part of our environmental policy. Thanks to optimisation measures, energy consumption in 2015 could be significantly reduced compared to the previous year despite increases in production. The increased value for 2016 is mainly due to the factory expansion. Energy use in Thailand grew – in particular the use of heating oil along – with the increased production of latex. GRI 103-2 35 EMISSIONS Decisive for the site selection: The plant area can be expanded in the future if necessary. Our energy-efﬁcient masterpiece Planned with foresight, built for the future. With our new Thai factory in Kabin Buri it was clear from the start: We wanted a state-of-the-art plant with the smallest possible carbon footprint. After more than four years this wish has now become a reality. Delivery transport routes, waste heat growth in the Asian market so we want from the cooling units, and the reflecting to invest locally. Local manufacturers and power of the exterior paint. A tour of our suppliers – not just for raw materials, but Thai facility makes it clear: There are an also for machinery – keep the transport unbelievable number of details to considroutes short while the nearby container er when building a new factory. Markus port and Bangkok airport ensure internaGiefing gives a knowing smile. “I’m a tional connections. We have had years of technician myself,“ says the Head of Far positive experience with the latex factory Markus Giefing, Head of Far East Activities East Activities, who is responsible for the in Hat Yai (see pp. 40 – 41) and MAM is implementation of the project. “But it was quite familiar with standard practices in also a learning process for me: all the Thailand. things that can be observed if you want to work sustainably and carefully.” Only the best However, our move to the Far East does Why Thailand, actually? not mean lower quality standards for The new Thaimed Hightech Company MAM – quite the contrary. MAM founder Ltd. production centre is in the industrial Peter Röhrig insisted in particular that area of Kabin Buri, northeast of Bangkok. not a single kilowatt-hour of energy be Primarily, and for the first time, it allows wasted. Oberhumer Engineering was MAM to manufacture plastic parts which therefore consulted for process cooling, we previously had to purchase. The climate control, energy efficiency and a choice of the location is no coincidence: photovoltaic system. Right now, on hot MAM sees great potential for sales days, the latter covers all of the energy 36 GRI 102-10 EMISSIONS AERO, a local company with roots in Switzerland, installed the photovoltaic system. The 1,700 panels nearly cover the entire roof and are paying off: Solar power systems are up to 40% more productive in Thailand than in Europe. needs with solar power; at full capacity lation systems for air-conditioning. We of the plant the photovoltaic system will also communicate this conscious use of still deliver ten percent of the total energy energy to our employees. “Normally, staff needed. Economically, this will pay off rooms are too cold in Thailand because 1.7 GWh electricity saved in eight and a half years. “Many publicly employees don’t think about conserving per year: traded companies don’t have the possibilresources and simply sit there wearing That equals the annual requireity to account for such a long amortisation jackets,” Markus tells us. “We use motion ment of 120 Viennese households period”, explains Otto Oberhumer who, sensors and zoned climate control to only including transportation. together with PV specialists Niko Engicool down where it is necessary.” Temneering, was responsible for planning perature sensors guarantee a uniform CO2 reduction: and tendering the system. Mr Röhrig was room temperature of 25 degrees Celsius willing to invest in the long term, and saw in the production and office areas, which 1,070 Tons: with that one could go around this as his contribution to the well-being is pleasant for Thai conditions, and a the equator 220 times in a car of the MAM target group, the babies. This relative humidity of 50%. When selecting or 1,900 times on a train. company philosophy has created a plant the cooling systems and other compothat is not only outstanding for Thailand, nents, close attention had to be paid to but is also exceptional by European energy efficiency – from the manufacture Environment standards.” of the equipment through the transport routes during delivery to on-site use. Keeping a cool head There are also two independent systems Sophisticated technology, available for heat management: an just good thinking adiabatic drycooler for process cooling Most notable at the Thai facility is the in production and an independent and thorough planning. For example, the heat highly efficient reciprocating chiller system generated while dehumidifying the air combined with state-of-the-art ventiis recovered and used in the production Different countries, different ways: Local authorities require that the company name in Thai is larger than the English version. GRI 102-10 37 EMISSIONS Nature helps out: Plants are strategically arranged around the facility for cooling. Religion is very important in Thailand. This is why, in addition to staff rooms, dressing rooms and a canteen, the complex also has a buddhist ghost house … process. In the fight against heat, there construction company. At present, about is a ten centimetre air space between 30 employees, three injection moulding the wall and the exterior cladding to machines and one extrusion blow-mouldensure that direct sunlight does not heat ing machine are at work in production. the masonry. The hot air is simply vented In total, there is capacity for 250 people upwards and out through a chimney working in different areas. Energy ... and the factory was opened with a special effect. In addition, the photovoltaic panels efficiency is far above planned levels (see ceremony. are arranged to provide shade while a retable), the equipment and sophistication flective paint coating further reduces solar of the plant are trend-setting for the Kabin heating. Even the vegetation contributes Buri industrial area and most likely unique to climate control: Strategically cultivated for all of Thailand. plants around the building reduce the temperature by an astonishing 0.75 to 1.5 degrees Celsius. Shade rather than windows These measures must, of course, be viewed against the backdrop of local circumstances. One aspect that many EuMore than 1,000 tons ropean companies do not consider is the lighter Yearly savings difference in climate,” Markus explains. “In Thailand efficient shading plays a Electricity in kWh CO2 in kg much more important role than natural light or heating.” The new factory was Photovoltaic system 500,000 360,000 designed precisely to these requirements. Process cooling 102,695 60,487 This includes, among other things, the windowless design of the production Ventilation systems 49,776 29,31 8 area, and an LED lighting system that Chilling plants 207,776 122,380 nevertheless provides daylight-like condiClimate zone control 91,664 53,990 tions. The production and office area also have barrier-free access. (see pg. 49) Heat recovery 753,600 443,870 TOTAL SAVINGS 1,705,5 1 1 1,070,045 With an eye on the future After fine tuning all of these details in over four years of planning and conSavings after 5 years 8,527,555 5,350,225 struction, the plant was commissioned at Savings after 25 years 42,637,577 26,751,125 the end of 2016 and taken over from the 38 GRI 102-10 EMISSIONS Clean! Parents become environmental pros MAM helps with saving CO2 and energy. In which phase of the product life cycle are most of the emissions generated? For bottles and soothers: during use! That is why we work not just on our own, but together with parents for a clean future. It began with our Easy Start Anti-Colic Bottle. In order to get to the bottom of the environmental impact of our product, Emissions we calculated the carbon footprint from production to disposal. The result was Greenhouse gas emissions at production noteworthy: 98 per cent of the emissions sites in Tonnes of CO 2 are generated during use – by warming, 2014 2015 2016 cleaning and sterilising. Total 1,558 1,547 1,728 direct GHG emissions 516 541 621 Clean performance indirect GHG emissions 1,042 1,006 1,107 We at MAM naturally take our responsiHungary total 1,002 900 1,125 bility for the reduction of greenhouse direct GHG emissions 221 220 332 gases (GHG) seriously, constantly optimise indirect GHG emissions 781 680 793 our plants and production processes and, Thailand total 556 647 603 Environment in the case of capacity expansion, keep direct GHG emissions 295 321 289 additional emissions as low as possiindirect GHG emissions 261 326 314 ble. But what to do if the main burden lies with the consumers at home? Our GRI 305-1, 305-2 team in product development took up the challenge: Using the self-sterilising function of the Easy Start Anti-Colic Bottle In addition to the overall carbon footprint (Scope 3), we look closely at the greenhouse gas emissions caused by the plants. The direct emissions result from the results in up to 85% less CO2 production use of natural gas for heating in Hungary and heating oil for the latex producthan by boiling it in the cooking pot. By tion process in Thailand (Scope 1). The indirect results are derived from electricity doing this, parents could save about consumption and have been calculated using the respective country power 80 kilograms, which equates to driving mixes (Scope 2). Despite a continuous increase in production, we achieved a reduction in total emissions in 2015; as a result of capacity expansion in 2016, over 600 kilometres by car, in less than they rose again. a year. Count on the best To put these impressive comparisons the renowned environmental consulting Box in the microwave results in a within reach of parents, MAM has company denkstatt to perform the similar 77% reduction in CO2 production developed an online CO2 calculator same analysis for our soothers. It turned and energy use. In 2017, these values available in 18 languages. With a few out that all MAM soothers are roughly will also be integrated into the online clicks parents can calculate their savings the same and, as with the bottles, calculator. when sterilising bottles and become most of the emissions are generated CO2 pros themselves. But that still wasn’t by cleaning and sterilising. Sterilising a enough: In 2016, MAM commissioned soother using the Steriliser and Transport www.mambaby.com/co2-calculator/ GRI 103-2 39 MATERIALS White tears: The milky natural latex, which will be further processed in the plant, flows from the cuts in the tree bark. From the rubber tree to the crib Naturally in production. At our southern Thai plant in Hat Yai, we make sustainable products from pure, natural latex. Let’s have a look behind the scenes. Let’s be Friends! Market analysis showed that latex toys white natural latex is dyed, poured into and products made of natural raw specially crafted plaster moulds, dried materials are a trend. The demand and, finally, hand painted and finished – was there, but the supply was missing. a sustainable production chain, from That's why we worked on the perfect the rubber tree to the crib. shape and colour, and the design and functionality for four years – and finally created the MAM Friends in 2015. That rubber is so in demand is of no surprise: Materials As a natural resource, it is biodegradable, harmless and sustainable in its Materials used at the production sites in tons cultivation. Also, baby products made 2014 2015 2016 of rubber quickly take on the smell of Total 2,849 3,119 3,474 the child and are excellent for playing renewable1 910 (32 %) 1,128 (36 %) 1,254 (36 %) and biting. But where does the matenon-renewable2 1,939 (68 %) 1,991 (64 %) 2,220 (64 %) rial actually come from? And how is it Hungary 2,730 2,952 3,319 processed? renewable1 892 (33 %) 1,057 (36 %) 1,197 (36 %) non-renewable2 1,838 (67 %) 1,895 (64 %) 2,122 (64 %) The life of latex Thailand 119 167 155 At MAM, the thick latex milk comes from renewable1 18 (15 %) 71 (43 %) 57 (37 %) the trees around the Thai facility. From non-renewable2 101 (85 %) 96 (57 %) 98 (63 %) there it is taken to collection points and 1 renewable: 100% of the natural latex, 80% of the paper and cardboard then gently processed in 48 more steps. 2 non-renewable: 100% of the plastic, 100% of the chemicals, 20% of the paper and cardboard, materials made from non-renewable chemicals and fillers Due to the short transport distances, we don’t just keep CO2 emissions low. GRI 301-1 Local farmers like MAM employee Uthan Bunglesin are also employed at the The resource-conserving use of materials is one of our highest principles. We factory in Hat Yai and can experience only manufacture on demand to avoid overproduction. Our largest plant in every step of the process themselves. Vaskereztes, Hungary, uses 95% of all of the materials consumed. The double For the MAM Friends, for example, the digit sales increase in recent years is notably reflected in the materials used. 40 MATERIALS Uthan Bunglesin and his wife, Preeda Binsen, playing with little Muhammad “Patience is the Sayyid, the daughter of a colleague. most important thing for harvesting latex” Portrait. In Thailand, we were able to increase the share of renewable materials to nearly 40 percent, thanks in great part to our MAM Friends. Rubber farmers such as Uthan Bunglesin make a decisive contribution to this. It’s the middle of the night in the dense MAM Friends. Unlike the work with the Thai rubber forest as a new work day rubber trees, which pauses during the There is always somestarts for Uthan. “The most productive rainy season and in summer, there is thing to do in production harvest time is from midnight to the always something to do in production. because every MAM early morning hours,“ explains the “My work week lasts from Monday Friend is processed and 39-year-old. “The most important thing to Saturday,” says the MAM employpainted by hand. is patience.” The milky, natural latex ee. “Everyone here is friendly and is harvested by cutting the bark of the caring and they always listen to what Environment rubber tree and is later prepared for I have to say. My wife and many of my further processing. Uthan has been relatives work here. This company is working with rubber trees for nearly 15 like a family for us.” years and is always learning something new. “In the beginning, my brother-inEveryone wins law taught me a lot about the equipment Apart from his work at MAM, Uthan and methods. It takes a lot of knowledge likes to spend his free time with his to keep the trees going as long as eight-year-old daughter Natchaya, who possible,” he says. “It’s a family tradition has recently started attending a nearby for me: I had been watching for years school. They watch cartoons together, and now I am harvesting myself – that draw or sometimes take a nap. The makes me proud.” father brought one of the brand new MAM Friends home for his daughter. For MAM in the forest “She’s of course too old for a teether but and factory she plays with it like a doll. Sometimes In January 2016, Uthan applied for it even has to be our house pet,” laughs work at the MAM subsidiary Thaimed. the amiable Thai. As a latex farmer and Since then he has not only worked as factory worker, he hopes that people a contract latex supplier for MAM, he around the world buy MAM products: is also employed in the Hat Yai facility. “The parents benefit from the quality, He works in maintenance and, as the manufacturer and we the employees needed, in production where he helps profit from the sales, it’s a win-win with making the plaster moulds for the for everyone!” 41 DISPOSAL Tons of good ideas From old to new. At the end of every product life cycle comes disposal. But why throw away something nice if another use can be found for it? Waste – through responsible handling of with the Vienna University of Applied materials (see pg. 40), waste separation Arts in 2014, we decided to continue: and recycling we can all contribute to The same year we called for an internal reducing it. What might end up in the bin competition among the employees in despite all this could, however, be given Austria and repeated the action in the new life with a little clever and caring following year. In the fall of 2015 we finally handicraft. conducted the first international MAM Office Upcycling Competition. Our country No creativity wasted teams accepted the challenge and came At MAM, upcycling is already something up with a number of ideas for creative of a tradition. After the initial success of waste recycling. A ten-person jury from our “2nd Life” competition in cooperation different departments judged all submissions according to five criteria: Creativity, time and effort, functionality/applicability, wow factor and overall impression. We would like to introduce three contributions INFO BOX at this point. Designs from around the world Greece: A wintry door wreath, a colourful soother wall as office decoration and cute soother magnets for the black board Spain: A shimmering pearl curtain made of old Upcycling deluxe soothers in the sunlight from France Sweden: A stylish soother pillow, a colourful exit sign, a decorative flower pot and a clever fruit bowl with Also at MAM France little soothers were inwardly swept teats for extra soft storage turned into great works of art. First, they wanted UK: An entire office decorated with soothers, to reach for the sky and built an impressive including pen holder, picture frame, lamp shade, tea soother hot air balloon for their conference tray and umbrella stand room. A perfect doll’s bed was created in painstaking detail which even lights up in the USA: A Christmas tree with soother ornaments and garlands – now a MAM upcycling classic dark through the use of our Night Collection. And finally, a few reclaimed soothers made All participating country teams were rewarded with a it back onto the shelf: as MAM lettering in a box full of organic food items from Austria. product display. 42 DISPOSAL Waste Waste at the manufacturing facilities by method of disposal, in tons 2014 2015 2016 Total 266 329 412 Non-hazardous1 243 (92 %) 302 (92 %) 384 (93 %) Hazardous2 22 (8 %) 27 (8 %) 28 (7 %) Recycling 87 % 84 % 87 % Incineration 8% 8% 7% Landfill 5% 8% 6% Hungary 244 311 387 Non-hazardous1 222 (91 %) 284 (91 %) 359 (93 %) Hazardous2 22 (9 %) 27 (9 %) 28 (7 %) Recycling 85 % 83 % 86 % Incineration 9% 9% 7% Landfill 6% 8% 7% Thailand 22 18 25 A light goes on Non-hazardous1 22 (100 %) 18 (100 %) 25 (100 %) in Brazil Recycling 100 % 100 % 100 % A whole series of upcycling proposals came to 1 Non-hazardous waste is disposed of through conventional waste separation (i.e., mixed waste, paper, plastic) us from Brazil, but three designs were particu2 Hazardous waste is a substance that presents a potential hazard to health larly noteworthy. Who would think, for example, and/or the environment and is therefore disposed of separately (i.e., cleaning agents in production) of using pink and blue soothers as elegant framing for the men’s and ladies’ toilets? The GRI 306-2 colour-matched magnetic clip was another useful application and is already in use as a We are not only looking for creative solutions to breathe new life notepad on the office refrigerator. With their into our products, but also constantly working on the optimisation of night-light idea our Brazilian colleagues really our resource streams. By means of precise quantity production, we minimise our material requirements and thereby our waste disposal. gave old soothers a chance to shine again. The share of hazardous waste in our production sites in Hungary and That persuaded our jury and so the 2016 MAM Thailand has been reduced from nine to seven percent in recent years. Upcycling Award went to MAM Brazil. Hazardous waste is thermally utilised; about 87 percent of our waste is recycled. Environment The giant Swiss soother Let’s go all out, thought our colleagues in Switzerland. They came out big in our upcycling challenge and quickly turned 1,000 soothers into a huge sculpture. The idea, colour selection and the creation of cardboard stencils took just one day. On the next day, everything was sorted, the wire mesh framework was constructed and finally, the giant soother was put together. Although the entire team worked together, it was evening before the last soother was put in place. 43 Photos: Egger & Lerch, Reinhard Lang; shutterstock.com (flowers) Social sustainability OUR GOAL: Not only to be a good employer, but also to expand our network of medical experts and develop our products together with them. 930 employees 2016, 43% more than in the past reporting period Over 50% have children, 100% return after parental leave 76% female employees, management: 40% women in 2016, proportion increasing Audit Certificate „berufundfamilie“ Network of 6,000 medical experts worldwide 44 Photos: Egger & Lerch, Reinhard Lang; shutterstock.com (flowers) We learn from each other “I see with my children that not only the older one teaches the younger one something, but also the other way around.” It’s like this in the MAM family too, where we learn from each other. My task is to promote and shape this process.” Relationships Victoria (3 years) and Constantin (2 years), the children of Sandra Chini, HR Manager 45 FAMILY-FRIENDLINESS Kids Sabine Beer and Careers manages the internal communications Family and work in harmony. For MAM, department it’s completely natural to operate in a at MAM in the morning, and familyfriendly fashion. We have three her family life in examples showing the measures in place to the afternoon. support our employees in coordinating work and family. Part-time manager Sabine Beer is the Director of Internal Communications at MAM – and a mother. She works Monday through Thursday in the Vienna office and spends the afternoons with her six-year-old son David. Sabine appreciates that a career at MAM does not exclude children: “It’s Gender equality just great that managers, too, have the chance to come back part-time after 2014 2015 2016 parental leave.” Employees are free to Total employees 651 852 930 determine the number of hours per week Women 74 % 75 % 76 % they will come back for – with a rule just Female members of governance body 32 % 33 % 39 % for managers that it must be at least 20. Women in office 67 % 66 % 67 % Although Sabine is not in the office all day Women in production 79 % 79 % 80 % she doesn’t miss any important meetLabour turnover rate women 17 % 8% 17 % ings since these are purposely planned Labour turnover rate men 25 % 10 % 17 % during core hours for part-time workers. Women part-time 10 % 8% 8% She plans her office hours together with Men part-time 2% 3% 3% her colleague, who also works part-time. The arrangement works really well! Even Average switching days is no problem as long hours of training per year ns 22 24 Photos: Egger & Lerch, Reinhard Lang (top left, bottom right) as we plan it in advance. That increases women, Austria* flexibility even more – and at the same Average hours of training per year ns 29 21 time, our loyalty to MAM!” men, Austria* GRI 404-1, 405-1 Over 75% of our employees are women. The proportion of women in the governance body is continuously increasing and already at nearly 40 percent. There is no difference in the labour turnover rate between After external verification and certification, male and female employees at MAM. MAM received the Government Seal of * At over 20 hours per year, time for continuing education in Austria is Family-Friendliness. very high. A complete collection of data is being compiled. 46 GRI 103-2 FAMILY-FRIENDLINESS Guide for future parents After the birth of his daughter Luiza on January 21st, 2017, Stefan Scharl spent two weeks at home to enjoy time with his family. The Content & Social Media Brand Manager learned this was possible and, as a father to be, how Stefan Scharl is taking advantage of the possibility to prepare for parental leave at work The MAM Buddy System of parental leave. The MAM from the Roadmap. The online platform Iris Lehner has been on parental leave parental leave management covering the topics of parenthood and roadmap gave him the since the birth of her second son Lionel care has been open to all Austrian information he needed. in June 2016. Still, it is important to MAM employees since 2015. Stefan her to remain in contact with MAM. recently consulted it again since he ”I'm interested in what happens in is going on parental leave for three the company. And when I'm up to months starting in September 2017: date, my return will naturally be much “The roadmap shows you everything easier and more enjoyable,”she says. about the different options available This is the reason she uses the MAM and how to prepare yourself and your Buddy System – a measure which was colleagues for leaving and coming developed and introduced within the back to work.” He found the checklists scope of the “berufundfamilie” audit. It especially helpful: “It has all the to-dos works like this: Buddy pairs are formed and deadlines and even the forms between an active employee and a to give to HR can be downloaded – colleague on parental leave. They are a great service!” paired up according to the random principle, which is how Iris and her buddy got together. They finalised the buddy agreement before her leave Umwelt started. “We decided how and how Family-friendly workplace often we want to exchange – and that 2014 2015 2016 also works very well,” says Iris. Her Total number of employees return to MAM approaches calmly, on parental leave 31 28 40 since she will get all the info she needs Female employees 29 25 39 to get started again from her buddy. Male employees 2 3 1 Total number of employees who have returned to work 10 17 16 after parental leave Relationships Female employees 8 15 14 Return rate women Photos: Egger & Lerch, Reinhard Lang (top left, bottom right) 100 % 100 % 93 % Male employees 2 2 2 Return rate men 100 % 100 % 100 % Employees with children 394 (61 %) 433 (51 %) 481 (52 %) Employees without children 257 (39 %) 419 (49 %) 449 (48 %) GRI 401-3, 405-1 Family-friendliness is alive at MAM: Over 50 percent of our employees have Iris Lehner is still interested in what children. The return rate after parental leave is nearly 100 percent, with just is going on at MAM while she is on one colleague not returning to work during the reporting period. 94 per cent of parental leave. That's why she takes our total staff (100 per cent of the women) has the opportunity to take parental part in the buddy programme. leave. Some countries do not yet offer parental leave for men. GRI 103-2 47 WORKING AT MAM More than well provided for From doctor visits to yoga sessions. We are there for our employees – in every situation in life. We offer additional services and benefits to our employees that go beyond those required by law at all of our locations. Hungarian fitness centre Additional offers for our Our oldest and largest production site employees in Vaskeresztes: in Vaskeresztes has undergone many Foundation for financial support of expansions over the years and it is still employees in cases of hardship being regularly enlarged and modernised Shuttle bus to and from work today (see pg. 34). This affects more than (also ­reduces CO2 emissions) just the infrastructure. More than half of Regular mammographies, eye exams, our employees work in Hungary – and immunisations and massages we want to know they are well taken care Discounts in regional shops of. As a balance for physical work in the Theatre tickets as a factory, there are many opportunities for ­performance ­bonus sporting activities, especially in the new Relaxation room fitness centre directly at the production site. Completed along with the most recent modifications, the training centre is outfitted with selected equipment and is available to all employees, whether assembly line workers or management personnel. Like the rest of the building, it is equipped with an efficient climate control system and LED lighting. Generous windows provide natural light for sports. After working out, employees have the opportunity to cool off at a nearby swimming pool. MAM also pays the entrance fees there. 48 GRI 401-2 WORKING AT MAM Thailand plans ahead MAM employees and The word “savings” is rarely used in everydistribution partners at day Thai life: People live in the present the MAM Congress. and there is no tradition of long-term financial security. Nevertheless, MAM has come up with a plan to make savings an INFO BOX attractive idea for the employees at both production sites in Hat Yai and Kabin MAM as employer Buri. Within the framework of a corporate Equal opportunities, healthy interaction and common pension fund, they can transfer between growth – these basic values are essential for our 3 and 15 percent of their monthly pay to personnel management. their own account. The company pays 3% interest on every deposit – a major 1. Everyone is important incentive for the workforce and a longWe are a young, multicultural and gender-balanced term investment for us. Currently, about 20 team – from interns to management – and we highly per cent of the employees are participatvalue this diversity. We believe everyone should ing in this voluntary programme, thereby be treated with respect. The additional services ensuring that their families will have a described in this article are therefore mostly free of financial cushion even in harder times. charge and are available to both full-time and partWe hope that participation will continue to time employees. grow over time and savings will become Umwelt 2. Always willing to listen more a part of everyday life. We see a lively dialogue between the operations teams and management in a safe working environHow we invest in our employees ment as the basis for healthy cooperation. Openness, in Thailand: honesty, trust and respect for other ways of thinking Interest-free education loans for are always at the centre of this cooperation. children of employees 3. Growing together In-company day-care in Hat Yai Thanks to an excellent business climate, we have More holidays than customary in Thailand plus extra holiday time for Relationships expanded our workforce by 43 percent since 2014 to a total of 930 employees. In doing so, we rely on the birth of a child qualified specialists and managers who can support Annual physical exams at the us in our organic expansion. Nearly 35 percent of local hospital our employees came aboard in 2016 – 200 people in Free work uniform Hungary alone, and 50 at our plant in Thailand. But Phased introduction of a compreof course we don’t want to grow just in numbers: We hensive Compensations & Benefits are also committed to the personal and professional package including: social and accident development of our employees through continuing insurance for employees and their education courses, which are agreed upon within the families, cost of living allowances and scope of employee appraisal meetings held at least food vouchers, shift premiums, birthday once a year. gifts, pension plans, and grants for weddings and the death of immediate GRI 404-3 family members. GRI 401-2 49 WORKING AT MAM Healthy for body and mind: The staff in Vienna relax with group yoga once a week. Organisational profile 2014 2015 2016 Headcounts 651 852 930 Europe 497 (76 %) 628 (74 %) 693 (74 %) Asia 96 (15 %) 156 (18 %) 168 (18 %) America 15 (2 %) 16 (2 %) 16 (2 %) Rest of the World 43 (7 %) 52 (6 %) 53 (6 %) permanent 629 (97 %) 746 (88 %) 847 (91 %) temporary 22 (3 %) 106 (12 %) 83 (9 %) full time 602 (92 %) 796 (93 %) 866 (93 %) Lotus position in Austria part-time 49 (8 %) 56 (7 %) 64 (7 %) Everyday stress, postural problems and tension – even with good medical care female 484 (74 %) 640 (75 %) 706 (76 %) it’s hard to escape these problems in the permanent 470 (97 %) 546 (83 %) 644 (91 %) temporary 14 (3 %) 94 (17 %) 62 (9 %) workplace. For our employees in Vienna full time 438 (91 %) 591 (92 %) 648 (92 %) then, we offer a weekly, professionally part-time 46 (9 %) 49 (8 %) 58 (8 %) led yoga hour throughout the year. male 167 (26 %) 212 (25 %) 224 (24 %) The exercise is more than just part of permanent 159 (95 %) 200 (94 %) 203 (91 %) responsible, healthy lifestyle.The training temporary 8 (5 %) 12 (6 %) 21 (9 %) is funded by MAM but participants make full time 164 (98 %) 205 (97 %) 218 (97 %) a symbolic payment of five Euros per part-time 3 (2 %) 7 (3 %) 6 (3 %) session. At the end of the year, the entire amount will be donated to a family in GRI 102-8 need. In 2016, 500 Euros found their way into the hands of a young mother whose biggest wish was to earn enough as a dishwasher, cleaner or assembly line worker to afford a room for herself and her son. How we also support our Sponsorship at various running team in Austria: events (registration fees and meals) Measures to reconcile work and Beach volleyball in summer family life (see pp. 46– 47) Back massage once a week Benefits for employees travelling to Support for employees in the case Photo: shutterstock.com work by bike or public transport of personal hardship Employee day with an update on Food vouchers company strategy and keynote Computer glasses and seat-standing lectures for employees from Austria table tops for a healthier working and Hungary position at the desk 50 GRI 401-2 WORKING AT MAM Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region Diversit y of govern ance bodies and employ ees by gender and age 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 New Governance body (total) 59 57 56 141 187 324 employees (total) 19 (33 %) 22 (39 %) female 19 (32 %) Percentage of 38 (67 %) 34 (61 %) 22 % 22 % 35 % male 40 (68 %) headcounts (total) < 30 years 1 (2 %) 1 (2 %) 1 (2 %) Europe 57 (40 %) 124 (66 %) 253 (78 %) Asia 30–50 years 40 (68 %) 34 (60 %) 34 (61 %) 59 (42 %) 42 (22 %) 50 (15 %) America 3 (2 %) > 50 years 18 (30 %) 22 (38 %) 21 (37 %) 1 (1 %) 2 (1 %) Rest of the World 22 (16 %) 20 (11 %) 19 (6 %) Employees (total) 651 852 930 female 94 (67 %) < 30 years 187 (29 %) 225 (26 %) 251 (27 %) 132 (71 %) 253 (78 %) male 47 (33 %) 30–50 years 363 (56 %) 508 (60 %) 552 (59 %) 55 (29 %) 71 (22 %) > 50 years 101 (16 %) 119 (14 %) 127 (14 %) < 30 years 94 (67 %) 87 (47 %) 144 (44 %) 30 –50 years 40 (28 %) 56 (30 %) 157 (49 %) GRI 405-1 > 50 years 7 (5 %) 44 (23 %) 23 (7 %) Employees that Umwelt have left the 123 71 157 company (total) Turnover rate 19 % 8% 17 % Europe 52 (42 %) 48 (68 %) 125 (80 %) Asia 49 (40 %) 11 (16 %) 13 (8 %) America 3 (2 %) 1 (1 %) 1 (1 %) Rest of the World 19 (16 %) 11 (15 %) 18 (11 %) Relationships female 81 (66 %) 50 (70 %) 120 (76 %) male 42 (34 %) 21 (30 %) 37 (24 %) < 30 years 74 (60 %) 35 (49 %) 61 (39 %) 30–50 years 39 (32 %) 29 (41 %) 73 (46 %) > 50 years 10 (8 %) 7 (10 %) 23 (15 %) GRI 401-1 Photo: shutterstock.com GRI 401-1 51 CODE OF CONDUCT Susanna Wagner, MAM Ethically correct conduct is our duty Vice President Customer Relations Clear rules. We have implemented a code of conduct and an anti-corruption programme. Above all are human rights – INFO BOX and that naturally goes also for our production facilities in Thailand. Human rights at MAM We respect the life, health and well-being of our employees and in the MAM countries we always act Imagine you are a MAM employee that we were not faced with corrupwithin the national laws, including and you are given a laptop completely tion in the reporting period of 2015 human rights. In Thailand, however, free by a potential business partner. and 2016. This involves rules for gifts there is a general risk that they will Can you keep it? Even if no business such as the above-mentioned laptop, be violated. For this reason, we have comes out of it? Or does this fall under travel expenses, dealing with authorreviewed the relevant GRI indicators bribery? We are highly concerned ities and other important aspects that (system boundaries) for our location in about questions like these. In addition should strengthen our anti-corruption Hat Yai (see page 40) and are looking to sustainable management, environculture. We are planning training for especially closely at this: Forced and mental protection and social justice, employees, which will further define compulsory work are forbidden. MAM places particular importance on our code of conduct. In addition, the Overtime is voluntary and there are ethically correct behaviour. ethics representatives at MAM should no penalties or intimidation. Our strict continually be involved and act as a policy against child labour and the rights of the indigenous population In order to ensure this we have our first contact for instances of suspected is anchored in the code of conduct. code of conduct: It is based on the corruption. We don’t fool around when Since MAM started, there have been ten principles of the United Nations it comes to responsibility. CSR has no incidents in this regard. There are Global Compact and is part of our CSR always had, and will continue to have no legal collective bargaining agreephilosophy. Not only all employees in top priority for us in the future. ments in Thailand but we pay above all MAM countries must adhere to it average wages and offer many – it also applies to our suppliers. With Yours, benefits (see pg. 49). One of our goals their signature, they commit to paying Susanna Wagner for the next report: To offer training their employees fairly, to respect the courses on the subject of human environment in all their activities, and rights and to carry out a social audit much more. at the factories. But that is not all. In 2017, we will start PS: As a MAM employee, you could not GRI 102-41, 407-1, 408-1, to roll out our anti-corruption proaccept the laptop. It would be a gift of gramme at MAM – despite the fact too high a value. 409-1, 410-1, 411-1, 412-1 52 GRI 102-16, 103-2, 205-1, 205-2, 205-3, 410-1, 412-1 EDUCATIONAL WORK Explaining without words Safe sleep. MAM develops information material without text. It visualises important topics such as oral hygiene or SIDS (Sudden Infant Death Syndrome), and does it all without words. Faizah is at the paediatrician with her and comic characters had to be devedaughter Kalila. On the table in the loped for the oral hygiene info sheet. waiting room is a stack of magazines “What we learned here is that clear, that Faizah can’t read. But the MAM simple pictures are better than playful info sheet about SIDS is there, too. It and finely detailed ones,” says Monika. describes with pictures, among other things, that babies sleep best on their Difficult topics back on a firm surface in a baby simply prepared sleeping bag. Faizah picks it up – and Here too, Prof. Kerbl lent his paediatric understands. expertise and an agency took care of working up the two-page SIDS info Not all new parents have the opporsheet. Today, it is available in medical Umwelt tunity to get information on important practices, hospitals and clinics, and questions and topics – they may have can be ordered free of charge from a language barrier like Faizah, for the MAM healthcare professionals mambaby.com example. MAM developed educational online shop. “The SIDS info sheet is an material, like the SIDS info sheet, for absolute hit with both medical profespeople like her. The idea came from sionals and parents,” says Monika. a training course that Monika Skokan, How does she explain that? “It’s hard the team leader for medical science to talk about SIDS. With the pictures – – cooperation at MAM, attended at the though, we were able to present the – – – Relationships – 04.04.16 11:01 Graz University Clinic. “Paediatrician topic in an easy to understand and _eng.indd 2 Prof. Kerbl emphasised how difficult it accessible form.” Now Faizah knows SIDS Infoblatt_DinA4 is to reach particularly vulnerable famwhat to pay attention to when putting SIDS Infoblatt_DinA4_eng.indd 1 04.04.16 11:01 ilies. That just clicked with me,” recalls Kalila to bed. She told her friends Sharing knowledge with Monika. The idea for the info sheet about it who are mothers, too. parents is important was born, now was the time to make it Photo: Egger & Lerch, Reinhard Lang to us. Besides the happen. There was already a comprecomics-style info sheets on SIDS and dental care hensive brochure on the subject of SIDS we have published other co-developed by Prof. Reinhold Kerbl, MAM brochures on nuhead of the paediatrics department. at merous topics including Monika Skokan, the Upper Styria Regional Hospital in breast feeding, nutrition, Team Lead using soothers and baby Leoben. It served as a basis for content Medical Science massage. – an advantage since both the concept Cooperation 53 CORPORATE VOLUNTEERING Good news from our charity events 11 countries, countless projects. Across the globe, our employees work for those in need. 2016 was a big charity year – and with a bonus: For each non-profit initiative, there was an additional €500 contribution from MAM headquarters to charity organisations. MAM countries have sent us their project reports. INFO BOX Here is how MAM employees helped GREECE in other countries: Brazil: Donations in kind and collection From: Letty Varella, General Manager MAM Hellas campaigns for people in need Subject: 2,200 Euros for refugee children Germany: Donation to the German Hello from Greece, Children’s Cancer Foundation instead of Christmas gifts 2016 was a special year for us: On one hand, France: Donation of €16,000 to PREMUP, MAM marked its 40th birthday – a reason for celebration. an organisation which conducts research On the other hand, the refugee crisis presented us for preterm health. with great challenges. Help was needed everywhere. We thought: Why don’t we use our anniversary to help Hungary: Cash donations and donations the refugees? in kind to renovate a kindergarten. This is how we got the idea for our Facebook campaign: Sweden: Donation to UNHCR instead In November we held a sweepstakes on our Facebook of Christmas gifts. page in which 40 of our fans could win a 40th anniversary package. And not just that: Every response to this Switzerland: Donations in kind for the post – whether a like, share or a comment – meant help victims of the August 2016 earthquake for refugee children. There were 2,200 responses by the in Italy. end of the sweepstakes. For us that meant: We donated Thailand: Collection of donations for the €2,200 worth of MAM products to the Red Cross, which Ben Mae Marm School, a Thai Austrian provides care for children in refugee centres. The Red Society project. Cross was thankful for all of the teethers, bottles, toothbrushes and other much needed items for babies and UK: Donations were made, amongst toddlers. And we were truly glad that we could help in others, for CLAPA, a charitable organisation a meaningful way. helping people with cleft lip and palate. Your Letty 54 CORPORATE VOLUNTEERING AUSTRIA / HUNGARY From: Zsofia Gresko, Supplier Quality Team Leader Subject: A playground for refugee children USA From: Jennifer Mitchell, Chief Executive Dear MAM colleagues around the world, Officer MAM USA/Canada Subject: Corporate Volunteering Day at so many people have come from war zones to Austria Blythedale Children’s Hospital in the last two years! And like so many others, we wanted to help. After focusing on urgent needs the year beHello MAM, fore, we wanted to continue and make progress in other areas. We learned that there was a house in Baden the state of New York is a great place to bei Wien, where the Diakonie Refugee Services have live – especially if you can afford health been assisting 200 refugees, including unaccompanied care. Sadly, not everyone has the same minors and families with children, since February. The opportunities. For those who are very poor, Paul Weiland House also has a garden. We thought we the cost of seeing a doctor is unaffordable. could build a playground, which would provide a space A sick child can be a serious problem for for all of the children living there to enjoy. We needed parents since there is often not enough some help to do this, though. And help we got, from money for medicine. Linsbauer, a maker of playground equipment. In times like these, facilities such as the One mild, October day, we were ready. Colleagues Blythedale Children's Hospital are a travelled from Vienna, Siegendorf and Hungary – with blessing. The hospital, which specialises in clothes, blankets, toys, toiletries, starter sets for the paediatrics, has more than just 120 years mothers-to-be in the house and loads of motivation. of experience in providing emergency We started by getting rid of all the vines and weeds care. It also has an excellent reputation and then, side by side with the professionals and piece Umwelt when it comes to developing exceptionally by piece, we built the playground: Sandboxes, slides, innovative treatment concepts for young basket swings and more. By the end of our company patients. They care for, treat and comfort volunteer day the garden, which just a few hours before over 2,500 children and families each year. was wild and overgrown, was transformed into a little What Blythedale does is incredible – so we oasis of fun. The residents of the house were very happy decided to help: On our corporate volunteer and extremely grateful. We were even rewarded: A day in the fall we accompanied the doctors Syrian chef, whose restaurant in Aleppo fell victim to and nurses while they performed their daily war, treated us to some delicious foods from his homeroutines. What we experienced that day land. A wonderful day with something for everyone! Relationships moved us deeply. The little boys and girls showed us just what courage means. Their Best regards, gratitude really touched us. The staff puts Your Zsofia their heart and soul into helping children and their parents in their fight against illness and poverty. Our contribution was only a very small one. But, the experience showed us what a wonderful privilege it is to be able to help. Many thanks to all of our dedicated colleagues! All the best from New York, Jennifer 55 SUMMARY AND GOALS C) Product-specific sustainability Chapter Eating, drinking, playing 1. Product safety NEW Ensure safe products through quality Our CSR programme testing and compliance with all standards 2. Sustainable Development NEW for the future Goals Intensive engagement with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) and their integration into our innovation process by 2017 We have ambitious goals. In the coming years we will 3. Bio-based EXTENDED implement a variety of measures to realise them. This plastics applies to all pillars of sustainability. Close collaboration with scientific institutions by 2020 to build up knowhow in the field of the components and processing of bio-based plastics with Our record shows that we follow our want to hit the 8,000 mark by the end the highest level of safety and quality words with action. The objectives from of 2018. But there are also topics in standards our previous sustainability report have the materiality matrix which we have either been fully implemented or broadnot yet devoted enough attention to. D) Environmental ened, since we want to accomplish They too are now on our sustainability sustainability even more in these areas. The latter agenda as goals and measures. These Chapter “Environment” are marked in the table as “extended”. topics, which are now included in the An example: One goal of the previous CSR programme, are marked as new NEW 1. Carbon footprint sustainability report was to expand in the table. Expansion of the MAM CO2 calculator for our MAM network to 5,000 experts. By parents by implementing the findings of the end of 2016 it was already 6,500. the study on the carbon footprint of MAM Our new goal E1 goes even further: We soothers by 2017 2. CO 2 neutral production NEW Evaluation of the “CO2 neutral production” project for Europe by 2019 3. Environmental management NEW Planning for the expansion of the environmental management system used in the Hungarian plant according B) Economic to ISO 14001: 2015 to our production sustainability plant in Thailand by 2020 Chapter Growth 4. Energy management EXTENDED A) CSR-Management Implement energy management system 1. Strategy NEW principles per ISO 50001:2011 for our 1. Key figures EXTENDED Long-term and stable corporate plant in Hungary by 2019 Improve management of key figures by strategy with the goal of sustainable 5. Waste NEW the time our next sustainability report corporate development Reduction of the landfill waste rate per for 2017/2018 is completed in 2019 2. Investments NEW employee through various measures for 2. UN Global Compact NEW Farsighted self-financing of company our plant in Hungary by 2018 Active participation in the UN Global growth and maintaining a high 6. Energy efficient Compact Network by 2017 percentage of reinvestment construction EXTENDED 3. Supply chain NEW 3. R&D NEW Establishment of a new research and Roll-out of our sustainability Strong focus on research & development centre in Austria in management with product parts development to act as a driver of accordance with energy-efficient suppliers by 2020 innovation guidelines by 2020 56 GRI 103-2, 103-3 SUMMARY AND GOALS E) Social sustainability Chapter Relationships 1. Networking EXTENDED with medical experts Continuous networking with at least 8,000 medical experts such as midwives, orthodontists, dentists and paediatricians by 2018 NEW WE PROVIDE DEEP INSIGHT 2. SIDS Educational work and knowledge sharing on Sudden Infant Death Syndrome The 2015 & 2016 sustainability human rights, we have restricted (SIDS), especially in China, where the report is the third by the Bamed/ ourselves to our site in Thailand SIDS rate is significantly higher than in MAM Group and the first that (see pp. 40 –41), since that is where other countries, by 2018 was prepared in accordance with an increased risk lies. 3. Social Audit NEW the new Standards of the GloConduct social audits at our production bal Reporting Initiative (GRI). It is Where does CSR reside plants per Sedex/SMETA by 2017 intended to show how seriously at MAM? NEW we take our ecological and social The CSR team reports directly to the 4. Human rights corporate responsibility and make MAM management and they jointly Expand our initiatives to observe human rights, especially at our two plants our commitment to sustainability define the strategic orientation of in Thailand by 2018 (per GRI 412-1 transparent. We pay attention to CSR. In doing so, we ensure that and as stipulated by the Thai Labour resources and energy efficiency all sustainability issues are closely Protection Act) and minimise the environmental linked to our core business. impact in the development and 5. Anti-corruption EXTENDED manufacture of our products. In World-wide roll-out of an anti-corruption doing so we follow the precautionDo you have any questions? programme including employee training ary principle. We construct, for exOur CSR department, headed by 2018 ample, in a way that is sustainable by Hannes Thaler, will be 6. Work and family EXTENDED and state of the art (see pp. 36–38) pleased to provide you with Intensify measures to reconcile work and conduct regular energy audits information on the content of and family life including a “Beruf & (see pp. 34–35). the report as well as the diaFamilie” re-audit by 2017 logue with our stakeholders: 7. Corporate EXTENDED All locations in our sights csr-team@mambabycom Volunteering For the collection of quantitative Implementing our annual corporate data the scope of consolidation Sustainable on the Net, too: volunteering initiatives around the world was defined as the reporting Our sustainability report 8. Employer Engagement NEW boundaries. This includes all of the is of course available as Annual employee day for all employees locations of companies belonging an online version at from Austria and the management of to the group (see pg. 6). There are report.mambaby.com the Hungarian production site. The focus only two variations: As environis on information, development impulses mental aspects primarily concern for the team and shared experience the production sites, we have only 9. Recruiting NEW compiled the relevant indicators Promoting beneficial diversity and for them. Regarding the subject of taking the Equal Treatment and Disability Discrimination Law into account in our GRI 102-11, 102-18, 102-45, Sequence of applicant selection” guide 102-46, 103-1 GRI 103-2, 103-3 57 GRI STANDARDS CONTENT INDEX GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016* Organisational profile 102-1 Name of the organisation footnote 1) 102-2 Primary brands, products and services page 6 102-3 Location of the organisations´ headquarters page 6 and footnote 1) 102-4 Number of countries, where the organisation operates page 6 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form footnote 1) 102-6 Markets served page 6 The sales locations support the markets supplied. Direct customers of MAM are primarily trading companies 102-7 Scale of the organisation pages 6-7 and footnote 2) 102-8 Information on employees and other workers page 50 102-9 The organisation’s supply chain page 19 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain new subsidiary in Italy new production facility in Thailand (pages 36-38) 102-11 Precautionary approach or principle addressed by the organisation page 57 102-12 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or which it page 9, page 17 endorses 102-13 Membership of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organisations page 17 Strategy 102-14 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation about the relevance of sustainability to the organisation and the organisation's pages 4-5, pages 16-18 strategy for addressing sustainability Ethics and integrity 102-16 Organisation's values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics pages 8-9, page 52 Governance 102-18 Governance structure of the organisation including committees of the highest governance body page 57 and footnote 1) Stakeholder-Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation pages 10-11 102-41 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements page 52 102-42 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage pages 10-11 102-43 The organisation's approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and indication of pages 10-11 whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process 102-44 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has responded to those key topics and pages 10-11 concerns Report profile 102-45 List of all entities included in the organisation's consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents page 57 102-46 Process for defining the report content and the topic boundaries pages 10-11, page 57 102-47 List of all the material topics identified in the process for defining the report content pages 10-11 102-48 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements transitioning from GRI G4 to GRI Standards 102-49 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries pages 10-11 102-50 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided 2015 and 2016 102-51 Date of most recent previous report (if any) 2015 (for the reporting period 2013 and 2014) 102-52 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) biennially 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents csr-team@mambaby.com 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards The report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core Option 102-55 GRI content index pages 58-59 102-56 The organisation's policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report The report has not been assessed externally. GRI-consultancy by denkstatt GmbH * For a better overview of the general disclosures, the texts of the key figures are shown in a condensed form, but the total content of the key figures is discussed in the report. 1) Ownership and legal form: Like BAMED AG, MAM Babyartikel GmbH is part of the Bamed / MAM Group. The supreme body of the Bamed / MAM Group is Tamlino Investments Limited, based in Cyprus, represented by Wolfgang Allichhammer, Dr. Peter Karl Wolf and Dr. Peter Hoffmann. Major strategic decisions require the approval of the supreme body of the Group. Operationally, the Group is represented by BAMED AG, Switzerland, headed by the Chairman of the Board, Niklaus Schertenleib,whereby BAMED AG is responsible for production and sales. The two Austrian companies Bamed GmbH and MAM Babyartikel GmbH, represented by the managing director, Ing. Peter Röhrig, are, in consolidation with BAMED AG, responsible for research and development as well as for brand management. 2) Size of the organisation incl. balance sheet figures such as turnover, sales: The Bamed / MAM Group is not listed on the stock exchange, so there is no obligation to publish. We live by the sale of a limited range of products under a single brand In a low-growth market. In the global market, we are the only remaining medium-sized company. All major competitors are part of larger, financially strong and diversified business structures. Under these conditions, we consider the risk as a given that a sales publication allows far-reaching conclusions for our competitors, which can be used to our disadvantage. 58 GRI 102-55 GRI STANDARDS CONTENT INDEX GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary pages 10-11; page 57 103-2 The management approach and its components: GRI 200: STANDARDS 2016, ECONOMIC page 52, pages 56-57 103-2 The management approach and its components: GRI 200: STANDARDS 2016, ENVIRONMENTAL page 26, pages 34-35, page 39, pages 56-57 103-2 The management approach and its components: GRI 200: STANDARDS 2016, SOCIAL page 26, pages 46-47, page 52, pages 56-57 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach pages 56-57 GRI 200: STANDARDS 2016, ECONOMIC Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption page 52 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures page 52 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken page 52 Anti-competitive behavior 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust and monopoly practices no legal disputes in the reporting period GRI 300: STANDARDS 2016, ENVIRONMENTAL Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume page 40 301-2 Recycled input materials used page 31 Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation page 35 Emissions 305-1 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) page 39 305-2 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) page 39 Waste 306-2 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method page 43 Compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Environmental laws and regulations are complied with by ISO 14001. No incidents of non-compliance with environmental legislation during the reporting period GRI 400: STANDARDS 2016, SOCIAL Employment 401-1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region page 51 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations pages 48-50 of operations 401-3 Return to work rates and retention rates after parental leave, by gender Return rates: page 47 Retention rates: no valid data; will be evaluated in the next report Labour/Management relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes Timely communication at essential changes are standard at MAM Training and education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee page 46 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews page 49 Nearly 100%. A complete data collection will follow with the next report Diversity and equal opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees pages 46-47, page 51 Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken There were no incidents of discrimination in the reporting period Freedom of association and collective bargaining 407-1 Freedom of association and collective bargaining page 52; based on the respective legal framework Child labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labour page 52 Forced or compulsory labour 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour page 52 Security practices 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies and procedures page 52 Rights of indigenous peoples 411-1 Rights of indigenous peoples page 52 Human Rights Assessment 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments page 52 Customer health and safety 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories page 24; all product groups are subject to stringent quality requirements 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services There were no incidents in the reporting period Product and service labeling 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling There were no incidents in the reporting period Customer privacy 418-1 Customer Privacy: Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data page 29 Compliance 419-1 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of no fines in the reporting period products and services GRI 102-55 59 The MAM CSR report ends here, but our commitment continues: We’ll keep working to make babies and parents happy in the future, too.
