global citizenship report 2 18 contents Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Statement of Support . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 What We Do . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Help Families Find Their Way to New Homes, New Communities, and New Experiences . . . . . . 4 Cartus Culture . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Making the UN Global Compact Principles Our Own . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Our People . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 We Respect Those We Work With and For . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 Diversity and Inclusion Make Us a Better Company . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 Recognizing People Who Do Great Things . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 Ethics and Compliance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 We Are Recognized for Doing the Right Thing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 Caring for Our Communities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 Cartus Cares for People Where We Live and Work . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 Environmental Stewardship . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17 Our Employees Are a Lean, Mean, Green Machine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17 Sustainable Procurement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 Ensuring Compliance, Security, and Value . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 introduction Statement of Support To Cartus stakeholders: For more than 60 years, Cartus has helped families settle into new homes, new communities, and new experiences. The Cartus promise to provide trusted guidance applies not only to supporting clients and their relocating employees, but to how we give back to your communities around the world. When you operate in more than 185 countries, measuring success becomes more than just an accounting exercise: it relies on an understanding of—and sensitivity toward— the many cultures and environments we work with and within. As such, Cartus actively supports the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact by continuing efforts in the key areas of concern: Human Rights, Labor, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. Over the last year, Cartus has made exciting strides in these areas with new initiatives and practices, all described in the Global Citizenship Report that follows. Highlights of the company’s progress include: • Remaining focused on worldwide corporate social responsibility in every aspect of business as demonstrated by Cartus’ EcoVadis Silver designation, which places the company among the top 30 percent of performers evaluated by the leading supplier sustainability platform in the field. • Working to protect clients by maintaining stringent controls to ensure data integrity and protection, including SOC 2 Type 2, SSAE 16, and ISAE 3402 compliance; Cyber Essentials accreditation; EU-U.S. Privacy Shield Framework registration; and a comprehensive plan for European Union General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) readiness when it takes effect in May 2018. • Having an incredible year in terms of charitable contributions, as Cartus employees around the world raised more than US$400,000 through various events and volunteered thousands of hours of time to their chosen causes and communities. • And, as always, being guided by the concept of what’s right: a focus on ethical behavior that unifies our practices and interactions. For the sixth straight year, our parent company, Realogy—and by extension, Cartus—was named one of the World’s Most Ethical companies. We work diligently to earn this designation every day. A lot has changed over the last six-plus decades, but one thing that hasn’t is Cartus’ commitment to global citizenship. I encourage you to read the report and internalize the spirit of giving represented by Cartus and our people. Scott Becker SVP, Broker and Affinity Services (Interim CEO), Cartus CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 3 what we do Help Families Find Their Way to New Homes, New Communities, and New Experiences Our expertise began more than 60 years ago, when Cartus • Achievers 50 Most Engaged WorkplacesTM 2017: For the We have more first offered U.S. domestic home-finding assistance. Since second consecutive year, Cartus was recognized as one then, we have grown to become the most trusted guide in of the Achievers 50 Most Engaged Workplaces™ in North than 60 years the global relocation industry, moving employees and their America. This annual award recognizes top employers of thought families into and out of 185-plus countries. that display leadership and innovation in engaging their workplaces. leadership Cartus is the industry leader in mobility support to organizations worldwide. With nearly 2,700 Cartus • No. 1 Ranking for Overall Satisfaction among large and expertise. relocation management companies in the 2017 employees—800 based in EMEA and APAC— and 17 offices worldwide, last year we assisted nearly International Managers Survey conducted by Trippel 162,000 families. Survey & Research: Cartus also earned the number one position in the categories of Responsiveness, Supplier Our services cover every aspect of the relocation process— Management, Value for Price Paid, Cost Management, and from selling a home and shipping household goods to Country Coverage. settling into new communities around the world. We provide • 2017 EMMA Award Winner: Cartus won first place logistical support and innovative technology solutions as well for “Outstanding Corporate and Social Responsibility as in-house international assignment compensation services, Initiatives” at the annual Forum for Expatriate intercultural and language training, consulting services, and Management Americas Summit & Expatriate Management real estate assistance programs. and Mobility Awards (EMMAs). Cartus is part of Realogy Holdings Corp. (NYSE: RLGY), • 2017 Gold Stevie Winner—American Business Awards: the market leader in residential real estate whose businesses Cartus was recognized with the top award in the include franchising, brokerage, relocation, and title and “Customer Service Department of the Year—Business settlement. Services” category. • Boeing Silver Performance Excellence Award 2017: Awards Cartus earned the Boeing Performance Excellence Award • Eaton Supplier Premier Award: This award honors just for the fourth consecutive year in recognition of the 10 recipients out of Eaton’s 50,000 global suppliers who outstanding customer service we provide in support of exhibit integrity, teamwork, accountability, positivity, and The Boeing Company’s relocation program. superior performance. This year’s award recognizes a business relationship between our two companies that has been in place since 1986. 4 | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | CARTUS cartus culture Making the UN Global Compact Principles Our Own The Cartus culture drives everything we do—both collectively Guiding Principles as an organization and individually as members of the Cartus We exist to Service: We are defined by our service. family. As part of that culture, our focus on global citizenship provide trusted reflects our commitment to the 10 principles of the UN Global Financial Responsibility: We manage all resources as if they Compact. Specifically, this commitment is revealed not only were our own. guidance to help in how we provide service to our clients and their relocating employees, but also in what our company and employees Respect: We respect others and treat people well. our clients and give back to our communities and our planet. their relocating Collaboration: We are better when we work together. Mission employees Ethical Behavior: We do the right thing. We come to work every day to help our customers and clients succeed. As a business participant in the UN Global Compact, Cartus succeed, fulfilling the needs and earning the trust of those has made a commitment to integrate the 10 principles whose lives we touch. into our strategic planning and day-to-day operations. The Vision following Communication on Progress (COP) details our efforts to fulfill this mission. We will provide trusted guidance by sharing and leveraging our vast body of knowledge and experience to create superior solutions, build relationships, and bring more value to all our stakeholders. We will work together each day to achieve excellence in all we do, fostering trust and confirming our leadership position in the markets we serve. CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 5 cartus culture Making the UN Global Compact Principles Our Own (cont’d.) CARTUS POLICY UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE CARTUS EFFORTS THE CARTUS HUMAN RIGHTS Human Rights The Cartus culture drives everything we do—both collectively as an POLICY organization and individually as members of the Cartus family. As part Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of that culture, we understand the important role we have in of internationally proclaimed human rights, and implementing a policy of support for the human rights of our Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human employees, suppliers, and communities globally. To make sure that rights abuses. Cartus continues to live according to these principles daily, we conduct annual reviews of our business with a focus on human rights. We are committed to ensuring that slavery and human trafficking do not exist Click above to read our in any part of our business or supply chain. Human Rights Policy. Labor Being ethical and compliant is embedded in everything Cartus does, including seeking to avoid complicity in human rights abuses. To that Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of end, we have formed a program of leaders across the organization— association and the effective recognition of the right to including Legal, HR, Ethics & Compliance, and Supply Chain—to collective bargaining; integrate human rights decision-making into all of our business Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and operations. Effective Date: February 2017 compulsory labor; Cartus’ human rights provision includes focus on the following areas: Distribution: All Realogy Employees Policy Owner: Ethics & Compliance Department Version: 1 SLAVERY AND HUMAN TRAFFICKING STATEMENT INTRODUCTION Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and • Equal employment • Fair wages and compensation Realogy Holdings Corp. believes in the obligation to protect human rights all around the world. We take opportunity very seriously our responsibility to remain alert to any risks to human rights and to ensure that our Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of business practices, as well as those of our supply chains, do not foster or support slavery or human • Harassment trafficking in any way. STRUCTURE OF OUR COMPANY AND ITS BUSINESS Realogy comprises four operating business units: (1) NRT LLC (real estate brokerage operations in the United States); (2) Realogy Franchise Group LLC/Realogy Group LLC (franchisor for six real estate brands employment and occupation. • Child labor and minimum • Guidance and reporting licensed in 105 countries); (3) Cartus Corporation (relocation service organizations operating in 150 countries); and (4) Title Resource Group (a title and settlement services company operating in the age workers United States). Realogy’s business focuses on real estate services offered through company-owned and franchised brokerages operating under one of Realogy’s owned or licensed brands: CENTURY 21®, for employees Coldwell Banker®, Coldwell Banker Commercial®, ERA Real Estate®, Sotheby’s International Realty® and Better Homes and Gardens® Real Estate. Realogy is headquartered in Madison, NJ. Its annual revenues exceed £36 million per year. Realogy maintains a corporate office for Cartus Corporation in Swindon, UK. SUPPLY CHAIN • Forced/bonded/ Realogy’s supply chains vary based on the business unit. For our business units that operate outside the • Valuing diversity compulsory labor United States, our supply chain is principally made up of vendors of Cartus Corporation, our relocation services division, that assists its clients and their employees in developing their global workforce and managing their mobility process from packing and moving of furnishings, real estate purchase or rental • Accessibility for persons assistance, and settling into new communities around the world. Realogy Franchise Group offers direct franchises and master franchise rights outside the United States • Freedom of association/ through its affiliate Realogy Group LLC. Realogy Group LLC licenses our brand trademarks and systems to independent third parties to allow them to directly provide real estate services or operate a franchise system in a designated region under one of our six brands. With very limited exceptions, neither Realogy Franchise Group nor Realogy Group LLC provide or approve a supply chain or individual with disabilities collective bargaining suppliers for franchisees or master franchise owners outside the United States. Page 1 of 3 • Maternity protection • Working conditions Click above to read and working hours our Slavery and AntiHuman Trafficking • Health and safety Statement. 6 | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | CARTUS cartus culture Making the UN Global Compact Principles Our Own (cont’d.) UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE CARTUS EFFORTS Our service is Environment As a corporate citizen of Planet Earth, Cartus is committed to reducing only as good as the environmental impact of our company. We continually look at ways Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary to reduce our carbon footprint and educate our employees on our people. approach to environmental challenges; conservation activities. This includes maintaining an ad hoc, employeePrinciple 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater initiated and -sponsored Conservation Committee—formed in 2002— environmental responsibility; and that works closely with our various teams. It has conducted several Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of major initiatives, including roadway pollution reduction, recycling and environmentally friendly technologies. waste reduction, and energy conservation. It also sponsors events such CARTUS POLICY as our annual Earth Day Fair, which provides employees with THE CARTUS environmental and conservation products and services for both ENVIRONMENTAL home and office. POLICY In addition, we have a formal Environmental Policy to emphasize our philosophy and approach to environmentally responsible business practices. Anti-Corruption We know that how we carry ourselves and treat others affects how our stakeholders ultimately view our company. In support of this goal, we Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all Click above to read our maintain a Compliance and Ethics program that features specific forms, including extortion and bribery. Environmental Policy. anti-corruption policies and procedures; key components include our Code of Ethics and Key Employment policies, the two cornerstone documents of our corporate culture. The result: our parent company has been named one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies for six straight years. CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 7 our people We Respect Those We Work With and For At Cartus, we respect others and treat people well. We show Our On the Move fitness center in Danbury—visited by 70 We foster respect to everyone we interact with, internally and externally, employees a day, on average—also supports employee health earning both their confidence and their trust in return. Being and safety through regular classes and fitness challenges, and sustain an both global and diverse, we are attuned to the nuances of lunch-and-learn presentations, and a library of resources that environment culture and diversity. We foster and sustain an environment addresses issues related to well-being (e.g., sleep health, that is inclusive and supportive; we consider this essential to mental health, stress management, etc.). Other global health that is inclusive both the excellence of our work and to the company we strive and safety highlights from this past year include: and supportive. to be. We create opportunities for our employees to get involved, build satisfying careers, balance life and work, and Awards grow personally and professionally. • Platinum Award Winner – Healthy Workplace Employer Recognition Program. Awarded by the Business Council of A Comprehensive Focus on Health and Safety Fairfield County, CT, Cartus was recognized for the second Our global offices pursue various initiatives to encourage and consecutive year for our best practices in promoting a support the overall health and safety of Cartus employees. healthy workplace. For example, our global headquarters in Danbury, CT, • 2017 Corporate Merit Award at the Singapore Health features a fully equipped Wellness Center staffed by a Awards. Organized by the Singapore Health Promotion physician assistant and nurse practitioner. The Wellness Board, the program aims to recognize outstanding Center features two exam rooms and a specimen-drawing corporate workplace health practices in Singapore. room, and serves employees’ healthcare needs through the on-site diagnosis and treatment of occupational and nonActivities occupational illnesses and injuries, urgent and emergent care, • As part of our Workplace Health Programme in Singapore, triage services, basic lab services, consultation, coordination employees were given complimentary health check-ups. of wellness programs, preventive health screenings, and There were also comprehensive health packages that staff vaccinations. could sign up for at a discounted rate. • The EMEA Wellbeing Committee also offered employees In the past year, the Wellness Center supported more than free on-site health check-ups. The services included 3,700 visits. Since it opened 14 years ago, Cartus employees measuring height, weight, BMI, resting heart rate, body fat have made nearly 55,000 visits to the center. By doing so, percentage, hip-to-waist ratio, and blood pressure. they have saved hundreds of thousands of dollars in co-pays and health insurance fees. Each visit is also estimated to save • Likewise, our Irving, TX, office’s annual Health Fair featured employees approximately three hours away from work. BMI and blood pressure screenings, a flu shot clinic, and dental and insurance information. 8 | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | CARTUS our people We Respect Those We Work With and For (cont’d.) • As part of the “Eat with Your Family Day” initiative, APAC • The Cartus Crisis Team received a firsthand look at employees were encouraged to head home early and crisis response in action when members of the Special We encourage enjoy dinner with their families. This initiative was founded Communications Team for Connecticut—a group funded and support by the Singapore-based Centre for Fathering that believes by U.S. Homeland Security that has representatives in an active and involved father is essential for a child’s police departments throughout the state—visited Danbury the overall successful development. to demonstrate the capabilities of their mobile emergency health and • For a convenient way to add fresh foods to our diets, response unit: a fully equipped van that enables the team Cartus Danbury partners with a local produce delivery to respond to any large-scale emergencies that involve safety of Cartus service to deliver five to eight different fruits and multiple agencies/departments in this region. employees. vegetables to participants every Friday. Similarly, the • Our Shanghai and Singapore offices also hosted a LunchEMEA Wellbeing Committee has established a biweekly and-Learn that taught employees how to apply first aid in or monthly fruit delivery in different offices to keep various situations that require emergency assistance. colleagues fit and healthy. • As an initiative to keep Cartus staff movin’ and groovin’, one ambitious team of Singapore employees formed a Zumba dance group that holds weekly dance sessions after work hours, while employees in our Geneva, Switzerland office enjoyed yoga and Pilates sessions on site in the office building. CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 9 our people Diversity and Inclusion Make Us a Better Company (cont’d.) As a provider of global mobility services with a core practice Through the Diversity Council and its associated resource 48 Languages in intercultural and language training, understanding and accepting cultural diversity remains key to our guiding principle of Respect. We embrace diversity because it resonates with our culture of valuing and welcoming groups, we create an inclusive environment in our offices and learn more about each other. Please see below for some of our diversity-related initiatives. differences. Our sensitivity to each other and our customers’ • For National Disability Employment Awareness Month, collectively unique and individual needs not only makes us a better the executive director of the Connecticut Business service provider, but also a richer, more vibrant company. Leadership Network presented “A Fresh View of Disability spoken by Cartus in the Workplace,” discussing the changing attitudes employees In our hiring and advancement practices, Cartus continues toward disability and how we can understand and interact to disregard race, color, religion, national origin, effectively in this evolving environment. worldwide. citizenship, age, sex, gender, sexual orientation, sexual • Cartus staff in Danbury celebrated Diwali—the Hindu preference, veteran status, marital status, disability, or any festival of lights signifying the victory of light over other characteristic protected under applicable laws and darkness, good over evil, knowledge over ignorance, and regulations. We make reasonable accommodations for hope over despair. Cartus staff enjoyed building-wide qualified disabled employees and applicants. decorations, food tastings, and dance performances, as We are particularly proud of our well as a Lunch-and-Learn explaining what the holiday gender equality. In fact, our senior is all about. Cartus employees also created a beautiful management team—vice Rangoli in celebration of Diwali in the Danbury lobby. presidents and above—is split • Our EMEA offices celebrated the European Day of nearly 50/50 between male Languages (EDOL) with a number of culturally themed and female. events. The EDOL is an annual event jointly organized by the Council of Europe and European Union in an effort to Spearheading many of the inclusion promote the study of foreign languages. Given that Cartus activities across our company is the Cartus Global Diversity employees speak 48 different languages, this is clearly a and Inclusion Council. topic near and dear to our hearts (and tongues)! • In observance of National POW/MIA Recognition Day— which honors those who were prisoners of war (POW) as well as those who are still missing in action (MIA)—Cartus set aside a special table, a single chair, a place setting, and various other items in our cafeteria as a silent symbol of hope for those affected. 10 | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | CARTUS our people Diversity and Inclusion Make Us a Better Company (cont’d.) • The Cartus Diversity Council in Irving, TX, hosted an event • This past April, Cartus’ Irving Diversity Council launched • for employees about Texas history and offered foods that have origins in Texas. Proceeds went to their Community Matters Program Projects. Cartus Singapore was awarded the prestigious NS Mark a multi-pronged celebration of community service within the Irving, TX, region. The founder and director of Women Called Moses Coalition and Outreach, Inc. (WCM) came to the Irving office to educate employees on recognizing 125 Countries in (Gold) by pledging commitment to and signing the the signs of domestic abuse in the workplace. A bake sale raised money to provide five nights of a hotel stay to which Cartus Declaration of Support for Singapore’s National Service and Total Defense. Currently, Cartus Singapore has 25 a victim and her children when shelters are full, medical employees employees actively serving as National Servicemen. supplies to a clinic partner, and a week of childcare for one child. Irving employees were also invited to join the office’s have living • This year, the Danbury Diversity and Inclusion Council and volunteer team to assist the Greater Dallas 2017 Special the Cartus Veterans Committee marked the second year and working Olympics Spring Games. in a new tradition by commemorating Armed Forces Day experience. and Memorial Day by selling red remembrance poppies to • Cartus hosted an African-American Heritage Potluck benefit veterans charities. Wreaths in the colors of the five Luncheon, where employees were asked to bring a service branches were also displayed in the main hallway, traditional dish to share, such as jerk chicken, red beans while outside of the building, a banner was displayed and rice, jambalaya, black-eyed peas, peach cobbler, along with U.S. flags planted by both employee entrances. and more. In November, we also honored service members related to Cartus employees around the globe through our annual Wall of Honor display. CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 11 our people Recognizing People Who Do Great Things (cont’d.) Another aspect to our guiding principle of Respect is creating BRAVO! Awards More than opportunities for our employees to get involved, build In May 2017, our offices and employees around the world 60% satisfying careers, balance life and work, and grow personally participated in BRAVO! Day—a global celebration and and professionally. We extend this internal culture of respect opportunity to say “thank you” to everyone for their to everyone we touch every day—because respect is essential contribution to great service, collaboration, respect, financial to every healthy relationship. of Cartus responsibility, and ethical behavior. Special celebrations were Evidence of the value we place on our employees includes held in all offices by our various departments to recognize our employees most important asset: our people. the exceptional benefits Cartus provides, including: have flexible • Volunteer time-off policy Cartus is also proud to recognize the winners of last year’s schedules. BRAVO! President’s Awards, which recognize exceptional • Paid parental leave—both maternal and paternal achievement and consistent demonstration of one or more of • Adoption assistance Cartus’ guiding principles. • Domestic partner benefits Team BRAVO! Award • Flexible work options such as telecommuting and flex time EMEA iDSP (Cartus-owned Destination Services Provider) More than 60 percent of Cartus employees take advantage Director Team of flexible work scheduling—whether in the form of shifted business hours, work-from-home opportunities, or a reduced • France: Isabelle Grimbert or compressed work week. • Switzerland: Lora Foster Additionally, we are proud of the career opportunities we • UK: Sarah Coles and Rhiannon Roberts provide. Over the last two years, Cartus has promoted or • Netherlands and Belgium: Morgan Beaumont offered new positions to 619 employees. Individual BRAVO! Awards • Gold: Sherry Enfield—Director, Account Management • Silver: Gail Ward—Project Manager • Bronze: Dan Gerlich—Director, Client Services These winners truly exemplify the Cartus culture. 12 | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | CARTUS ethics and compliance We Are Recognized for Doing the Right Thing (cont’d.) Being ethical and compliant in everything we do—“doing • Translating the Realogy Code of Ethics into 11 different the right thing”—is a core guiding principle. This principle mandates ethical behavior in all our business dealings. We conduct ourselves and our business with the utmost integrity. We comply with our internal and external commitments, and languages representing the countries where our employees work every day. Translations can be viewed by both employees and the public any time at http://thecode. realogy.com. 100% of Cartus we make the ethical choice whenever challenges present themselves. Our culture of integrity as a company is absolute employees and non-negotiable. complete Code As part of the Realogy family, we are proud to be named of Ethics training to Ethisphere® Institute’s “World’s Most Ethical (WME) Companies” list for the sixth consecutive year. The WME every year. designation recognizes companies that truly go beyond making statements about doing business ethically and translate those words into action. Our company’s and people’s efforts to continue doing the right thing include: • 100 percent compliance with our annual Compliance and Click the image above to watch a short video about our Code of Ethics training for all Cartus employees, including: Ethics that includes colleagues from around the globe. –– Code of Ethics and Key Policies –– Information Management and Security • Senior Vice President and General Counsel, Bruce –– Anti-corruption and Bribery Efforts Perlman, traveling to Norway last April at the request of one client to present to them on Cartus’ efforts in the • New Realogy online training course on Workplace areas of ethics, compliance, and anti-slavery. Violence Awareness. • Maintaining a 24/7 Ethics Hotline, where employees can • IT staff greeting Cartus employees in Swindon, UK, in raise concerns or ask questions about ethical issues. The celebration and recognition of Cyber Security Awareness Code of Ethics Line is accessible in 200 languages, either Month. Armed with leaflets and keyboard brushes, they by phone or by Web. shared the message, “Have a safe and secure personal and professional digital life.” • Maintaining a collection of Manager Toolkits with the Ethical Leadership courses provided for all employees with one or more direct reports. CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 13 caring for our communities Cartus Cares for People Where We Live and Work Last year, Cartus employees around the world raised more • The Cartus Hong Kong team collected 34 boxes of Our employees than US$400,000 through charitable events in support of goodies for underprivileged children during their annual the United Way, Community Health Charities, American charity event, The Box of Hope. “give back” in Cancer Society, Junior Achievement, March of Dimes, Red • Patty Ginochio and her non-profit, Waves of countless ways. Cross, British Heart Foundation, Singapore Cancer Society, Compassion—which she founded several years ago after Children’s Aid Society of Singapore, and many other receiving the Cartus Cares Global Citizenship award— charities supported by our employees. Our people also helped more than 1,000 individuals from neighboring gave thousands of hours of time to their chosen causes and towns during this year’s Sonoma County, CA, wildfires. donated food, clothing, and other goods to where they were needed most. • The Folsom, CA, office also banded together to provide assistance to those impacted by the fires. The team In recognition of its employees’ amazing capacity for purchased and collected needed items and transported generosity, Realogy expanded its Volunteer Time Off policy several loads of donations that were sent on to the to increase paid volunteer time from 1 to 5 days for local Petaluma area. employees who assist charities in the areas affected by • Every year, Cartus UK participates in the World’s Biggest Hurricanes Harvey and Irma during September and October. Coffee Morning: Macmillan’s biggest fundraising event for Other community initiatives over the last year include: people facing cancer. As well as helping with the medical needs of people affected by cancer, Macmillan also looks • In support of Peace Connect Singapore—a charity at the social, emotional, and practical impact cancer can organization which looks after the social needs of have, and advocates for better cancer care. the senior citizens—Cartus Singapore donated no • The EMEA Volunteer Committee joined local dog rescue fewer than 432 gifts and hundreds of dollars for their charity, SNDogs, to run a stall at a village carnival parade. annual Christmas Party. Earlier in the year, a group of Cartus volunteers also walked some of the dogs to 23 volunteers participated in a Food Bundle Activity promote the charitable organization to event attendees. organized in partnership with Food Bank of Singapore to benefit the organization. • The Folsom office teamed up for this year’s Operation Backpack, which benefits underserved children of the • A group of volunteers from Cartus Singapore spent a Sacramento community. Collectively, an entire classroom’s fulfilling day baking with members of AWWA, a local worth of supplies—including 30 full backpacks—were non-profit organization that provides community-based donated, assembled, and presented to the organization. programs and services to people with special needs. 14 | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | CARTUS caring for our communities Cartus Cares for People Where We Live and Work (cont’d.) • The United Way Danbury Street Fair raised nearly • The Lisle office participated in Red Nose Day to help end US$40,000 in 2017 through numerous fun and creative child poverty. Money raised went to the Red Nose Day activities, including food and drink stands, raffles and Fund, which distributes grants to charities that benefit auctions, various games and contests—even a piechildren and young people both here and around the throwing (plus face-catching) area! world that support projects to keep children safe, healthy, • Following feedback from the Employee Engagement and educated. Survey, an EMEA Volunteering Committee was established • Cartus was named to The Governor’s Prevention to help employees get more involved in their local Partnership 2017 Mentoring Corporate Honor Roll for the community. The group’s first initiative was to create a seventh consecutive year. This award thanks companies calendar of volunteering events for employees to sign up for their leadership in advancing the mentoring movement and use their annual paid volunteering day to take part. in Connecticut and was awarded thanks to our mentoring • 100 volunteers participated in the United Way’s annual Day involvement in the Danbury, CT, area through our alliance of Action, volunteering their hearts, hands, and muscles to with local nonprofit, Danbury Schools and Business complete much-needed projects in the community around Collaborative (DSABC). our corporate headquarters in Danbury, CT. • Danbury Cartus employees collected 6,817 food items for Move For Hunger. The non-perishable goods were transported to a local food pantry facility that will feed up to 450 families in the greater Danbury area. A canned food drive competition in our Irving office collected a total of 1,451 pounds of food that will provide 1,209 meals for chronically hungry children, families, and seniors in need through the North Texas Food Bank. CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 15 caring for our communities Cartus Cares for People Where We Live and Work (cont’d.) • Cartus’ DSABC (Danbury Schools and Business • The Cartus Women’s Advisory Council sponsored a Collaborative) mentors welcomed their mentees to Cartus “NO MORE” Cell Phone Challenge drive in support of the for the annual field trip. Students got to spend time with Danbury Women’s Center—a non-profit organization with their mentors, learn about Cartus, and even had a little fun a vision to end violence against women, men, and children in the process. One mentor was even featured in a Society to foster equality and empowerment for all. Donated cell for Human Resource Management (SHRM) article in which phones turn into valuable financial support for domestic he speaks to the DSABC mentoring program to which he, violence awareness and prevention initiatives. They are and many other Cartus employees, dedicate their time. also donated to domestic violence shelters and nonprofit • The Fun Committee in Lisle made its first quarterly charity organizations for use by victims and survivors. donation to Hesed House in Aurora. Hesed House’s • The Richmond and Swindon offices held a charity day in mission is to feed the hungry, clothe the naked, shelter aid of Comic Relief, a UK-based organization that helps the homeless, and give people the chance to hope those in poverty in the UK and Africa. EMEA directors again—because everyone deserves dignity. Donations charged people an entry fee of £5 per person for those were collected from Dollarama and other previous that wore an item of red clothing and £10 for anyone that fundraising events. failed to wear red! • The EMEA Social Committee organized an Easter Egg • Cartus’ Montreal office held a clothing drive for Haiti to collection, with our Richmond office donating them assist residents impacted by hurricane Matthew in the to their local food bank and our Swindon office giving southern part of the island. them to patients at the local hospital. Swindon also held • The Geneva office donated 11 desktop computers to the their annual “Colouring-In” competition for employees’ Swiss Association for Education in Liberia. The computers children, with all proceeds from entry fees going toward were sent to the DomFah Academy and Professional their Charities of the Year: Brighter Futures and the Institute in Liberia, where they will be used by secondary Alzheimer’s Society. school students to support their education. • The EMEA Social Committee held its annual VIP Parking Auction to raise money for their 2017 Charities of the Year: Brighter Futures and the Alzheimer’s Society. • Patrick Lewis of our Danbury office became the first Cartus employee to donate his car to The Bee Foundation for brain aneurysm research. 16 | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | CARTUS environmental stewardship Our Employees Are Lean, Mean, Green Machines At Cartus, we are committed to staying abreast of the everInnovative Technologies to Reduce our growing environmental needs of our industry and our clients while pursuing and maintaining high corporate environmental Carbon Footprint • Printer upgrades and recycling programs: In 2017, Cartus 20-25% standards. Therefore, we are constantly developing and Improvement implementing new policies and procedures as we see the replaced all company printers with EPEATand Energy need, which we detail in our formal environmental policy. Star-certified printers that draw only 0.05W of power. We in data center also have two printer and toner recycle programs: one In fact, Cartus took home top honors from the 2017 Forum for for multifunction printers that are being recycled by the efficiency Expatriate Management with an EMMA Award for Corporate manufacturer and another that donates any small desktop through Social Responsibility (CSR)! printer cartridges to a school recycling program. technology • Electric vehicle charging stations: In 2016, Cartus installed The judges’ comments on Cartus’ entry: charging stations for three plug-in electric vehicles (PEV) upgrades. to contribute to the nation’s PEV charging infrastructure, “Impressive scope, Cartus has a well-rounded CSR making us just the seventh organization in Connecticut program that stretches amongst their employee and to register for the Department of Energy’s Workplace their supply chain.” Charging Challenge. • New HVAC equipment: We have replaced 25-year-old Our Conservation Committee has been in place for 15 years, HVAC equipment in our Danbury, CT, headquarters with looking for ways to decrease our company’s environmental new energy-efficient units, including boilers and rooftop impact and educate our employees on conservation activities. units. This has reduced the number of boilers from eight We participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project and to three, with efficiency improvements of approximately continually look to reduce our footprint in all areas. We are 15 percent. also working to establish additional baseline measures (e.g., • New lightbulbs: Our Danbury, CT, headquarters upgraded travel miles, domestic and international air travel) to set more its exterior and interior lighting systems with energymeaningful goals. efficient LED bulbs, replacing nearly 4,000 lights in the Cartus has sponsored a number of initiatives and adopted process with estimated kilowatt-hour savings ranging various technologies to reduce our energy consumption, from 10-25 percent. Prior to installing LED bulbs, Cartus including: purchased more than 1,000 replacement lightbulbs each year. Since completing the transition in late 2016, Cartus has purchased a grand total of zero additional bulbs! CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 17 environmental stewardship Our Employees Are Lean, Mean, Green Machines (cont’d.) • Data center upgrades: Through virtualization technology, • Danbury Adopt-A-Street Program: From May through 26.5 Tons of we reduced the number of physical servers in our data center from 500 to 100 over the last several years. We also upgraded our cooling units. We estimate that these improvements have increased efficiency by 20-25 percent. • October, employees remove trash once a month from our adopted street. Recycling programs at all sites: Cartus has implemented “single-source” recycling programs at all U.S. sites. We dispose of all IT server and networking equipment Recyclables include white paper, cardboard, cans, and recyclables through an EPA-compliant service provider. bottles (which represent approximately 25-30 percent of collected in Other Employee Awareness Initiatives our waste stream). Bins are located in every workspace, conference room, and cafeteria. We have also placed Cartus offices • Annual Earth Day Fair: The Cartus Conservation paper recycling bins next to all multifunction printers. Committee sponsors the annual Danbury Earth Day Fair, last year that Last year, Cartus recycled 26.5 tons of materials through which provides our employees with environmental and our on-site recycling programs. didn’t make their conservation products and services for both home and office. This year’s fair had 600-plus attendees. • Shred-it® bins in offices: Centrally located bins in our U.S. way to a landfill. and UK headquarters resulted in more than 1,300 trees • Promoting carpooling: In 2017, more than 300 Cartus saved last year. employees were involved in carpooling and public transit, saving half a million miles traveled and 23,000 gallons of • Elimination of Styrofoam cups: Cartus has eliminated all gasoline, and reducing emissions by more 230 tons. We Styrofoam cups in our global headquarters’ cafeteria and promote our ridesharing-friendly ways through various offers discounts for employees who bring their own cup or initiatives each year, including our International Transit mug. As a result, the Danbury office has reduced the use Day celebration each October and inviting ride-sharing of Styrofoam by 2,400 cups per week. representatives to various offices multiple times per year to explain the value of their service to our employees. • Singapore Beach Clean-up: In 2017, Cartus Singapore volunteers completed their first Beach Clean-up activity at East Coast Park armed with tongs, biodegradable trash bags, and big smiles. After two hours of hard work, the volunteers collected close to 50 kg of trash consisting of items such as cigarette butts, straws, plastic bags, Styrofoam pieces, bottle caps, and batteries. 18 | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | CARTUS sustainable procurement Ensuring Compliance, Security, and Value Our commitment to global sustainability extends to managing • Cartus utilizes a risk management system called the suppliers we use to serve our clients and their employees. Compliance 360, which allows us to easily document, Cartus has maintained ISO 9001:2008 certification for more than a decade, and we manage a network of suppliers around monitor, and report on inherent risk factors associated with managing third-party vendors. The system tracks 18,000 the globe who provide support to clients and relocating hundreds of data points that provide a view into the Supplier employees in over 185 countries in every key phase of the global compliance of each and every network member, relocation experience, including destination support, home including OFAC/international watch lists and a country risk representatives finding, temporary housing, and household goods shipment. ranking. Profile assessments include annual compliance have completed Our networks are experienced and monitored by more than certification, background checks, and personal data/ 100 regionally based Cartus Supply Chain staff, facilitating system compliance. our online accurate, proximate monitoring and support. Supplier Network Sustainability Awards and compliance • Cartus holds every member of our supply chain to the Charitable Contributions training course same standards we apply to ourselves. Each network supplier signs a contract agreeing to full compliance Global Network over the last with all laws and regulations and with global human Cartus’ 16 annual Global Network Conference allowed th two years. rights mandates. us to recognize the extraordinary achievements of our network members in serving our clients and their relocating • All Cartus suppliers are required to adhere to our parent employees worldwide. Conference attendees included nearly company, Realogy’s, Vendor Code of Conduct. In addition, 400 members of the Cartus Global Network, representing 180 in order to be a Cartus network provider, all suppliers companies from 37 countries. must take an annual online training course that includes modules on Health, Safety, and the Environment. We have Global Citizenship Awards: Awarded annually, the Global designed our training module in a way that allows our Citizenship Award identifies three individuals or companies suppliers to train their suppliers using the tool as well. for outstanding contributions that made an impact on the health, welfare, and safety of others, and/or improvements in a community’s quality of life on a national or international level. In 2017, three companies were recognized as 2017 Global Citizenship winners: Budd Van Lines of Somerset, NJ; CWS Corporate Housing of Austin, TX; and Elite Moving Systems of London, UK. We were thrilled to make donations to the charitable funds of each of these companies. CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 19 sustainable procurement Ensuring Compliance, Security, and Value (cont’d.) Move for Hunger Award: In 2017, we created a new award Supplier Sustainability Initiatives to recognize the domestic van lines in our network for their We strongly encourage our supplier partners to develop and efforts to eliminate food waste on behalf of the 795 million implement robust corporate social responsibility programs as people who go to bed on an empty stomach each night. well as innovative solutions to sustainability challenges in the The inaugural award was presented by the founder of the services they provide our clients. Over the past year, some of nonprofit, Move for Hunger, recognizing the Cartus domestic these initiatives included: mover who rescued and delivered the most food through Q3, 2017. • One supplier making a strategic decision that all future Capital Investments must be environmentally friendly as Relocation Agent Network the main criteria, resulting in two policy decisions: Cartus’ 24th Relocation Agent Network National Conference –– All new company vehicles must either be a hybrid or and Awards celebrated achievements by the UK’s very best electric only. estate agents over the last 12 months. The charity fundraiser –– Future office and warehouse expansion must be held held during the awards dinner raised more than £2,000 for the to the highest environmental standards (e.g., solar network’s chosen charity, Agents Giving. The Relocation Agent panels, solar thermal and air/ground source heat Network also hosted a second charity fundraiser in 2017 where pumps, LED lighting, rainwater harvesting tanks, members raised nearly £1,400 for the cause. energy monitoring systems, electric vehicle chargers, BREEAM Building Certification). Broker Network • Another supplier donating more than US$500,000 in Our Broker Network Conference is an annual event that brings support of the Tiger Action Fund—a partnership between together network members, clients, and industry experts to IFAW (International Fund for Animal Welfare) and SCT take part in workshops, roundtable discussions, and executive (Save China’s Tigers)—to protect endangered tigers by presentations. The Cartus Broker Network also supports helping to stop tiger poaching, protect habitats from various charities. For example, last year, our brokers collected destruction, research new ways of protecting tigers from money and donations which reached the equivalent of nearly extinction, and educate the public on the importance of 1,000 bundles of clothing on behalf of Soldiers Angels—a tiger conservation. volunteer-driven charity that supports active and retired military and families. 20 | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | CARTUS sustainable procurement Ensuring Compliance, Security, and Value (cont’d.) • A third supplier undertaking a comprehensive Last year: US$216 sustainability program overhaul, including: • Cartus disbursed US$44.9 million to minorityand women–– Installing solar panels in multiple office locations owned businesses. Over the past five years, we have –– Converting multiple offices and warehouses to LED lighting disbursed more than US$216 million. million –– Replacing the windows in their buildings to reduce • Tom Davis—Cartus’ Vice President of External Supplier disbursed to energy costs Diversity—continued as chairperson of the Greater –– Recycling or reusing all boxes, leading to zero New England Minority Supplier Development Council’s minorityand landfill use (GNEMSDC) board of directors. women-owned –– Recycling 100 percent of shredding services • Cartus President and CEO and Cartus VP of Supplier Diversity attended the GNEMSDC annual awards businesses by Promoting Supplier Diversity luncheon. Our CEO was the keynote speaker, reinforcing Cartus over the Cartus is dedicated to promoting supplier diversity and the importance of minority business development and the building it into our corporate culture. Since establishing a impact that it has on our economy. past five years. formal department in 1983, Cartus has become a recognized leader in this area and the recipient of numerous awards. Our supplier diversity team conducts outreach, monitoring, and measurement on behalf of numerous clients. To achieve these goals, the department focuses on developing and maintaining bidder lists of small, minority-, and women-owned business enterprises (S/M/WBEs) from all possible sources, while also ensuring the inclusion of S/M/ WBEs in all solicitations for products or services which they are capable of providing. To ensure an equitable distribution of business, we periodically rotate potential subcontractors on bidder lists and require the bid proposal review board to document its reasons for not selecting low bids submitted by S/M/WBEs. CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 21 global citizenship report 2 18 Trusted Guidance – for every move you make ®. Cartus guides our clients through thousands of unique and complex programs. Ideally equipped to lead you, Cartus is ready to help—whatever, whenever, wherever your relocation program is moving. To learn more, please email trustedguidance@cartus.com or visit our citizenship page on www.cartus.com. www.cartus.com | trustedguidance@cartus.com connect with us © 2018 Cartus Corporation. All rights reserved. Cartus and the Cartus logo are registered trademarks of Cartus Corporation.
