Pacto Global. Dear Mr. Secretary-General, Comunicación I am pleased to confirm that TENARIS supports the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment and antisobre el corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to advance with these principles within our sphere of influence. We commit ourselves to include Progreso the Global Compact and its principles as a part of our company’s strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. TENARIS will make a clear statement of this commitment to its stakeholders and general public. We recognize that a key requirement to participate in the Global Compact is the annual submission to the Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress every year according to the Global Compact COP policy. Tenaris is a leading supplier of tubes and related services for the world’s energy industry and certain other industrial applications. It has manufacturing facilities in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Romania and the United States, a proprietary global service along with a worldwide distribution network. Sincerely yours, Paolo Rocca CEO Tenaris Sustainability Report 2016 Index 02 Introduction 06 Chairman’s Letter 08 QHSE Policy 11 Governance, Compliance and Economics 17 Safety and Health 21 Environment 29 Innovation 33 Human Resources 41 Community Development Sustainability Report 2016 Introduction Introduction Our approach to sustainability Tenaris is a leading global manufacturer and supplier of steel pipe products and related services for the world’s energy industry and other industrial applications. Our customers include most of the world’s leading oil and gas companies, and we operate an integrated network of steel pipe manufacturing, research, finishing and service facilities with industrial operations in the Americas, Europe, the Middle East, Asia and Africa and have a direct presence in most major oil and gas markets. Through our integrated global network of manufacturing, R&D and service facilities, we work with our customers to meet their needs in a timely manner and observing the highest levels of product and service performance. Safety, quality and transparency are the core values that guide our everyday activity. This report shows how those values are reflected in concrete indicators. This is the third annual Sustainability Report that we publish, but we started reporting on our work in this field with the predecessor to this publication, the Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) report, that we first issued in 2009 reporting on five years of data dating back to 2004. Tenaris is a long-term industrial project that goes back more than six decades since our first mill in Campana, Argentina, came into operation in the mid-1950s. We have grown globally over the years expanding the scope and extent of our activities. Our prime objective is to develop a long-term sustainable business, providing opportunities for our employees and contributing to the development of the communities where we operate, , and committed to minimizing the footprint of our activities and also that of our products and services, as stated in our QHSE Policy. In October 2016, Tenaris extended its participation in the United Nations Global Compact to the entire organization, as in previous years it had participated through Siderca, its principal Argentine subsidiary. The Global Compact is a commitment to translate Ten Principles deriving from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights into daily business activity. Within the World Steel Association (worldsteel), Tenaris is a signatory of the Sustainability Policy and the Sustainability Charter. Our HSE Management System is designed according to ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 Standards. Today almost all of our production sites are working under management systems that are certified according to these standards. We obtained a multisite certification for the environmental management system, and we are now in the process of integrating our HSE and Quality management systems to leverage on the possible synergies. We are also on the transition process for the new version of ISO 14001 standard. 3 Our reporting, in context Tenaris is committed to building a culture of transparency and integrity, based on ethical behavior and compliance with the law. We believe this is essential for the sustainability of our activities. This publication reports on the issues that can affect, either positively or negatively, our stakeholders within and outside the company. You will find our main performance indicators in the areas of Governance, Compliance, Economics, Health and Safety, Environment, Innovation, Human Resources and Community Development. In 2016 we formalized an integrated risk-based methodology to better identify, evaluate and prioritize the sustainability challenges that can impact our ability to achieve our goals and our relationship with our stakeholders. The graph on this page shows the rationale that led us to inform on the issues listed on this report. l Business strategies l Human resources l Cost/productivity l Technological factors Internal Issues l Employees l Investors l Customers l Suppliers/Contractors l Industry associations l Local communities and authorities External Needs and Issues expectations l Compliance obligations from interested l Market conditions parties l Social factors l Environmental/territorial factors What we focus on: l Transparency and disclosure l Health and Safety l Environmental performance l Financial sustainability l Compliance and Business Conduct l Employee career development l Product sustainability l Research & Development l Suppliers and contractors l Community development and integration Sustainability Report 2016 Global organization Tenaris Tenaris is a leading global manufacturer and supplier of steel pipe products and related services for the world’s energy industry and other industrial applications. Our customers include most of the world’s leading oil and gas companies. We operate an integrated network of steel pipe manufacturing, research, finishing and service facilities with industrial operations in the Americas, Europe, the Middle East, Asia and Africa and a direct presence in most major oil and gas markets. Integrated Quality (ISO 9001:2008) and Health, Safety and Environment (ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001) management systems. Tenaris Sales by Region Asia Pacific 3% Middle East & Africa North 25% America 31% 13% Europe 28% South America 30 Countries Services and distribution network 4 Countries Stock exchange listings New York Buenos Aires Italy Mexico Top customers Aramco Chevron ConocoPhillips Continental ENI KOC Noble PAE Pemex Petrobras Pioneer Shell Statoil Total YPF Sustainability Report 2016 Chairman´s Letter Chairman’s 2016 was a very difficult year for Tenaris, the second of a severe downturn which has had a profound impact on the oil and gas industry and its suppliers. Even as a recovery in drilling Letter activity now unfolds in North America, our customers around the world remain focused on reducing costs and rebuilding their balance sheets. Tenaris weathered the downturn exceptionally well and I am proud of the way our employees have responded to the changes in market conditions and the circumstances of the company. In two years, our sales fell 57% to $4.3 billion. We had to adjust our costs rapidly, reducing our fixed cost structure and maintaining efficiency in our industrial system in the face of plunging production levels. As we did so, we focused on cash flow management and were able to continue to invest in our strategic projects, in our Bay City mill in the US, in R&D, in our communities, and to pay dividends to our shareholders. Our investment in Bay City will transform our position in the North American market. The new mill, which is starting up this year, will be the most modern, automated and environmentally efficient mill in our industrial system and throughout North America. Located close to major shale plays, it will become the heart of our US Rig Direct™ operations. Through our Rig Direct™ service, we synchronize mill production and customer drilling plans, shorten the supply chain, simplify operating processes and deliver sustainable cost benefits combined with professional Quality and HSE management. The cost and environmental benefits of the service are increasingly appreciated by customers around the world. We currently supply over 50% of our OCTG products with Rig Direct™ service. As a leading industrial company, outstanding QHSE performance is essential for competitive differentiation and long-term sustainability. We constantly seek to improve our QHSE performance, embedding QHSE management principles throughout our operations. In 2016, we completed the certification of our HSE management system under the ISO 14001 and OSHAS 18001 standards and are now transitioning to the new version of ISO 14001. Our new mill in Bay City, which has been qualified as a minor source of emissions, embodies our commitment to incorporating technologies that can reduce the environmental impact of our operations as well as improving product quality and safety conditions. We have focused for many years on improving our safety performance, introducing and strengthening safety management routines and tools, challenging attitudes and behavior and installing an agenda of continuous improvements. Our safety indicators have improved over these years and 2016 was no exception. However, despite this growing dedication and commitment, in the first months of 2017, we had three fatal accidents in different locations. All our team deeply regret the pain and suffering caused by these accidents to the families and communities affected. Safety is, and always will be, an absolute priority in every aspect of our activities and these tragic events strengthen our commitment. Tenaris 7 To better prepare the company for the challenges ahead, we are renewing our agenda at TenarisUniversity. For more than 10 years our corporate university has played a key role in unifying knowledge and values across our global organization, providing a common curriculum and extensive training for our employees and stakeholders at all levels. TenarisUniversity will retain its core management and leadership development programs, but will now increasingly focus on inspiring employees to seek excellence in knowledge, encouraging them to customize their training in accordance with specific interests and creating high-quality networking opportunities. The worst downturn of the past thirty years has undoubtedly left its mark on our employees and the communities where we work. We have made many difficult decisions to secure the future growth and competitiveness of the company. Now we have a more positive agenda ahead of us and we need to show a path to renewed growth. Our differentiation depends on the excellence and engagement of our employees. We have worked hard to improve our fundamental processes for performance management, career development and understanding the concerns of our people. We aim for a Tenaris where everyone can be proud of their work, where excellence in everything that we do is a constant benchmark, where there are always opportunities for new challenges and growth, and where we can contribute to the sustainable development of our communities. This report provides a transparent picture of the way we do things through a series of performance indicators. We work every day to improve these indicators and make our business activity more sustainable. Sincerely, Paolo Rocca Sustainability Report 2016 QHSE Policy Quality, Tenaris aims to achieve the highest standards of Quality, Health, Safety and Environment, incorporating the principles of sustainable development throughout Health, its worldwide business. Tenaris identifies the health and safety of its employees, contractors and visitors, Safety and the satisfaction of its customers, the protection of the environment and the development of the communities where it has its operations as integrated key Environment drivers of its business; the entire organization is oriented towards achieving these goals openly and transparently. Policy Quality, Health, Safety and Environment management and risk assessment fundamentals are integrated in all business processes. Management is responsible and accountable for achieving excellence in Quality, Health, Safety and Environmental performance for successful business results. Tenaris is committed to training all its employees in the appropriate use of its Quality, Health, Safety and Environment management systems, strengthening its management through updating of professional and managerial skills, fostering diversity, emphasizing employee evaluation and motivation and complying with the ethical principles established in its Code of Conduct. Nothing is more important than the health and safety of everyone who works for us and uses our products All injuries and work-related illnesses can and must be prevented Working safely is a condition of employment Quality is our main competitive advantage Requirements and expectations of our customers must be satisfied Differentiation is achieved through operational excellence and development of innovative and reliable products and services We are committed to developing a long-term sustainable business Preventing pollution and minimizing the environmental impact of our operations Making the most efficient use of natural resources and energy www.compliance-line.com 9 Tenaris recognizes the importance of implementing this policy throughout its Quality, Health, Safety and Environment management systems, covering the entire supply chain from suppliers to customers and the proper and efficient use of its products in accordance with their agreed specifications. Tenaris commits to comply with applicable legal requirements and all other requirements relating to quality, health, safety and environment issues to which it subscribes. Tenaris communicates this policy throughout its organization, trains its employees in the appropriate use of its Quality, Health, Safety and Environmental management systems and engages them in the regular setting, measuring and revision of objectives. Tenaris undertakes to keep this policy updated, to implement and maintain its management system, and continuously improve its Quality, Health, Safety and Environment performance. July 2014 Paolo Rocca Chief Executive Officer Governance, Compliance and Economic Indicators Governance, Tenaris is a company established in 2001 in Luxembourg to consolidate the pipe Business Conduct: our commitment to Compliance and tubes business of the Techint Group. Tenaris is committed to building a corporate Compliance In addition to its controlling 60% of the shares in Tenaris, the Techint Group has culture of transparency and integrity based on ethical behavior and compliance and controlling interests in Ternium, a leading Latin American producer of flat and long with law. For this purpose, we appointed in 2010 a Business Conduct Compliance steel products; Tecpetrol, an oil and gas Officer (BCCO), who established a Business Economic company; Techint, an engineering and construction company; Tenova, a supplier Conduct Compliance Program aimed at identifying and mitigating corruption risks Indicators of equipment and technologies for iron and steel and mining, and Humanitas, a network and fostering the culture of ethical and transparent conduct. of hospitals in Italy. The Business Conduct Compliance Program The Company’s shares trade on the develops a variety of preventive actions Our capital expenditure Italian Stock Exchange, the Buenos Aires along the following ten core compliance Stock Exchange and the Mexican Stock activities: Risk Assessment and Planning, USD 4.5 Exchange; in addition, the Company’s ADSs trade on the New York Stock Exchange. Normative Framework, Advising and Guidance, Communications, Training, Billion Responsibility for the management of the company resides in its board of directors, Certifications, Third Parties, Monitoring and Audit, Discipline and Remediation, and between 2012 and 2016 currently comprising ten directors, of whom Benchmarking. three are independent of the Techint Group and company management. Our Chairman Since 2009, Tenaris has regularly issued, and CEO is Paolo Rocca, the grandson of renewed and validated its codes, policies, the founder of the Techint Group. procedures and standards aimed at ensuring anti-bribery compliance. Tenaris’s normative The Company’s board of directors has framework includes a Code of Conduct, a an audit committee consisting of three Policy on Business Conduct, and a Code of independent members. The charter of the Conduct for Suppliers, among other norms audit committee sets forth, among other designed to follow national laws against corthings, the audit committee’s purpose ruption and bribery, and other international and responsibilities, which includes the laws such as the US Foreign Corrupt Pracresponsibility to review material transactions tices Act (FCPA) and the UK Bribery Act. with related parties in order to determine whether their terms are consistent with During 2016, Tenaris has issued, reviewed market conditions or are otherwise fair to or updated 17 anti-bribery related norms, the Company and/or its subsidiaries. trained in person 778 employees in Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, The audit committee reports to the board Netherlands, Uruguay and USA, and also of directors on its activities, and on the 211 employees of 126 third parties from adequacy of the systems of internal control Brazil, China, Iran, Iraq, Mexico, among over financial reporting. For further details of other countries. In addition, we developed a our board of directors, senior management new global online training on Anti-Bribery and corporate governance please refer to our Compliance that has been completed by website (www.tenaris.com). almost 5,000 Tenaris employees. Tenaris 13 Economic value generated and distributed (2016, in USD) Suppliers $2.4 B Community Employees investments $1.1 B $10 M Economic value Research & generated Capex Development $4.4 B $800 M $69 M Capital Taxes providers $258 M $506 M Financial Indicators 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Millions USD (except otherwise stated) Net sales 10,648 10,424 10,141 6,903 4,294 Operating income 2,344 2,176 1,881 166 (59) EBITDA 2,856 2,780 2,696 1,219 598 Shareholders net income 1,699 1,551 1,159 (80) 55 Shareholders equity 11,328 12,290 12,654 11,713 11,287 Cash flow from operations 1,856 2,377 2,044 2,215 864 Dividends 508 508 531 531 484 Net cash/ (debt) (271) 911 1,257 1,849 1,441 EBITDA margin % 27% 27% 27% 18% 14% ROE % 16% 13% 9% -1% 0% ROCE % 22% 19% 17% 2% -1% FCF / Net income % 63% 103% 81% N/A N/A Sustainability Report 2016 Governance, Compliance and Economic Indicators The Code of Conduct, the Policy on Business Conduct and the Code of Conduct Capital for Suppliers are available in ten languages: Arabic, Bahasa Indonesia, Chinese, English, Expenditures Italian, Japanese, Portuguese, Romanian, Russian and Spanish. Capital expenditures We have implemented internal procedures ap(in million USD) plicable to all our employees for the approval 1,200 1,132 1,089 of corporate gifts, business trips and hos1,000 pitality, such as accommodation and meals 790 800 offered to public officials and/or private per753 787 sons. Tenaris also has an internal authoriza600 tion manual that establishes the due process 400 and authorization levels required to approve 200 charitable contributions, social development 0 programs and other non-profit activities. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Capital expenditures The Company regulates and standardizes the form to evaluate, select and hire representatives or associated persons such as commercial intermediaries, customs agents, permitting assistants, advisors and/or law firms. Procedures include the regulation of due diligence processes, internal authorization controls and standard provisions to ensure third parties’ commitment to follow Tenaris’s anticorruption policies. As part of the Business Conduct Compliance Program, Tenaris promotes awareness and communicates relevant guidelines, policies and procedures throughout the organization through newsletters, flyers, stories and notices in our intranet, management meetings and several other educational materials aligned with the industry’s best practices. In 2016, we issued seventy Business Conduct Compliance communications items with a global reach within the company. Although, the Business Conduct Compliance Program is risk-focused, Tenaris strongly believes in the incorporation of the business conduct compliance and awareness culture inside each employee’s function and daily Tenaris 15 work. Regular monitoring and audits activities are performed to verify compliance and to gauge our response capacity worldwide. Tenaris has in place a Compliance Line available in nine languages to allow employees, customers, suppliers and other interested parties to report, on a confidential basis, any conduct contrary to the Code of Conduct or its principles. The Compliance Line operates according to the procedures designed by our Internal Audit function under the direct supervision of our Audit Committee. Suppliers Building lasting relationships with our suppliers and contractors is part of our values but also relevant to our performance. Tenaris purchases most of its supplies through Exiros, a specialized procurement company whose ownership we share with our sister company Ternium. Exiros has a total of 39.516 registered suppliers, of which 10.587 were active in 2016. Exiros has a quality system certified under ISO-9001 standards. All suppliers undergo a rigorous process of selection to ensure adequate standards are in place, in line with applicable laws and regulations and in accordance with our QHSE policy and Code of Conduct. We have developed a Code of Conduct for Suppliers to be applied in any case covering all aspects related to ethical behavior, compliance with law, health, safety and environment. Regarding health, safety and environment (HSE), we have a process implemented to qualify and verify our service suppliers, which are categorized according to the HSE risk level of their activities. Since we started with this project in 2012, around 56 percent of the 1,699 active service suppliers in a higher HSE risk category have already been audited before contract award or during their activities, and another 500 were audited on HSE even if not classified as high risk. Sustainability Report 2016 Governance, Compliance and Economic Indicators Audits are performed against a standard Capital Expenditure self-assessment that is required for any Over the past two years, notwithstanding service supplier willing to work for the market downturn, we have maintained Tenaris. During 2016, 565 new audits a high level of capital expenditure as we were performed, and improvement plans decided to continue with the construction conducted when gaps are detected. of our Bay City mill in the USA and other strategic investments in course. We have also We are committed to the involvement and made a number of investments to increase integration of our contractors in our HSE local content and support our Rig Direct™ management system through different service strategy around the world. ways, including induction courses, regular meetings and training for awareness, as We expect to start up our new seamless well as their participation in our Safe Hour pipe mill in Bay City during 2017. The new program and other engagement activities. mill will become the heart of our US Rig Direct™ service strategy, further shortening Economic Indicators the supply chain to our customers in the We report on our operational and main shale plays, increasing flexibility to financial performance in our annual report respond to well design changes even with (http://ir.tenaris.com/reports.cfm). Here we reduced inventory levels. The mill has have included our main economic indicators already received its quality certification and the distribution of economic value from API and its ISO certifications for generated. Our performance over the past safety and environment and we expect it two years has been affected by the severity will establish new standards for productivity of the cyclical downturn in our sector, during and environmental performance within our which the market for our principal line of industrial system. products has collapsed to half of what it was in 2014. Other investments during 2016 include: completion of new premium threading lines Our cash flow, however, has been sufficient in Kazakhstan, new threading and heat treatto continue our investments in strategic ment lines in our Tamsa mill, an airbag comprojects to strengthen our market ponent center in China, completion of new position and develop our employees and heat treatment and threading facilities and communities, to make dividend payments construction of a new center for couplings to shareholders and to maintain a production in Colombia, new service yards in strong financial position. This economic USA and Argentina, and the construction of performance leaves us well placed to a new sucker rods mill in the USA. strengthen our market position during the recovery. Safety and Health Our Number Safety One Priority In order to detect and prevent unexpected events that could adversely effect our people, our mills or the environment, we and Nothing is more important for Tenaris than have worked to complete an analysis of risks by process, focusing on the design and Health the health and safety of the people who work in our facilities and use our products and engineering of our facilities, equipment maintenance, effective alarms and control services. The entire organization is focused points, procedures and training. on achieving the goal of zero accidents in a transparent manner. Special task forces per process area have continued to work this year to improve our Our Injury Frequency Rate As stated in our QHSE Policy, we believe that management on different topics, such as has improved by all accidents and work-related injuries can safety control on electric arc furnaces and 40% and must be prevented. We seek to achieve this is by building a strong safety-oriented safe storage of steel coils. between 2012 and 2016 Behavioral change culture. We are placing a great deal of effort on We continue to implement initiatives behavior management. Since January 2016, to strengthen awareness, achieve full the “Zero Tolerance” program has been compliance with our procedures, and effective at all Tenaris sites. The program standardize practices and technologies in seeks to identify and discourage dangerous order to minimize exposure to safety risks. behaviors by establishing sanctions for While our main safety indicators have been deviations that could potentially lead to a improving, they remain stubbornly high; we fatal outcome. are therefore constantly re-evaluating the effectiveness of our safety programs and how This focus on behavior builds on our Safe to improve them. Hour program. The Safe Hour, established in February 2012, is a routine one-hour walk We participate, along with leading steeltwice a week through the mills by top and producing companies, in the World Steel middle management of the operative areas. Association’s safety groups in an effort to It seeks to engage workers in constructive define common guidelines on different topics dialogue on safety issues and discuss any safe concerning safety management. Last year we or unsafe issues and conditions. participated actively in the Health & Safety Task Force for Process Safety, which aims to After four years, the Safe Hour project was provide worldsteel members with knowledge re-launched in February 2016 as Safe Hour and materials that will help them to set 2.0. The driver behind this upgrade of the up or improve their current process safety program was to make the rounds more management systems. effective and results-oriented: planning the Safe Hour inspections, improving quality in terms of outcomes and reviewing the topics to consider when the inspection is Tenaris 19 performed. In 2016, a total 49,600 Safe Hour Safety routines were performed. And as a result of the on-site conversations during the routines, Indicators 15,166 observations were recorded, 35,187 positive feedbacks given to workers and 25,279 improvement commitments obtained. Injury Frequency Rate IFR In 2016 we continued with the project to 14.0 review the health, safety and environment 12.0 training of our main operative functions. 10.0 Based on a definition of the minimum 8.0 required skills, we reviewed and designed new training materials both for new employees 6.0 6.6 5.7 5.4 and to help employees catch up when gaps 4.0 4.5 4.0 are detected. We also implemented a safety 2.0 leadership training hosted by Saipem in 0.0 Dalmine to teach peer-to-peer detection and ´12 ´13 ´14 ´15 ´16 control of unsafe behaviors. Methodology: Number of accidents with and without lost days (not including First Aid) per million hours worked. Values refer to own personnel plus contractors We will continue to concentrate on from 2007 onwards improving our safety. We are convinced that the measures we are implementing, combined with increased employee awareness, will be reflected in the continuing Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate improvement of our indicators. LTIFR 4.0 3.5 3.0 3.0 2.5 2.7 2.5 2.0 2.2 2.3 1.5 1.0 0.5 0.0 ´12 ´13 ´14 ´15 ´16 Methodology: Number of accidents with lost days per million hours worked. Values refer to own personnel plus contractors from 2007 onwards. Sustainability Report 2016 Safety and Health Health Radiation Control is an important issue in Tenaris has enforced a comprehensive steel mills. In 2016, in collaboration with occupational health and hygiene program Pavia University and other companies, we aimed at creating a healthy workplace. defined the minimum requirements for tools and control methods in the steel process. We have continued with the development We have also studied and implemented new of a Health Management System in order instruments to permanently monitor scrap. to identify, evaluate and control chemical, physical, biological and ergonomics factors We have designed courses on health and arising from our activities that could affect hygiene topics for managers and operations the health of our employees. and maintenance technicians to become more knowledgeable about these issues. We are implementing the Tenaris Health Surveillance Program to ensure that all employees receive adequate and regular medical check-ups. Its main focus is to evaluate their fit-to-work level and guarantee that there is no possible long-term health risk due to work-related activities. We are working to increase the level of prevention by sustaining and increasing the interaction between our Occupational Medicine and Industrial Hygiene departments. In collaboration with Modena University, we conducted a study using a process simulation tool to optimize the design of a quality control workstation and to define the minimum requirements. Our main goal is to standardize practices and technologies and to minimize ergonomics risks. We have also designed a new KPI called “Ergonomics Total Injury Frequency Rate” to measure the ergonomics performances of our activity and workspaces. Environment Environment Tenaris is committed to minimizing the environmental footprint of its operations technology on burners to maximize energy efficiency; water-based varnish for coating and products. operations; and a water system designed to have the lowest impact on local water The market downturn that continued in resources. Emission control and abatement 2016 had a significant impact on our level of system will be the same for the rolling mill. activity. This impact naturally shows in our These control measures to minimize air environmental performance results, reducing emissions allowed the project to be classified overall levels of consumption, emissions as a minor source of emissions, according and waste but affecting efficiency, mainly in to US regulations, something unprecedented terms of energy consumption. for a mill of this size. Particular attention is 100% being placed on the plant’s design in order of Electric Arc Furnace (EAF) We continue to work on research and to control the health hazards common in steel production development projects to improve our the steel industry, such as ergonomics, noise, environmental performance. In the last emissions and heat stress. five years, we allocated USD 6.5 million of our overall R&D budget to environmental We have begun to develop life-cycle analyses projects that involved switching to materials for some of our products. During 2015 with a lower environmental and CO2 our mill in Italy, Dalmine, published two footprint; finding innovative ways to replace Environmental Product Declarations raw materials through internal recycling (EPDs): one for line pipe for onshore and alternatives; and finding specific solutions offshore use, and another one for pipes for for emissions and waste-water treatment mechanical uses. We have continued with and consumption. this work in 2016 involving other products and we also performed a limited life cycle Tenaris is well positioned in the effort to study, to evaluate the environmental benefits minimize environmental impact, as we apply of our Dopeless® technology versus the best available technologies on our sites standard storage compounds for OCTG and our investments in new facilities build offshore drilling operations. in best practice in the design phase. Our production technology is 100% Electric Arc This study shows that the use of Dopeless® Furnace for steel production and natural technology saves an average of 0.4 kilograms gas-based Direct Reduction for iron making. of CO2 per connection compared to the use In 2012, our third rolling mill at Tamsa of standard storage compounds. Standard became the first industrial facility of its connections also use between 12 and 19 type to obtain certification under the LEED liters of water (depending on diameters) Leadership in Environment and Energy while the Dopeless® connections analyzed Certification program of the US Green required no water. Building Council and our new Bay City mill is seeking to achieve the same certification. Within the World Steel Association (worldsteel), Tenaris is a signatory of In Bay City, where the heat treatment line the Sustainability Policy and the is already in operation, we have included Sustainability Charter. selective catalyst reduction systems to reduce nitrogen oxide emissions; the most advanced Tenaris 23 Environmental Indicators Steel Mills Energy Intensity Tenaris Energy Intensity GJ/million tons GJ/ton prod 25 3.5 16.0 14.0 3.0 20 13.3 13.5 13.8 20.1 12.0 13.2 12.9 19.5 19.6 19 19.4 2.5 15 10.0 2.0 8.0 10 1.5 6.0 1.0 4.0 50 0.5 2.0 0 0.0 0.0 ´12 ´13 ´14 ´15 ´16 ´12 ´13 ´14 ´15 ´16 Methodology: measured in GJ/ ton product Energy intensity based on electricity and gas consumption at Steel production each site. Boundaries: Tenaris steel and pipe production Methodology: measured in GJ/ ton steel sites. worldsteel methodology. Facilities included: Siderca, Silcotub Steel Shop, Boundaries: steelmaking mills, including all Tamsa, Dalmine SPA. Siat VA; Siat VC; Confab other processes on site. Tubes, Hickman, Conroe, Republic Conduit, Facilities included: Siderca, Silcotub Steel Shop, Algoma, Prudential, TuboCaribe, NKKTubes, SPIJ, Tamsa, Dalmine. Silcotub CO2 Emissions Steel Mills CO2 Emissions Tenaris Sites ton CO2 /ton lq steel ton CO2 /ton product 2.0 4.5 1.2 3.5 1.8 4.0 1.0 3.0 1.6 3.5 1.4 0.45 2.5 3.0 0.8 0.34 1.2 0.35 0.40 0.39 0.50 2.0 2.5 0.29 0.29 0.31 1.0 0.6 0.26 2.0 1.5 0.8 0.30 0.32 0.35 0.32 0.33 1.5 0.4 0.44 0.44 0.47 0.6 0.43 0.42 1.0 0.60 0.58 0.55 0.56 1.0 0.4 0.52 0.2 0.5 0.2 0.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 ´12 ´13 ´14 ´15 ´16 ´12 ´13 ´14 ´15 ´16 Direct emissions Direct emissions Electricity upstream emissions Purchased electricity Other upstream emissions Absolute emissions SC1+SC2 (Ton CO2) Total emissions Methodology: measured in tn CO2/ tn product. Methodology: measured in ton CO2/ ton steel Direct emissions: CO2 emissions related to worldsteel methodology. steel production and/or other processes included Direct emissions: CO2 emissions related to steel at the site. production and other processes included at the site. Purchased electricity: upstream CO2 emissions Purchased electricity: upstream CO2 emissions related to electricity production, using a world related to electricity production, using a world average emission factor of CO2/MWh generated. average emission factor of CO2/MWh generated. Boundaries: All tube and steelmaking sites. Indirect emissions: other upstream CO2 emissions For sites without steelmaking processes, gas and related to production of raw materials and fuels. electricity consumption contributes to the indicator. Boundaries: steel mill and other processes on site, Facilities included: Siderca, Silcotub Steel Shop, including power generation at steelmaking sites only. Tamsa, Dalmine SPA. Siat VA; Siat VC; Confab Facilities included: Siderca, Silcotub Steel Shop, Tubes, Hickman, Conroe, Republic Conduit, Algoma, Tamsa, Dalmine. Prudential, TuboCaribe, NKKTubes, SPIJ, Silcotub. Sustainability Report 2016 Environment Energy & Climate After the agreement reached at the United We acknowledge that the CO2 emission level Nations Climate Change Conference of our industry, global steel production, (COP21), we are committed to work accounts for nearly 7% of GHG man-made and cooperate with the governments of emissions. But steel is also essential for our the countries where we have our main daily life, as it is one of the most versatile production sites in order to implement materials and can be infinitely recycled. rational policies that help to achieve the Over the past 50 years, the steel industry has objectives established in the accord. reduced its energy consumption per ton of steel by 60%, according to the World Steel Steel recycling Association. Steel can be recycled infinitely without losing any of its properties. It is the most recycled Tenaris continues to work on improving material in the world: 650 million tons its energy efficiency, as part of our overall of steel are recycled every year. Recycling continuous improvement drive. The energy steel also saves iron, energy, coal and other intensity rate at our steelmaking sites materials, produce less CO2 emissions and showed a slight improvement this year, prevent useful material from ending up in and is starting to gradually resume the landfill as waste. According to worldsteel, downward trend we had before the market since the turn of the 20th Century, the downturn. The 5% increase in electricity global steel industry has recycled over 22 and natural gas combustion intensity for billion tons of steel, which reduced iron ore Tenaris as a whole in 2016 was related to consumption by around 28 billion tons and the reduced level of activity, down 45% coal consumption by 14 billion tons. compared to 2014 in pipe production mills. Following a similar pattern, CO2 emission Tenaris uses electric arc furnaces and intensity for steel mills decreased slightly but gas-based direct reduction processes to increased when all main sites are included. produce steel, which are considered efficient But absolute emissions, both direct and means of production with lower levels of indirect due to electricity use, decreased by CO2 emissions. The scrap use rate in our 1,000,000 tons of CO2 in 2015 and an extra steelmaking process has stayed in average 100,000 tons in 2016. at just above 70% in recent years. This year it climbed to 76%, due to a special market We participate in worldsteel’s Climate situation in Siderca, our mill in Argentina, Action Program, and have been recognized that led to a higher scrap use rate. Our sites for the last six years for complying with CO2 recycle around 2 million tons of scrap per emissions reporting requirements, including year: all scrap from steel and downstream submission of information and verification. pipe production is collected and reused, as The data collection program is a key part of well as post-consumer scrap. the steel industry’s global sectorial approach to climate change. Scrap recycling is one way to minimize the environmental footprint of our operations, and an important opportunity for the steel industry to contribute to the emissions reduction. The industry’s effort also depends on the support of governments, as steel recycling rates differ from country to country. Tenaris 25 Air emissions Environmental Reducing air emissions is a priority for our Environmental Management System, as its Indicators potential impact is a primary environmental concern for our communities. Tenaris recycled steel use % scrap charged Among our activities, steelmaking is one of the most relevant processes in terms of air 100 emissions, especially concerning particulate 80 material. Two of our steel mills, Siderca 72 76 and Tamsa, are conducting studies to 70 71 70 60 define the engineering required for further improvements in the capacity of the fume 40 collection and treatment systems. 20 NOx emission reduction is also part of our 0 improvement plans, mostly by implementing ´12 ´13 ´14 ´15 ´16 changes in our furnaces through the use of Methodology: Values are calculated as tons of scrap present in the metallic load. low NOx burners, which allow for lower Facilities included: Siderca, Silcotub Steel Shop, emission levels, better combustion and Tamsa, Dalmine. improved gas consumption efficiency. Our new heat treatment plant in Cartagena, Tenaris material efficiency Colombia, has improved emission levels by % avoiding the use of old, less efficient heat100 treatment facilities. The Bay City mill in 98.1 98.2 98.5 98.3 98.2 the US, which is starting the heat-treatment 80 line in the first months of 2017, will minimize NOx emissions by using the best 60 technology in terms of emissions, and also selective catalytic reduction to achieve even 40 better results. 20 0 ´12 ´13 ´14 ´15 ´16 Methodology: (liquid steel produced + byproducts) / (liquid steel produced + by-products + waste). worldsteel methodology. Waste: all material sent to landfill and incineration. By-product: all material sent to reuse or recycling processes. Boundaries: steel mill and other processes on site including power plants. Facilities included: Siderca, Silcotub Steel Shop, Tamsa, Dalmine. Sustainability Report 2016 Environment Residues, by-products and materials management Environmental Steelmaking is a resource-intensive process that generates large volumes of residues Indicators and by-products. We follow up the use of materials at all our sites, as well as residue streams and by-products that result from Tenaris residues and by-products our processes, in order to reduce generation, 100 reuse or recycling of materials. 84 80 76 78 79 We are continually looking for effective 68 60 ways to introduce more sustainable material management, investing in R&D 40 projects to minimize residue generation or implement recycling practices with, for 20 15 15 10 7 10 9 10 12 10 example, refractories, slag or mill scale 6 0 from our water treatment facilities. Calarasi Reused/Recycled By products Waste in Romania and Siderca in Argentina are residues used already reusing refractories in the steel 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 process, which means 700 tons less sent Methodology: to landfills and savings in lime addition. Residues: includes all residues produced at the site, including hazardous ones. For reused/ Dalmine and Tamsa have meanwhile recycled, we include any internal or external process for reuse or recycling the material. implemented external recycling. All our By-products: Steelmaking residues that are resites have been working to certify slag under used or recycled, internally or externally. Includes mill scale, slag, DRI fines and sludge and electric specific standards of usage according to arc furnace dust. Internal scrap not included. All percentages are calculated comparing tons local requirements. This allows our most reused/ recycled to tons generated in the same categories and sites. relevant by-product in terms of quantity Facilities included: Siderca, Silcotub Steel to be recognized and accepted under Shop, Tamsa, Dalmine, Siat VA, Siat VC, Confab, Hickman, Conroe, Republic Conduit, Mc Carty, defined standards. Many other initiatives Texas Arai, Algoma, Prudential, Tubocaribe, NKKTubes, Silcotub. in different mills are ongoing, including alumina recycling, wood reuse as biomass, plastics, etc. The material efficiency indicator, calculated with worldsteel methodology, shows that the recycling rate at our steelmaking sites is almost 100%, as by-products are mostly reused or recycled, consistent with the trend from previous years. Tenaris 27 Looking at Tenaris as a whole, by-products Our sites have different industrial water recycled went down in 2016 due to local systems, which result in noticeable market considerations. The five-year trend differences in the amount of water shows that most of our residues (nearly withdraw per ton of product produced, 80%) are materials used and recycled in absolute cubic meters used and also the other processes, and that landfill disposal source of the water. The situation of each is now at about 10-15% of the total. Our site depends on the amount and quality of objective is to continue reducing waste water available and on local regulations. while increasing its use as a product. Our main mill in Argentina, Siderca, has Water Management by far the largest rate of surface water use Water is another environmental challenge since it was designed based on abundant that the steel industry needs to address, availability, with an open water system, since water risks associated with climate which is used mainly for cooling purposes change are becoming more and more in the steel and rolling processes. We have relevant. begun investments to change the way water is managed at the rolling mill. The project In our steel-making and seamless tube allows the reuse of water, improving its production facilities, water management overall management. The complete program is a significant issue in terms of use and will also include steps for the management consumption. Water is mainly used for of storm water and the revamping of cooling processes in the steelmaking mills treatment plants in the mill. and seamless tube mills. Welded pipe facilities have much lower water use rates. An evaluation of the use of water in Dalmine, Italy, reduced losses and led to a We have assessed our main sites to evaluate 13% reduction in water intake. Similarly, the overall water risk exposure. The our seamless mill in Romania, Silcotub, assessment took different factors into managed a reduction of water intake thanks account, including availability and the to improved operational control and the use risk of flooding, among others, and the of rainfall for processes requiring less water level of water demand each site has. Based quality. Tamsa also identified possibilities on this evaluation, we defined priorities, to reduce the use of water in one of its also considering that our higher waterrolling mills and achieved a 30% reduction. consumption sites are all located in low/ It also obtained savings in the steel shop by medium water risk area. Only two of our cascading water to processes needing sites are in high-risk areas, but given their less quality. processes they have very low demand. Although we carry out actions to maximize efficiency in the use of water in all of our sites, we place special attention on those with higher demand and located in medium risk areas. Sustainability Report 2016 Environment Our new line in TuboCaribe, Colombia, an area with water scarcity, was designed to recycle all the water it uses; even wastewater from sanitary services are, after treatment, used for watering the green areas of the new site. The Bay City mill, meanwhile, is designed to recycle more than 95% of the water it will use, while wastewater after treatment will be sent to a local treatment facility. Reducing noise Many of our sites are located near residential areas. The communities historically grew around the mills, as they are sources of employment and activity. We are now working on many of our sites to minimize noise levels at the sources. This has a positive impact both on our employees’ occupational health and on the daily lives of our neighbors. We have managed improvements in Dalmine in Italy; and TuboCaribe, Colombia. Other sites are also working in internal assessments to define the best areas to seek improvements. The Bay City mill has been designed with a completely different approach in terms of pipe handling and movement to avoid high noise levels at the source. Innovation Quality and product Innovation development requirements with less testing required for specific customer projects and the fact that Tenaris already has an extensive range of high performance products for the most Over the years, we have established a strong demanding applications. reputation for the quality of our products and services which, together with our global In the past few years, we have developed reach and presence, positions us as a leading a large number of industry-leading supplier of tubular products for the oil and products. These include: the TenarisHydril gas industry worldwide. BlueDock® range of connectors for offshore conductor and surface casing We invested in Research & We operate all the facilities in our global applications; the TenarisHydril Wedge 623® Development industrial system under a single quality connections for deepwater applications; the USD 454 Million management system, whose aim is to TenarisHydril Blue® Max connection for over the last five years guarantee that all the products that come high pressure high temperature (HPHT) out of our mills are produced to the same applications; the TenarisHydril Wedge exacting quality standards. All our products XP™ connection for shale applications; are manufactured in accordance with the Thor™ 115 steel grade for combined the highest industrial standards and our cycle gas and steam turbines; the BlueCoil® quality management system, under ISO range of coiled tubing products; and the 9001 and API Q1 specifications, provides AlphaRod™ range of sucker rod products. assurance that products comply with customer requirements from the acquisition We carry out our Research & Development of raw materials to the delivery of the final activities with a global team of some 360 product, and are designed to ensure the people and R&D centers in Argentina, reliability and improvement of both the Brazil, Italy, Japan and Mexico. Our product product and the processes associated with development engineers and researchers the manufacturing operation. work closely with our technical sales team, who are in permanent contact with our Our value proposition focuses on industrial customers around the world to understand excellence, product development and a their needs and identify possible solutions. comprehensive portfolio of high quality products, and a strong logistics and technical service component, and is exemplified by our Rig Direct™ service (see below). We invest significant amounts in the development and testing of new products for a wide range of applications and in research for industrial process improvements. In 2016, we invested USD 69 million in our R&D projects, roughly 20 percent less than the year before. This reduction reflects changing market Tenaris 31 Rig Direct™: towards a more sustainable Research and supply chain Today, we supply more than 50% of our Development OCTG products with our Rig Direct™ service model. We originally introduced Investment in R&D this model many years ago in Mexico and (in million USD) Argentina where we have a strong industrial presence and unique capabilities to serve 120 the local market. Over the years, we have 100 106 107 enhanced the model, in particular by 80 89 integrating technical services, and extended 83 it to other regions around the world. 60 69 40 More recently, we extended our Rig Direct™ model to USA and Canada and, 20 over the past two years, we have been able to 0 convince many customers of its advantages 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 over the traditional distributor-led model that prevailed in these countries. We also introduced Rig Direct™ to the Asia-Pacific region where we are serving Chevron’s operations in Thailand. With Rig Direct™, we synchronize deliveries from our mills and manage the supply of pipes and accessories directly to the rig, or point of use, under one quality and HSE management system. When matched with local production capabilities, this makes for a shorter and more flexible supply chain. The system contributes to a more sustainable, costefficient operation, reducing inventories and material obsolescence, as well as simplifying operating procedures. Sustainability Report 2016 Innovation Throughout the process, our technical experts work with customers, offering advice on material selection and assisting with the use of products in the field, helping them to achieve the greatest efficiency in their operations. Based on the quality of the products we deliver and the integrated work with our customers, the service not only reduces the total cost of operations by streamlining the supply chain but also improves product reliability, maximizes safety, minimizes the environmental impact of the operations at the rig and extends the service life of materials. In 2016 we also opened our Rig Direct™ Academy, a training and testing center located in Veracruz, Mexico, opposite our Tamsa Industrial Center. The test rig facility acts as a live training center for our field service experts and allows customers from around the world to witness how Tenaris products perform in different applications. Human Resources Adapting to a new Human environment TenarisUniversity reinvents itself As we seek to increase the service component of our value proposition, the Resources The commitment and professionalism of training and development of our people becomes increasingly crucial for Tenaris. our employees are the most important The diversity of our multi-local team is an aspect of our competitive strength. Tenaris important asset in the establishment of the has grown to become a global leader thanks culture required to accompany the global to the hard work, performance capacity and deployment of our Rig DirectTM service innovative character of its diverse workforce. model, which requires proximity and understanding of our customers and the Number of employees As the company gears up to become the reality that surrounds them. (Dec. 2016) protagonist of a new cycle of expansion in 19,399 the world energy market, the motivation and For more than a decade, TenarisUniversity drive of our people will be defining factors has played a key role in integrating, aligning for our business worldwide. and disseminating knowledge, expertise and values across the organization, by With the oil and gas market downturn providing a common curriculum and base in the last two years, Tenaris had to take training for our employees at all levels. very difficult staffing decisions. We had TenarisUniversity, which turned 10 in 2015, to downsize in order to adapt to the new has 15 regional centers and is organized in market circumstances, reducing the number three schools, covering the different areas of employees from 27,700 two years ago to of know-how in our business. It provides 19,400 in December 2016. The adjustment on average one million hours of training in activity and downsizing in structure were per year. conducted so as not to affect the values and management principles that have guided us Under the new model we are launching, through the years, while also seeking to be TenarisUniversity will continue to deliver its innovative and creative in order to be ready core management and leadership programs for the market recovery. which includes an induction camp (the TUIC) for young professionals, the We have continued to introduce changes Management Development Program (MDP) and upgrades in our tools to help our for potential managers, the Advanced employees develop their careers, both Management Program (AMP) for middle through traditional and new training tools, managers and a Leadership Program (LP) performance management processes and for top managers. In 2016, with less new career development. Over a decade after hires joining the company as a result of the its foundation, our corporate university, adjustment, we focused on the training of TenarisUniversity, is launching a new model the would-be managers attending the MDP, to adapt to the changing nature of learning as we seek to help our people grow in the in this social media era and better prepare organization. The AMP did not run this the company for the challenges ahead. year but is restarting in 2017. Tenaris 35 Human Resources Human Resources Indicators Indicators Total hourly and salaried employees Salaried employees by gender In thousands of people In thousands of people 30 10 26.8 27.7 26.6 8.5 19.2 7.8 8.1 25 18.8 18.7 8 6.6 7.4 21.8 6.3 6.0 19.4 5.7 6.4 20 14.4 6 4.9 13.0 15 4 10 7.8 8.1 8.5 2 5 7.4 6.4 1.8 1.8 1.9 1.7 1.5 0 0 Dec ´12 Dec ´13 Dec ´14 Dec ´15 Dec ´16 Dec ´12 Dec ´13 Dec ´14 Dec ´15 Dec ´16 Hourly Male Salaried Female Total Total Managers by gender In number of people 1,500 1,209 1,200 1,139 1,131 1,072 1,100 1,040 1,014 1,021 980 900 917 600 300 0 92 99 109 110 97 Dec ´12 Dec ´13 Dec ´14 Dec ´15 Dec ´16 Male Female Total Sustainability Report 2016 Human Resources Due to the reduced activity and the Performance management transition to the new TenarisUniversity The performance management process is a model, total annual training per salaried pillar of our Human Resources policy, as it employee fell this year to 39 hours, total seeks to guide career development, enhance training for hourly employees also decreased supervisor-employee relations and align but to a lesser degree, to 71 hours a year. the company’s business objectives with our people’s career expectations. The process The new TenarisUniversity model, seeks to ensure fairness and the highest meanwhile, will seek to be more employeepossible level of internal equity in the centered. With the company having reached evaluations of all salaried employees. a good level of knowledge integration over the years, the new TenarisUniversity The process includes a definition of model establishes the minimum mandatory individual and group goals at the beginning training required for employees to perform of the budget year and a mid-term review their job, but opens an ample and flexible of those goals to adjust them to a changing array of options for training, using material reality. from both inside and outside the company. Our goal is to empower our employees and In 2012 we introduced an upward feedback guarantee an agile system of training for stage to our performance evaluation their development, tailored to their interests process, so that supervisors could have as well as the company’s business needs. a broader perspective on their work. Last year confirmed that the system has Our company constantly generates gained credibility among our employees, knowledge and we believe this new model, as 90 percent provided upward feedback – which will adapt our accumulated content meaning that 96 percent of the supervisors to the Degreed platform and place greater received the feedback. emphasis on employee-generated interest and information, will be the best way to bring it together and maximize it. Tenaris 37 Human Resources Indicators Employee participation in TUIC, MDP and AMP courses Participants per course Year AMP MDP TUIC 2012 47 119 170 2013 81 176 241 2014 79 255 233 2015 52 56 180 2016 123 145 AMP: Advanced Management Program MDP: Management Development Program TUIC: TenarisUniversity Induction Camp Tenaris Salaried Employees Year % approved % approved workplans IDP 2012 86 42 2013 89 51 2014 98 76 2015 98 78 2016 82 42 IDP: Individual Development Plan Upward Feedback Year % of supervisors % of employees that received UF who provided UF 2012 66 40 2013 76 53 2014 81 56 2015 96 90 2016 96 89 Employee Opinion Survey Participation Year Target Rate of population participation (%) 2008 6,817 80 2010 6,892 76 2012 7,646 80 2014* 7,903 74 2015 7,534 85 * Mid-Cycle Survey Sustainability Report 2016 Human Resources In 2016 we inaugurated our Rig Direct™ Academy, a training and testing center located in Veracruz, Mexico opposite our Tamsa Industrial Center. The test rig facility acts as a live training center for our field service experts and allows customers from around the world to witness how Tenaris products perform in different applications. Tenaris 39 Diversity integrates further Tenaris is an equal opportunity employer Human Resources and aims to foster a work environment that attracts and develops talents across all Indicators genders, nationalities, generations, cultures and backgrounds. Total training hours per salaried employee Diversity is a major driver of our Human Resources policy. Born in the early 2000s 60 59 from an alliance of three companies in 50 55 51 50 Argentina, Italy and Mexico, Tenaris has 40 grown to become a truly global company, 39 with 66 nationalities represented among 30 our staff. Our managers also continue to 20 grow in diversity, with 33 nationalities among them. 10 0 We launched a specific program in 2008 to ´12 ´13 ´14 ´15 ´16 improve the level of diversity within the company with a focus on gender. Over the Total training hours per hourly years, it has expanded its scope to include employee cultural and other forms of diversity 100 (Diversity+). In order to consolidate this 90 80 80 77 73 75 approach, in 2016 we created the Diversity 71 70 & Inclusion corporate area under the 60 Human Resources department. 50 40 43 41 30 37 35 TenarisUniversity courses are one of 20 33 the tools we use to encourage employee 10 commitment to diversity. In 2016 we 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 launched a series of courses and seminars designed to better manage cultural, age Including On-the-Job Training and gender mix: Introduction to Diversity, Excluding On-the-Job Training Leading Diversity, Managing Cultural Mix, Managing Gender Mix, Managing Resignation Rate Generation Gap, Managing in a Global Workplace, Scaling Diversity Up. Thirty-six 10 9 editions of these courses were delivered, 8 totaling 232 hours of training and involving 7 465 people. We also included a diversity 6 5.4 4.5 4.3 and inclusion angle to other existing 5 4.2 4 3.6 management courses. 3 2 1 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Percentage of employees resigning from the company in previous 12-month period. Sustainability Report 2016 Human Resources Another employee awareness tool is our Diversity+ site, launched in 2015. Human Resources It includes the periodic publication of metrics on the company’s progress on Indicators the three pillars of the program: gender, multiculturalism and generations. Employees by nationality The Diversity program also includes a flexible work program introduced globally Argentina 4,942 Brazil 1,163 and adapted to each country’s reality, Canada 423 an ambassador program to support the Colombia 743 recruitment of a more diverse workforce, Indonesia 505 and upgrades in infrastructure in our Italy 1,977 Japan 458 facilities to improve working conditions Mexico 5,042 for female employees. Besides our internal Romania 1,641 job-posting site providing visibility on United States 1,014 career opportunities within the company, Others 1,491 the performance management process mentioned above, and our periodical Employee Opinion Survey are important Managers by nationality tools to support a work environment Venezuelan where diversity can grow. US 6% 2% Romanian 4% Others 11% Mexican 14% 38% Argentine Japanese 2% 5% Brazilian Italian 18% 41 Community Development Education and Community culture, our focus Technical school network expands Our focus on education continued to make important progress in the last years with Development Our community programs follow the values the start of our own network of technical schools, called Roberto Rocca after one of and heritage of our parent organization, the the founders of our organization and a proTechint Group, which has more than seven moter of industrial culture and technical eddecades of industrial tradition. ucation. Tenaris inaugurated the first school of the network in the town of Campana, We believe that an industrial project like ours Argentina, in 2013. The Campana School can only succeed if it grows together with had 227 students in 2016, and is expected to Investment the communities around it. This fundamenhave 420 students once at full capacity. in Community projects tal principle has guided our work with the USD 85.9 Million community through the decades. This year our sister company Ternium over the last five years inaugurated the second school in the town Over the last few years, we have concentrated of Pesquería, Nuevo León, Mexico, a region our community action in two main areas: where Ternium is leading industrial develeducation and culture. We have made opment. On August 8, 2016, 128 students progress in focusing our work on a handful aged 14 and 15 attended their first day of of meaningful programs that are designed preparatory in the new school in Pesquería, globally and implemented locally, respecting a modern building equipped with the latest the particularities of the diverse target technology in technical education that, once communities where we operate. at full capacity, will teach 384 students. In 2016, we invested 54 percent of our USD The first cohort of students will graduate 9.5-million community budget in education from both schools in 2019, as technical, programs, as we believe education is the higher school education lasts for six years main vehicle for social inclusion and upward in Argentina and three in Mexico. In both mobility. Being a multi-cultural and multischools, all students have different levels of language organization, the promotion of scholarships, depending on their socio-ecoculture is also an important part of our nomic background. focus, as we seek to encourage diversity and integration. The expertise gained during three years of school management in Campana is serving Our budget this period went down compared as a platform for the school in Pesquería. In to the previous year, in line with the market Campana, we implemented for the first time downturn that hit its lowest point in 2016, the teacher performance evaluation system and we streamlined the use of our resources we created in 2015 with the support of Phd. to keep all of our programs running. Alejandro Ganimian, a Harvard graduate and member of the Gates Foundation Measures of Effective Teaching (MET) project. The system consists of opinion surveys and standardized tests on students, on-theground class observation and evaluation of the school’s principal. Based on the results, we are working on the implementation of training and incentive programs to improve teacher performance. Tenaris 43 The school in Campana is becoming a hub Community for technical education in the region. In August 2016 the school hosted 300 students Indicators from four other technical schools in the region for a “Techno-Adventure” day in which they put their knowledge to concrete action. Investment in the Community The activity consisted of a competition to (in million USD) build a set of lighting based on solar energy. 30 The outcome of their projects was donated 25 27.3 to the community through the Campana 24.6 municipality. 20 15 In 2016, our program called Technical Gene 13.8 12.5 12.6 reached its first decade. The program pro10 11.9 9.5 vides support for infrastructure and equip5 ment, as well as teacher training, school 0 management and on-the-job training intern2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 ships for high-school students. The number Note: 2012 and 2013 include the one-time of students covered by the program contininvestment of USD 13.9 and 12.1 million respectively on the construction of the Roberto ued to grow in 2016, reaching 2,469 from Rocca Technical School in Campana, Argentina. 2,002 the year before. In 2016, we introduced Project-Based Learning (PBL) methodology into the program in Veracruz. We are Investment in Education analyzing the results of the pilot to better (in million USD) transfer the experience to other locations. 8 7 7.1 Support from elementary to higher education 6 6.7 Our education programs cover the entire 6.1 5 5.7 schooling cycle, from elementary to higher 5.1 4 education. Our industry employs skilled 3 employees that need solid education, both 2 at elementary, middle and higher levels. 1 Our work in education seeks to contribute 0 to bridging an education gap that exists in 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 many of the communities where we work. The After-School program has seen important growth over the last few years. It offers three extra hours of non-formal education, four days a week, to the four hours of formal schooling these children have. Last year, 846 children enrolled in five countries where the program was conducted, a slight decrease from the 928 enrolled the previous year. Although attendance varies from country to country, 70 percent of the students that enroll reach the standard 70-percent attendance target that the program has established. Sustainability Report 2016 Community Development Launched in 1959, the Merit Award is the communities. In 2016, a total of 1,080 emoldest of our community programs. Iniployees participated with their time and work tially designed to benefit the children of our in an assortment of volunteering actions. employees, since 2007 it is open for the entire community and focuses on encouraging To name some examples; in Campana, good academic performance of high-school Argentina, the volunteers joined a weekendstudents. In 2016 we gave 1,164 awards as long activity to repaint and refurbish a part of this program. primary school. In Bay City, Texas, our employees joined a Matagorda countrywide We also continued to award fellowships and drive called “Day of Caring,” where scholarships under the Roberto Rocca Eduvolunteers conducted minor repairs and yard cation Program, which started in 2005 and work for local residents in need. In Canada, seeks to promote the study of engineering employees helped students get ready for and the applied sciences at undergraduate robotic competitions. and graduate level in the countries where we have a major presence. In 2016, the program Promoting culture for identity and diversity funded 15 fellowships for students pursuing In 2016 we allocated 38 percent of our PdDs at universities outside their country community budget to cultural activities. We and 468 scholarships for undergraduate stuseek the promotion of identity and diversity dents at universities in their home country. with a focus on excellence and creativity. Volunteers in action Our cultural work is concentrated in two We continued to encourage our employees programs that have been growing over the to participate in volunteering activities in the last few years: the film festivals and the The Roberto Rocca Education Program Active scholarships and fellowships during the period 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Fellowships Global 28 27 26 25 15 Scholarships Argentina 261 210 214 182 157 Brazil 40 39 39 27 20 Canada 15 18 15 11 5 Colombia 22 27 31 32 16 China 18 18 15 19 10 Ecuador 5 1 Ghana 3 4 4 0 Guatemala 5 5 5 5 4 Indonesia 6 6 6 0 Italy 45 45 45 45 32 Japan 7 8 9 8 8 Mexico 168 166 166 173 139 Nigeria 0 0 0 0 0 Romania 40 40 40 41 40 UK 2 2 6 2 1 Uruguay 0 3 3 6 4 USA 19 25 26 34 31 Venezuela 10 5 5 0 0 Total 655 621 629 596 468 Tenaris 45 Community Indicators Investment by area 2015 Social Inclusion 7% Environmental 1% Culture 38% 54% Education AfterSchool program, students by country Students Community 2013 2014 2015 2016 Cartagena, Colombia 68 170 Montevideo, Uruguay 56 Pindamonhangaba, Brazil 38 104 107 Veracruz, Mexico 137 321 404 306 Zalau, Rumania 113 182 Zárate, Campana, Argentina 137 109 170 208 Total 274 581 928 847 Note: The After School enrollment numbers reported in previous years have been revised upwards, as we introduced a new database to have more precise information. Merit Awards by country Country 2013 2014 2015 2016 Argentina 321 296 296 230 Brazil 200 200 200 200 Canada 50 60 60 60 Colombia 50 50 Indonesia 198 207 135 Italy 45 78 68 80 Mexico 101 140 Nigeria 20 24 Romania 222 297 331 271 USA 25 24 Total 888 1,179 1,358 1,315 Sustainability Report 2016 Community Development photo libraries. In this period, we organized It also engages the community via its “FonLatin American film festivals in Argentina, dazione Dalmine per le scuole” program Colombia, Italy, Romania and the United (Dalmine Foundation for Schools), which States. A total 11,200 people attended them. delivers hands-on workshops on the past and present of the region’s history for elemenAnother cornerstone project are the photo tary and high school students. Last year over libraries, which under the guidance of the 3,600 students participated in these workPROA Foundation seek to collect and preshops. The Fondazione also has a teachers’ serve the photographic memory of the locatraining program. tions where we operate. We have so far photo libraries in Campana, Argentina; PindaWe understand culture as a source of innovamonhangaba, Brazil; Veracruz, Mexico; and tion in our communities. Tenaris and its sisMontevideo, Uruguay. Apart from the work ter companies in the Techint Group sponsor they do in managing the image heritage of Fundación PROA in the neighbourhood of these towns, the libraries interact with the La Boca in Buenos Aires, Argentina, a major communities and become important cultural hub for contemporary and modern art; and hubs. In Campana, the photo library worked Galleria d’Arte Moderna e Contemporanea with the local municipality to hold a public (GAMeC) in Bergamo, Italy. event in the city’s main park featuring a selection of the pictures and other cultural PROA marked its 20th anniversary this year activities. A website for the Campana photo with a major exhibit on the neighbourhood library was launched this year. The library in of La Boca, a traditional and iconic former Veracruz holds periodical exhibits and conport area in the Argentine capital. PROA ferences. It has also made computers availfeatures exhibits of international standing able for the public to look at its archive of and receives some 100,000 visitors a year. In some 3,000 images of the city, and received 2016 it presented for the first time in Latin over 38,000 visitors. America the works of the Russian artist Kazimir Malevich. Our Fondazione Dalmine (Dalmine Foundation), which opened in 1999 next to our PROA also conducts educational programs mill in Bergamo, is tasked with compiling for schools based on the shows on exhibit and preserving the historic heritage of our and also workshops and other open-door industrial facilities and our organization activities for the community. In April 2016, around the world. The Fondazione’s archive PROA made an agreement with the Walt keeps some 120,000 documents, 80,000 Disney Company to show 200 Disney films photographs, 500 films, 5,000 drawings and for free in the PROA theatre. More than 900 other objects depicting the centennial3,000 children watched the films. plus industrial history of our industry in the region. It regularly opens the Foundation’s premises for photo exhibitions and other cultural events. Corporate Registered Office 29 Av. de la Porte-Neuve 3rd Floor Information L-2227 Luxembourg (352) 26 47 8978 tel (352) 26 47 8979 fax Principal Offices Argentina Av. L. N. Alem 1067 27th Floor (C1001AAT) Buenos Aires Argentina (54) 11 4018 2100 tel (54) 11 4018 1000 fax Italy Piazza Caduti 6 Luglio 1944, 1 (24044) Dalmine, Bergamo Italy (39) 035 560 1111 tel (39) 035 560 3827 fax Mexico Edifi cio Parque Reformas Campos Elíseos 400 17th Floor (11560) Mexico, D.F. Mexico (52) 55 5282 9919 tel (52) 55 5282 9966 fax USA 2200 West Loop South, Suite 800 (77027) Houston, Texas USA (1) 713 767 4400 tel (1) 713 767 4444 fax www.tenaris.com July 2017. ©Tenaris 2017. All rights reserved.
