CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Report 2017 UN Global Compact NKT wishes to protect the environment, safeguard human and labour rights, and work against corruption. nkt.com NKT A/S, Company Reg. No. 62 72 52 14 Contents NKT 03 Letter of commitment 04 Description of business model 06 Ethical behaviour 07 Anti-corruption & fair competition 08 Environment, energy & climate 09 The NKT recycling center 10 NKT Victoria – reducing our environmental impact 12 Human & labour rights 14 Vendors and business partners NKT is signatory to the UN Global Compact and this report provides Communication on Progress (COP) for the period 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017. 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 “Our vision and commitment are built on responsible and ethical company behaviour” Letter of commitment As a global power cable provider connecting the world with organizational structure, business model, and access to the high-quality cable solutions we are committed to bringing technology which is key to becoming a leading player in the power to life sustainably and with focus on the regeneration integration of renewable energy into the global power grids. of the environment. Our vision and commitment are built on responsible and ethical company behaviour through Following the acquisition, we have given strong focus to our Business Code of Conduct. In 2017 we continued to integrating the business with our organizational structure strengthen our approach to compliance throughout our and Business Code of Conduct. Our continued participation organization via extensive training for many employees. in the UN Global Compact and now also the Global Compact Nordic Network strengthens and energizes our commitment 2017 was furthermore one of the most transformative years to working ethically and responsibly while maintaining our in the history of our company with the acquisition of the ABB business pledge of bringing power to life. Group’s high-voltage power cable business. This acquisition complements our strategic vision of driving excellence Michael Hedegaard Lyng through everything we do. It also has direct impact on our President & CEO, NKT Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 3 Description of business model 2017 Key figures NKT designs, manufactures and markets power cables for low-, mediumand high-voltage solutions. We operate globally with 13 a strong position in Europe. In March 2017 we took yet another step in the ongoing transformation of NKT when the acquisition of ABB HV Cables was closed. Production sites The acquisition was a strategic match with our existing business and has made us a global player within onand offshore highvoltage AC/DC cable systems. With the combined business we are strongly positioned in the growing offshore wind industry and for the development of the interconnector grid globally. 3,400 NKT operates in three main business lines: high-voltage cable ~ solutions, lowand medium-voltage cables, and cable accessories and service. With a strong market position across our portfolio we have a clear ambition to become the best power cable company Employees in the eyes of our customers and our people. To make that happen we will drive excellence in everything we do and how we conduct business. A responsible, sustainable, and ethical behaviour are essential to our future success being a naturally part of the foundation on which we implement our current strategy plan EXCELLENCE 2020. The strategy is our roadmap to success EUR 1,428.9m with three key targets: customer satisfaction (Net Promoter Score >50%), employee engagement (Employee Engagement Index >80%) and improved financial strength (Return on Capital Employed >13%). Revenue We own two high-voltage power cable production sites in Germany and Sweden respectively as well as 11 in other European countries. In 2017 our total revenue was EUR 1,428.9m i market prices, corresponding to EUR 1,058m in standard metal prices. NKT has strong market positions across the portfolio High-voltage High-voltage Building wire, Railway Service & onshore offshore LV / MV cables Global leader in accesories High-quality supplier Acknowledge Leading player in catenary market with Global niche player with uniqe products premium player in the Nordics, strong highly innovative with high-quality and production offshore wind market position in Central products products capabilities Europe 4 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 5 Ethical behaviour For NKT a global mindset is essential and Business Code of Conduct conducting business responsibly is key. We A key part of our compliance approach is our Business Code of Conduct, which describes the fundamental principles and are committed to an ethical behaviour and we rules governing how all our people should act, both internally embrace a value-based approach to the way and externally in relation to our vendors, business partners we do business. and the public. In 2017 we updated our Business Code of Conduct with In an increasingly complex regulatory environment, ensuring information about our whistle-blower hotline. We have also compliance is a fundamental challenge, and in 2017 we initiated training for relevant employees, including new have continued to update our approach in this respect. employees added through the acquisition. We are compliant with applicable laws, regulations and international standards and are striving to meet stakeholder The Business Code of Conduct describes how we do expectations and develop a strong compliance mindset business across our organization and includes policies throughout our organization. for areas such as business integrity, anti-corruption, environment, energy & climate, fair competition, human & In 2017 the acquisition of ABB HV Cables was a key event labour rights, information security, product compliance & for our business. Subsequently, a top priority has been quality, compliance handling and reporting of misconduct. to ensure that all new employees and functions are fully integrated within our corporate compliance framework. 6 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Anti-corruption & fair competition NKT refrains from and opposes all forms of bribery and corruption. We abide by the rules of fair competition and have a clear policy for anti-corruption and fair competition which is implemented and communicated company-wide as part of corporate training in our Business Code of Conduct. In our Business Code of Conduct we In 2016 we extended our whistlebe reported by external stakeholders. clearly state that no employee may blower hotline to enable instances of In 2017 we have not received any directly or indirectly offer, give or take unethical behaviour such as corruption, reports related to corruption, bribery or money or anything else of value when bribery and unfair competition also to unfair competition. doing business to obtain an improper advantage. As stated in the Business Code of Conduct we do not participate in unfair trading or illegal anti-trust Goals and actions 2017 activities. and beyond Outcome Status Employees exposed to corruption risks Due to the acquisition of ABB Key risks to be further trained and equipped to HV Cables, general compliance Key risks in regard to corruption, bribery and fair competition are primarily linked handle risk situations training was focused on new employees rather than (+) to our interaction with external vendors, employees specifically exposed to corruption risks suppliers and business partners in connection with tenders and business agreements. We work to minimize these risks both internally and externally: Future plans, goals and actions Targets 2018 and beyond Anti-corruption and fair competition is Develop and implement an extended Further train and equip employees who are an integral part of internal corporate anti-corruption programme targeting exposed to corruption risks to handle risk training in our Business Code of high-risk business areas/employees situations Conduct. It also forms part of our business contracts and Business Update and implement specific Ensure relevant employees are adequately Code of Conduct for External Vendors guidelines on anti-trust behaviour trained & Business Partners in which we expect full compliance from the parties involved. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 7 Environment, energy & climate NKT is committed to keeping environmental impact at a minimum through sustainable business practices and operations. In NKT, we are committed to developing Energy efficiency has also improved due to As planned, an Environmental Council a long-term sustainable business by more effective utilization of manufacturing was not established in 2017 due to continuously reducing the environmental equipment based on improved planning organizational changes and the decision impact of our activities. Our products are and comprehensive LEAN improvements to integrate our environmental, energy designed, manufactured and installed with implemented in 2016 and 2017. and climate reporting within the corporate careful consideration for the environment, reporting and monitoring framework. utilization of natural resources and energy The water consumption has decreased New common methods and monitoring consumption. We expect all employees 1.3% which is lower than expected. We setups have now been developed to to act responsible and with respect have not seen the results expected from ensure compliance with our QHSE Policy. for the environment as stated in our the projects initiated to reduce our water Business Code of Conduct. In 2017, usage and we are now evaluating the to ensure strong focus on reducing result to ensure future reduction. Data integration and alignment with our environmental impact, we further the acquired sites are still ongoing, established a QHSE Policy covering In 2018 we will investigate how to and the sites concerned are quality, health, safety and environment. establish more precise energy efficiency therefore not represented in the data indicators for our high-voltage cable presented in this section. Relevant Key risks production sites. This is necessitated data for these sites will figure in our The key risks with regard to environmental by the project-based nature of the highCSR reporting from 2018. impact relate to chemical spills and voltage business causing fluctuations emissions from consumption of fossil in the energy consumption for cable fuels primarily linked to production and production when measured in kWh/tonne. installation of cables and transportation of goods. To reduce these risks, we have clear policies and processes ensuring compliance with our QHSE Policy as well Goals and actions 2017 Outcome Status as external regulations. All our production Improve total energy efficiency in sites – including those newly acquired operate under an ISO14001-certified kWh/tonne by 2% (target 597 kWh/tonne) compared with 2016 3% (593 kWh/tonne) + environmental management system, and Reduce water consumption by 2% several facilities also have an ISO50001certified energy management regime. To compared with 2016 1.3% reduction ÷ abide by local laws and regulations we Increase material utilization by 0.2%-points have established a third-party compliance process with an audit conducted to 97% in 2017 97% + annually at each production site, which Establish an Environmental Council to complements our internal monitoring of accelerate efficiency efforts Not established ÷ regulatory changes locally. Energy efficiency Goals and actions 2018 Target In 2017 we recorded a 3% improvement Improve total energy efficiency in in energy efficiency measured in kWh/tonne by 2% compared with 2017 581 kWh/tonne kWh/tonne cables. This positive result was in line with our objective and was Reduce water consumption by 2% compared with 2017 86,334 m3 a result of several initiatives including investment in new manufacturing Increase material utilization by 0.2%-points equipment, modernization of compressed compared with 2017 (97%) 97.2% air systems and upgrade of lighting. 8 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 The NKT recycling center 1,205 Tonnes recycled The NKT recycling center in Stenlille, Denmark, is unique in the cable industry. This facility each year processes large quantities of cable scrap originating both from our own production sites and from customers. The quantities are steadily increasing and reflect society’s growing focus on the copper re-use of scarce resources. The recycling centre plays a key part in our ambition to limit environmental impact. 539 Stenlille recycling centre at a glance Amounts in tonnes 2016 2017 Total weight of processed cable 2,012 2,365 Tonnes recycled Total weight of cable received from customers 118 175 aluminium Recycled copper 754 1,205 Recycled aluminium 461 539 Recycled PEX 514 652 Recycled PVC 101 130 Received halogen-free flame retardants 44 40 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 9 NKT Victoria – reducing our environmental impact In 2017 we commissioned our purposesignificantly lower than for equivalent vessels due to a unique built cable laying vessel, NKT Victoria. She combination of technologies, including power-fromshore solution, Azipod propulsion units, energy storage for marine introduced a new level of advanced operational applications, and specially designed on-board DC grid. technologies and energy efficiency reducing our environmental impact from offshore cable The electrical power-fromshore connection can be operations. maintained while loading cable aboard, keeping the diesel generators off creating a unique advantage which enables more energy efficient operation. NKT Victoria is one of the world’s most energy-efficient cable laying vessels, and she plays a key part in our ambition to While at sea the vessel’s diesel exhaust is cleaned by consistently minimize environmental impact arising from our selective catalytic reduction (SCR), which is recognized offshore operations. The fuel consumption of NKT Victoria is as one of the most fuel-efficient technologies available Accommodation: Total cable capacity: Draught: 7.20 meters 100 persons 9,000 tonnes on two turntables 10 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 for reducing diesel engine emissions. NKT Victoria is are implemented through the installation of sophisticated also equipped with Tier 3 approved engines operating on rollreduction technologies that minimize the effects of harsh sulphurfree fuel. sea conditions. Safety on board DP3 (dynamic positioning) system technology ensures Safety is a core company value and focus area for NKT uninterrupted operation in all eventualities, including and our partners and customers. With NKT Victoria we fire and flooding containment protecting all passengers. have a custom-built vessel designed to meet the industry’s highest safety standards and keep personnel, partners and customers safe during offshore operations and while Part of the ABB business acquisition, NKT Victoria now in transit. A host of onboard features enable optimized plays a key part in our high-voltage turnkey solution operational planning, ensuring safe and efficient operation portfolio, which includes everything from cable system on the high seas. Stringent offshore safety requirements design, production and installation to service. Ship of the Year 2017 NKT Victoria was proclaimed Ship of the Year 2017 in Norway in recognition of her innovative, technological and sustainability capabilities Length: Breadth: 140 meters 29.60 meter Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 11 Human & labour rights A healthy, safe, secure, and diverse working environment is fundamentalto the continued growth of NKT. We consider our people key to successful customer relations and we strive to treat all individuals with respect and dignity. As stated in our Human & Labour A further initiative to strengthen age distribution is fairly even with Rights policy we are committed to our employee engagement is a the majority in the 40-55 age group. delivering a working environment based performance management system Regarding gender diversity within on respect, engagement and safety. To designed to ensure that all employees department leaders 92% is male which honour this policy, appropriate systems are aware of the expectations which equals the share of last year. In the and processes have been introduced exist with regard to their position in the Global Leadership Team we see a with specific targets in key areas. company creating the foundation for slight increase in female representatives engagement, individual development compared with last year. Key risks and organizational growth. At NKT, principal risks in terms of human and labour rights relate Employee engagement is a key target NKT gender composition to employee safety in terms of in EXCELLENCE 2020 with a goal of occupational injuries and accidents. reaching an Employee Engagement 100% To mitigate these risks, we have clear Index of more than 80% by 2020. In Men processes and policies in place. Safety 2017 we established a baseline for 80 Femal is a key priority and we are continuously employee engagement for the new 60 monitoring and improving safety organization, with a re-designed standards across our organization. survey focusing on engagement, 40 Risks relating to forced and child labour performance and leadership quality. This 20 are not considered material as we affects our KPI and we now track our mainly operate in low-risk countries. employee engagement in an Employee 0 A key element in risk prevention is our Engagement Index instead of the Department Global Leaders Leadership Team whistle-blower hotline which is open for Employee Trust Index used in recent both employees and external partners. years. Female (8%) Female (29%) Male (92%) Male (71%) Organizational structure Diversity In 2017 we transformed the corporate As stated in our Human & Labour Rights organization in NKT due to the Policy we are committed to providing integration of the acquired business. equal opportunity to all employees and The ambition of the new organization we will not tolerate discrimination or Strengthening our safety culture is to support the key targets of the harassment of any kind. We strive to At NKT, managing risks to the safety of EXCELLENCE 2020 strategy plan. In promote diversity, and we firmly believe our people is a core area of focus, and regard to organizational changes we that a diverse organization provides we are continuously monitoring and collaborate with relevant work councils. the best platform for developing improving safety standards across our competencies and results in the organization through safety policies, Engaged and committed people company. NKT is committed to ensure processes and initiatives. We have Over the past year we have introduced that, whenever possible, more equal introduced certified safety management a new leadership model designed to gender representation is promoted systems, such as OHSAS 18001, to equip our leaders with the necessary without compromising on basic improve our processes, monitor our mindand skillset needed to deliver on qualifications in terms of professional progress and build a strong corporate company expectations. The focus of skills and personal competencies. safety culture with the overall ambition of the programmes is to ensure that NKT eliminating accidents. As a key element leaders effectively drive and develop The senior leadership level of NKT in this we have defined a list of Life performance through motivated and consists of a total of 46 persons Saving Principles dedicated to driving engaged employees. comprising eight nationalities. The safety across all organizational levels. 12 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 The Life Saving Principles provide a Reporting according to the NKT business partners are expected practical guide to specific measures for UK Modern Slavery Act to comply with the principles set out improving safety. They play a central Our Human & Labour Rights Policy in our Global Third Party Compliance part in the future development of our clearly states that we reject any Policy and Code of Conduct for safety culture as a complement to our form of forced labour and do not Vendors & Business Partners, which QHSE policy and safety programmes. condone the hiring of child labour. At also include our supplier policy on During the year under review we also NKT, employees have contracts of Human & Labour Rights. In 2017, launched a number of dedicated employment and are trained in our work was carried out on an improved campaigns and initiatives to prevent Human & Labour Rights Policy and are supplier qualification process that will some of the most common safety committed to continuously identifying ensure that our suppliers comply with issues such as Slips & Trips Prevention and mitigating potential violations. We the above policy and code of conduct. and Knives Elimination Programme. do not consider the risk of forced and child labour to be material as we mainly In 2017 we have seen positive results operate in low-risk countries. from the focus on strengthening our safety culture. Over the year more than 3.000 unsafe situations were recorded and eliminated, and our Goals and actions 2017 Outcome Status Lost Time Severity Rate* decreased by 24% on 2016. We have also Increase Employee Trust Index >46% 56% + registered a reduction in our Lost Time Accident Rate**. We have designed Reduce the number of unsafe situations and behaviours >2,300 >3,200 + several company-wide initiatives such as the Life Saving Principles and a Reduce the Lost Time Accident Rate by 0.76 Safety Buddy Award to promote and 30% compared with 2016. Target <0.77 + strengthen our safety culture ensuring further reductions in our Lost Time Reduce the Lost Time Accident Severity 22 Severity Rate and Lost Time Accident Rate by 9% compared with 2016. Target <29. + Rate. Safety first is a core company value Future plans, goals and actions Target 2018 and beyond and we are determined to continue our Increase Employee Engagement Index >63% (baseline 2017) work to ensure a strong safety culture >80% in 2020 in our organization through training and facilitation of our QHSE Policy and Leadership development All 243 leaders in the targeted group to complete the Leadership Pipeline the Life Saving Principles. To initiate programme and drive employee engagement and create risk awareness and a safety Leadership development Start a leadership programme dedicated to front-end leaders at our production sites focused mindset we have decided to join the international program Safety Decentralized leadership programme Create leadership programme for leaders Culture Ladder. Furthermore, we will of decentralized teams continue to identify and implement People Performance Management Ensure full use of the PPM-system across systematic improvements of the the organization to drive engagement and working conditions in our organization performance including machinery and facilities. Reduce the number of unsafe situations >3,200 and behaviours Data privacy We have a plan to ensure compliance Reduce the Lost Time Accident Rate <0.70 compared with 2017 (0.76) with privacy under the upcoming General Data Protection Regulation Reduce the Lost Time Accident Severity <22 (GDPR). We are working to implement Rate compared with 2017 (22) adequate measures such as organizing Data privacy Develop programme to ensure various data privacy assessments and GDPR compliance action planning, raising awareness, and carrying out training of our people and * Lost Time Severity Rate describes the number of lost work days experienced per 100 workers. relevant partners. ** Lost Time Accident Rate is a standardized way to measure and compare accident frequency in organizations. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 13 Vendors and business partners At NKT we expect and require Activities in relation to our assessment principles of the UN Global Compact our major business partners to and evaluation approach include due to the implementation of our selfassessment questionnaires, new procurement system ensuring fully comply with all applicable interviews, desktop review, audits and/ transparency in vendor compliance laws, regulations and or any other relevant measures. with our Business Code of Conduct international requirements, as for Vendors & Business Partners well as our Global Policy for From 2018 we no longer operate with a and Global Policy for Third Party specific target of vendors adopting the Compliance. Third Party Compliance and Business Code of Conduct for Vendors & Business Partners. Goals and actions beyond Outcome Status Increase number of suppliers (with Due to the implementation of We are constantly seeking to improve procurement value >EUR 50,000) the new procurement system transparency in our vendor network, and in 2017 we began implementing adopting the UN Global Compact principles to more than 95% we do not have sufficient data for this target ÷ a cloud-based procurement system to handle our suppliers and vendors globally. The system strengthens Review and update our third-party Anti-corruption is included compliance processes in relation to in the updated procurement transparency in the vendor value chain, enabling us to monitor compliance with anti-corruption process and is also part of the Business Code of Conduct for + CSR requirements and the Global Policy External Vendors & Business and Business Code of Conduct referred Partners to above. This global facility significantly reduces the risk of interaction with vendors not complying with established Future plan, goals and actions Goals and actions 2018 and beyond policies, rules and regulations. Keep focus on improvement of ▪ Full implementation of new cloudtransparency and vendor compliance based procurement system As part of our procurement process, new business partners are assessed ▪ All new suppliers to go through the against expectations set out in our registration process Business Code of Conduct for Vendors Minimise the risk of direct or indirect Review and update our third-party and our Global Policy for Third Party participation in corruption compliance processes in relation to Compliance, while existing business anti-corruption relationships are reassessed regularly. Whistle-blower hotline NKT has a whistle-blower process which can be used have run internal campaigns targeting all employees to anonymously when legally possible by both internal and create awareness of the whistle-blower process and the external stakeholders to report unethical behaviour via a opportunity it offers. special hotline. The whistle-blower hotline is also part of our Business In 2017, all reports received from the hotline were acted Code of Conduct in which training has been provided for upon in accordance with established procedures. We relevant employees. 14 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 15 NKTTM is a trademark of NKT Group. ©2018 All rights reserved. NKT A/S Vibeholms Allé 20 2605 Brøndby Denmark T: +45 4348 2000 www.nkt.com
