Communication on Progress United Nations Global Compact Period of Communication November 2017 to November 2018 we are Singapore Showroom Introduction Stylecraft has been providing furniture of original, contemporary design for over 65 years. First established in Melbourne, Australia in 1953 primarily as a commercial workstation provider, Stylecraft now has 10 showrooms around Australia and Asia, and represents over 20 exclusive European and Australian brands. We prioritise suppliers and manufacturers who are committed to sustainable practices, those with ISO14001 certification and products carrying European and Australian Brisbane Showroom Eco Label accreditation which contributes towards Greenstar, LEED & IWBI WELL certification schemes. Sydney Showroom Perth Showroom + Inhabit + StylecraftHOME Stylecraft value decisions leading to good practice for the Adelaide Showroom environment and the world we live in, and we aim to be Canberra Showroom transparent with reporting our sustainability practices. Melbourne Showroom + StylecraftHOME Our first year as a signatory to the UN Global Compact is now complete, and we would like to take this opportunity to report on our progress. Page 2 · UNGC Document on Progress · Introduction Letter of Commitment to Our Stakeholders To our stakeholders, 05.11.2018 I am pleased to confirm that Stylecraft reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in the areas of Human Rights, Labour Standards, Environment & Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely, Anthony Collins Managing Director Page 3 · UNGC Document on Progress · Letter of Committment to our Stakeholders Human Rights UN Global Compact Principles Assessment, Policy & Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Stylecraft respects and supports social justice Using the Global Compact risk assessment Stylecraft has had no reports of investigations, Principle 1 and all internationally recognised human and tool, we have been able to highlight areas within legal cases, rulings, fines or other events related Businesses should support labour rights. We operate in compliance to our policies and procedures that require further to any breaches to Human Rights in the past 12 and respect the protection of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) attention and are taking steps to address these months. internationally proclaimed human Conventions, and work to ensure human rights including the development of a Human Rights rights. are implemented within our own company Policy. We have successfully completed Third Party and those we do business with and/or have Environmental certification for several product Principle 2 influence on. We have successfully completed and continue ranges and work closely with our suppliers and Make sure that they are not to carry out independent auditing for Third manufacturers, both locally & internationally, complicit in human rights abuses. Stylecraft is committed to providing a safe and Party Product Certification through GECA to grow the collection of certified product. healthy workplace for all employees, visitors and (Good Environmental Choice Australia) which The Australian Ecolabel Program is based contractors and recognises the responsibilities addresses social, legal and environmental on the international standard ISO14024; and requirements placed on it by work health compliance for both the manufacturer and ‘Environmental Labels and Declarations – Type and safety legislation and codes of practice as applicant company. 1 Environmental Labelling’. set out in our Work Health & Safety Policy. In October 2018, Stylecraft engaged a The standard has been established to assess Fair working conditions and wages are Sustainability Consultancy to undertake a product environmental criteria and product implemented throughout the company in line Social and Environmental Risk Assessment function characteristics, and for assessing and with the Fair Work Act 2009. Analysis across our company and supply chain demonstrating social, environmental and legal to ensure compliance with the NSW Modern compliance. This includes the elimination of Slavery Act 2018, and to support Stylecraft in ingredients, designs, defects or side effects that meeting regulatory requirements and longercould harm or threaten human life and health term customer expectations. Modern Slavery during manufacturing, usage or disposal of can include human trafficking, servitude, child products. The standard contributes towards labour, sex trafficking, forced marriage, forced SDGs 13 (Climate Action), 14 (Life Below Water) labour and debt bondage. and 15 (Life on Land). We remain committed to education and training around Human and Labour Rights and continue to engage with our suppliers both locally and internationally and use our influence where possible to ensure minimum human rights are met. Page 4 · UNGC Document on Progress · Human Rights Labour UN Global Compact Principles Assessment, Policy & Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Stylecraft is committed to upholding the rights Using the Global Compact Risk Assessment Stylecraft has had no reports of investigations, Principle 3 of our employees in relation to freedom of Tool, we have been able to highlight areas legal cases, rulings, fines or other events related Businesses should uphold the association and collective bargaining, forced, within our policies and procedures that require to any breaches to labour, anti-discrimination freedom of association and the compulsory or child labour and understands the further attention and are planning to introduce and/or safety regulations in the past 12 months. effective recognition of the right to importance of having a diverse workforce. a Supplier Questionnaire & Code of Conduct collective bargaining; document. This will set out our expectations Stylecraft is proud to employ a diverse We are proud to be an equal opportunity and ensure that minimum human rights are met workforce, employing staff of various age Principle 4 employer, facilitating an inclusive environment and monitored. groups, cultures and ethnic backgrounds. We The elimination of all forms of forced for all current and future employees where believe in gender equality, and currently have and compulsory labour; diversity is celebrated. We are committed to In October 2018, Stylecraft engaged a 57% women in the workforce, with 53% providing opportunities to the best candidates Sustainability Consultancy to undertake a of women holding senior management or Principle 5 regardless of race, gender, culture, religion, Social and Environmental Risk Assessment leadership positions. The abolition of child labour; sexual preference and age. Analysis across our company and supply chain to ensure compliance with the NSW Modern Fair working conditions and wages are We believe in treating people with respect Slavery Act 2018. Modern Slavery can include implemented throughout the company in line Principle 6 and dignity and do not tolerate acts of sexual human trafficking, servitude, child labour, sex with the Fair Work Act 2009. We provide The elimination of discrimination harassment, intimidation or discrimination, trafficking, forced marriage, forced labour and training and upskilling for employees currently in in respect of employment and whether direct or indirect. debt bondage. our teams. occupation. Our expectations and policies for the above are set out in our Equal Opportunity and AntiDiscrimination Policy. Page 5 · UNGC Document on Progress · Labour Environment UN Global Compact Principles Assessment, Policy & Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Stylecraft are committed to being a leader of Stylecraft gives priority to companies with National Sustainability Leader Role Created Principle 7 sustainable practice within the furniture industry. ISO14001 certification, and products carrying In response to the increasing requirement for Businesses should support a We understand our social and environmental independent Eco Label accreditation. Stylecraft uninterrupted focus on the area of sustainability, precautionary approach to responsibilities and are constantly working and a number of our suppliers have successfully in October 2017 Stylecraft created the role of environmental challenges; to develop more sustainable and responsible completed Third Party Environmental National Sustainability Leader. With a focus on production of our products. Our mission certification such as GECA, AFRDI Green Tick, corporate and social responsibility, sustainable Principle 8 and initiatives are set out in the Stylecraft and Ecospecifier Global Green Tag for several procurement and supply chain due diligence, Undertake initiatives to Environmental Policy and include waste product ranges and we continue to work closely the National Sustainability Leader is currently promote greater environmental minimisation and energy management, supplier with our suppliers and manufacturers, both working to support Stylecraft’s sustainable, responsibility; management and product certification. locally and internationally, to grow our collection ethical and environmental commitments to of certified product. third party product certification, the United Principle 9 Nations Global Compact Ten Principles and Encourage the development and The Australian Ecolabel Program is based Global Goals, and more recently to ensure they on the international standard ISO14024; meet their requirements for the NSW Modern diffusion of environmentally friendly ‘Environmental Labels and Declarations Slavery Act 2018. The role also involves the technologies. – Type 1 Environmental Labelling’ which education of Stylecraft team members, suppliers contributes towards SDGs 13 (Climate Action), and clients within the design and construction 14 (Life Below Water) and 15 (Life on Land). industry on the details and importance of these Third Party Environmental certification includes commitments. verified evidence of reduction of emissions, hazardous materials and pollutants, details (continued on next page) of product stewardship and end of life, and ensures social, legal and environmental compliance for both the manufacturer and applicant company. In addition to the above, we are working to introduce a Sustainable Procurement Policy and Supplier Questionnaire in line with ISO20400 to ensure we continue to maintain sustainable design and production. We continue to seek opportunities to collaborate with suppliers and designers on new product designs using new environmental technologies and innovative materials. Page 6 · UNGC Document on Progress · Environment Environment UN Global Compact Principles Measurement of Outcomes Carbon Neutrality Participation in Clean Up Australia Day efficient and sustainable. With the support Principle 7 In 2007, Stylecraft became Australia’s first The team at Stylecraft take a sustainable offered by CitySwitch, we are able to measure Businesses should support a carbon neutral commercial furniture company. approach to managing our business in an our current performance and set our own targets precautionary approach to Over the past 11 years we we have been environmentally responsible manner and work to for improvement in the areas of energy, waste, environmental challenges; neutralising our carbon emissions by purchasing enhance the communities in which we operate renewable and IEQ. Recently, Stylecraft has been green energy credits through South Pole and influence. Our aim is to ensure that our announced as a Finalist in the New Signatory Principle 8 Group (formerly Climate Friendly™). Since employees, suppliers and clients understand the of the Year category in the CitySwitch Awards. Undertake initiatives to 2007, Stylecraft has offset a total of 5,685.6 importance of incorporating these considerations promote greater environmental tonnes of CO2e. The carbon finance from into their daily business activities. On the 27th Australian Packaging Covenant Organisation responsibility; the purchase of these credits has supported February 2018, 81% of staff at our Head In October 2018, Stylecraft became a the protection of 8,552 hectares of native Office took part in our first Clean Up Australia member of Australian Packaging Covenant Principle 9 Tasmanian Forest by providing incentives to Day. We took to the waterways of our local Organisation (APCO), a co-regulatory, not-foravoid logging. neighbourhood in Woolloomooloo, and collected profit organisation that partners with government Encourage the development and 5x bags of rubbish, 4x bags of recycling, and and industry to reduce the harmful impact of diffusion of environmentally friendly In addition, our dedication to carbon neutrality 3x share bikes. For 2019, we have committed packaging on the Australian environment. APCO technologies. has resulted in a 32% reduction in carbon to Australia wide participation in the event as a delivers this model of shared responsibility emissions over the past 5 years, despite the Business Supporter. through the promotion of sustainable packaging continued growth of the company. activities including sustainable design, recycling Charity Leave Day Entitlement initiatives, waste to landfill reduction and Australian Furniture Design Awards In addition to Clean Up Australia Day, Stylecraft circular economy projects. We are committed Our long-standing support of Australian employees are entitled to two days leave annually to measuring, tracking and improving our designers and Australian manufacturing to support a charity of their choice. Some of sustainable packaging performance within our was enhanced in 2014 with the launch of the charities we have volunteered at include business and throughout our supply chain. the Australian Furniture Design Award. In Dementia Australia, Fred Hollows Foundation, partnership with the Jam Factory, the award and the Asylum Seeker Resource Centre. Social & Environmental Risk Assessment is aimed at encouraging innovation in furniture We believe in the community involvement and In October 2018, Stylecraft engaged a design and fostering new opportunities for professional development that comes from these Sustainability Consultancy to undertake a furniture manufacturing in Australia. The winner initiatives. Social and Environmental Risk Assessment receives $20,000, acquisition of their prototype Analysis across our company and supply by the Art Gallery of South Australia, a CitySwitch Green Office Program chain to ensure compliance with the NSW residency within the Jam Factory Furniture In March 2018 Stylecraft became a participant Modern Slavery Act 2018. Using LCA-based Studio and distribution of a new range through in the CitySwitch Green Office program, which methodology, the examination of our data will Stylecraft showrooms in Australia and Singapore. assists office based businesses become more be extended to include an assessment of our environmental impacts. Page 7 · UNGC Document on Progress · Environment Anti-Corruption UN Global Compact Principles Assessment, Policy & Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Stylecraft are committed to ensuring all our Using the Global Compact Risk Assessment Stylecraft has had no reports of investigations, Principle 10 business activities are conducted ethically Tool, we have been able to highlight areas legal cases, rulings, fines or other events related Businesses should work against and with integrity, and work to avoid bribery, within our policies and procedures that require to any breaches to anti-corruption in the past corruption in all its forms, including extortion and other forms of corruption. further attention and are taking steps to include 12 months. extortion and bribery. the identification and management of bribery and anti-corruption within our existing policies On 24th October, our National Sustainability and supply chains. Leader took part in the Anti-Corruption Leadership Group | Risk Assessment In October 2018 we engaged a Sustainability Workshop offered by the Global Compact Consultancy to undertake a Risk Assessment Network Australia (GCNA) to further Analysis across our company and supply chain understand how to identify bribery and to ensure compliance with the NSW Modern corruption risk, and how to design and Slavery Act 2018, this will also include impact implement risk assessments to manage them. assessment relevant to Corruption and Bribery. We will work to incorporate the identification and management of Bribery and AntiCorruption within our existing policies and procedures, starting with completion of the 6-step Business Integrity Toolkit provided by Transparency International. Page 8 · UNGC Document on Progress · Anti-Corruption UN Global Goals Stylecraft supports the promotion and participation of the 17 goals outlined by the UN as the Global Goals for Sustainable Development. We have selected to actively support the following 10 goals where we feel we can have the most influence and impact: Ensure healthy lives Achieve gender Promote sustained, Promote sustained, and promote wellequality and inclusive and inclusive and being for all at all empower all sustainable sustainable ages. women and girls. economic growth, economic growth, full and productive full and productive employment and employment and decent work for all. decent work for all. Reduce inequality Make cities and Ensure sustainable Take urgent action within and among human settlements consumption and to combat climate countries. inclusive, safe, production patterns. change and its resilient and impacts. sustainable. Protect, restore and Strengthen promote sustainable the means of use of terrestrial implementation ecosystems, and revitalise the sustainably managed global partnership forests, combat for sustainable desertification, and development. halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss. Page 9 · UNGC Document on Progress · UN Global Goals Showroom Details Sydney Showroom Melbourne Showroom Perth Showroom Singapore Showroom Level 24, 100 William Street, 145 Flinders Lane Level 1, 342 Murray St 46 Kim Yam Road Woolloomooloo NSW 2011 Melbourne VIC 3000 Perth WA 6000 #01-09 The Herencia PO Box 584 PO Box 18082 PO Box 7797 Singapore 239351 Darlinghurst NSW 1300 Melbourne VIC 3000 Cloisters Square, WA 6850 +65 6511 9328 02 9355 0000 03 9666 4300 08 9466 4066 singapore@stylecraft.asia sydney@stylecraft.com.au melbourne@stylecraft.com.au perth@stylecraft.com.au Sydney StylecraftHOME Showroom Melbourne StylecraftHOME Showroom Canberra Showroom Online Ground Floor, 100 William Street Ground & Lower Floors, 145 Flinders Lane Suite 123, Level 1, Mode 3 stylecraft.com.au Woolloomooloo NSW 2011 Melbourne VIC 3000 24 Lonsdale Street, Braddon ACT 2612 stylecraftHOME.com.au PO Box 584 PO Box 18082 PO Box 106 stylecraft.asia Darlinghurst NSW 1300 Melbourne VIC 3000 Braddon ACT 2612 02 9355 0099 03 9666 4333 02 6225 2900 info@stylecraftHOME.com.au info@stylecraftHOME.com.au canberra@stylecraft.com.au Sydney Inhabit Brisbane Showroom Adelaide Showroom Level 14, 100 William Street Level 1, 50 James Street 11 Waymouth Street Woolloomooloo NSW 2011 Fortitude Valley, Brisbane QLD 4006 Adelaide SA 5000 PO Box 584 PO Box 2035 PO Box 1684 Darlinghurst NSW 1300 New Farm, Brisbane QLD 4005 Adelaide SA 5001 02 9355 0000 07 3244 3000 08 8425 0050 sydney@stylecraft.com.au brisbane@stylecraft.com.au adelaide@stylecraft.com.au Page 10 · UNGC Document on Progress · Contact
