INTEGRATED REPORT 2018 Integrated Report 2018 Year ended March 31, 2018 Management Contents Philosophy 2 Marubeni’ s History 4 Marubeni’ s Management Strategy in Retrospect ——Overview of medium-term management plans dating back to 2006 Company Creed C HAPTER 1 STRATEGY 6 Message from the CEO Fairness—— Act with fairness and integrity at all times. 12 Marubeni’ s Value Creation Process Innovation—— 14 Sustainability Action Plan and Targets Pursue creativity with enterprise 16 Stakeholder Engagement and initiative. 18 Marubeni’ s Four Business Models Harmony—— Give and earn the respect of others 18 Management Policies by Business Model through cooperation. 20 Distribution Businesses (Helena Agri-Enterprises) 22 Finance Businesses (MAC Trailer Leasing) Management Philosophy 24 Stable Earnings-Type Businesses (IPP Business) In accordance with the spirit grounded in“Fairness, Innovation and Harmony,”the Marubeni Group is 26 Natural Resource Investments proudly committed to social and economic devel(Roy Hill Iron Ore Project) opment and safeguarding the global environment 28 Risk Management by conducting fair and upright corporate activities. 30 Digital Transformation Initiatives Corporate Principles 32 Message from the CFO Marubeni Corporation, as a business enterprise, will 34 Business and Investment Strategies Case Studies: actively pursue its business interests through the ——Growth Strategies in Distribution Businesses exercise of fair and lawful competition. As a company, Marubeni will also continue to play its part 36 Performance Highlights in the growth of the global economy, while 38 Financial Data always striving to enrich the society within which it operates. In order to achieve these goals, Marubeni 39 Non-Financial Data is committed to the following six basic principles of business: 1. Conduct Fair and Open Business Activities 2. Develop a Globally Connected Company 3. Create New Value Through Business Vision 4. Respect and Encourage Individuality and Originality 5. Promote Good Corporate Governance 6. Safeguard Ecological and Cultural Diversity C HAPTER 2 MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION 40 Corporate Governance C HAPTER 4 CORPORATE INFORMATION 98 Consolidated Financial Results at a Glance 40 Marubeni Dialogue 1 100 Management’ s Discussion and Analysis of ——INTERVIEW WITH EXTERNAL DIRECTORS Financial Position and Business Results 42 Corporate Governance at a Glance 105 Business Risks 44 Members of the Board 108 Consolidated Financial Statements 46 Corporate Governance System 116 Global Network 56 Sustainability 118 Major Subsidiaries and Associates 56 Marubeni Dialogue 2 123 Corporate Data ——FOR SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 124 Stock Information 58 Sustainability Initiatives 125 Independent Assurance of Environmental and 68 Corporate Management Social Data Editorial Policy 3 Integrated Report 2018 is meant to serve as a tool for communicating with stakeholders and gaining the trust of greater society. To provide a systematic explanation of the Marubeni Group’s corporate value, this report is compiled in the form of an integrated report that describes our C HA PTE R quest to create both corporate and social value. We hope that this report will give readers an understanding of our business strategies as well as our commitment to helping resolve social OPERATING ACTIVITIES issues through our business activities. Furthermore, the notation for the fiscal year covered in this report is FYE 3/2018 (April 1, 2017 to March 31, 2018). 70 Organization Disclaimer Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This material contains forward-looking statements about the future performance, events or manage72 Business Groups at a Glance ment plans of Marubeni Corporation and its Group companies (the Company) based on the available information, certain assumptions and expectations at the point of disclosure, of which many are beyond the Company’s control. These are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and factors, 74 Business Groups including, but not limited to, economic and financial conditions, factors that may affect the level of demand and financial performance of the major industries and customers we serve, interest rates 74 Food Group and currency fluctuations, availability and cost of funding, fluctuations in commodity and materials prices, political turmoil in certain countries and regions, litigation claims, changes in laws, regulations and tax rules, and other factors. Actual results, performances and achievements may differ materially 78 Consumer Products Group from those described explicitly or implicitly in the relevant forward-looking statements. The Company bears no responsibility for any possible damages arising from the use of infor82 Chemical & Forest Products Group mation in this material, nor does the Company have any obligation to update these statements, information, future events or otherwise. This material is an English language translation of the materials originally written in Japanese. 86 Energy & Metals Group In case of discrepancies, the Japanese version is authoritative and universally valid. 90 Power Business & Plant Group Note Regarding Accounting Standards The Company adopted U.S. GAAP up until the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, and IFRS from the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014. 94 Transportation & Industrial Machinery Group “Profit attributable to owners of the parent” is described as “Net profit” in this report. I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 1 Marubeni’ s History In 2018, Marubeni is commemorating the 160th anniversary of its founding. Over the past 160 years, we have been creating new value while embracing countless challenges and undergoing self-transformation. Such challenges and transformation are truly the grounds upon which Marubeni’ s current foundations as a sogo shosha (general trading company) were built. Looking ahead, Marubeni will boldly navigate the next 100 years to evolve beyond the general-trading-company mold by variously endeavoring to advance society and industry while continuing to unremittingly embrace challenge and transformation. Challenge and Transformation in Pursuit of New Value Creation Marubeni has been taking on the challenge of creating new value for 160 years C. Itoh & Co., Ltd., Amagasaki Nail Works, Ltd., Kureha Cotton Spinning Co., Ltd. Nanyo Bussan Co., Ltd. 1858 1872 1918 1921 1941 1944 1949 1955 1972 Marubeni Sanko Kabushiki Daiken Marubeni Name changed Name changed Founded Opened Itochu Shoten, Benchu Ltd. established Shoten, Ltd. Kaisha Ltd. Company, Ltd. Co., Ltd. to Marubeni-Iida to Marubeni established established established Co., Ltd. Corporation established Kureha Cotton Spinning Co., Ltd. Totsu Co., Ltd. Itoh Chobei Shoten Daido Boeki Kaisha Ltd. Takashimaya Iida Limited C. Itoh & Co., Ltd., Kishimoto Shoten, Ltd. 1858 1950 1970 1950 Listed on Tokyo Stock Exchange 1978 U.S. grain consolidator, granary and exporter 1951 First overseas subsidiary established in Columbia Grain established New York 1981 Sales and shareholders’ equity exceeded 1958 Centennial of founding ¥10 trillion and ¥100 billion, respectively. 1961 Non-textile sales exceeded 50% of total sales 1987 Acquired U.S. agri-input retailer Helena 1963 Received thermal power plant equipment order from Manila Electric Company in the Philippines Founder Chubei Itoh 1966 Received first sugar plant order on turnkey basis in the Philippines New York subsidiary Manila Electric Company’s Columbia Grain (U.S.) Helena (U.S.) generator No. 1 (Philippines) 2 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N Profit Attributable to Owners of the Parent (Consolidated Net Profit) 250 (Billions of yen) Combining all our individual strengths to create a more powerful Marubeni Group 200 The Marubeni Group aims to be a true global company that contributes to both society and regional economies while outperforming top rivals across all sectors and markets in which it operates. Fiscal Year Ended March 2018 150 Consolidated net profit : ¥211.3 billion Total equity: ¥1,835.6 billion Employees: 4,436 (parent company) 41,353 (consolidated basis) 100 Branches/offices: 130 in 66 countries/regions (As of June 1, 2018) 50 0 2000 2010 2018 (150) 1996 First shipment from Qatar LNG project 2007 Net profit exceeded ¥100 billion 2012 Acquired equity stake in Roy Hill Iron Ore delivered 2008 Acquired interest in Esperanza Copper Project in Australia Acquired interest in Los Pelambres Copper Mine in Chile 2013 Acquired Gavilon in U.S. Mine in Chile Earned all-time record consolidated net Shareholders’ equity exceeded ¥1 trillion 2001 ＠ction21 Medium-Term Management profit for fifth consecutive fiscal year 2016 GC2018 Medium-Term Management Plan Plan initiated initiated ＠ction21 “Ａ” Plan announced 2018 Earned all-time record profit (¥211.3 billion) Share price bottomed at ¥58 in December 160th anniversary of founding LNG project (Qatar) Los Pelambres Copper Mine Roy Hill Iron Ore Project Gavilon (U.S.) (Chile) (Australia) I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 3 Marubeni’ s Management Strategy in Retrospect ——Overview of medium-term management plans dating back to 2006 Marubeni formulates and executes medium-term management plans with the aim of resolving societal issues and creating new value. Looking back, Marubeni saw plans that achieved record profits during every year of its plans’terms, as well as those when it had to revise plan targets in the midst of the plan due to drastic changes in the external environment. Going forward, Marubeni will address various challenges head on while working to create new value. April 2006 March 2008 April 2008 March 2010 “G”PLAN SG2009 Toward further achievement Beyond your expectations... Marubeni President: Nobuo Katsumata President: Teruo Asada We will go on the offensive by expanding our business To achieve sustainable growth, Marubeni will build an domains, enhancing and diversifying our functions as earnings base strong enough to withstand any change a sogo shosha (general trading company) and aggresin its business environment by setting up a rigorous sively investing in strategic fields. We will accomplish risk management system, accumulating prime assets Basic policy sustainable growth, with our diverse human resources and pursuing asset efficiency. challenging positively and vitally. At the same time, we will maintain a defensive position by refining our management system. ｰｰ Prioritizing allocation of management resources in ｰｰ Allocation of management resources to strategic strategic fields business fields ｰｰ Reinforcement of portfolio management ｰｰ Advance portfolio management system ｰｰ Reinforcement of risk management Key initiatives ｰｰ Reinforce and further upgrade risk management system ｰｰ Activation/education and development of human resources ｰｰ Enhance human quality ｰｰ Prioritizing CSR and internal controls ｰｰ Exercise comprehensive strength of Marubeni Group ｰｰ Enhancing comprehensive strength with inter-company ｰｰ Put emphasis on CSR and environmental issues synergies ｰｰ Steep global economic downturn triggered by a U.S. ｰｰ U.S. financial market turmoil was a headwind but the Business environment investment bank’s bankruptcy global economy slowed only modestly ｰｰ Economic stimulus and monetary easing policies Results in final Plan’s quantitative targets Results in final fiscal year Plan’s quantitative targets fiscal year (revised) (initial) (2-year total) (2-year total) (2-year total) (2-year total) (2-year total) Consolidated profit after taxes ¥266.6 billion ¥220 billion ¥206.5 billion ¥190 billion ¥350 billion Net debt/equity (D/E) ratio 2.57 times 2.0-3.0 times 2.13 times approx. 2.5 times 2.0–2.5 times ROE — 14.5% approx. 12% approx. 18% ROA 2.9% at least 2% 2.1% approx. 2% at least 3% Risk return 21% at least 10% — Less than Less than Risk assets ¥708.3 billion approx. ¥750 billion ¥635.6 billion consolidated equity shareholders‘ equity Consolidated Consolidated Shareholders’ equity/ Shareholders’ equity: ¥779.8 billion ¥799.7 billion equity of at least equity of at least consolidated equity approx. ¥820 billion ¥730 billion ¥1 trillion Total assets ¥5.2 trillion ¥5 trillion ¥4.6 trillion — — Cash flow — — Consolidated dividend payout ratio 15.3% — 15.5% approx. 15% Rigorously screen investments even New investments approx. approx. approx. ¥600 billion ¥500-¥600 billion if initial ¥600 (total during plans) ¥376 billion ¥600 billion billion budget is not met ｰｰ Earned all-time record profits for five consecutive fiscal years Notable events ｰｰ Built balanced profit structure (non-resource businesses’ ｰｰ Initial quantitative targets were revised downward share of profits: 58.5%) Quantitative targets attained Revised quantitative targets attained Quantitative targets not attained 4 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N April 2010 March 2013 April 2013 March 2016 April 2016 March 2019 SG-12 GC2015 GC2018 Combining all our individual strengths to create Challenge sustainable growth Realize sustainable growth a more powerful Marubeni Group President: Teruo Asada President: Fumiya Kokubu President: Fumiya Kokubu The Marubeni Group will build a solid earnings founThe Marubeni Group aims to maximize its corporate The Marubeni Group will work to outperform the top dation and strong financial base able to withstand value by developing a full line of businesses and players in business fields and markets across the changes in the business environment to become a aggressively capitalizing on the global economy’s world, aiming to become a true global company that “Stronger Marubeni” that continuously challenges mediumto long-term growth. The Marubeni Group contributes to both regional economies and society. beyond all of its stakeholders’ expectations. will realize sustainable growth and build a strong The Marubeni Group will work to optimize and expand profit structure and solid financial base by expanding its existing businesses while strategically promoting its operations in business domains in which it posnew businesses that have the potential to become the sesses strengths and competitiveness and is capable core of the Group’s future. In this way, the Marubeni of playing a leading role. Group will realize sustained growth. ｰｰ Clarification and implementation of management policies by business model ｰｰ Top management-led human resource strategy ｰｰ Optimization of management resources ｰｰ Maximization of operating cash flow ｰｰ Priority allocation of management resources ｰｰ Reinforcement/expansion of overseas businesses ｰｰ Portfolio policy ｰｰ Accelerate business in overseas markets ｰｰ Continuation of top management-led human resource ｰｰ Reinforcement of global strategy ｰｰ Strengthen financial base and upgrade risk management strategy ｰｰ Marubeni Group human resources strategy ｰｰ Further solidification of financial foundation ｰｰ Economic stagnation in Europe, Chinese economic ｰｰ Slump in resource prices ｰｰ Changes in operating environment, rapid yen appreciation slowdown ｰｰ Chinese growth slowdown ｰｰ Global economic stability Results in Plan’s quantitative targets Results in final fiscal year Plan’s quantitative targets Results in final fiscal year Plan’s quantitative targets FYE 3/2018 (revised) (initial) ¥250-¥300 billion ¥200 billion ¥250 billion ¥205.7 billion ¥125 billion in FYE 3/2011 ¥62.3 billion ¥211.3 billion in FYE 3/2016 in FYE 3/2019 in FYE 3/2019 1.5 times approx. 1.8 times 1.95 times approx. 1.5 times 1.04 times approx. 1.0 times approx. 1.3 times At least 15% At least 15% 20.7% 4.4% 14.0% At least 10% At least 10% on sustained basis on sustained basis 3.7% — 0.8% At least 4% 3.1% — — — — — Less than consolidated ¥853.6 billion ¥1,173.1 billion — ¥1,061.2 billion — equity ¥1,188.4 billion — ¥1,415.2 billion — ¥1,835.6 billion — ¥6.0 trillion — ¥7.1 trillion — ¥6.9 trillion — Cumulative FCF Three-year surplus of Positive free cash Free cash flow after-dividend FCF — — ¥494.6 billion in flow after +¥184.5 billion surplus of ¥400FYs ended March dividends ¥500 billion 2017-18 At least 25% of At least 25% of 20.3% — 58.5% — 25.5% consolidated net consolidated net profit profit Cumulative total ¥400–¥500 billion of approx. ¥970 billion of approx. ¥220 strategically screened Maximum of (including approx. ¥330 approx. ¥750 billion approx. ¥1,130 billion approx. ¥1,100 billion billion in FYs investments, mainly ¥1 trillion billion Gavilon acquisition) ended March in non-resource 2017-18 businesses ｰｰ Earnings deteriorated after reaching a new all-time ｰｰ Earned all-time record profits ｰｰ Earned all-time record profits record in the plan‘s initial fiscal year ｰｰ Raised consolidated dividend payout ratio to “20% or more“ ｰｰ Raised consolidated dividend payout ratio to “25% or more” ｰｰ Achieved free cash flow surplus I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 5 1 C H A PT E R Message from the CEO STRATEGY 6 S TR ATEGY CHAP. 1 Marubeni, as a “Global crossvalue platform,” will continue to create new value and solutions for customers and society. We anticipate the issues and challenges facing society and create innovative solutions for our customers and for the world, breaking down barriers between sectors, between internal and external, crossing borders, building on our existing business models and expanding into new markets. We will generate new value by freely combining our Group’ s strengths, internal and external expertise, individual dreams and visions, taking the Marubeni Group as one single platform. Fumiya Kokubu President and CEO I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 7 The Marubeni Group as a “Global crossvalue platform” T his year is the 160th since strengths, internal and external ideas Marubeni’ s foundation in 1858. and the dreams and aspirations of We have been able to successfully each individual. This is how the navigate the changing times, grow Marubeni Group should be. and build today’ s Marubeni by ceaseToday’ s conventional wisdom will lessly evolving to continue providing be rendered obsolete in the world of solutions to societal challenges and the future. The future will be built by customer needs regardless of how the power of hopes, dreams and the world changes. ideas. Our “Global crossvalue platToday we again find ourselves in a form”is the new ground for each and time of disruptive change. In response every Marubeni Group employee. to such change, and to reaffirm our Age and job titles are irrelevant. Every raison d’être and continue to grow our Marubeni Group employee has corporate value as a united group, dreams and aspirations and can lead now we depict the Marubeni Group a stellar career by fulfilling them by as a“Global crossvalue platform.”The utilizing this stable platform. I comMarubeni Group is a unified megamend employees’ desire to solve platform, not a mere assemblage of societal problems, no matter how businesses. From this platform, we small. I believe such motivation is the will create new value and solutions driving force behind growth in corpofor customers and society by dynamirate value. cally cross-pollinating our Group’ s 8 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N S TR ATEGY CHAP. 1 Survival Is Contingent on Adaptability to Change T he global economy is currently take that opportunity for granted. We combining various elements from performing well, with developed are driven by a sense of crisis over the the Marubeni Group’ s platform. We economies, most notably the United possibility that Marubeni may not surpossess two unique advantages that States, holding firm as China and vive unless we can successfully adapt enable us to do so. First, we own other emerging economies regain to today’ s changes, truly capitalize on many prime assets overseas. Second, growth momentum. Meanwhile, new them as opportunities and create our networking capabilities enable us trends also are unfolding, including new business models. to freely build relationships with monetary policy normalization and In the Global Challenge 2018 nearly any leading company in Japan developments in international politics (GC2018) Medium-Term Manageor overseas, unconstrained by corpomainly involving the United States ment Plan, our vision for the Marubeni rate group affiliations. The combinaand China. We expect change over the Group heading into 2020 is that we tion of these two advantages plus our next decade, including digital techno“will work to outperform the top expertise, know-how and, most logical innovation–so-called “digital players in business fields and markets importantly, the trust and proven transformation” –across industries, to across the world, aiming to become a track record we have built over the far exceed that of any previous true global company that contributes years constitute the mega-platform decade. While“digital”has become a to both regional economies and that is the Marubeni Group. To this key watchword, people’ s mindsets society.”While this vision represents platform, we add internal and exterand behavior have also been changvertical progress, it also yields a nal brainpower and digital catalysts ing, as exemplified by the sharing “Global crossvalue platform” when such as IoT technologies to spark proeconomy. In particular, we feel that combined with horizontal expansion. verbial chemical reactions, through the values of Millennials, the core To provide solutions to the problems which we will realize a Marubeni generation in terms of consumption, of society and customers in times of Group that provides solutions to cusdiffer greatly from those of previous drastic change, we must foresee tomers and society and continues to generations. If we cannot become those problems and create new busigrow even amid a drastically changfully attuned to the values of Millenniness models by synergistically ing business environment. als, we will not be able to gain sufficient insight into issues facing customers and society. Change is said Initiatives Aimed at Creating New Value to present opportunity but we do not W e have launched various initiatives to realize a “Global crossvalue platform.”First, in April 2018 we established the Digital Innovation Department to spearhead Marubeni’ s digital transformation. It will play a leading role in promoting digital strategies throughout the Marubeni Group and creating new business models synonymous with innovation through cross-organizational and cross-border activities. Marubeni Group employees have submitted many ideas, such as using AI (artificial intelligence) to forecast commodity market demand. We are currently testing about 20 of these ideas. I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 9 From the fiscal year ending March diverse personnel–men and women of As a first step toward maximizing 2019, by increasing operating efficiency many nationalities, of all ages and from the use of our platform, we are conductwe have been able to start implementcountries around the world–Marubeni ing a project called Business Model ing a “15% rule.” This rule allows Academia is working to engender a Canvas, involving all Marubeni Group employees to devote up to 15% of their shift to a mindset focused on a compreemployees from around the world. working hours to new future-oriented hensive platform that transcends the The project offers a window into the ideas. Additionally, we have launched prevailing product-centric mentality Marubeni Group’ s over 250 business Marubeni Academia as an innovation while also incorporating external ideas. models and core assets under the forum for the Group’ s next-generation We are carrying out numerous initiatheme of “Know Marubeni.” Crossleaders. With a membership comprising tives to change the Marubeni Group’ s organizationally sharing information intercollective mindset. nally on everything about the Marubeni For example, in the Group, including our assets, products fiscal year ended and customer networks, is one way to March 2018, we held promote exchanges of know-how and the Marubeni Miraizo ideas and catalyze chemical changes by (future vision) Taskforce synergistically combining businesses. sessions where middleWe are carrying out these initiatives management personwith the mettle to eradicate the vestiges nel discussed how of Marubeni’ s former culture marked the Marubeni Group by a strong silo mentality within each should ideally evolve business. We will lay the groundwork going forward. for future earnings growth. Pursuing Further Growth with a Healthy Crisis Mentality Following Last Fiscal Year’ s Record Earnings I n the fiscal year ended March 2018, GC2018 Medium-Term Management Plan Progress and Outlook our consolidated net profit increased GC2018 Medium-Term Results in fiscal years ended Forecast for fiscal year ending year on year by 36%, or ¥55.9 billion, to Management Plan (revised) March 2017-18 March 2019 ¥211.3 billion, a new record and our Consolidated ¥200 billion in FYE 3/2019 ¥211.3 billion in FYE 3/2018 ¥230 billion in FYE 3/2019 (at least ¥180 billion from (¥198.0 billion from (at least ¥180 billion from first since the fiscal year ended March net profit non-resource businesses) non-resource businesses) non-resource businesses) 2014. We achieved our GC2018 Cumulative FCF surplus of Single-year FCF surplus of Cumulative FCF surplus of Free cash flow Medium-Term Management Plan’ s (after dividends) ¥400–¥500 billion ¥494.6 billion ¥100 billion in FYE 3/2017‒19 in FYE 3/2017‒18 in FYE 3/2019 profit target one year ahead of schedule. Of the ¥55.9 billion increase in Net debt/equity ratio Approx. 1.0 time 1.04 times Approx. 0.9 times at March 31, 2019 at March 31, 2018 at March 31, 2019 net profit, non-resource businesses ROE At least 10% 14.0% in FYE 3/2018 At least 10% accounted for ¥28.9 billion and resource Cumulative total of ¥400–¥500 businesses for ¥27.0 billion. Profit Cumulative total of billion in FYE 3/2017‒19 Invest selectively and growth in non-resource businesses was New investments Invest selectively and approx. ¥220 billion strategically, mainly in strategically, mainly in in FYE 3/2017‒18 non-resource businesses driven mostly by three business groups: non-resource businesses Food & Consumer Products, Chemical & Consolidated At least 25% 25.5% in FYE 3/2018 At least 25% Forest Products and Transportation & dividend payout ratio of consolidated net profit FYE 3/2017: ¥23 FYE 3/2019: ¥34 (minimum) (annual DPS) FYE 3/2018: ¥31 Machinery. Profit growth in resource businesses was largely attributable to 10 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N S TR ATEGY CHAP. 1 higher coal and copper prices. We are also making steady progress in The Marubeni Group Is Embracing the Future strengthening our financial foundation, as a Unified Dream-Realization Platform a top priority of GC2018. We reduced debt by generating a high level of cash A flow for a second consecutive fiscal s Marubeni’ s CEO, I tell every businesses in addition to our diverse year. Our net debt/equity ratio at class of new recruits,“The most business models, ample financial March 31, 2018, was 1.04, a 0.16-point important thing for a general trading resources and information capabilities. improvement from a year earlier. We company employee is to have big The Marubeni Group is a single raised our annual dividends to an alldreams for your career. I want you to mega-platform endowed with such time high of ¥31 per share, an ¥8 per have strong resolve to not only achieve tangible and intangible assets and share increase from the previous fiscal your personal dreams but also contribfunctions. By fully leveraging this year, in accordance with our basic policy ute to your customers’businesses and platform, all Group personnel can of maintaining a consolidated divilocal communities through your jobs.” challenge themselves to achieve their dend payout ratio of“25% or more.” Societies around the world today face respective dreams. Our dividend forecast for the fiscal many challenges related to sustainAs CEO, I want our personnel to year ending March 2019 is ¥34 per ability, including environmental, food, dream big. I believe that the Marubeni share. We regard this forecast as a energy and other resource issues. We Group must serve as a stable launch minimum and hope it will reassure are always proactively addressing pad that enables each and every our shareholders. Despite earning these issues. We in the Marubeni Group Marubeni Group member to realize record net profit and achieving our have the power to resolve such societal his or her dreams by leveraging the GC2018 targets one year ahead of issues and create new business opporplatform that is the Marubeni Group. schedule, we will not slacken in our tunities amid change. This power By realizing our individual dreams enthusiasm or resolve. On the constems from expertise and human netthrough operational management trary, we will maintain a healthy crisis works amassed over decades and the tailored to regions, markets and busimentality and pursue further growth. corporate functions that support our nesses, we will help solve societal problems and contribute to the development of local communities. While aiming to be a“Global crossvalue platform,”the Marubeni Group will contribute to societal progress and regional economic development together with all of our stakeholders and realize sustained mediumto long-term growth in pursuit of corporate value maximization. I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 11 Marubeni’ s Value Creation Process Marubeni creates new value by deploying various forms of capital in its business activities in pursuit of unrivaled strengths. The economic value and societal value (resolution of societal problems) thus created are shared broadly among stakeholders and reinvested in Marubeni’ s operations, leading to mediumto long-term growth in corporate value. Marubeni’s Value Drivers COMPANY CREED “Fairness, Innovation and Harmony,” MANAGEMENT PHILOSOPHY In accordance with the spirit grounded in “Fairness, Innovation and Harmony,” Marubeni is proudly committed to social and economic development and safeguarding the global environment by conducting fair and upright corporate activities. Our Inputs Our Activities Financial Capital Food Group Energy & Metals Group The Food Group globally operates a wide range of The Energy & Metals Group operates in a wide Strong financial foundation food-related businesses, supporting the everyday range of businesses throughout the supply chain, lives of people around the world by stably supplying including resource development, smelting, recyIntellectual Capital safe and reliable food. cling, and trading raw materials and refined products. It continues to strengthen its earnings Operational know-how and brands amassed Consumer Products Group foundation by improving operational efficiency over decades The Consumer Products Group provides goods and while helping to ensure stable resource supplies. services that support consumers’ daily lives by optimally complementing its existing businesses’ Power Business & Plant Group Human Capital strengths and functions with IT/digital technologies The Power Business & Plant Group runs a diversified Diverse, professional workforce in a broad range of consumer markets, including collection of economically and societally foundaapparel, housing and communication infrastructure. tional infrastructure businesses, including power plants, water and sewage utilities, transportation Social and Relationship Capital Chemical & Forest Products Group systems and industrial plant businesses. It continues Partnerships/relationships of trust with local The Chemical & Forest Products Group operates to accumulate stable, prime assets while enhancing within the range of agricultural materials, chemiits existing assets’ value on an ongoing basis. communities cals and paper pulp. The Agri-Input Business Division has built up a platform providing various Transportation & Industrial Machinery Group Natural Capital commodities and services, whereas the Chemical The Transportation & Industrial Machinery Group is Products and Forest Products divisions respond active in a broad range of businesses involving airGlobal environment and natural resources swiftly to the needs of the market, to provide added craft, ships, automotives, leasing, construction underpin all businesses value to customers. machinery and industrial machinery. While strengthening its operating companies’ management, it is also strategically investing in new businesses with the potential to generate stable earnings. 12 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N S TR ATEGY CHAP. 1 Pro jec tM ti ng Risk a Management na e rk Ma Market ge Research Finance me nt Environment Governance Compliance Auditing Trade CORE VALUES Information Compliance Marubeni creates new value by deploying its strengths Oper amassed over a 160-year history–most notably its core Social functions, expertise and know-how as an entrepreneuratin ial trading company–across geographic borders and Legal Aﬀairs HR gC s inter-industry boundaries. Marubeni is pursuing its own om Accounting tic unique brand of value creation by organically fusing its an g p is yM Lo Group’s strengths (human resources, businesses, goods an and services, networks) with those of its investees, busiage men ness partners and other external collaborators. t Our Outcomes (As of March 31, 2018) Financial Capital Human Capital Social and Relationship Capital Free Cash Flow: ¥203.7 billion Employees: 41,353 Net Power Generation Capacity: (consolidated basis) (52 overseas projects in 23 countries + 21 domestic projects) Consolidated Net Profit: ¥211.3 billion 12,219 MW Employees’ Average Tenure: 17.0 years Net Debt/Equity Ratio: 1.04 times (parent company) Marubeni Foundation‘s Cumulative Total Annual Dividends Paid: Women in Management Positions: +62 % Charitable Contributions: (1975-2017) ¥45.1 billion (relative to 2014) ¥4.3 billion Intellectual Capital Cumulative Number of History: 160 years since founding Charitable Contributions: 2,484 Consolidated Subsidiaries and Associates: Natural Capital 430 Population Served by Water Business (Gross): (7 countries) approx. 13 million people Sites: 130 in 66 countries/regions (As of June 1, 2018) Tree Plantation Area: approx. 210,000 ha I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 13 Sustainability Action Plan and Targets Marubeni identifies material issues of importance in light of both its stakeholders’ expectations and concerns and the impact of its own operations. It prepares a Sustainability Action Plan and Targets that link the material issues to plans and targets of individual organizational units and periodically discloses progress of its sustainability initiatives. To inform stakeholders of such initiatives in an easily understandable manner, some of the Sustainability Action Plan’ s initiatives and targets are presented below alongside the corresponding United Nations’Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), of which there are 17. Connection of SDGs to Material Issues for and Actions of Marubeni ●● Developing businesses that solve social and environmental issues GOAL 2 End hunger, achieve food security and improved ⇒ Providing stable supply of food (meeting demands of Japan and nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture other countries) Developing businesses that solve social and environmental issues ●● Contributing toward community development and strengthening ●● GOAL 6 Ensure availability and sustainable management of our operating base water and sanitation for all ⇒ Building the social infrastructure for the basis of daily life / Contributing toward improving and stabilizing the living standards of local communities GOAL 7 ●● Developing businesses that solve social and environmental issues Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all ⇒ Stable supply of energy Developing businesses that solve social and environmental issues ●● Contributing toward community development and strengthening ●● GOAL 9 Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and our operating base sustainable industrialization and foster innovation ⇒ Building the social infrastructure for the basis of daily life / Contributing toward improving and stabilizing the living standards of local communities GOAL 12 ●● Protecting the global environment Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns ⇒ Reducing food waste GOAL 13 ●● Developing businesses that solve social and environmental issues Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts ⇒ Promoting renewable energy ●● Developing businesses that solve social and environmental issues GOAL 14 Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and ⇒ Responding to the environmental impact caused by transportamarine resources for sustainable development tion/Preserving biodiversity ●● Developing businesses that solve social and environmental issues Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of GOAL 15 terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, ⇒ Maintaining various functions such as global environmental combat desertification, and halt and reverse land conservation, biodiversity preservation, and soil conservation at degradation and halt biodiversity loss the forests we possess 14 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N S TR ATEGY CHAP. 1 What Are the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)? SDGs are common goals shared by the international community with regard to sustainable development from a social, economic and environmental standpoint. Adopted by the UN General Assembly in 2015, the SDGs consist of 17 goals and 169 targets to be realized by 2030. Marubeni supports the SDGs. FYE 3/2017 FYE 3/2018 Action Plan and Targets Implementation FYE 3/2018 Performance Implementation for FYE 3/2019 Status Status Food Group: Grain Division Made good use of the Group’s grain network owned by Marubeni, such as the Marubeni will continue to increase trading volume and origination functions of Gavilon Agriculture Investment, Inc. and Columbia Grain ★★★ ★★★ develop its global markets, while also cultivating new International, LLC, and the export terminal facilities of Terlogs Terminal Maritimo harvesting areas and strengthening procurement. Ltda. and Pacificor, LLC, to export grain to Japan and other countries around the world, and contributed to a stable supply of grains. Power Business & Plant Group: Plant Division Maynilad in the Philippines, in which Marubeni has a 20% stake, signed a loan agreement with Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC) and Japanese private banks to fund water supply expansion and non-revenue water measures. In addition to optimizing its operation and stabilizing its ★★ Additionally, the BOT project for the waterworks bureau of Chengdu City in ★★★ earnings base on existing projects, Marubeni also intends China, in which Marubeni has a 40% stake, reached maturity after 18 years, and to grow its business and develop new projects. the water purification plant was turned over to Chengdu City. With the stable operation of our existing projects, we improved our corporate value. We continued development towards establishing new projects and EPCs. Energy & Metals Group: Energy Division Marubeni participated in LNG projects around the world including Qatar, Marubeni will ensure the smooth operation of existing ★★★ Equatorial Guinea, Peru, and Papua New Guinea. Through the safe operation of ★★★ projects while also seeking participation in new projects existing projects, Marubeni responded to the increasing global demand for LNG. and trade. We maintained smooth operation of our existing projects. Power Business & Plant Group: Power Business Division Cognizant of the responsibilities involved in social infraThrough its IPP, EPC, O&M, power service and regulated power businesses, structure development, Marubeni places utmost priority on Marubeni’s overseas net generating capacity has expanded to 11,765 MW in 23 safety, including stable operation of its portfolio of power ★★★ countries as of the end of March 2018. Through expansion of its power service ★★★ generation assets, while continuing to contribute to local and regulated power business domains, Marubeni is working on stabilizing communities by further strengthening its business base by power systems, reducing environmental burden by diversification of fuels while developing new projects and creating new added value. strengthening its operational foundation. Food Group: Grain Division, Food Products Division We carried out activities for improvement based on the rules and guidebook on food Marubeni will continue to reduce food waste and pro★ ★ safety in each division. We also work on food waste reduction and recycling, though mote food recycling when food waste does occur. it is still not sufficient, and we will continue such activities. Power Business & Plant Group: Power Business Division In addition to managing its portfolio assets, Marubeni will In Japan, Marubeni has developed a biomass power plant in Tsuruga, Fukui accelerate development of new renewable energy projPrefecture, and a photovoltaic power project in Tomakomai, Hokkaido Prefecture, ects both in Japan and overseas. It will also work on and commissioned them into commercial operation. Overseas, Marubeni has development of related businesses, using storage batter★★★ commissioned a photovoltaic power project into commercial operation in Chile ★★★ ies required for broader adoption of renewable energy. and is a partner in a geothermal power project in Indonesia. In the UAE, Marubeni Additionally, in its domestic PPS business and power seris constructing one of the world’s largest photovoltaic power plants (scheduled vices business in the U.K., Marubeni will continue with to be completed in 2019). As for EPC, Marubeni is working on a geothermal renewable energy promotion by supplying electricity and power plant construction project, currently being implemented in Indonesia. other forms of energy, including renewables. Transportation & Industrial Machinery Group: Aerospace & Ship Division Marubeni sells ballast water purification equipment for ships, and also provides energy-saving ships, conducting businesses for reducing the environmental Marubeni will appropriately carry out existing trades, ★★★ ★★★ burden caused by transportation. Marubeni has completed the sale of 41 units of while also seeking to develop new deals. ballast water purification equipment as of March 31, 2018. Marubeni is appropriately working on existing projects, while also seeking to develop new projects. Chemical & Forest Products Group: Forest Products Division Marubeni manages 210,000ha of land for afforestation at Marubeni has been operating tree plantations since the 1990s. It currently manthree projects in three countries. It will continue to appro★★★ ages some 210,000ha of land for afforestation at four sites in three countries. As ★★★ priately manage these projects and carry out sustainable for one project in Australia, Marubeni has finished the harvest, and completed forest management. the project as planned. ★★★: Achieved goal ★★: Improving (but have not achieved goal) ★: Continuing efforts I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 15 Stakeholder Engagement The Marubeni Group’ s operations are supported by diverse stakeholders throughout the world. We accordingly recognize the importance of always listening to our stakeholders’ opinions, putting our heads together with theirs and advancing as one. Cognizant of our Group business activities’societal and environmental impacts, we create and offer new value to help solve societal issues together with our stakeholders. Together with Our Stakeholders Customers/ Business Partners Engagement Policy Main Engagement Methods Aiming to be a company that enjoys the ｰｰ Integrated reports and official website trust and conﬁdence of customers and ｰｰ Conscientious compliance with business partners, we strive to develop Marubeni’s Corporate Principles and and offer products and services that are Basic Supply Chain CSR Policy useful to society as well as safe. ｰｰ Liaisons for website contacts Furthermore, we constantly strive to ｰｰ Survey on supply chain CSR improve satisfaction and earn trust by responding sincerely to feedback from our customers and business partners. Employees Engagement Policy Main Engagement Methods We respect the individual values and life ｰｰ Employee awareness surveys goals of each and every employee. We also ｰｰ Compliance access point work hard to eliminate all forms of discrimiｰｰ Marubeni Group publications and intranet nation and foster an atmosphere that is ｰｰ Dialogue between management pleasant for all. and employees ｰｰ Discussions with employees’ labor union ｰｰ Training programs 16 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N S TR ATEGY CHAP. 1 Engagement Policy Main Engagement Methods We aim to become a valued member of the local ｰｰ Social welfare programs funded by the communities where we do business, and to conMarubeni Foundation tribute to the creation of robust local districts. ｰｰ Support through overseas scholarships Overseas, we respect local laws, cultures and cusand donations toms, and strive to operate our businesses in a ｰｰ Cooperation with NGOs and NPOs Environment/ way that contributes to local development. ｰｰ Dialogue with stakeholders Furthermore, we are ﬁrmly opposed to antisocial ｰｰ Activities through economic and Society forces and groups that threaten the order and industry organizations safety of society. ｰｰ Hosting of corporate visits ｰｰ Cultural contributions through the Marubeni Collection Shareholders/ Investors Engagement Policy Main Engagement Methods Marubeni is dedicated to meeting shareholders’ expectaｰｰ Integrated reports, official website, shareholders’ guides tions. We strive thus to enhance our corporate value by ｰｰ General meetings of shareholders responding to changes in the business environment and ｰｰ Briefings for investors maintaining stable profitability. In addition, we work to ｰｰ Other IR activities boost corporate value from social and environmental perｰｰ Response to ESG investment index providers’ surveys spectives, and also disclose pertinent information in a fair and timely manner. Engagement Record Contents FYE 3/2016 FYE 3/2017 FYE 3/2018 One-on-one meetings (with analysts and institutional investors) 345 times 255 times 267 times Japanese investors 228 times 140 times 168 times Overseas investors 117 times 115 times 99 times Earnings briefings (for analysts and institutional investors) 4 times 4 times 4 times Business briefings and tours (for analysts and institutional investors) 2 times 2 times 2 times Briefings for individual investors – 1 time 2 times I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 17 Marubeni’ s Four Business Models To globally build a foundation for long-term earnings growth, Marubeni is pursuing business and investment strategies tailored to its businesses’respective business models, operating environments and other attributes. Management Policies by Business Model Management Policies by Business Model Distribution Businesses ｰｰ Promote platform-type business models in regions, fields and product areas that are expecting growth through M&A and organic D growth to expand earnings and improve profitability over the long term. ｰｰ Primarily take majority stakes. ｰｰ Focus on early start of production at existing projects under development ｰｰ Agri-related businesses ｰｰ Long-term projects with a high ｰｰ Distribution and other domestic level of cost competitiveness Finance Businesses demand-oriented businesses ｰｰ Promote platform-type business models in (e.g., food, chemicals, transport) regions, fields and product areas that are N expecting growth through M&A and organic F growth to expand earnings and improve D profitability over the long term. ｰｰ Primarily take majority stakes. However, allow Distribution for minority stakes when large-scale investBusinesses ment is required. Natural Resource Stable Earnings-Type Businesses Investments (Infrastructure, etc.) Four Business ｰｰ As investments in these businesses require large amounts of capital, have a limited upside Finance Models Businesses S and high dividend payout ratios, take minority stakes as a matter of policy. ｰｰ Take active role in projects even when holding minority stakes. S Stable Earnings-Type F Businesses Natural Resource Investments ｰｰ As the dividend payout ratio is high and investment amounts are large, make participation as a minority stakeholder in projects ｰｰ Leasing, sales finance, etc. ｰｰ Infrastructure businesses with stable N with operators that are reliable for investing. ｰｰ Establish a framework to balance the Group’s (e.g., businesses related to earnings backed by long-term contracts cumulative investment in order to stabilize transport machinery) (e.g., IPP＊1 projects with PPAs,＊2 fluctuating profits at a certain level due to water/sewage utilities, other PPPs＊3) volatile and unstable resource prices. ＊1. IPP：Independent Power Producer ＊2. PPA：Power Purchase Agreement ＊3. PPP：Public-Private Partnership ＊4. EPC：Engineering, Procurement and Construction 18 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N S TR ATEGY CHAP. 1 Value Creation Process —— Model Cases by Business Model Helena Agri-Enterprises, LLC IN P U T S VA LUE D RIVERS OUTCOMES ●● Financial capital: 100% owned by Marubeni Group D ●● Human capital: workforce of approx. 5,000, ●● Second-ranked distributor in the U.S. by Close ties with local communities and market share (approx. 8% share) comprising sales, technology, agronomy and ●● Offers solutions to increase yield a n d administrative experts dedicated to the nationwide network improve efficiency through multi-faceted agri-business space IT-enabled analysis ●● Social/relationship capital: network of approx. 500 locations in the U.S. MAC Trailer Leasing, Inc. (PLM) IN P U T S VA LUE D RIVERS OUTCOMES ●● Financial capital: 100% owned by F ●● No. 1 refrigerated trailer leasing/rental Marubeni Group Expansion of businesses as a comprehensive specialist in the U.S. ●● Intellectual capital: high degree of expertise ●● Enables high quality fresh/frozen food and marketing capabilities in the U.S. refrigerated trailer fleet management company transportation ●● Social/relationship capital: owns fleet of ●● Contributes to reducing food spoilage over 7,500 trailers IPP Business IN P U T S VA LUE D RIVERS OUTCOMES ●● Financial capital: project financing from ●● Japan’s largest IPP with 12 GW of net generaS diverse funding sources tion capacity ●● Intellectual capital: know-how cultivated Project development capabilities, ●● Globally diversified portfolio of 73 projects through power plant EPC ＊4 projects problem-solving capabilities, in 24 countries ●● Social/relationship capital: globally expandasset management capabilities ●● Diverse mix of power sources ranging from ing network of regional development and large-scale thermal and hydroelectric to asset management offices renewables Roy Hill Iron Ore Project IN P U T S VA LUE D RIVERS OUTCOMES ●● Financial capital: total of approximately ¥1 N trillion spent on development (15% owned Vertically integrated project with ●● Annual production capacity of 55 million by Marubeni Group) tonnes ●● Intellectual capital: extensive track record/ everything from mine through rail/ ●● Creation of 2,000 jobs experience and broad Asian sales network port infrastructure owned by Roy Hill ●● Cost competitiveness ●● Natural capital: vast high-quality iron ore resources I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 19 Distribution Businesses D Helena Agri-Enterprises Pursuing a locally focused business model while maximally leveraging a nationwide network, Helena has established itself as one of the top U.S. agri-input retailers. INP UT S VA LU E DRIVERS ●● Financial capital: 100% owned by Marubeni Group ●● Highly knowledgeable and experienced sales force keenly ●● Human capital: a workforce of approx. 5,000, comprising attuned to customers’ needs sales, technology, agronomy and administrative experts ●● Own-brand product line, including crop protection proddedicated to the agri-business space ucts and value-added fertilizers ●● Social/relationship capital: network of approx. 500 loca●● Consulting service backed by deep agronomy knowledge tions in the U.S. and information technology M arubeni operates an agri-input Helena’s Strengths and Competitive Edge retail business in the U.S., the world’s biggest agricultural producer, Provides customers with all materials at every stage of farming from tilling through its consolidated subsidiary through harvesting based on strategic partnerships with major suppliers Helena Agri-Enterprises. With some 150 million hectares of cultivated Deeply rooted in each region with geographic diversity farmland, nearly quadruple the size Exclusive product line including value-added fertilizers and additives for crop of Japan’ s entire land area, and protection products extremely diverse agri-input needs, the U.S. is at the forefront of the Employees well-versed in soil science, agricultural methods, and regulatory global agribusiness market. systems of individual regions Helena’s growth into a top nationwide agri-input retailer involved a Consulting services leveraging AgTech knowledge series of innovations. When Helena Accumulated understanding of customers’ needs and sales people who provide was acquired by Marubeni, its busisolutions representing growers’ interests ness model mainly revolved around sales of crop protection products. 20 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N S TR ATEGY CHAP. 1 AGRIntelligence — Precision Ag service Added value through digital Agricultural production has historically been based on producers’personal knowledge and experience. Today, however, Helena offers multi-faceted technology analysis that utilizes digital technology to gain better visibility into customers’ soil and crop conditions throughout the U.S. Based on such analysis, Helena provides individually customized programs, including which product to apply, at which rate, and when, to help customers increase their yield and operating efficiency. OU TCOM ES ●● Preferred distributor ranked second in the U.S. by market Close ties with local communities and share (approx. 8% share) nationwide network ●● Offers solutions that increase yield and operating efficiency through multi-faceted IT-enabled analysis of soil and crop conditions Marubeni and Helena have since Helena’ s success exemplifies forward, Marubeni will create even developed a business model unique Marubeni’ s distribution business manmore value by globally propagating to Helena. The first step was to agement policy, the first of its business the expertise and know-how it has expand Helena’ s network to further model-specific management policies. gained from Helena’ s innovations. extend the reach of its staff of locally Helena always seeks to create new focused sales consultants. By buildvalue from a customer-centric, not ing a broad network, Helena has product-centric, perspective. It has been able to gain a deeper undercreated added value through differstanding of growers’ needs throughentiation based on its strengths out the U.S., sharpen its competitive (products, services, functions, etc.). edge and expedite its growth. Helena These success drivers have helped currently continues to expand its Helena to cultivate new markets and operations by developing new seraccelerate its growth by providing cusvices such as its state-of-the-art tomers with distinctive products and AGRIntelligence Precision Ag service consulting services while leveraging to complement its product sales and its strong local networks, experience consulting services. and track record as a platform. Going I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 21 Finance Businesses MAC Trailer Leasing MAC Trailer Leasing, Inc. (PLM) has established a new business model by F redefining its unique strengths through a focus on customer-oriented products and services. INPUT S VA LU E DRIVERS ●● Financial capital: 100% owned by Marubeni Group ●● Specialization in rental/leasing of refrigerated trailers ●● Intellectual capital: ｰｰ High degree of expertise in specialty products/services ●● GPS-enabled maintenance/operation management ｰｰ Nationwide marketing capabilities ●● Control on trailer interior temperature ｰｰ Decentralized management by local personnel ●● Early compliance with new U.S. standards for transport ｰｰ 28 sales locations within the U.S. and handling of frozen/refrigerated foods ●● Social/relationship capital: owns fleet of over 7,500 trailers M arubeni’ s Automotive & Leasing PLM’s Strengths and Competitive Edge Division has a broad portfolio Fleet management in pursuit of optimal refrigerated transport of businesses ranging from general • Trailer lifecycle management leasing to specialized leasing for • Data-driven analysis • Lease vs. ownership analysis Fleet • Residual risk strategy products and sales financing. One of • Cash flow management Planning • Consumption-based modeling for • Tax advantage modeling Fi & optimal asset life its most successful businesses is • Leasing options to prevent n n Po anc tio residual risk lic ial y ica gn pl esi PLM, which specializes in the refrigAp D • Optimizing trailer design • Lower lifecycle maintenance erated trailer leasing and rental busi• Nationwide remarketing Competitive Advantages • Damage-resistant program Insight and know-how specifications ness in the U.S. PLM achieved Disposition • End-of-term solutions • Maximizing loading capabilities grounded in ample double-digit revenue growth over Maintain • Eliminate disposal time and cost • PLM pre-owned equipment experience available for sale or finance • Trailer and refrigerated unit care the five years through the fiscal year Reductions in client and repair • Locations throughout US labor and costs • Emergency breakdown service ended March 2018 by nimbly adapt• Disciplined preventative • 28’ to 53’ trailer availability Client focused maintenance plan ing to changes in U.S. consumer pref• Single-temp, multi-temp and Re • Onsite mobile service – we al t An por electric-only nt en Re ipm al ts ys & come to you erences and regulations. • Flexible rental solutions as little u is Eq as one day Safety & Since joining the Marubeni Group • Web-based reporting capabilities Compliance • Food Safety Modernization Act • Asset lifecycle cost analysis in 2000, PLM formulated a new vision compliance • Benchmarking by segment and • SmartWay® EPA certified equipment equipment type and embarked on business model • Electronic data retention • Temperature reporting with real time • ColdLink® temperature documentation alerts and push notifications reforms to realize its vision. In 2005, 22 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N S TR ATEGY CHAP. 1 Pursuing greater customer satisfaction through digitalization of refrigerated Added value trailer fleet management through digital technology PLM has been pioneering digital solutions for refrigerated trailer fleet management, including by rapidly deploying its ColdLink telematics system throughout the U.S. ColdLink is an integrated solution that controls, monitors and documents trailer temperatures. To further increase customer satisfaction, PLM is now digitally linking all its assets, including everything from fleet planning/analysis to maintenance, operational analysis/reporting and a portal site for customers. OU TCOM ES ●● No. 1 refrigerated trailer leasing/rental specialist in the U.S. Expansion of businesses as a comprehensive ●● Enables high-quality fresh/frozen food transportation refrigerated trailer fleet management company throughout the U.S. ●● Contributes to reducing food spoilage PLM decided to focus on the refrigerPLM’ s success is a model case strategy of improving on its strengths ated trailer leasing and rental busifor the Finance Businesses under through accumulating assets and ness, in which PLM saw the potential Marubeni’ s medium-term plan. PLM improving its efficiency in the equiplong-term growth based on U.S. squarely faced its own strengths, and ment leasing and sales financing demographic trends. The execution in doing so it gradually clarified the business area of the transportation of this change included improving its direction of its new business model industry, and will invest in busifinancial structure, such as replacing by redefining those advantages. In nesses which could be a potential assets and cost reductions, in the face focusing on its strengths, it pursued platform for Marubeni to expand of the economic recession. Presently, economies of scale by increasing its geographically. Moving forward, PLM is expanding its business to prohigh-quality assets, such as refrigerMarubeni will strive to use PLM’ s sucvide fleet management services that ated trailers and locations. Those cessful case to create even further include maintenance, GPS-enabled assets were effectively utilized to value around the world. location and temperature monitorsecure funding. This led PLM to build ing, and consulting services for refriga virtuous cycle: accumulate further erated trailers. At the same time, PLM quality assets, improve its products continues to develop its refrigerated and services, then expand them trailer leasing business to cater to a throughout the U.S. In Finance Busiwide variety of clients. nesses, Marubeni adopts a basic I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 23 Stable Earnings-Type Businesses IPP Business Realizing stable and sizable profits from a globally expanding portfolio of IPP ＊1 projects through project development capabilities, problem-solving capabilities and asset management capabilities backed by a proven track record in overseas S power projects. ＊1. IPP: Independent Power Producer INPUT S VA LU E DRIVERS ●● Financial capital: project financing from diverse ●● Project screening ●● Development/construction funding sources ｰｰ Local sales ｰｰ Negotiations with governments/customers ●● Intellectual capital: know-how cultivated through power presence ｰｰ Power plant construction contracts (EPC contracts) plant EPC ＊2 projects ｰｰ Sourcing ｰｰ Arrangement of financing ｰｰ Partner selection ｰｰ Project management ●● Social/relationship capital: globally expanding network of regional development and asset management offices ＊3 Project development capabilities, problem-solving capabilities, ＊2. EPC: Engineering, Procurement and Construction ＊3. In Singapore, Dubai, Johannesburg, London, New York, Hong Kong, Abu Dhabi and Lisbon M arubeni originally became IPP Business’s Strengths and Competitive Edge involved in the electric power Local sales forces business through its power equipment • Solid reputation through the reliable execution of contracts and competitiveness in EPC and IPP trading business before branching into the overseas EPC business in the 1960s. EPC project management capabilities and EPC/IPP synergies As infrastructure privatization gained • Price competitiveness and stable contract fulfillment capabilities in EPC business, a core momentum globally in the 1990s, competency Marubeni entered the overseas IPP • Synergies between EPC and power plant construction management business in pursuit of stable long-term IPP project development capabilities/competitiveness backed by long track record earnings. In the 2000s, it launched an • Project development capabilities that are a source of competitiveness in international competiIWPP＊4 business in the Middle East. It tive bidding has since continued to diversify its • IPP project development problem-solving capabilities upstream-through-downstream portfolio of power businesses, which now Project management capabilities includes power plant O&M＊5 and off• Proactive project involvement/leadership shore wind turbine installation in addi• Asset management staff overseeing owned assets • Long-term market analysis and problem-solving capabilities gained from trying new business tion to power wholesaling, renewable models in response to power market liberalization/deregulation energy generation, power retailing (PPS＊6) and power transmission and 24 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N S TR ATEGY CHAP. 1 Utilization of IoT technology and Marubeni’s know-how in the power sector Added value through digital In the power sector, Marubeni offers an IoT solution that detects barely perceptible anomalies as digital signals and enables them to be rectified. Moretechnology over, our power-generation IoT solutions optimize operation by digitalizing operations and maintenance to eliminate reliance on human experience, which improves profitability and reduces environmental impact. Marubeni is also leveraging the knowledge of users and its expertise, experience and networks as an EPC/IPP player in implementing its IoT solutions for the powergeneration assets owned by other power producers. Image of completed project OU TCOM ES ●● Asset management ｰｰ Safe, secure, stable plant operation ●● Japan’s largest IPP with 12 GW of net generation capacity ｰｰ Asset value enhancement ●● Globally diversified portfolio of 73 projects in wellbalanced mix of 24 developed and developing countries ●● Diverse mix of power sources ranging from large-scale asset management capabilities thermal and hydroelectric to eco-friendly renewables distribution businesses. Today, Marubeni plant operations and maintenance staff. The IPP business is the core of has 12 GW of net generation capacity In the IPP business, which has a broad Marubeni’ s Stable Earnings-Type Busispread across 24 countries, making it scope that includes arranging private nesses, the third of Marubeni’ s business Japan’ s biggest IPP. financing and operating power generamodel-specific management policies. Marubeni’ s strengths in the power tion assets, Marubeni has arranged This model is mainly targeted at infrabusiness were forged through repeated project financing from Japanese and structure businesses with stable earntrial-and-error efforts to provide optiforeign financial institutions and built ings backed by long-term contracts. mal solutions, inclusive of costs and a track record as an O&M partner of Marubeni will remain actively engaged turnaround time, to meet the needs of Japanese, European and American in stable earnings-type businesses in customers throughout the world. Capielectric utilities. Marubeni’ s power pursuit of earnings growth while closely talizing on these strengths, Marubeni business will continue to create value monitoring risks and the changing transformed itself from a trading busiwith the ultimate aim of contributing to times. In making new investments, ness that supplies certain power plant the development of local communities Marubeni will build a business portfolio equipment into a prime contractor in by safely, securely and stably supplying that continuously generates stable earnpower plant construction projects. It has electricity over multi-decade timespans ings, placing priority on capital efficiency amassed a track record as a provider of based on the core mission of an infraand using innovative technologies such optimal, full turnkey solutions encomstructure business pursuing sustainable as IoT solutions to boost earnings. passing every step from plant design growth in tandem with development of ＊4. IWPP: Independent Water and Power Producer ＊5. O＆M: Operation and Maintenance through commissioning and training of local communities. ＊6. PPS: Power Producer and Supplier I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 25 Natural Resource Investments N Roy Hill Iron Ore Project Marubeni is contributing to the Japanese and other Asian steel industries by stably supplying high-quality, cost-competitive iron ore, capitalizing to the greatest extent on its general trading company functions from a long-term perspective. INP UT S VA LU E DRIVERS ●● Financial capital: total of approximately ¥1 trillion spent on development (15% owned by Marubeni Group) ●● Highly experienced management team that swiftly ●● Intellectual capital: commissioned project into production ‒ Extensive marketing experience and broad Asian sales network ●● State-of-the-art production management IT system, ‒ Project financing expertise including remote operation capabilities ●● Social/relationship capital: construction material and heavy ●● Long-term sales contracts with leading Japanese/Asian machinery supply support from Marubeni Group steelmakers ●● Natural capital: vast high-quality iron ore resources Ｍ arubeni owns 15% of the Roy Roy Hill Iron Ore Project’s Strengths and Competitive Edge Hill Iron Ore Project, the largest single iron ore mine in Western Strengths in terms of iron ore resources Australia’ s Pilbara region. A total of • Huge deposit containing some 2.3 billion tonnes of iron ore roughly ¥1 trillion has been spent to • High-grade iron ore develop the project, which has annual • Source of supply of prospectively scarce lump ore production and shipment capacity of 55 million tonnes. The project’ s Operational strengths integrated mine, rail and port • Cost competitiveness • Vertically integrated operations, with everything from mine to rail/port infrastructure owned infrastructure are all owned by Roy by Roy Hill Hill. Most of the mine’ s production is • State-of-the-art production control systems supplied to Japanese and other Asian steelmakers under long-term sales Human resource strengths agreements. The mine has been • Solid partnership among project owners shipping iron ore since December • Managed by highly experienced management team 2015 and ramped up to full capacity • Broad sales network coupled with long-term sales contracts with Japanese/Asian steelmakers in September 2017. Marubeni is working together with the project’ s 26 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N S TR ATEGY CHAP. 1 Using the IoT to optimize mine operations and improve safety and productivity Added value through digital The Roy Hill Iron Ore Project is managed from a Remote Operations Center (ROC) in Perth, some 1,500km from the mine. The ROC remotely manages all technology processes from mediumto long-term mine planning to mining operations and shipping. Various automated equipment, including drilling rigs, samplers and lab facilities, are already in service at the mine site. Additionally, autonomous dump trucks are in the process of being planned. Roy Hill is using IoT technologies with the aim of optimizing mine operations and improving safety and productivity. OU TCOM ES ●● Largest single iron ore mine in Western Australia’s Vertically integrated project with everything Pilbara region, with annual production capacity of 55 from mine through rail/port infrastructure million tonnes owned by Roy Hill ●● Creation of 2,000 jobs in operating phase ●● Cost competitiveness other co-owners–Australia’ s Hancock networks. Financing the project’ s in terms of both production and shipProspecting, Korea’ s POSCO and development proved difficult, but ping costs, the project will continue to Taiwan’ s China Steel Corporation–to US$7.2 billion of project financing create new value over the long term sustain the project’ s operations and was successfully arranged through 18 by adopting new digital technologies improve their efficiency. months of negotiations with a group as they evolve. In Natural Resource Investments, of of banks. The project’ s development The Roy Hill Iron Ore Project exemwhich the Roy Hill Iron Ore Project is a stage entailed not only development plifies Marubeni’ s management policy prime example, it is important to make of the mine but also construction of a for Natural Resource Investments, the initial investment decisions based on 344 km＊ railway from the mine to its fourth of its business model-specific a long-term perspective. For the Roy shipping port and construction of port management policies. The policy aims Hill Iron Ore Project, Marubeni formufacilities capable of accommodating to create long-term value through lated a detailed investment plan and large bulk carriers. All the infrastrucasset ownership. Marubeni will put has been steadily implementing it, ture incorporates the latest technolothe expertise and know-how it has capitalizing to the greatest extent on gies and products. The Marubeni gained through the Roy Hill Project its general trading company functions, Group’ s broad business networks to good use in its future Natural including sophisticated financing played a key role in sourcing equipResource Investments. capabilities, highly experienced ment and construction materials. ＊ Equivalent to the distance between Tokyo and Nagoya human resources and broad business Although already highly competitive I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 27 Risk Management In conducting its diverse business activities, Marubeni manages risks through a multifaceted approach encompassing micro, macro, quantitative and qualitative perspectives. In an environment where exchange rates, resource prices and other financial and commodity market variables remain prone to substantial volatility, Marubeni practices integrated risk management by quantifying its maximum risk on a consolidated basis and keeping this maximum risk within the bounds of its total equity, which represents its risk-bearing capacity. While rigorously screening prospective investments on a case-by-case basis and monitoring them after they have been funded, Marubeni is also upgrading its internal control systems to prevent unforeseen losses. Marubeni’s Risk Management Overview of Marubeni’ s Risk Management Quantitative 2 Integrated risk Quantification of Group-wide risk 1 management ｰｰ Credit risk Framework for ｰｰ Market risk management of ｰｰ Country risk individual deals Micro Macro 3 ｰｰ Consensus-based decision-making ｰｰ Investment criteria ｰｰ Monitoring Handling of ｰｰ Exit criteria unquantifiable risks ｰｰ Internal controls ｰｰ Compliance Qualitative Integrated Risk Management PATRAC＊ as a key performance indicator. Marubeni uses Marubeni practices integrated risk management across its PATRAC as one hurdle rate when screening individual prodiverse operations spanning a broad range of sectors and spective investments. geographic areas. Its integrated risk management incorpo＊ PATRAC (Profit after Tax less Risk Asset Cost): a performance indicator developed by Marubeni to measure the extent to which returns exceed a minimum risk-adjusted return target rates both a macro view of the entire Marubeni Group and a micro focus on individual risks. In conducting integrated Credit Risk Management risk management encompassing all of its Group assets, Marubeni analyzes counterparties’credit risk both quantitaMarubeni uses the VaR (value at risk) method to calculate its tively and qualitatively and manages its credit risk in accormaximum risk, which it utilizes as a basic portfolio managedance with the degree of risk involved. Specifically, Marubeni ment input. VaR is calculated based on each risk exposure’ s uses a credit scoring model based on its own proprietary attributes, such as the country and/or industry in which the algorithms and ranks customers in terms of creditworthiness risk resides and customers’credit ratings. It also factors in based on their financial statement data and other relevant diversification effects and correlation coefficients. considerations, such as country risk and creditworthiness, Integrated risk management synthesizes various risk facincluding that of the parent company. Utilizing these credittors to quantify risk as a single monetary value. Marubeni worthiness rankings together with qualitative assessments, precisely quantifies risk through computerized simulations Marubeni sets credit limits for individual counterparties. that reflect the latest information. Based on the Marubeni Marubeni also calculates allowances for credit losses based Group’ s asset holdings’maximum downside risk (risk assets) on collection periods, seeks to earn returns commensurate as quantified by the VaR method, Marubeni calculates with risk and takes precautions against losses. 28 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N S TR ATEGY CHAP. 1 Market Risk Management Management of Individual Deals, Investment The various commodities in which Marubeni deals include Decision-Making Process crude oil, natural gas and grains, which pose a risk of subFor individual deals such as significant business investstantial earnings volatility due to market price fluctuations. ments, Marubeni has a risk management regime spanning To avoid excessive risk exposure to any single commodity every step from entry through exit based on consensusmarket, Marubeni currently manages the risk of such combased decision-making and monitoring. modity price fluctuations by managing its commodity New prospective deals are first screened against quantitamarket positions that have commodity-by-commodity tive criteria. If a deal meets the criteria, the business group basis limits, and by regularly monitoring its positions in involved in the deal submits an outline of the deal, a busievery commodity it trades. ness plan and other relevant information. In response to the submission, concerned corporate staff groups submit their Country Risk Management views on the deal, including the results of qualitative and Recognizing and managing unfolding events’positive or quantitative risk analyses, to the Investment and Credit negative impacts on individual countries and businesses Committee. The Investment and Credit Committee assesses amid an ever-changing, increasingly complex global busithe deal, taking into account not only risk analyses and the ness environment has become more important than ever individual deal’ s business prospects but also companyfor Marubeni, given its ongoing aggressive investment in wide concentration risk. The deal is then forwarded to the overseas businesses. Marubeni currently categorizes counBoard of Directors for further scrutiny and approved by the tries based on their degree of risk in hypothetical scenarios President. Deals that exceed a certain materiality threshold in which financial risk escalates simultaneously across mulare approved by a Board of Directors’resolution. tiple countries. Marubeni manages both its overall exposure Once an investment has been made, the business group to each category of countries and the risk of concentrated monitors it. Highly material investments, however, are exposure to any single country or region, the latter by conmonitored more closely to facilitate early problem detectrolling its exposure to individual countries. tion and corrective action. The Investment and Credit ComAdditionally, Marubeni seeks to earn returns commensumittee, Corporate Management Committee and Board of rate with risk through such means as setting profitability Directors periodically receive reports on investments’curstandards by country category. rent status. When an investment fails to meet exit criteria or is otherwise deemed to require action of some sort, a course of action is decided upon through a consensusbased decision-making process. Investment decision-making process Investment criteria Monitoring Deal A Board of Directors Periodic checks for divergences between actual outcomes and scenario envisioned at the time of investment, early problem detection and corrective action Corporate Management Committee Deal B Investment and Credit Committee Deal C Monitoring, exit criteria Selection Funding of investment Follow-up I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 29 Digital Transformation Initiatives Digital transformation is accelerating in every industry, driven by rapid advancements in digital technology. While this trend constitutes a major growth opportunity for Marubeni, the resultant creative destruction of existing businesses is potentially a major threat. Amid such an overarching trend, Marubeni is upgrading existing businesses, promoting creation of new value and accelerating its own company-wide digital transformation by deploying digital technologies and reassessing the roles and worth of businesses and assets throughout the Marubeni Group. Harnessing Digital Transformation Digital Innovation Dept.: Upgrading existing businesses and creating new value by utilizing digital technologies Agriculture/agri-inputs Digital strategy ｰｰ Formulation and implementation of the Marubeni Group’s overall digital formulation and strategy and divisional strategies and implementation measures Livestock production/feed ｰｰ Support for creation and implementaPromotion of tion of new divisional initiatives that digital initiatives utilize digital technologies Forecasting/analysis/diagnosis ｰｰ Insourcing of data analysis functions Data analysis ｰｰ Creation of new value through intraand utilization Group utilization of data B2C/offline retailing ｰｰ Research on and development and implementation of new business Parts/inventories New business models that utilize digital technologies creation but do not entirely fit within a single business division’s purview Infrastructure businesses Coordination ｰｰ Strengthening of relationships with local start-ups and collection of inforwith overseas mation on technology through coordioperations nation with each overseas base Note: Illustrative images of projects 30 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N S TR ATEGY CHAP. 1 Spearheading Digital Transformation throughout Digital Innovation Department’s Organization the Marubeni Group In April 2018, Marubeni established a Digital Innovation President Department as a successor of its former IoT/Big Data Department. The Digital Innovation Department’ s role is CDIO（Chief Digital Innovation Officer） to spearhead upgrades of existing businesses and creation of new value-creative business models across all of the Digital Innovation Dept. Marubeni Group’ s business domains in response to changes in the business environment in the wake of digital Digital Business Promotion Section technologies’rapid advancement. Promotes businesses that utilize digital technologies Marubeni is currently pursuing differentiation strategies that employ digital technologies to amplify Marubeni Data Analytics Section Group businesses’uniqueness and strengths in various Develops and utilizes advanced data analytics and AI business domains. It is identifying digital transformation’ s Innovation & Regional Strategy Section potential benefits on the front lines of each of its business Promotes innovation and supports regional strategies domains and endeavoring to differentiate its businesses (Other) and increase their value through vertical (product-by-prodｰｰ Has personnel posted in the U.S. (Silicon Valley), Israel (Tel Aviv) and China (Shenzhen) ｰｰ Shares personnel with four divisions within Marubeni uct) and horizontal (company-wide) approaches. Vertical and Horizontal Approaches Key Horizontal Approach Themes Through the vertical approach, Marubeni carries out and 1. Predictive maintenance and operational optimization supports proof-of-concept (PoC) programs and creation of 2. Optimization of supply chain management new front-line initiatives in various businesses to identify 3. AI utilization new seeds of value creation through use of digital tech4. Fintech nologies. With the horizontal approach, Marubeni picks up key themes from a company-wide perspective and is con5. Digital marketing sidering using them for the entire Marubeni Group. It is currently working on the themes listed at right and successively adding new themes. IFME footwear’s use of digital technology — Shoe size measurement app PoC Example of IFME is an original children’ s footwear brand of Marubeni Footwear Inc. It is comDigital Tech mitted to healthy development of children’ s feet. Marubeni Footwear develops Initiative IFME shoes in collaboration with academic researchers based on concepts that have remained unchanged for over 15 years since the brand’ s inception. No matter how good IFME shoes are, they will not lead to healthy foot growth unless customers select the proper size for their children’ s growing feet. Out of a desire to help busy parents easily select shoes for their children, IFME came up with the idea of using AR (augmented reality) technology to develop a smartphone app that easily measures children’ s shoe size to help parents buy shoes in the right size. The app has been through the PoC stage and is scheduled for release. It has potential to be a major growth catalyst for the IFME brand by directly connecting customers with the brand. I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 31 Message from the CFO Orchestrating a Strategic Value Upgrade We will increase the Marubeni Group’ s mediumto long-term corporate value by rigorously pursuing the strategic edge of businesses and layering income streams one atop another. Nobuhiro Yabe Managing Executive Officer, Member of the Board CFO; Chief Operating Officer, Investor Relations and Credit Ratings; Chairman of Investment and Credit Committee; Chairman of Sustainability Management Committee; Chairman of Disclosure Committee Q1. efficiency, investing more selectively earlier. We achieved the GC2018 tarHow much progress has Marubeni and expediting asset turnover. As a gets one year ahead of schedule. We made in strengthening its financial result, our consolidated net profit for are pleased with our steady progress in foundation as a top priority? the fiscal year ended March 2018 set a improving our financial foundation. new record (¥211.3 billion) for the first Reducing our level of leveraging is A1. time since the fiscal year ended March an important consideration in mainWe are strengthening our financial 2014. We also generated substantial taining or improving our credit ratings, foundation faster than planned, cash flow. Our free cash flow (sum of an important consideration for a comhaving generated high levels of cash cash flows from operating and investpany that raises capital globally like we flow for two consecutive fiscal years. ing activities) was positive ¥203.7 bildo. We are now targeting a net debt/ To achieve the GC2018 plan’ s top prilion, giving us a cumulative free cash equity ratio of around 0.8 by March ority of strengthening our financial flow surplus of ¥494.6 billion over the 31, 2021, at the latest. To achieve susfoundation, we have been implementGC2018 plan’ s first two years. tained growth irrespective of how the ing various initiatives to maximize cash We largely used this cash flow to external environment may change in flow through such means as enhancpay down debt. At March 31, 2018, our the future, we believe we must coning the earnings power of existing net debt/equity ratio stood at 1.04, a tinue to maintain a solid financial founbusinesses, improving operating capital 0.16-point improvement from a year dation that enables us to assume risks. We will accordingly continue to Cash flows/Net D/E ratio strengthen our financial foundation. (Billions of yen) (Times) Q2. 600 3.00 370.8 How much did Marubeni invest in 359.1 291.2 1.95 324.3 ¥203.7 billion the fiscal year ended March 2018 300 253.4 2.00 1.72 1.63 and what is its investment strategy 170.9 184.5 Approx. 0.8 going forward? 46.5 1.20 A2. 1.04 0 1.00 (49.7) (160.5) We conduct highly selective invest(174.6) ments in pursuit of strategic advan(300) 0 (331.4) tage instead of investing to acquire (415.4) near-term earnings. (706.6) GC2015 GC2018 Creating new businesses and strengthening and expanding existing ones 3/14 3/15 3/16 3/17 3/18 3/21 (Forecast) are essential to increase our Operating cash flow (Left scale) Investing cash flow (Left scale) Free cash flow (Left scale) Net D/E ratio (Right scale) 32 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N S TR ATEGY CHAP. 1 New Investments in First Two Years of GC2018 (Billions of yen) respective strengths In GC2018, we have set an ROE FYE 3/2017 FYE 3/2018 Two-year total based on the respectarget of at least 10% as one key manTotal new investments Approx. 110 Approx. 110 Approx. 220 Distribution tive strategies of agement metric of our returns. We are D Businesses Approx. 25 Approx. 45 Approx. 70 each business diviendeavoring to effectively utilize our F Finance Businesses Approx. 15 Approx. 20 Approx. 35 sion. We aim to equity. We are managing our operaStable Earnings-Type accelerate growth in tions with a greater awareness of cost S Businesses Approx. 70 Approx. 40 Approx. 110 our businesses by of capital than we had in the past. (Infrastructure, etc.) leveraging Marubeni’ s Using PATRAC as an original manageNatural Resource N Approx. 0 Approx. 5 Approx. 5 mega-platform. We ment metric in pursuit of returns in Investments will continue to grow excess of cost of capital, we make 400 – 500 Revised GC2018 Plan Selective, strategic investments, Marubeni’ s mediuminvestment decisions after determin（3-year total） mainly in non-resource businesses to long-term corporate ing on a case-by-case basis whether corporate value over the medium to value by rigorously pursuing the strateprospective investments can deliver long term. We plan to invest ¥400gic edge of businesses and layering returns commensurate with their risks ¥500 billion over the GC2018 plan’ s income streams one atop another. and in excess of their cost of capital. three-year term. During the two years ＊ See pages 34-35 for details of our most recent investments in Even after we have invested, we use Distribution Businesses. through March 2018, we selectively PATRAC to individually monitor investand strategically invested a cumulaQ3. ments. We efficiently allocate mantive total of about ¥220 billion, mostly How is Marubeni boosting capital effiagement resources by divesting in non-resource businesses. This twociency to enhance corporate value? unprofitable or inefficient assets and year total is in line with our mediumreinvesting the proceeds in better term management plan’ s target. A3. assets. In addition to making new We have classified each of our busiWe will manage our operations with investments based on the investment nesses into four models (distribution an awareness of cost of capital. strategy we explained in the answer to businesses, finance businesses, stable Our operating environment is changthe previous question, we aim to conearnings-type businesses and natural ing rapidly, so we must capture returns tinue to increase our capital efficiency resource investments) based on their while assuming a certain amount of through initiatives to improve profitabilcharacteristics. Among the three nonrisk. We believe that rigorously pursuity by such means as further strengthenresource business models, we believe ing returns in excess of cost of capital ing the earnings power of businesses distribution businesses in particular while executing optimal financial and and expediting turnover of assets with have the most upside potential as proinvestment strategies will lead to inadequate future prospects. spective growth drivers. Our basic growth in Marubeni’ s corporate value. approach to investing in distribution businesses is to gain control of manPATRAC (Profit after Tax Less Risk Asset Cost) agement, governance and cash flow by acquiring a majority stake. We also place importance on how much new PATRAC Consolidated Risk assets amount Risk asset costs (Necessary share10% value we can create by synergistically (objective is net profit holders’ equity) (Cost of capital) long-term growth) combining our strengths with investees’strengths and how we can elicit more value from an investee as its owner. For the management teams of Risk/reward ratio Consolidated investees, we appoint executives best net profit Net sales Total assets Risk/reward ratio ＝ × × qualified to run the investee’ s busiNet sales Total assets Risk assets amount Consolidated ness without limiting the pool of canRisk/reward net profit didates to Marubeni personnel. ratio (%) ＝ Risk assets ROA All of our most recent investamount Accumulate Risk/reward ratio ments＊ are deals from which we improvement Increase Improve asset quality assets profit margins turnover rate through expect to increase profits by combinmeasures replacement ing Marubeni’ s and the investees’ I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 33 Business and Investment Strategies Case Studies ——Growth Strategies in Distribution Businesses In accordance with“Management Policies by Business Model”in the GC2018 Medium-Term Management Plan, Marubeni is pursuing business and investment strategies tailored to the characteristics of its businesses and operating environments, which vary among its four business models. Distribution Businesses in particular generate value across a broader range of business domains than any of the other business models. They accordingly constitute the cornerstone of Marubeni’ s current growth strategy. This strategy revolves around engaging in organic growth and/or M&A to acquire businesses with favorable prospects of geographic, market or productline expansion as a platform to pursue long-term earnings growth and margin expansion. Below are examples of growth strategies for Distribution Businesses, selected from among businesses acquired in the fiscal year ended March 2018. Shifting to a ‘Business Strategy’ from an ‘Investing Strategy’ Growth Strategy in Distribution Businesses ｰｰ Manage businesses not as investments for investment’s sake but with the aim of boosting corporate value by growing the businesses. ｰｰ Thoroughly explore whether new value can be created by combining the Marubeni Group’s strengths with investees’ strengths. Also focus on whether Marubeni can elicit more value from investees as their owner. ｰｰ Grow businesses by exercising leadership with respect to investees’ management, governance and cash flows through acquisition of majority stakes. ｰｰ In managing investees, appoint optimally qualified executives who will contribute to maximizing the value of the investees’ businesses. Marubeni Strengths Business knowSales channel how, management networks acumen Investees’Strengths Product expertise Sales channel networks Acceleration of Human resources Creditworthiness Growth through and brands Added Value For further information on Marubeni’s Distribution Business, please refer to the Company’s website. https://www.marubeni.com/en/ir/reports/business/ 34 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N S TR ATEGY CHAP. 1 Creekstone’s Earnings Sources and Strengths Value-Additive Initiatives Utilizing Marubeni’s Strengths Food Group ｰｰ Ability to stably source high-quality Black Angus ｰｰ Expand sales to Japan, China, and other Asian beef including natural (e.g., non-hormone treated, countries through our global regional offices and Food Products Division antibiotic-free) cattle the sales channels of Rangers Valley Cattle Station ｰｰ Broad brand recognition in high-end retail chan(RV), a Marubeni Group company in Australia. nels under the Creekstone brand name; distinctly ｰｰ Strengthen stable sourcing capabilities by using Creekstone Holding differentiated from competitors RV’s cattle feedlotting know-how to build stronger bonds with cattle ranchers. (Creekstone) ｰｰ Improve productivity by utilizing subsidiary Wellfam Foods’ know-how for increasing yields and processing efficiency in its domestic broiler business. Value-Additive Initiative Targets Marubeni Strengths Creekstone’ s Strengths Total volume of trading transactions (Billions of yen) 80 High-valueHigh added Asian sales U.S. sales added cattle value (upper channels channels 70 approx. 69 (high-end) mid-end) approx. 60 Cattle-fattening 60 and yieldCreekstone RV brand improvement brand 0 know-how FYE 3/17 3/21 Saide’s Earnings Sources and Strengths Value-Additive Initiatives Utilizing Marubeni’s Strengths Consumer Products Group ｰｰ Ability to plan merchandise with high retail sellｰｰ Realize mass production and stable supplies by through rates that meets customers’ needs based on utilizing the Marubeni Group’s existing producLifestyle Division the latest trends in major cities around the world tion infrastructure in Saide’s sales channels. ｰｰ Alliances with over 100 fabric makers and over 80 ｰｰ Supply merchandise carried by Marubeni Group garment manufacturers in Turkey and a shortcompanies, including footwear and accessories, Saide Tekstil Sanayi ve turnaround production platform adaptable to retail market conditions through Saide’s sales channels. ｰｰ Build a short-turnaround production model in Ticaret (Saide) ｰｰ Strong relationship with European SPAs＊ Asia and supply merchandise to Asian SPAs in addition to Marubeni’s sales channels Value-Additive Initiative Targets Marubeni Strengths Saide’ s Strengths Total volume of trading transactions (Billions of yen) 60 Sales channels Sourcing Sales channels Ability to plan in Asia network in Europe merchandise approx. 40 40 approx. 20 20 ShortStable mass turnaround production 0 production FYE 3/17 3/21 ＊SPA: Specialty store retailer of private label apparel Orffa’s Earnings Sources and Strengths Value-Additive Initiatives Utilizing Marubeni’s Strengths Chemical & Forest ｰｰ Strong customer base comprising some 800 comｰｰ Develop collaborations with the many Marubeni Products Group panies, mostly in Europe Group companies in agricultural or livestockChemical Products Division ｰｰ Full product line from commodity products related businesses, including Gavilon, Marubeni through high-performance products Nisshin Feed, and RV, in addition to Marubeni’s ｰｰ Sales volume among the largest in Europe, unrioverseas network. Olympus Holding valed price competitiveness and stable sourcing capabilities (Orffa) ｰｰ Strong product development capabilities, including collaborations with leading-edge European universities and research institutions Value-Additive Initiative Targets Marubeni Strengths Orffa’ s Strengths Total volume of trading transactions (Billions of yen) 60 Agricultural/ Product Global sales European sales livestock-related development approx. 40 channels channels 40 businesses capabilities approx. 30 20 Product brands 0 FYE 3/17 3/21 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 35 Performance Highlights Medium-Term Management Plan “G” PLAN SG2009 SG-12 U.S. GAAP Fiscal years ended March 31, 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 For the year: Revenue, Total volume of trading transactions＊1 ¥9,554,943 ¥10,631,616 ¥10,462,067 ¥7,965,055 ¥9,020,468 Gross trading profit 531,171 596,916 644,803 491,673 522,152 Operating profit ＊2 165,020 200,153 234,065 118,926 145,774 Dividend income 20,705 23,645 27,719 23,561 19,200 Share of profits of associates and joint ventures 44,880 55,661 21,973 28,864 71,452 Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent (Net profit) 119,349 147,249 111,208 95,312 136,541 At year-end: Total assets ¥4,873,304 ¥ 5,207,225 ¥ 4,707,309 ¥4,586,572 ¥4,679,089 Net interest-bearing debt 1,843,445 2,001,977 1,911,607 1,706,397 1,615,634 Total equity 820,839 860,581 623,356 799,746 831,730 Amounts per share (¥, U.S.$): Basic earnings＊5 ¥ 72.41 ¥ 84.93 ¥ 64.04 ¥ 54.89 ¥ 78.63 Cash dividends 10.00 13.00 10.00 8.50 12.00 Cash flows: Net cash provided by operating activities ¥ 152,075 ¥ 235,290 ¥ 343,618 ¥ 280,610 ¥ 210,044 Net cash used in investing activities (135,147) (306,855) (387,069) (35,207) (128,495) Free cash flow 16,928 (71,565) (43,451) 245,403 81,549 Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities 24,819 65,865 257,608 (254,655) (17,010) Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 414,952 402,281 573,924 570,789 616,003 Ratios: ROA (%) 2.52 2.92 2.24 2.05 2.95 ROE (%) 16.94 19.31 16.51 14.52 17.98 Shareholders’ equity ratio (%) ＊6 15.3 15.0 12.0 16.2 16.5 Net debt–equity (D/E) ratio (Times) 2.25 2.33 3.07 2.13 1.94 ＊1. Reflecting “Total volume of trading transactions” until FYE 3/2013 and “Revenue” from FYE 3/2014 onward. “Total volume of trading transactions” includes all transactions involving the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries regardless of transaction type. ＊2. Operating profit = Gross trading profit + SGA expenses + Provision for doubtful accounts. “Operating profit” is presented in accordance with Japanese accounting practices for investors’ convenience and is not required by IFRS. ＊3. U.S. dollar amounts above and elsewhere in this report are converted from yen, for convenience of readers only, at ¥106 to U.S.$1, the exchange rate prevailing on March 31, 2018. ＊4. Including financing through perpetual subordinated loans in the amount of ¥ 250.0 billion in August 2016. The loans are classified as Total equity (other equity instruments) under IFRS. ＊5. “Basic earnings per share attributable to owners of the parent” is based on “Profit attributable to owners of the parent” excluding the amount not attributable to ordinary shareholders. ＊6. Shareholders’ equity = Total equity – Non-controlling interests – Perpetual subordinated loan-related items 36 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N S TR ATEGY CHAP. 1 GC2015 GC2018 IFRS (Millions of yen) (Millions of U.S. dollars)＊３ 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2018 ¥10,584,393 ¥10,509,088 ¥7,055,700 ¥7,834,295 ¥7,300,299 ¥7,128,805 ¥7,540,337 $71,135 541,454 528,194 651,063 707,318 670,086 613,880 677,237 6,389 157,315 122,932 157,462 160,688 104,231 91,597 118,054 1,114 27,351 30,112 34,917 34,957 18,555 17,512 21,254 201 81,528 87,790 99,405 89,919 31,824 114,725 148,503 1,401 172,125 205,696 210,945 105,604 62,264 155,350 211,259 1,993 ¥ 5,129,887 ¥ 5,965,086 ¥7,256,085 ¥7,673,064 ¥7,117,686 ¥6,896,733 ¥6,877,117 $64,878 1,755,705 1,785,247 2,491,043 2,887,608 2,762,453 2,099,939 1,915,824 18,074 915,770 1,188,379 1,531,231 1,678,713 1,415,202 1,742,758 ＊3 1,835,637 ＊3 17,317 ¥ 99.13 ¥ 118.48 ¥ 121.52 ¥ 60.85 ¥ 35.88 ¥ 88.08 ¥ 119.43 $ 1.13 20.00 24.00 25.00 26.00 21.00 23.00 31.00 0.29 ¥ 172,599 ¥ 295,734 ¥ 291,188 ¥ 170,943 ¥ 359,132 ¥ 324,263 ¥ 253,423 $ 2,391 (273,689) (210,878) (706,585) (331,411) (174,596) 46,504 (49,742) (469) (101,090) 84,856 (415,397) (160,468) 184,536 370,767 203,681 1,922 171,913 129,030 196,779 (70,705) (36,268) (258,123) (269,507) (2,543) 677,312 919,475 665,498 469,106 600,840 704,972 625,834 5,904 3.51 3.71 3.15 1.41 0.84 2.22 3.07 21.17 20.74 16.67 7.28 4.39 11.09 13.97 16.6 19.0 19.1 19.8 18.5 20.9 22.2 1.92 1.50 1.63 1.72 1.95 1.20 1.04 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 37 Financial Data Net profit/Total assets/ROA Total equity/Net interest-bearing debt/Net debt/equity (D/E) ratio (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Times) 400 7,673.1 8,000 3,000 2,887.6 3 7,256.1 7,117.7 2,762.5 6,896.7 6,877.1 3.15% 2,491.0 3.07% 300 6,000 2,099.9 2.22% 2,000 1,678.7 1,835.6 1,915.8 2 1,742.8 210.9 211.3 1.95 1,531.2 200 4,000 1.72 1,415.2 1.63 1.41% 155.4 105.6 1,000 1.20 1 0.84% 1.04 100 2,000 62.3 0 0 0 0 FYE 3/14 3/15 3/16 3/17 3/18 FYE 3/14 3/15 3/16 3/17 3/18 Net profit (Left scale) Total assets (Right scale) ROA Total equity (Left scale) Net interest-bearing debt (Left scale) Net debt/equity (D/E) ratio (Right scale) ROE Net profit per share (basic) (%) (Yen) 20 150 16.67 121.52 119.43 15 13.97 100 11.09 88.08 10 7.28 60.85 50 4.39 35.88 5 0 0 FYE 3/14 3/15 3/16 3/17 3/18 FYE 3/14 3/15 3/16 3/17 3/18 Operating cash flow/Investing cash flow/Free cash flow Total equity/Risk assets/Risk buffer＊ (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 370.8 400 359.1 324.3 2,000 800 291.2 1,835.6 253.4 1,742.8 184.5 1,678.7 774.5 170.9 203.7 1,531.2 46.5 1,500 1,415.2 600 0 1,306.6 601.6 (160.5) 1,137.0 1,173.1 1,141.2 (49.7) 1,061.2 1,000 400 (174.6) 394.2 372.1 (400) (331.4) (415.4) 500 242.1 200 (706.6) (800) 0 0 FYE 3/14 3/15 3/16 3/17 3/18 FYE 3/14 3/15 3/16 3/17 3/18 Operating cash flow Investing cash flow Free cash flow Total equity (Left scale) Risk assets (Left scale) Risk buffer (Right scale) ＊Risk buffer = Total equity – Risk assets Annual dividend per share (Yen) 40 31 30 25 26 23 21 20 10 0 FYE 3/14 3/15 3/16 3/17 3/18 38 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N S TR ATEGY CHAP. 1 Non-Financial Data E N V I R O N M E N TA L DATA ＊1 Greenhouse gas (CO2) emissions (energy-related) Energy consumption (kiloton-CO2) Electricity consumption (MWh) Energy consumption (TJ) 1,000 959 15,000 15,000 907 13,532 12,740 750 10,000 9,554 9,473 9,167 10,000 500 7,239 5,021 5,000 5,000 20 10 4.978 4.619 4.515 0 0 0 FYE 3/14 3/15 3/16 3/17 3/18 FYE 3/14 3/15 3/16 3/17 3/18 Marubeni Corporation’s six principal offices Scope 1 Marubeni Corporation’s six principal offices Scope 2 Electricity consumption of Marubeni Corporation’s six principal offices (Left scale) Marubeni Corporation’s other offices + consolidated subsidiaries Scope 1 Energy consumption of Marubeni Corporation + consolidated subsidiaries (Right scale) Marubeni Corporation’s other offices + consolidated subsidiaries Scope 2 Water consumption Waste generated (thousand m3) (kiloton) 60,000 110 109 51,025 50,529 100 50,000 100 40,000 90 200 1.0 0.791 96 97 0.580 0.531 100 91 0.5 0 0 FYE 3/14 3/15 3/16 3/17 3/18 FYE 3/14 3/15 3/16 3/17 3/18 Marubeni Corporation’s six principal offices Marubeni Corporation’s six principal offices Other Marubeni Corporation + consolidated subsidiaries Other Marubeni Corporation + consolidated subsidiaries 40 S O C I AL DATA No. of employees (Consolidated)＊2/No. of employees (Non-consolidated)＊3/ The ratio of women in managerial positions Percentage of males and females＊4 (%) 5.8 6 (People) (People) 5.4 45,000 5,000 41,353 4.6 39,465 38,830 39,914 39,952 74.7% 74.1% 73.7% 73.2% 73.2% 4 3.7 3.3 30,000 4,437 4,458 4,436 4,500 4,379 4,289 2 15,000 4,000 25.3% 25.9% 26.3% 26.8% 26.8% 0 0 0 FYE 3/14 3/15 3/16 3/17 3/18 FYE 3/14 3/15 3/16 3/17 3/18 ＊1. The boundaries of the environmental data: factors released by the gas companies in each No. of employees (Consolidated) (Left scale) No. of employees (Non-consolidated) (Right scale) • For FYE 3/2014 FYE 3/2016 location of the six principal offices are used. Percentage of males Percentage of females Marubeni Corporation’s six principal offices From FYE 3/2016, the emission factor (Tokyo Head Office, plus Hokkaido, Chubu, stipulated by the Act on Promotion of Global Osaka, Kyushu, and Shizuoka Branches). Due to Warming Countermeasures is used. No. of employees who took maternity leave＊5/No. of employees who the relocation of the Osaka Branch in July 2015, • For FYE 3/2018, kerosene, diesel oil and the energy consumption of the office in July is gasoline are included. took childcare leave＊6 calculated based on figures at both its previous Energy Consumption (People) and current site for FYE 3/2016 data. • 3.6 GJ/MWh is used for heat value per unit 80 • From FYE 3/2017 for electricity. 73 Marubeni Corporation and its domestic and • The heat values per unit described in the Law international consolidated subsidiaries, excluding Concerning the Promotion of Measures to the grain procurement and export company Cope with Global Warming are used for fuel. 60 55 based in northern U.S., Helena, and the subsidiar• Biomass energy is not included. 51 ies that are designated to be liquidated or sold. Waste Generated 45 47 Greenhouse gas (CO2) emissions (energy-related): • Materials with resale or reuse value are not included. 42 40 37 • CO2 emission factors stipulated by the Act on ＊2. As of March 31. Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures are ＊3. Total figures include the number of Marubeni 28 27 28 used for fuel and steam. employees assigned to other companies and • Emission factors for electricity: exclude secondees to Marubeni from other 20 Emission factors for each electric power companies (as of March 31). provider released by the Ministry of the ＊4. Figures for Marubeni Corporation (non-consoliEnvironment (actual emission factors) are used dated basis as of March 31). for Marubeni Corporation. International Energy ＊5. Figures for Marubeni Corporation indicate the 0 Agency (IEA) 2015 emission factors by country total number of people who used leave in the FYE 3/14 3/15 3/16 3/17 3/18 (CO2 emissions per kWh from electricity fiscal year, including those who used the leave generation) are used for the domestic and continuously from the previous fiscal year. No. of employees who took maternity leave No. of employees who took childcare leave international consolidated subsidiaries. ＊6. Figures for Marubeni Corporation indicate the • CO2 emission factors for city gas: total number of people who started using leave For FYE 3/2014 to FYE 3/2015, emission in the applicable fiscal year. I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 39 2 C H A PT E R Corporate Governance MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION Marubeni Dialogue 1 INTERVIEW WITH EXTERNAL DIRECTORS Pursuing corporate governance as a driver of mediumto long-term corporate value enhancement The role of corporate governance as a cornerstone of management is currently a subject of keen interest in Japan, as evidenced by the recent revision of Japan’ s Corporate Governance Code. However, corporate governance itself has no absolutes. Marubeni believes that the essence of corporate governance is building autonomous governance mechanisms and making sure they are effective and contribute to enhancing corporate value. We asked Chief External Director and Nominating Committee Chairman Takao Kitabata and External Director and Governance and Remuneration Committee Chairman Kyohei Takahashi about their Committees’roles and their views as Committee Chairmen on Marubeni’ s actual corporate governance approach. Q. How does the Nominating Committee contribute to Marubeni’svalue creation? Diverse, richly experienced human The Nominating Committee is an advisory body resources will spearhead Marubeni’s of the Board of Directors. A majority of its members are external directors. Its main functions are continued growth to vet director and Audit & Supervisory Board member candidates and to report to the Board of Takao Kitabata Directors. Its work truly helps to shape Marubeni’ s Chief External Director future. The Nominating Committee engages in Nominating Committee Chairman lively discussions from wide-ranging perspectives 2006: Vice-Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry (until 2008) 2010: Director, Kobe Steel, Ltd., (current position) and External Audit & in the interest of Marubeni’ s further development Supervisory Board Member, Marubeni Corporation and enhancement of its corporate value from a 2013: External Director, Marubeni Corporation, and Chairman of the Board, Sanda Gakuen Junior & Senior High Schools (current position) medium-term standpoint. 2014: Director, Seiren Co., Ltd. (current position) Marubeni has been endeavoring to increase its Director, Zeon Corporation (current position) corporate value through fair and ethical business 40 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N MANAGE ME NT FO U N DATI O N CHAP. 2 activities infused with an enterprising spirit in generate high returns, they occasionally end up accord with its Company Creed of“Fairness, Innofailing. Through this process, Marubeni will cultivation and Harmony.”Marubeni has also always vate a abundance of diverse human resources been a leader in terms of governance reforms and with a wealth of valuable experience. The driving ESG initiatives. It was among the first Japanese force behind Marubeni’ s major growth, its history companies to establish a Nominating Committee. of transforming itself every decade or two and its A general trading company’ s most valuable success in surmounting the adversity that has asset is its human resources. At Marubeni, it is not repeatedly beset general trading companies is unusual and in fact quite common for young or ultimately its human resources. Marubeni will mid-tier personnel to be assigned to major projkeep growing through the diligent efforts of ects or appointed to senior management posidiverse, appropriately deployed personnel. I aim to tions at investee or Group companies. Marubeni is ensure that the Nominating Committee is able to taking on the challenge of new businesses identify executives and company leaders capable through decisive risk-taking in anticipation of of powerfully advancing Marubeni into the future. societal changes. While such businesses often Q. How does the Governance and Remuneration Committee contribute to Marubeni’s corporate value? Elevating senior management’ s outside the company. I run the Committee with a strong sense of responsibility for Marubeni’ s consciousness by appropriately setting growth and a commitment to transparent decicorporate officers’remuneration sion-making processes. The Governance and Remuneration Committee Kyohei Takahashi designs appropriate corporate-officer remuneraExternal Director tion schemes to soundly incentivize leadership Governance and Remuneration Committee Chairman conducive to Marubeni’ s sustainable growth. 2007: President, CEO and Representative Director, Showa Denko K.K. 2011: Chairman of the Board and Representative Director, Showa Specifically, we are working on constructing a Denko K.K. remuneration portfolio that better reflects corpo2014: External Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Marubeni Corporation 2016: External Director, Marubeni Corporation, and Audit & rate officers’ individual performance by, for Supervisory Board Member, Fukoku Mutual Life Insurance example, striking a proper balance between cash Company (current position) 2017: Advisor, Showa Denko K.K. (current position) compensation and stock options. Our stock option plan aims to more effectively motivate With the geopolitical landscape and industrial senior management to pursue share price apprestructure undergoing dramatic changes, Marubeni ciation and corporate value enhancement by must reinvent itself anew by developing new aligning senior management’ s perspective with businesses that support sustainable growth. that of shareholders and having senior manageThese new businesses will of course be launched ment share the rewards and risks of share price and led by Marubeni’ s current or future senior movements with shareholders. management. As Chairman of the Governance Going forward, we intend to fulfill our accountand Remuneration Committee, which evaluates ability to stakeholders by continually reviewing senior management, I am concerned with and improving remuneration arrangements in whether senior management is evaluated objeclight of Marubeni’ s mediumto long-term earntively, remuneration levels are set appropriately ings performance and changes in the external and remuneration arrangements themselves are environment. Additionally, I will offer appropriate adequate to recruit and retain qualified senior advice to management from the standpoint of an management personnel from both inside and external director. I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 41 Corporate Governance at a Glance As a global company, Marubeni pursues corporate governance best practices adapted to its own organization from a comprehensive, mediumto long-term perspective, recognizing companies’ societal role and international differences in legal systems and capital market environments. FA C T S & F I G U R E S 1 Composition of Board of Directors Directors Directors: 6 persons External (independent) directors’ Years served as external backgrounds and specialties (independent) director 10 persons External (independent) Directors: 4 persons Board of Directors The Board of Directors is made up of 10 directors (four of whom are external). In addition to determining management policies and Senior corporate 5 years . .............................. 1 person executive ........................... 1 person 2 years . .............................. 2 persons other important matters, the Board of Directors oversees directors’ Government officials ...... 2 persons execution of their duties. The four external directorships are 1 year . ................................ 1 person entrusted to independent, trustworthy outsiders possessing a high Think tank ......................... 1 person degree of specialized knowledge, extensive experience as senior corporate executives, broad discernment, international expertise and/or other qualifications of value to Marubeni’ s wide-ranging business operations. 2 Composition of Audit & Supervisory Board Audit & Supervisory Internal Audit & Supervisory External (independent) Audit & Years served as external Board Members Board Members: 2 persons Supervisory Board members’ (independent) Audit & backgrounds and specialties Supervisory Board member 5 persons External (independent) Audit & Supervisory Board Members: 3 persons Audit & Supervisory Board As the Audit & Supervisory Board of a company with auditors, the Lawyer . .............................. 1 person 2 years . .............................. 1 person Audit & Supervisory Board has five members (three of whom are Senior corporate 1 year . ................................ 2 persons executive ........................... 1 person external) and conducts audits in accordance with audit policies and audit plans. Its three external seats are entrusted to independent, Government official ........ 1 person trustworthy outsiders with the requisite knowledge, skills, experience and/or other qualifications of value to Marubeni’ s wideranging business operations. Another consideration that factors into selection of external Audit & Supervisory Board members is the degree to which they complement external directors’expertise and skill sets. 42 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N MANAGE ME NT FO U N DATI O N CHAP. 2 3 Structure of the Board of Directors As of June 22, 2018 (＊As of April 30, 2018) Membership on advisory bodies Current Attendance at Governance and Years served as shareholdings in the Subscription rights meetings of the Nomination Name Remuneration Director Corporation＊ to shares held＊ Board of Directors Committee Committee (Thousands of shares) (FYE 3/2018) Chairman of the Board 13 years 233 719 rights 17/18 Teruo Asada President and CEO 6 years 169 851 rights 18/18 Member Member Fumiya Kokubu Senior Executive Vice President Appointed 90 370 rights — Member Yukihiko Matsumura June 2018 Senior Executive Vice President Appointed 72 347 rights — Masumi Kakinoki June 2018 Managing Executive Officer 2 years 55 367 rights 18/18 Nobuhiro Yabe Managing Executive Officer Appointed 37 319 rights — Hirohisa Miyata June 2018 External (independent) Director 5 years 17/18 Chairman Takao Kitabata External (independent) Director 2 years 18/18 Member Chairman Kyohei Takahashi External (independent) Director 2 years 18/18 Member Susumu Fukuda External (independent) Director 1 year 13/13 Yuri Okina I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 43 Members of the Board (From left) External Director Susumu Fukuda Managing Executive Officer Hirohisa Miyata Senior Executive Vice President Yukihiko Matsumura Chairman of the Board Teruo Asada President and CEO Fumiya Kokubu 44 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N MANAGE ME NT FO U N DATI O N CHAP. 2 (From left) Senior Executive Vice President Masumi Kakinoki External Director Takao Kitabata Managing Executive Officer Nobuhiro Yabe External Director Yuri Okina External Director Kyohei Takahashi I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 45 Corporate Governance System Basic View on Corporate Governance constructive engagement with shareholders and investors Marubeni is committed to meeting the expectations of its plays an important role in mediumto long-term corporate shareholders, customers, suppliers, employees, local comvalue enhancement. Through such engagement, Marubeni munities and other stakeholders by striving to increase its seeks to understand and appropriately respond to sharecorporate value in the aim of being a proud corporate holders and investors’perspectives while gaining their group that contributes to economic and societal developunderstanding of its management policies. ment and preservation of the global environment in accord Japan’ s Corporate Governance Code was revised in June with the spirit of its Company Creed：“Fairness, Innovation, 2018. Marubeni’ s corporate governance regime is in comand Harmony.” To do so, Marubeni is endeavoring to pliance with the revised Code. Marubeni plans to continue to improve its corporate governance as a cornerstone of pursue sounder, more transparent and more efficient mansound, transparent and efficient management. In accord agement to further upgrade its corporate governance. with this fundamental mindset, Marubeni has set independence standards for external directors and Audit ＆ SuperviFor further information, please refer to the Corporate Governance Report on the Company’s website. sory Board members and is upgrading its management https://www.marubeni.com/en/company/governance/ oversight functions through its external directors and Audit ＆ Supervisory Board members. Marubeni believes that Changes in Corporate Governance at Marubeni （%） 80 Percentage of external Audit ＆ Supervisory Board members Percentage of external directors 60 40 Appointment of external directors (total: 2 persons) 20 0 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Clarification of Term of directors changed from two years to one accountability Adoption of executive officer system framework Establishment of Committee of Executive Officers Establishment of Internal Establishment of Compliance Committee Control Committee Enhancement Establishment of basic policy for of management Establishment of Investment and Credit Committee internal control system Establishment of transparency Disclosure Committee and soundness Proceedings conducted by the Chairman of Marubeni, who has no Establishment of CSR & executive authority in capacity as the Chair of the Board of Directors. Environment Committee Enhancement Establishment of Audit Participation of of supervisory Department Appointment of external directors external directors and audit (2 persons) in Committee of Dramatic increase in Audit functions Department staff Executive Officers Enhancement of decisionEstablishment of Committee of Heads of Divisions, adoption of Reduction in number of directors making managing officer system functions 46 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N MANAGE ME NT FO U N DATI O N CHAP. 2 Corporate Governance System (a) Decision-making speed and efficiency Marubeni is classified as a company with auditors under Marubeni ensures swift and efficient decision-making by Japan’ s Companies Act. Its management decision-making, appointing directors who concurrently serve as executive executive and oversight functions’configuration is shown officers and are deeply knowledgeable about its diverse in the diagram entitled“Corporate Governance Structure” business activities. on page 48. Marubeni operates a diverse portfolio of businesses (b) Appropriate oversight functions globally. To ensure swift and efficient management decision Marubeni ensures appropriate oversight functions through making and appropriate management oversight functions, such means as filling at least one-third of the seats on its Marubeni’ s current governance model is that of a company Board of Directors with external directors, establishing an with both auditors and a Board of Directors comprising Audit & Supervisory Board Members’Office, promoting internal and external directors (and an Audit & Supervisory coordination of Audit & Supervisory Board members, the Board involved in the appointment of external directors). Audit Department and the accounting auditor and holding Marubeni will maintain its existing governance model advance briefings on Board of Directors meeting agendas because it deems the model to be effective in the following for both external directors and external Audit & Supervisory two respects. Board members at the same time. Percentage of external Audit & Supervisory Board members 60 % Increase in external Audit & Supervisory Percentage of external directors 40 % Board members (total: 3 persons) Increase in external directors (total: 4 persons) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Establishment of Nomination Committee Establishment Establishment of Governance Formulation of standards and of Sustainability and Remuneration Committee methodology regarding independence Management Implementation of performance Committee of external executives evaluations for Board of Directors Decision to Formulation of appointment abolish Advisor criteria for Directors and Audit & system Supervisory Board members Increase in external Audit & Supervisory Board Appointment of female external members (3 persons) director (1 person) Increase in external directors (4 persons) Abolishment of managing officer system, adoption of Group CEO system Change in Board of Directors composition, from 12 directors to 10 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 47 Corporate Governance Structure (As of June 22, 2018) Board of Directors Audit & Supervisory Board meets monthly with Marubeni’ s The Board of Directors is made up of 10 directors (four of accounting auditor to discuss audit plans, the progress and whom are external). In addition to determining Marubeni’ s findings of audits involving Group companies, financial management policies and other important matters, the results, matters requiring attention, developments in the Board of Directors oversees directors’execution of their auditing profession and other relevant matters. duties. To clarify management responsibility and flexibly Additionally, the President periodically meets with Audit build an optimal management team in response to & Supervisory Board members and reports to them on the changes in the business environment, directors are status of business execution. Other directors, Group CEOs, appointed for one-year terms. divisional COOs and Corporate Staff Group general managers annually report to Audit & Supervisory Board members Audit & Supervisory Board on the status of business execution. As a company with auditors, Marubeni has an Audit & Supervisory Board. Audit & Supervisory Board members Corporate Management Committee oversee directors’execution of their duties by attending The Corporate Management Committee, established as the Board of Directors meetings and other important managePresident’ s advisory committee, comprises five directors ment gatherings and investigating operations and assets’ including the President, two senior managing executive status pursuant to audit policies and audit plans formulated officers and three managing executive officers. It deliberates at Audit & Supervisory Board meetings. Additionally, the on important management matters. Corporate Governance Structure General Meeting of Shareholders Election and dismissal Election and dismissal Audit (Cooperation) Board of Directors Audit & Directors Accounting Supervisory Board Audit & 10 (four External) audit Supervisory Audit & Supervisory Board Member’s Board Members Office Five (three External) Nomination Committee Governance and Election and dismissal Remuneration Committee Appointing, removing, and supervising Accounting Auditor (Business Execution System) Audit Audit President Department Corporate Management Internal audit Accounting audit Committee Investment and Credit Committee Committee of Compliance Committee Heads of Divisions Business Group Sustainability Management Committee Business Division Internal Control Committee Corporate Staff Group Committee of Executive Officers Disclosure Committee Domestic and Overseas Branches & Offices 48 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N MANAGE ME NT FO U N DATI O N CHAP. 2 Committee of Heads of Divisions Nomination Committee The Committee of Heads of Divisions is made up of the Chair: Takao Kitabata, Director (External) President, representative directors, divisional COOs, and Members: Fumiya Kokubu, President and CEO, Member of the Board regional CEOs and COOs appointed by the President. It Kyohei Takahashi, Director (External) deliberates on matters related to business execution, includTakashi Hatchoji, Audit & Supervisory Board Member (External) ing budgets, financial results and funding plans. Committee of Executive Officers Governance and Remuneration Committee The Committee of Executive Officers comprises 34 execuThe Governance and Remuneration Committee serves as tive officers (five of whom are also directors) to announce an advisory body to the Board of Directors, deliberating management policies issued by the President and to disdecision-making policies and the suitability of standards cuss financial performance, the results of internal audits, regarding remuneration for directors and auditors, and and other issues that affect business execution, and to reporting its findings to the Board of Directors. External facilitate the exchange of information between the overexecutives are the majority of committee members. The sight function and the implementation function. Keeping committee also assesses and reviews the Board of Direccommunication lines open between the directors and tors as a whole, including the Board’ s composition and operexecutive officers, external directors also attend these ations, and reports its findings to the Board of Directors. meetings. Executive officers are selected by the Board of Directors and appointed to one-year terms of office. Governance and Remuneration Committee Chair: Kyohei Takahashi, Director (External) Nomination Committee Members: Fumiya Kokubu, President and CEO, Member of the Board The Nomination Committee serves as an advisory body to Yukihiko Matsumura, Senior Executive Vice President, Member of the Board the Board of Directors, deliberating on proposed candidates Susumu Fukuda, Director (External) for appointment as directors and auditors, and reporting its Shuichi Yoshikai, Audit & Supervisory Board Member (External) findings to the Board of Directors. External executives are Tsuyoshi Yoneda, Audit & Supervisory Board Member (External) the majority of committee members. Committee Roles and Functions Marubeni has established various committees designed to enhance corporate governance. A brief description of the principal committees and their respective governance roles is given below. Committee Role Chair Meeting Frequency Projects pending approval, such as investments, are discussed and approved by the Investment and Credit Managing Executive Officer Held three times a month Investment and Credit Committee prior to appearing on the Corporate Management Committee Nobuhiro Yabe in principle Committee’s agenda. The Compliance Committee provides support and guidance with regard to practicing Held four times a year Senior Executive Vice President Compliance Committee compliance and as such develops, maintains, and manages the Marubeni Group’s and whenever else Yukihiko Matsumura compliance structure. necessary The Sustainability Management Committee defines/redefines materiality inclusive of Held once a year in Sustainability Management Managing Executive Officer ESG (environmental, social and governance) considerations across all business domains principle and whenever Committee Nobuhiro Yabe and deals with sustainability-related matters, including ESG compliance. else necessary The Internal Control Committee is responsible for developing and monitoring the enforcement of internal control policies based on the Companies Act as well as Senior Executive Vice President Internal Control Committee drafting revisions when necessary. It also establishes, operates, and verifies the Held when necessary Yukihiko Matsumura effectiveness of internal control systems for financial reports in accordance with the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act, while also drafting internal control reports. The Disclosure Committee creates disclosure policies, ensures that internal systems concerning legally mandated and timely disclosure are in place, and decides the Managing Executive Officer Disclosure Committee Held when necessary importance and appropriateness of the information targeted for legally mandated Nobuhiro Yabe or timely disclosure. I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 49 External Directors’Functions and Roles Board of Directors and Committee of Executive Officers External directors offer opinions on management and meetings from an internal control standpoint. Before advice to improve corporate governance from a high-level attending Board of Directors or other meetings, external perspective grounded in extensive experience. directors are briefed on management issues, business External directors attend and actively participate in execution status and the meeting’ s agenda items. Major Activities (As of June 22, 2018) Advisory Name Independent Reason for Appointment Biography Committee Mr. Takao Kitabata, a former senior government official, possesses astute insight into domestic and overseas economic developments. As Marubeni’s • Vice-Minister of Economy, Trade Chief External Director, he has been appropriately advising management and and Industry overseeing business execution from an objective, expert perspective, • Director, Kobe Steel, Ltd. (current) Chief External Chairman of • Chairman of the Board, Sanda Director including through active participation in Board of Directors meetings. Mr. Y Nomination Gakuen Junior & Senior High Takao Kitabata Kitabata is well-versed in corporate governance also. As Chairman of the Committee Schools (current) Nomination Committee, he has been a proactive advocate of sounder, more • Director, Seiren Co., Ltd. (current) transparent and more efficient management. In light of such, Mr. Kitabata has • Director, Zeon Corporation been nominated as an external director in concurrence with the Nomination (current) Committee’s recommendation. Mr. Kyohei Takahashi possesses keen discernment cultivated in top management roles at a multinational corporation. As an external director, he has been Nomination • President, CEO and Representative appropriately advising Marubeni’s management and overseeing business Committee, Director, Showa Denko K.K. execution from a practical standpoint, including through active participation Chairman of • Audit & Supervisory Board in Board of Directors meetings. Mr. Takahashi is well-versed in corporate Kyohei Takahashi Y Governance Member, Fukoku Mutual Life governance also. As Chairman of the Governance and Remuneration Committee and Insurance Company (current) and a member of the Nomination Committee, he has been a proactive advocate Remuneration • Advisor, Showa Denko K.K. of sounder, more transparent and more efficient management. In light of (current) Committee such, Mr. Takahashi has been nominated as an external director in concurrence with the Nomination Committee’s recommendation. Mr. Susumu Fukuda, a former senior government official, is highly • Commissioner, National Tax knowledgeable about financial and tax matters and has experience as an Agency external director at multiple companies. As an external director, he has been • Vice-Chairman, The General appropriately advising Marubeni’s management and overseeing business Insurance Association of Japan execution from an objective, expert perspective, including through active Governance • Assistant Chief Cabinet Secretary • Member, National Tax Council, participation in Board of Directors meetings, to promote sounder, more and Susumu Fukuda Y Ministry of Finance (current) transparent and more efficient management. Mr. Fukuda is well-versed in Remuneration • Audit & Supervisory Board corporate governance also. As Chairman of the Governance and Remuneration Committee Member, Tokio Marine & Nichido Committee, he has been a proactive advocate of sounder, more transparent Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. (current) and more efficient management. In light of such, Mr. Fukuda has been • Chairman and Representative nominated as an external director in concurrence with the Nomination Director, Japan Real Estate Institute Committee’s recommendation. (current) Ms. Yuri Okina possesses a keen intellect cultivated through long years of economic and financial research at a think tank and broad experience as both an external director of multiple companies and a member of Japanese government bodies such as the Industrial Structure Council, Financial •Chairperson, The Japan Research System Council and Tax Commission. As an external director, she has been Institute, Limited (current) •Director, Nippon Yusen Kabushiki appropriately advising Marubeni’s management and overseeing business Yuri Okina Y Kaisha execution from a multifaceted, expert perspective, including through active •Director, Seven Bank, Ltd. participation in Board of Directors meetings, to promote sounder, more •Director, Bridgestone Corporation transparent and more efficient management. Ms. Okina is well-versed in (current) corporate governance also. In light of such, Ms. Okina has been nominated as an external director in concurrence with the Nomination Committee’s recommendation. 50 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N MANAGE ME NT FO U N DATI O N CHAP. 2 Role and Functions of External Audit & Supervisory meetings of the Audit & Supervisory Board, Board of DirecBoard Members tors and Committee of Executive Officers. They also set up In addition to overseeing directors’ execution of their meetings to confer with the Audit Department, Corporate duties, Audit & Supervisory Board members help to improve Accounting Department and the accounting auditor and internal audits’ effectiveness by offering recommendautilize audit-related information received from full-time tions and advice based on their wealth of experience. Audit & Supervisory Board members in their auditing work. External Audit & Supervisory Board members periodically meet with the President in addition to attending Major Activities (As of June 22, 2018) Advisory Name Independent Reason for Appointment Biography Committee Mr. Shuichi Yoshikai was nominated as an external Audit & Supervisory Board Governance • President, Osaka High Court • President, Tokyo High Court member because Marubeni deems his vast experience in the legal profession and Shuichi Yoshikai Y • Admitted to Tokyo Bar Association and the acumen he has accrued from such experience to be conducive to Remuneration (current) improvement in internal audits’ effectiveness. Committee • Shoko Chukin Bank, Ltd. Mr. Takashi Hatchoji possesses keen discernment cultivated in top management • President, Hitachi Research roles at a multinational corporation and experience as an external director of Institute other companies. Marubeni accordingly believes he is qualified to appropriately • Representative Executive Officer fulfill the duties of an Audit & Supervisory Board member from a neutral, and Executive Vice President, objective and practical standpoint and contribute to upgrading corporate Nomination Hitachi, Ltd. Takashi Hatchoji Y governance and improving internal audits’ effectiveness. In light of such, Mr. Committee • Director, Hitachi, Ltd. Hatchoji has been appointed as an external Audit & Supervisory Board Member • Director, Nitto Denko Corporation by a resolution of a General Meeting of Shareholders in concurrence with the (current) • Director, Konica Minolta, Inc. Nomination Committee’s recommendation and Audit & Supervisory Board’s (current) assent thereto. Mr. Tsuyoshi Yoneda has vast experience in senior law-enforcement roles, astute discernment cultivated in those roles and experience as an external director of another company. Marubeni accordingly believes he is qualified to appropriately fulfill the duties of an Audit & Supervisory Board member from Governance • Commissioner General, National a neutral, objective and practical standpoint and contribute to upgrading and Police Agency Tsuyoshi Yoneda Y corporate governance and improving internal audits’ effectiveness. In light of Remuneration • Director, Japan Exchange Group, such, Mr. Hatchoji has been appointed as an external Audit & Supervisory Committee Inc. (current) Board Member by a resolution of a General Meeting of Shareholders in concurrence with the Nomination Committee’s recommendation and Audit & Supervisory Board’s assent thereto. I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 51 Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members’Compensation Marubeni has established a majority-independent Governance levels. Directors’ compensation is set by the Board of and Remuneration Committee as an advisory body to its Directors’resolutions within compensation limits authorized Board of Directors. The Governance and Remuneration at the General Meetings of Shareholders. Committee reviews, and reports to the Board of Directors The composition of, and policies for setting, directors on, policies for setting directors and executive officers’ and Audit & Supervisory Board members’compensation compensation and the appropriateness of their compensation are as follows. Applicable Individuals Compensation Policies Compensation-Setting Method (As of July 1, 2018) • Directors and executive officers are compensated in part with performance-based compensation. • To share the rewards and risks of share price • At the 92nd General Meeting of Shareholders on June movements with shareholders and have a greater 24, 2016, shareholders passed a resolution limiting Directors incentive to contribute to share price appreciation directors and executive officers’ aggregate annual 6 Directors and enhancement of corporate value, directors and compensation to ¥1,100 million (external directors’ 10 executive officers are paid 20% of their total basic share of which is ¥60 million). Directors and execuand performance-based compensation in the form tive officers’ compensation is set by Board of of stock options instead of cash. Directors’ resolutions within the limit authorized at the General Meeting of Shareholders. External Directors 4 • At the 88th General Meeting of Shareholders on Audit & Supervisory • External non-executive directors and Audit & June 22, 2012, shareholders passed a resolution Board members Supervisory Board members’ compensation consists limiting external directors and Audit & Supervisory Audit & Supervisory 2 solely of fixed basic compensation. They received no Board members’ aggregate monthly compensation Board members performance-based compensation. to ¥12 million. External directors and Audit & 5 External Audit & Supervisory Supervisory Board members’ compensation is set Board members within said compensation limit by agreement of 3 Audit & Supervisory Board members. (Internal) Directors’Compensation Compensation Type Description Fixed/Variable Form of Payment ① Basic • Basic compensation that varies based on individual directors’ ranks Fixed compensation • Compensation linked to previous fiscal year’s consolidated earnings • Performance-based compensation is the product of basic compensation and a multiplier 80% cash ② PerformanceVariable 20% stock options • Its amount is set by multiplying basic compensation by a multiplier that increases based (fiscal yearly in proportion to the previous fiscal year’s consolidated net profit if it was at least compensation variability) ¥100 billion; the multiplier is 0 if the previous fiscal year’s consolidated net profit was less than ¥100 billion (approx. +2 points/every +¥5 billion) • Director bonus Fixed ＊ Representative directors are paid representative director bonuses in addition to director bonuses ③ Bonuses Cash Variable (fiscal • Reflects quantitative and qualitative individual evaluations yearly variability) External Directors Compensation for external directors, who are independent from business execution, consists solely of basic compensation (no performance-based compensation). 52 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N MANAGE ME NT FO U N DATI O N CHAP. 2 (Internal) Directors’ Compensation Mix Breakdown between cash compensation and compensatory stock options Compensatory stock options 20% ① Basic Compensation (fixed salary) ③ Bonuses＊ Cash compensation 80% ② Performance-based compensation ＊Bonuses are paid in cash ①＋② Performance-based Compensation Multiplier increases in proportion Performance-based approx. 40% to previous fiscal year‘s consolidated net profit if it was ¥100 bilapprox. 2% lion or more; performance-based compensation multiplier 0% Multiplier is 0 if compensation is calculated by previous fiscal year’s multiplying basic compensation consolidated net by the multiplier profit was less than (approx. +2 points/every +¥5 billion) ¥100 billion Consolidated net income ¥100 billion ¥105 billion ¥200 billion Compensation for Audit & Supervisory Board Members Compensation for Audit & Supervisory Board members, who are independent from business execution, consists solely of basic compensation (no performance-based compensation). Total Compensation Paid to Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members for the Year Ended March 31, 2018 Position Total Amount of Compensation Number of Recipients Cash Compensation Stock options Directors (excluding external directors) ￥414 million ￥98 million ￥512 million 6 Audit & Supervisory Board members (excluding external Audit & Supervisory Board ￥76 million － ￥76 million 3 members) External officers ￥84 million － ￥84 million 10 Total ￥574 million ￥98 million ￥672 million 19 Notes: • Rounded to the nearest million. • Limits to the amount of executive compensation determined by a resolution of the General Meeting of Shareholders are as follows: “Annual pool not to exceed ¥1,100 million for directors (including pool of ¥60 million for external directors)” (at the 92nd General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 24, 2016) and “Monthly pool not to exceed ¥12 million for Audit & Supervisory Board members” (at the 88th General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 22, 2012). In addition, based on a resolution of the 92nd General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 24, 2016, the Company introduced a stock option system for directors with an “Annual pool not to exceed ¥220 million for directors.” • The Company submitted a resolution to abolish its system of retirement bonuses for executives at the conclusion of the 83rd General Meeting of Shareholders, held on June 22, 2007, with abolishment accompanied by the decision to close out and pay any remaining retirement bonuses associated with the system. The Company will make these payments to directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members who are eligible under the resolution, paying directors when they have retired both from their directorship and any held post as executive officer, and paying Audit & Supervisory Board members upon their retirement. In the year ended March 31, 2018, retirement bonuses were not paid to the directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members who are eligible to receive a final payment in relation to the abolition of the retirement bonuses plan. Individuals to Whom the Total Amount of Compensation Paid Exceeded ¥100 Million for the Year Ended March 31, 2018 Name Position Total Amount of Compensation Cash Compensation Stock Options Teruo Asada Director ￥83 million ￥21 million ￥104 million Fumiya Kokubu Director ￥103 million ￥25 million ￥128 million I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 53 Evaluation of the Effectiveness of the Board of Directors The evaluation of effectiveness of the Board of Directors in the fiscal (5) Deliberation by the Board of Directors year ended March 31, 2018 was conducted as described below: (6) Relationship and dialogue with shareholders (7) Engagement with stakeholders other than shareholders Ⅰ. Framework and Method of Evaluation 4. Evaluation Process 1. Target The Board of Directors deliberated in view of the results All Directors (10 people) and Audit and Supervisory Board of the evaluation and review by the Governance and members (five people) (As of December 2017) Remuneration Committee concerning the overall Board 2. Implementation Method of Directors, including its composition and operation, A questionnaire survey was conducted. (Anonymous based on the responses to the questionnaire. responses.) The Company utilized an external specialized institution for its implementation. Ⅱ. Overview of the Evaluation Result 3. Evaluation Items The Board of Directors deliberated in view of the results of (1) Roles and responsibilities of the Board of Directors the evaluation and review by the Governance and Remu(2) Relationship between the Board of Directors and neration Committee and confirmed that, on the whole, the senior executives Board of Directors is being operated effectively. The Com(3) Organizational design and composition of the Board pany will continue to work to maintain and improve the of Directors and other bodies effectiveness of the Board of Directors, reflecting the results (4) Quality and expertise of Directors and of the Board of the evaluation and review of Directors Internal Control Basic Internal Control Policy stipulated in the practical standards. As in the year ended Marubeni seeks to steadily increase and maximize corpoMarch 31, 2017, we submitted our internal control report rate value through business activities that are in accordance for the year ended March 31, 2018, which concluded that, with its Company Creed and Management Philosophy, and “internal control is effective.” to steadily and continuously build and expand the entire Group’ s business foundation. To this end, Marubeni has Basic Internal Control Policy (Key Items) ① System necessary to ensure that the execution of duties by Directors established internal control systems, which serve as a ratioand employees complies with laws and regulations and the nal process to ensure improvement of efficiency of busiArticles of Incorporation ness operations, accurate financial reporting to stakeholders, ② Systems to preserve and manage information related to the execution of duties by Directors compliance with applicable laws and regulations, safe③ Internal regulations for the risk management of losses and other guarding of assets, and appropriateness of corporate activirelated systems ties. Marubeni regularly reviews this internal control system ④ Systems necessary to ensure the efficient execution of duties by Directors ⑤ Systems necessary to ensure the appropriateness of operations by the Group policy based on its structure and operation status to respond to ⑥ Matters concerning employees assisting the duties of Audit & Supervichanges in social conditions and the business environment. sory Board Members, and matters concerning the independence of In accordance with the Companies Act and its implethese employees from Directors mentation guidelines, Marubeni has established a basic ⑦ Systems for Directors and employees to report to Audit & Supervisory Board Members and other systems for reports to Audit & Supervisory internal control policy, which helps to ensure that all busiBoard Members ness activities are conducted appropriately. Each year, ⑧ Other systems necessary to ensure effective audits by Audit & SuperviMarubeni confirms the content and implementation of this sory Board Members policy, and implements improvements when necessary. Please refer to the corporate website for information on the Company’s basic With regard to the internal control report system mandated internal control policy. under the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act, the https://www.marubeni.com/en/company/governance/measure/internal_control/ Internal Control Committee conducts evaluations as 54 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N MANAGE ME NT FO U N DATI O N CHAP. 2 Compliance As it advances its global operations, Marubeni acts in accorexpressed in this manual. As of June 2017, the Compliance dance with the belief that compliance goes beyond merely Manual, now in its 14th edition, is available in English as well following the letter of the law. In its truest sense, complias Japanese, and can be viewed on the Company’ s website. ance means corporations—as good members of society— practicing high levels of ethics, living up to the expectations Compliance Education and Training of stakeholders, and fulfilling their social responsibilities. The Marubeni Group conducts education and training To achieve this type of compliance, Marubeni is reinforcing programs throughout its organization in accordance with and regularly improving its compliance systems under the the Marubeni Group Compliance Manual. Specifically, we guidance of the Compliance Committee, which is overseen conduct e-Learning programs and group training sessions by the President and CEO. to teach employees about general compliance topics, antiWe have also established the specialized Compliance Conbribery precautions, and cartel countermeasures. In trol Department and are constructing compliance systems addition, the Chairman of the Compliance Committee and and spreading awareness with an emphasis on preventing representatives from the Compliance Control Department the occurrence of serious economic crimes within the Group. make periodic visits to Group companies and overseas offices Going forward, we will continue to strengthen global complito provide training and raise awareness of compliance. ance systems that encompass all Group companies. On-site Investigation by Japan Fair Trade Commission Stringent Application of the Compliance Manual In December 2017, the Japan Fair Trade Commission (JFTC) publicly alleged that Part of the Marubeni Group’ s Company Creed is Marubeni had violated Japan’s Antimonopoly Act in connection with a bid to supply personal protective gear to the Tokyo Metropolitan Government. In January “Fairness.”This symbolizes our pledge to always conduct 2018, subsidiary Marubeni Mates Co., Ltd. was issued a cease and desist order and ourselves in a fair and upright manner. We have defined fined for violating the Antimonopoly Act in connection with transactions involvMarubeni’ s stance on compliance as:“When you are faced ing uniforms supplied to East Japan Railway Company and West Japan Railway Company. In February, the JFTC publicly alleged that Marubeni Mates had violated with a choice between integrity and profit, choose integrity the Antimonopoly Act in connection with a bid to supply workwear to Nippon without hesitation.” Based on this stance, Marubeni has Telephone and Telegraph East Corporation. In July 2018, the JFTC publicly alleged compiled the Marubeni Group Compliance Manual, which that Marubeni Mates had violated the Antimonopoly Act in connection with a bid to supply uniforms to All Nippon Airways Co., Ltd. Marubeni takes seriously the fact specifies the standards of behavior that Group employees that its offices and a subsidiary’s offices were raided by JFTC investigators. It has are expected to follow in all their daily work activities. commissioned a law firm to conduct an internal investigation and will implement Every year, the Company’ s executives and employees, as stringent recurrence prevention measures and continue strengthening its compliwell as the presidents of all domestic Marubeni Group comance through such means as revising internal regulations and better educating employees with respect to compliance, including the Antimonopoly Act. panies, make a written statement to adhere to the code Organizational Diagram for the Marubeni Group Compliance System Report or consult through regular reporting lines Audit & Supervisory Board of Directors Compliance reporting and consultation hotline Board Members Feedback Compliance Committee Reporting Lines Appoint (Through Supervisors) President Chief Compliance Officer (Chairman of Compliance Committee) Corporate Management Committee Report Instruct Employees Secretariat Group and Branch Office Compliance Officers (Compliance Control (Compliance Committee Members) Department) Report/Consult Instruct/Advise Each Group Company Outside Legal Counsel Compliance Officer Reporting Lines Marubeni (Through Supervisors) Marubeni Group Anti-Corruption Hotline Compliance Access Point Employees (Serious economic crimes, such as bribery) I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 55 Sustainability Marubeni Dialogue 2 F O R S U S TAI NAB I L I T Y M ANAG E M E N T Pursuing the creation of long-term value unique to Marubeni through our search for the meaning of sustainability We are currently faced with the need to respond to and resolve the variety of issues that threaten the sustainability of the global environment and society, such as a response to climate change, the shift to a low-carbon Nobuhiro Yabe society, and preservation of biological diversity, as well as human rights in Managing Executive Officer, Member of the Board business and risk management in supply chains. All these issues are closely CFO; Chief Operating Officer, Investor Relations and Credit Ratings; Chairman of Investment and Credit Committee; related to the sustainability of corporate activities, and we believe it is the Chairman of Sustainability Management Committee; responsibility of companies that mainly control the economy to resolve Chairman of Disclosure Committee them. In response to these issues, Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in 2015, and the Paris Agreement entered into force in 2016, laying down a global framework for achieving environmental and social sustainability. Marubeni announced support for the UN Global Compact in 2012, and has continued efforts to fulfill the responsibilities of a corporation toward the environment and society, and enhance corporate value. As these efforts proceed, as an ESG issue we are considering how to incorporate global changes for sustainability into our operations and management, based on an awareness that we are at a turning point for taking necessary actions. In implementing management that prioritizes ESG, the Sustainability Management Committee plays a key role in the sustainability of our Company. Our former CSR & Environment Committee was reorganized into and renamed the Sustainability Management Committee under the direct management of the President in April 2018. With the aim of constantly The Structure of the Sustainability Management Committee (As of July 1, 2018) Chairman Committee Members Advisors Nobuhiro Yabe Yutaka Shimazaki Haruo Inatomi Yuri Okina Managing Executive Officer, Executive Officer; General Manager, Senior Operating Officer, Lifestyle Division External Director, Member of the Board Executive Secretariat; General Manager, Member of the Board CFO, Chief Operating Officer, Investor Corporate Communications Dept. Kazuo Hidaka Relations and Credit Ratings; Chairman Senior Operating Officer, Shuichi Yoshikai of Investment and Credit Committee; Takayuki Furuya Forest Products Division External Audit & Supervisory Chairman of Sustainability Management Executive Officer, General Manager, Board Member Committee; Chairman of Disclosure Corporate Planning & Strategy Dept.; Hiroyuki Mizuno Committee General Manager, Digital Innovation Dept. Deputy General Manager, Planning & Takashi Hatchoji Strategy Dept., Energy & Metals Group External Audit & Supervisory Yasuhiko Ogura Board Member Vice Chairman General Manager, Finance Dept. Takashi Fujinaga Hirohisa Miyata Senior Operating Officer, Managing Executive Officer, Koji Kashima Power Business Division Member of the Board General Manager, Human Resources Dept. CDIO; CSO; Vice Chairman of Investment and Credit Committee 56 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N MANAGE ME NT FO U N DATI O N CHAP. 2 evaluating the Marubeni Group’ s value creation from an external viewpoint, the Company has appointed a total of three advisors, consisting of an external director and external Audit & Supervisory Board members. The Company has also appointed people from the Business Division, at the forefront of our business, as committee members, in order to incorporate the overall on-site views of the business department engaged in value creation. The Sustainability Management Committee is currently reviewing issues of significant importance to our Company (hereinafter“material issues”), proposing management strategies such as measures against climate change from the perspective of ESG, and implementing initiatives in the supply chain and human resources. Consideration is also being given to the formulation of individual policies on initiatives in, for example, coal-fired thermal power. Moving forward, we will continuously review the Marubeni Group from the perspective of society and stakeholders, and do our best to earn the trust of all stakeholders by working diligently on the issues that we of the Marubeni Group recognize as being our responsibility to resolve. Material Issues for Sustainability Strengthening supply Contribute to Society through chain competitiveness Marubeni’s Business The Marubeni Group solves social and environmental issues while Developing businesses Contributing toward community that solve social and development and strengthening strengthening its competitiveness, environmental issues our operating base leading to sustainable growth. The Basis for Marubeni’s E G Sustainability Protecting the global Strengthening corporate The Marubeni Group fulfills its environment governance responsibility toward impact of its business. S Strengthening internal controls Promoting supply chain Respect for human management rights Strengthening compliance Promoting social Promoting human contribution activities resources development V O Unraveling the corporate value behind Marubeni’ s IC E non-financial information Sustainable management is based on an understanding among all companies and employees that management and social issues are inseparable, and that companies are required to enhance management transparency and to be proactive in visualizing information on non-financial matters. Financial information disclosed through figures is propped up by non-financial information. In other words, the power of Marubeni’ s business to create innovation and what initiatives the company implements to address social issues, are directly related to corporate value. Moving forward, they will become the basis for Marubeni’ s medium-to-long-term Yuri Okina growth. As an advisor for the Sustainability Management Committee, I hope to External Director, Member of the Board Sustainability Management Committee Advisor consider the course of action to be taken by Marubeni to pursue mediumto longterm improvements in corporate value by clarifying the power of the Company’ s business that has given birth to innovation, and has been built up over 160 years since the Company was founded. I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 57 Sustainability Initiatives Promoting Human Resources Development and Deployment The Marubeni Group views human resources（HR）as its to utilize their skills and capabilities to the fullest extent most valuable asset. For this reason, we strive to create a while providing an environment in which every employee stronger Marubeni Group in which a diverse range of indican create the most value possible by drawing on their viduals play an active role. The Group’ s basic policy for HR strengths. We are instituting various measures aimed at systems is to develop a framework that allows employees realizing this vision. Ideal Employees Strong individuals with a high level of professionalism, the ability to drive change and a firm commitment, who can play a central role in the development and growth of the business. Professionalism Ability to drive change Commitment • Possesses the comprehensive and specialized • Seeks change without fear of failure • Can think and act independently, with strong abilities required for the various roles of each CS/ • Alert to the signs of change, and ready to take determination Business Group, such as knowledge of the industhe initiative • Aims high and sees it through to the end try, personal connections, and business skills • Works to achieve growth and development for • Takes responsibility for the results themselves and the organization Marubeni Global Academy InnovaCategory Business Skills Leadership Management Select Career Support tion Practical M&A fundamentals Business investment Investment analysis fundamentals Compliance Logical thinking Facilitation Presentation Preparation for overseas assignment Cross-culture studies Language New senior manager studies New junior manager studies Studies for general programs (upper tier) Subordinate training Mental health OJT support Marubeni master course Dispatch to short-term executive program Career development 4th-year studies for career-track 4th-year studies for general work BENInovation Program New employee studies Innovation session Program For Managers Senior Managers Junior Managers For non-Managers General (upper tier) Careertrack General (lower tier) New employees Career-track General work Both general and career-track 58 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N MANAGE ME NT FO U N DATI O N CHAP. 2 Group HR Strategy within the GC2018 Medium-Term Human Resources Development Management Plan In order to train individuals who can succeed globally, The Marubeni Group’ s basic policy on HR strategy in its human resources development is being enhanced through medium-term management plan, GC2018, consists of two both On the Job Training（main focus） , as well as Off the Job points. First is the promotion and training of talented and Training （supporting function） . For On the Job Training, achievement-oriented personnel that can win in a global assignment initiatives are being implemented, including environment. Second is to further promote diversity within the promotion of field experience and recommendations the Group through appointment and placement practices. for overseas assignments of young staff early in their careers Efforts are under way to promote and train the best personto develop professionalism. For Off the Job Training, a nel for maximizing the value of the Group. Furthermore, review of the company-wide training system was conwe have reviewed our hiring strategy, assignment policies, ducted starting in March 2017. As a result, the Marubeni and system for qualifications, compensation, and evaluaGlobal Academy（MGA）was established and bolstered to tion with the goal of identifying, developing, and rewardsupport the achievement of the Marubeni Group HR strating talented and achievement-oriented individuals who egy stipulated in GC2018. Implementing the MGA protake a central role in the creation of business and growth. grams on a global level throughout the Group will help to These individuals should embody and demonstrate the improve the capabilities of the human resources of the spirit of Marubeni and the focused determination required entire Marubeni Group. of all employees through their daily actions, exhibiting advanced professionalism, innovation, and commitment. Our Goal: A Strong Marubeni Group in Which Diverse Individuals Play Active Roles Hire, develop and utilize The Role of the Management Level diverse human resources Foster a culture of respect for diversity and a strong Brainstorm with diverse sense of unity by believing that the active participaindividuals tion by diverse individuals is the source of strength for Marubeni for achieving goals and practicing its Positive Spiral management philosophy, and making the commitment to realize this both internally and externally. Management Level Internal and external commitment The Role of Line Managers Understand the strengths of each subordinate and Line Manager manage them to best utilize these strengths in order Management to take advantage of an to maximize the performance as an organization. organization of individuals Employees The Role of All Employees Fully utilize strengths in a diverse environment Value creation through In every situation, respect the diverse strengths of Infrastructure synergies with other members, and make full use of your own Increase brand value Systems to support human resources and diverse individuals strengths to achieve the goals of the organization. and enhance organization competitiveness of Organization with superior Infrastructure the Marubeni Group ability to adapt to change Systems that form the foundations for diversity management (employee compensation, human resource development, work-life balance related, etc.). I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 59 Promotion of Diversity Management diversity into decision-making. Looking toward the future, With“a strong Marubeni Group in which diverse individuMarubeni will bolster recruitment, promote overseas disals play active roles”as our goal, a special team was estabpatching, and improve career development for women lished in 2009 to promote diversity management. based on this plan. Further Promotion of Opportunities for Women in Ratio of Women in Managerial Positions （％） Managerial Positions 6.0 5.8 5.4 Since 2006, Marubeni has been working hard to recruit 4.6 more women for managerial staff positions. As of October 4.0 3.7 1, 2017, there were 316 women in managerial staff posi3.3 2.9 tions（9.3％ of all managerial staff positions）playing active 2.4 2.7 2.1 2.2 roles in operations in Japan and other countries around the 2.0 1.7 1.2 world. Many of the women in managerial positions are in the early-to-mid-stages of their careers and are viewed as 0 potential candidates for executive positions in the future. FYE 3/07 3/08 3/09 3/10 3/11 3/12 3/13 3/14 3/15 3/16 3/17 3/18 As such they are expected to play an even greater role in the years to come. Furthermore, since March of fiscal 2015, Marubeni has been running new programs designed to Marubeni International Women’ s Day expand the number of opportunities for women in manaMarubeni International Women’ s Day was held on March 8 gerial staff positions. One of these is the “BENInovation and 9, 2018, based on the idea that people with diverse Program,” which targets female employees and their views, values and ideas are required in order to create new immediate managers to promote new opportunities for businesses that are not merely extensions of current operawomen in managerial positions. Moreover, an action plan tions. On the days the event was held, female Marubeni was established in response to the promulgation of the Act Group executives and employees from more than 10 counon Promoting Women’ s Empowerment in the Workplace. tries gathered at our head office in Tokyo. Discussions were This plan defines the period leading up to March 31, 2021, held on what the Marubeni Group should aim for to ensure as a time for creating the foundations for incorporating that strong individuals with diverse values and ways of thinking can play more active roles within the company. Action Plan for Empowering Female Employees Moreover, the keynote speeches and panel discussions （Phase 1：April 1, 2016–March 31, 2021） were open to all Group employees regardless of gender, Goals and many people including male employees attended. Construct HR development pipelines by strengthening development of people with overseas experience, etc. and recruitment, with the goals of increasing the ratio of women in career-track positions to more than 10％ and raising the ratio of women in managerial positions to above 7％ by March 31, 2021 Ratio of Women in Career-Track Positions （％） 10.0 9.1 9.3 8.9 8.3 8.4 7.8 8.0 7.1 6.5 5.9 6.0 5.1 4.5 4.0 3.6 Marubeni International Women’s Day 2.0 0 FYE 3/07 3/08 3/09 3/10 3/11 3/12 3/13 3/14 3/15 3/16 3/17 3/18 60 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N MANAGE ME NT FO U N DATI O N CHAP. 2 Creating a Rewarding Workplace issue. As such, a variety of measures are being implemented Marubeni promotes work-life management as a core value to maintain and promote better health through cooperathat supports employees from a wide range of backtion among the Human Resources Department, the Health grounds to achieve results. Insurance Association and Internal Medical Clinic. Specific Marubeni’ s basic policy is to select applicants according measures include the thorough implementation of medical to their capability and competence, based on a fair recruitcheck-ups, the extension of subsidization of cancer screenment process in which no form of discrimination is tolering, and the provision of age-specific full medical checkups ated. To ensure that fair recruiting activities are conducted （including brain examinations）paid for in full by Marubeni. across the entire Group, we have prepared the Marubeni As for mental health care, work is in progress to improve Recruiting Manual, and strive to ensure that our policies are measures such as the introduction of EAP＊ counseling and thoroughly understood. Marubeni has adopted a system workshops on self-care and line-care methods. that allows for continued employment for employees aged ＊ EAP（Employee Assistance Program） ： Designed to improve productivity, this program targets complete employee mental well-being with specialized counselors who, in addition to providing health consulta60 or over in accordance with the revised Elderly Employtions regarding mental illness, are available to discuss a wide range of issues with employees, including concerns in the workplace or at home. ment Stabilization Act. As of June 1, 2018, 139 employees have been hired under this system, and these and other senior citizen employees are currently calling upon their Workstyle Surpassing Our Traditional Framework breadth of experience to make wide-reaching contribuIn order to promote a method of working that will enable us tions in Japan and overseas. to grasp the needs of our ever-changing society and clients, In addition, to further promote the employment of percreate solutions that fit the times and create new distribution sons with disabilities, Marubeni established Marubeni channels, Marubeni has been taking on a number of new Office Support Corporation, which has been certified as a initiatives since April 2018 that operate from the perspecspecial-purpose subsidiary＊ by the Minister of Health, tives of“human resources,” “mechanisms”and“time.” Labour and Welfare. As of June 1, 2018, Marubeni Corporation and Marubeni Office Support Corporation employed a “Human Resources”x“Mechanisms”x“Time” total of 84 individuals with disabilities on a full-time basis. — A new system for the future of the Marubeni Group In March 2016, Marubeni Office Support Corporation was certified by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare as a Superior Company for employing persons with disabilities. This certification is awarded to superior companies that actively employ mentally or otherwise challenged individuals, and a total of 21 companies throughout Japan have received this certification. Mechanisms Time Human resources For example we established Marubeni Academia to bring together people with diverse careers and characteristics globally from among Marubeni Group employees world＊ Special-purpose subsidiary：A subsidiary that has been certified wide with the aim of generating actual innovations from by the Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare as satisfying the conditions specified in the Act on Employment Promotion, etc., their thoughts and discussions. We have set up an“idea of Persons with Disabilities. The number of workers with disMark signifying certification as a abilities employed by such a subsidiary may be included in the box,” which is a contact point for employees to submit Superior Company for employcalculation of the employment rate of disabled persons of the ing persons with disabilities parent company. business ideas and other suggestions, and we have started initiatives including the“15% Rule,”a voluntary system for Promoting Health Management employees to use up to approximately 15% of working Our company regards employees as its most important hours on activities to create businesses with the potential asset, and the maintenance and promotion of health to lead to improvement in the Marubeni Group’ s value. among employees is regarded as a vital administrative I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 61 Respect for Human Rights As a global company, Marubeni regards respect for human group companies, suppliers, service providers, contractors, rights to be vital and essential for sound corporate mancontract manufacturers, joint venture partners, subcontracagement. In accordance with the Compliance Manual, tors and customers. Marubeni supports the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, while promoting Marubeni Group-wide initiaHuman Rights Risks in the Supply Chain tives aimed at creating a corporate culture in which human Under the UK Modern Slavery Act enacted in October 2015, rights are respected. companies with annual sales over 36 million pounds sterling that do business within the UK are required to take Compliance Manual：“Respect Human Rights and gradual measures toward confirming that there are no Refrain from Any Form of Discrimination, instances of human rights violations, such as slavery or Harassment and the Like” human trafficking, within their company or supply chain. The first matter highlighted in the Marubeni Compliance They must also give a statement about those measures the Manual is to“respect human rights and refrain from any following fiscal year. Within the Group, Marubeni Europe form of discrimination, harassment and the like.”Here, the plc, along with some of the Group’ s UK-based companies, notion of human rights includes fundamental human and Marubeni Corporation, which has a certain degree of rights stipulated in the Constitution of Japan, the Labor control over those companies, published these statements Standards Act, and the Universal Declaration of Human by September 30, 2017. In addition to this, in the supply Rights, as well as human rights prescribed in the Internachain CSR surveys, Marubeni is investigating the status of tional Labor Standards（ILO）and the UN Guiding Principles supplier efforts related to human rights risks, such as forced on Business and Human Rights. It is also stipulated in our labor and child labor. While promoting the discovery of Basic Supply Chain CSR Policy that we shall“respect human human rights risks, we are also working on measures to rights, and work to prevent and eliminate discrimination, prevent the increase and spread of such risks. In the supply including physical, verbal, sexual and other forms of harasschain CSR surveys we conduct, we survey the status of ment or inhumane mistreatment,” and “prohibit child human rights risks at our suppliers by visiting them on-site. labor, forced labor and excessive working hours”that are No cases of violation of human rights or labor standards in violation of human rights. The supply chain stipulated in have been found in these surveys. this policy includes not only our own company, but also Supply Chain Management As part of our sustainability management, Marubeni is CSR results throughout its supply chain, with the objecworking to achieve supply chain management in partnertive of building an environmentally friendly, healthy, ship with our suppliers. In doing so, Marubeni established and sustainable society. the Basic Supply Chain CSR Policy, which has been shared 2 Marubeni requests the understanding and cooperation with our suppliers to obtain their understanding and coopof its business partners in the observance of the Supply eration in adopting this policy. In addition to this, we will Chain CSR Guidelines set forth below, so that Marubeni, continue visiting our suppliers to carry out on-site surveys, together with its business partners, can facilitate highly ESG risk research and analyses in order to ascertain the efficient CSR results. regional differences in issues and implement measures to 3 Supply Chain CSR Guidelines resolve them. (1) Observance of Laws – Observe the applicable laws of each relevant country and Basic Supply Chain CSR Policy the various countries affected by the transaction. 1 Marubeni does not stop at achieving strong CSR results (2) Respect for Human Rights for itself, but also supports the achievement of strong – Respect human rights, without discrimination, 62 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N MANAGE ME NT FO U N DATI O N CHAP. 2 including physical, verbal, sexual, and other forms On-Site Inspection：Visit to Sweater Factory in of harassment or inhumane treatment. Cambodia, March 2018 – No child labor, forced labor, inappropriate wage In March 2018 a visit was made to a factory belonging to abatement, or excessive working hours. Unity Fashion Cambodia Co., Ltd., a supplier of Marubeni – Respect employees’right to unionize for the purthat manufactures sweaters in Cambodia, to inspect the pose of negotiations between labor and managecompany’ s compliance on CSR issues. The survey revealed ment and to bargain collectively. no infringements of Marubeni’ s Supply Chain CSR Policy. (3) Preservation of the Environment We were able to confirm that the company has appropriate – Protect nature. policies and management procedures in place for prevent– Minimize environmental impact, and prevent ing child labor and long working hours, regular testing of pollution. emissions and wastewater discharges, a health and safety (4) Fair Transactions management system and employee training, a quality – Conduct fair transactions, and do not inhibit free management system, the work environment, and the competition. cleanliness and orderliness of the factory. – No bribery or illegal contributions, and prevent corruption. (5) Safety and Health – Secure safety and health in the workplace, and maintain a good working environment. (6) Quality Control – Maintain the quality and safety of products and services. (7) Disclosure of Information – Including the items mentioned above, appropriEntrance Working environment in the factory ately disclose company information. ESG Risk Research and Analyses Conducted on All Implementation of CSR On-Site Inspections for the Products and Projects Supply Chain As part of our effort to strengthen ESG risk management, In regions centered on developing countries, there are Marubeni conducted research and analyses in the fiscal latent problems, such as forced labor, child labor, and local year ended March 31, 2018 on all products and projects environmental pollution. For suppliers in countries and handled by the company for potential ESG risks. This was industries where there are concerns about the risk of carried out in collaboration with an external consultant human rights violations or worker safety, Marubeni conwith specialist knowledge based on objective perspectives ducts site visits to related companies and checks that there and methods. are no violations of the Basic Supply Chain CSR Policy. The For the risk analyses, we referred to the ESG risk-related issues of the survey and the survey methods are constantly data published by international organizations, government being reviewed, taking third-party opinions into account, organizations, research institutions, NGOs, etc., then narin an effort to remain relevant to current situations. Survey rowed down the focus to approximately 30 products and results are also reported back to the visited sites, so that the projects that are generally believed to have potential ESG information can be shared and used to make further risks, and carried out detailed risk analyses on them. improvements. Furthermore, as part of the Basic Supply From the fiscal year ending March 31, 2019, we plan to Chain CSR Policy, Marubeni has formulated measures and take a step-by-step approach in carrying out detailed procedures for contract noncompliance with the labor analyses of Marubeni’ s products/projects, and examine standards set forth in the Basic Supply Chain CSR Policy, the need for ESG risk mitigation measures. and encourages suppliers to make improvements. I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 63 The ESG Risk Research/Analysis Process 1. Preparing for ESG risk evaluation Review all products/projects Review and organize all products/projects handled by the company Extract EBRD＊ high-risk economic activities 2. Conducting primary ESG risk evaluation/analyses Group high-risk Step 1： Conduct ESG risk evaluation for all products/projects economic activities ⇒ Specify high-risk products/projects Step 2: Conduct risk evaluation of high-risk products/ Specify high-ESG risk projects differentiated by ESG issue products/projects ⇒ Narrow down to the final list of high-risk products/projects Narrow down to final high-risk 3. Conducting secondary ESG risk evaluation/analyses products/projects Step 1： Create final risk profiles of the high-risk products/ projects Step 2： Conduct general ESG country risk analyses for Marubeni’ s supplier/project countries ＊EBRD：European Bank for Reconstruction and Development Environmental Management System The Marubeni Group engages in a wide variety of business President activities throughout the world, and strives to take environmental issues into consideration at all times in maximizing efforts to mitigate all forms of environmental impact resultRepresentative Executive for Environment (Chairman of Environment Committee) ing from such activities. Based on the Marubeni Group Nobuhiro Yabe, Managing Executive Officer, Member of the Board Environmental Policy established in 1998, the Group promotes management that shows consideration for the Representative Manager for Environment global environment centered on the Environment Committee, and the Marubeni Group as a whole engages proacSustainability Management Section, tively in environmental conservation activities. Environment Committee Corporate Communications Dept. Environmental Management System Marubeni has introduced an environmental management Branches & Offices Business Group Corporate Staff Group system (EMS) based on ISO 14001 as a tool to assist all Chief Administrator for Chief Administrator for Chief Administrator for Environment Environment employees in addressing environmental issues based on a Environment Environment Environment common understanding. Various overseas subsidiaries Representative Representative and Marubeni Group companies have acquired the certifiBranch/Office cation as required, and as of the end of December 2017, 56 Environment Environment Environment Representative Marubeni Group companies had done so. The EMS places Representative in each Representative in each department department importance on the PDCA cycle in planning, implementing, checking and acting, as well as management review to ensure sustained improvements in environmental initiatives. 64 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N MANAGE ME NT FO U N DATI O N CHAP. 2 Environmental Assessment of Development Projects, with regard to such areas as the operation and manageFinancing and Investment ment of facilities and the disposal of waste. In the fiscal Before launching a development project, or financing or year ended March 31, 2018, a total of 25 operating sites of investing in a new business, Marubeni assesses the proj21 companies around the world were inspected. No signifiect’ s conformity with environmental laws and the possibilcant environmental issues were identified. ity of adverse impacts on the environment in the event of an accident or other emergency using the Company’ s EnviExpansion of Environmental Data Collection ronmental Evaluation Sheet. The completed evaluation and Disclosure sheet is a factor when making the final decision on whether In order to increase the reliability of the Group’ s efforts or not to invest in the project. Follow-up evaluations are toward environmental protection, it publishes group-level also conducted for projects considered to have potential information, and it aims to get independent assurance for environmental risks as a result of the initial assessment. information for at least part of that information. Follow-ups are continued until all concerns have been disAs part of this effort, from the fiscal year ended March 31, pelled. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, we assessed 2017, the Group started expanding the range of informa45 projects with environmental risks related to water pollution to be disclosed with independent assurance from the tion, soil contamination, etc. main six sites of the Marubeni Corporation to all domestic and foreign consolidated subsidiaries. Moreover, from the Number of Environmental Evaluations in the Year Ended March 31, 2018 fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, the Company added the by Risk Type environmental impact of transport to the index targeted for Air pollution 16 Waste increase 7 assurance. We will continue to drive environmental protecNatural resource Water pollution 21 5 tion initiatives forward, as we redouble our efforts toward depletion Soil pollution 14 Global warming 5 realizing a low-carbon society. Noise/Vibration 17 Biodiversity 2 Offensive odor 3 Other 0 ＊ Refer to page 125 for “Independent Assurance of Environmental and Social Data.” Total 90 （The total number is not equal to the 45 environmental assessments conducted as some assessments identified no applicable risks, while others detected more than one risk.） On-Site Inspections at Group Companies without ISO 14001 Certification The Marubeni Group identifies and conducts on-site inspections of subsidiaries that have yet to acquire ISO 14001 certification and that are engaged in activities with a relatively high risk of exerting a significant environmental impact. The Group companies are divided according to the environmental risks they pose due to the details of their operations and state of facilities. Then the targeted Group companies are identified and decisions are made on the frequency of on-site inspections. For these on-site inspections, Marubeni personnel visit the plants and offices of the applicable companies together with auditors specializing in environmental audits from an independent assessment agency. There, they check the systems designed to ensure compliance with environmental regulations related to work procedures and confirm the compliance status. They also examine the site’ s environmental risk control status I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 65 Social Contributions and Participation in Communities In January 2006, Marubeni formulated the“Basic Policy on Overseas Scholarship Funds Social Contribution Activities,”based on its belief that to To support the education and development of young build a stronger relationship of mutual support with socipeople in emerging economies, Marubeni has set up scholety, it must responsibly make contributions according to arship funds, mainly in the ASEAN region and Brazil. the needs of the community. The Marubeni Group has a Each year, we provide support to meet local communilong-running history of social contribution activities, ties’needs in accordance with the educational circumstances including the Marubeni Foundation and overseas scholarin each country, including scholarships for students from ship funds, and it also strives to enhance interest in particielementary through university level and vocational training, pating in volunteer activities among each and every as well as material assistance such as PCs and stationery. employee. Going forward, it will continue to further Year Schools Receiving strengthen its relationship of mutual support with society. Country Established Scholarships Scholarship Details Technical and agriculDonation of PCs and Marubeni Foundation Philippines 1989 tural vocational schools related equipment and elementary schools Funded by Marubeni, the Marubeni Foundation was estabProvision of scholarships lished in 1974 as a private support organization for social Elementary and junior for students of lowVietnam 1994 high schools in impovwelfare activities. It continues its tradition of providing income families and erished areas teachers ¥100 million in annual donations to aid welfare facilities Provision of scholarships and organizations across Japan. It has given a total of 2,484 Universities in Indonesia 1999 for high-achieving Indonesia grants totaling ¥4.3 billion up to the fiscal year ended students March 31, 2018. Provision of scholarships Universities in Cambodia 2007 for high-achieving In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, the foundation Cambodia students received grant applications from 525 welfare programs, 59 Donation of textbooks, of which were selected to receive funding, including foodLaos 2007 Ethnic boarding schools uniforms, stationery and boarding supplies bank projects, children’ s food service projects, and numerA university under the Provision of scholarships ous other projects that aim to coexist with local communities Myamar 2012 Ministry of Science and for students from lowto support the elderly, disabled persons, and those in need. Technology income households As pioneering initiatives, it selected a project that aims to Provision of scholarships India 2016 Universities in India for high-achieving integrate the management of welfare services for disabled students persons and nursing-care insurance services, and a project Subsidization of educato introduce robot suits for nursing care. tional material costs and Vocational schools in Brazil 2006 school fees, provision of Funding for the grants includes contributions from Brazil scholarships for academic Marubeni, provided partially as a means of utilizing earnresearch costs ings, and contributions from the 100 Yen Club, consisting of concerned present and former executives and employees who make fixed monthly donations in multiples of ¥100, with matching contributions by Marubeni. Additionally, to match the present situation of varying needs of the recipients, a system for sending Marubeni personnel to the recipient to provide human support began in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018. With the cooperation of the Human Resources Department, interviews of both recipients and the employees wishing to participate are conducted to understand their needs. As of March 31, 2018, 10 employees have begun administrative or on-site supportive activities for eight recipients. 66 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N MANAGE ME NT FO U N DATI O N CHAP. 2 External Recognition The Marubeni Group has continually received high ratings CDP for its efforts toward sustainability from various research CDP, a non-profit organization based in London, is a project and rating companies that evaluate the capacity for sustainthat requests information on environmental strategy and able growth in companies based on the three aspects of greenhouse gas emissions from companies listed in the ESG： Environment, Society, and Governance. Among those, FTSE Index. It then analyzes and evaluates that data and Marubeni has been included in the Dow Jones Sustainability publishes it to investors. Indices（DJSI）World since 2008, and in the similarly prestiPresently, in addition to its efforts toward reducing gious FTSE4Good Index Series since 2002. carbon footprints, it is also expanding to cover water and forest resources. Marubeni has been participating in CDP Dow Jones Sustainability Indices（DJSI）World since 2007. The constituents of the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices （DJSI）World are selected as the top 10％ of companies Marubeni Certified to “RobecoSAM Silver Class 2018” from the 2,500 largest companies worldwide, chosen by a comprehensive assessment based on economic, environIn January 2018, Marubeni was awarded the mental and social criteria by Dow Jones ＆ Company, Inc. “RobecoSAM Silver Class 2018”in the trading com（United States）and RobecoSAM AG＊（Switzerland） . pany and distribution industry by RobecoSAM, the Listed stocks are reviewed every September, and in research and ratings company for the Dow Jones 2017, 320 companies were listed. Among those, 31 were Sustainability Index. The top 15％ of companies in Japanese companies. each industry are chosen from among about 60 ＊R obecoSAM AG: A research and rating company headquartered in Switzerland. RobecoSAM assesses and rates each company’s economic, environmental and social elements from the perspective of sustainindustries worldwide, and each company is then ability based on the information obtained from a questionnaire conducted with companies, published documents, media, etc. recognized as belonging to the Gold Class, Silver Class or Bronze Class depending on its performance. FTSE4Good Index Series The companies recognized as belonging to the The FTSE4Good was developed and established by FTSE Silver Class are companies whose score is within a Russell, a subsidiary of the London Stock Exchange Group. range of 1％ to 5％ of the industry’ s top performing In selecting the constituent companies, evaluators assess company’ s score. In 2018, 78 companies were candidates based on criteria pertaining to environmental chosen from among approximately 3,500. management, climate change, human and labor rights, supply chain labor standards, and anti-bribery measures. In 2018, 953 companies worldwide were listed, with 152 Japanese companies among those selected. FTSE Blossom Japan Index and MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index The FTSE Blossom Japan Index was formulated by FTSE Russell as an industry-neutral benchmark that reflects the performance of Japanese companies demonstrating outstanding ESG practices. The MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index（WIN）was developed by MSCI by selecting Japanese companies that boast high gender diversity in various industries. These indices were selected by Japan’ s Government Pension Investment Fund (GPIF) based on a public call for applications for benchmarks for its ESG investment strategy. I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 67 Corporate Management As of June 22, 2018 Members of the Board Teruo Asada Fumiya Kokubu Yukihiko Matsumura Chairman of the Board President and CEO Senior Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer（CAO） ；Chief Information Officer（CIO） ；Senior Operating Officer, Audit Dept.；Senior Operating Officer, Executive Secretariat; Senior Operating Officer, New Office Building Project Dept.； Chairman of Compliance Committee； Chairman of Internal Control Committee； Chairman of IT Strategy Committee Takao Kitabata Kyohei Takahashi Susumu Fukuda External (Independent) Director External (Independent) Director External (Independent) Director Audit & Supervisory Board Members Kaoru Kuzume Kazuro Gunji Shuichi Yoshikai Audit & Supervisory Board Member Audit & Supervisory Board Member External (Independent) Audit & Supervisory Board Member Senior Managing Kaoru Iwasa Ichiro Takahara Akira Terakawa Executive Officers Regional CEO for ASEAN & Southwest Asia; Chief Executive Officer, Energy & Metals Group Chief Executive Officer, Food Group, Regional COO for ASEAN; Managing Director, Regional CEO for East Asia; Vice Chairman of Marubeni ASEAN Pte. Ltd. Investment and Credit Committee Managing Executive Officers Hikaru Minami Mutsumi Ishizuki Takeo Kobayashi Chief Executive Officer, Regional CEO for Europe & CIS; Regional Chief Executive Officer, Chemical & Forest Consumer Products Group COO for Europe; Managing Director and CEO, Products Group Marubeni Europe plc Hajime Kawamura Michael McCarty Regional CEO for the Americas; Regional Koji Yamazaki Chief Operating Officer, Agri-Input Business Div.; COO for North & Central America; President Chief Operating Officer, Food Products Div. President and CEO, Helena Agri-Enterprises LLC and CEO, Marubeni America Corporation Akihiko Sagara Toshiaki Ujiie Chief Operating Officer, Energy Div. Chief Executive Officer, Transportation & Industrial Machinery Group 68 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N MANAGE ME NT FO U N DATI O N CHAP. 2 Masumi Kakinoki Nobuhiro Yabe Hirohisa Miyata Senior Executive Vice President, Chief Managing Executive Officer, Chief Financial Managing Executive Officer, Chief Digital Executive Officer, Power Business ＆ Officer（CFO） ；Chief Operating Officer, Innovation Officer（CDIO） ；Chief Strategy Plant Group Investor Relations and Credit Ratings； Officer（CSO） ；Vice Chairman of Investment Chairman of Investment and Credit and Credit Committee Committee；Chairman of Sustainability Management Committee；Chairman of Disclosure Committee Yuri Okina External (Independent) Director Takashi Hatchoji Tsuyoshi Yoneda External (Independent) Audit & Supervisory External (Independent) Audit & Supervisory Board Member Board Member Executive Officers Shinichi Kobayashi Koji Kabumoto Eiij Okada Chief Operating Officer, Metals & Mineral Chief Operating Officer, ICT, Logistics & Chief Operating Officer, Plant Div. Resources Div. Healthcare Div. Yutaka Shimazaki Soji Sakai Hisamichi Koga General Manager, Executive Secretariat; Senior Operating Officer for ASEAN & General Manager, Chubu Branch General Manager, Corporate Southwest Asia; President, Marubeni Communications Dept. Thailand Co., Ltd.; General Manager, Bangkok Branch Jun Horie Chief Operating Officer, Chemical Products Div. Kenichiro Oikawa Chief Operating Officer, Insurance, Finance Minoru Tomita & Real Estate Business Div. General Manager, Osaka Branch Hidenobu Kumada Chief Operating Officer, Grain Div. Jun Hirasawa Hidekazu Futai Regional CEO for China; President, Marubeni Senior Operating Officer, Agri-Input Business Div. Yuichi Ohira (China) Co., Ltd. Chief Operating Officer, Lifestyle Div. Makoto Sato Takayuki Furuya Regional CEO for Middle East Jiro Itai General Manager, Corporate Planning & Chief Operating Officer, Construction & Strategy Dept.; General Manager, Digital Industrial Machinery Div. Innovation Dept. Yoshiaki Yokota Chief Operating Officer, Power Business Div. Kosuke Takechi Chief Operating Officer, Aerospace & Ship Div. I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 69 3 C H A PT E R Organization As of April 1, 2018 OPERATING ACTIVITIES Audit & Supervisory Board General Meeting of Audit & Supervisory Board Shareholders Members’ Office Audit & Supervisory Board Members Board of Directors President Corporate Management Committee Committee of Heads of Divisions Corporate Staff Group Audit Department Committee of Executive Officers Executive Secretariat New Office Building Project Department CDIO Digital Innovation Department Corporate Planning & Strategy Department CSO Regional Coordination & Administration Department Research Institute Corporate Communications Department Corporate Accounting Department CFO Business Accounting Department Finance Department Human Resources Department General Affairs Department Information Strategy Department CAO Risk Management Department Legal Department Compliance Control Department CDIO: Chief Digital Innovation Officer CSO: Chief Strategy Officer CFO: Chief Financial Officer CAO: Chief Administrative Officer ＊ The Food & Consumer Products Group was split into the Food Group and the Consumer Products Group as part of the organizational changes on April 1, 2018. Please see the news release from January 24, 2018 for further information. 70 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N O PE RATIN G ACTI VI TI E S CHAP. 3 Management Policy by Business Model Business Group D F S N Distribution Finance Stable Earnings-Type Natural Resource Businesses Businesses Businesses Investments Grain Division D Food Group Food Products Division D Lifestyle Division D Consumer Products Group ICT, Logistics & Healthcare Division D Insurance, Finance & Real Estate Business Division D Agri-Input Business Division D Chemical & Forest Products Group Chemical Products Division D Forest Products Division D Energy Division D N Energy & Metals Group Steel Products Division D Metals & Mineral Resources Division D N Power Business Division D F S Power Business & Plant Group Plant Division D F S Aerospace & Ship Division D F S Transportation & Industrial Machinery Group Automotive & Leasing Division D F Construction & Industrial Machinery Division D F Domestic Branches & Offices Overseas Branches & Offices I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 71 Business Group at a Glance Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2018 Divisions Net Profit Food Group­ (Billions of yen) 250 211.3 ｰｰ Grain Division 200 ｰｰ Food Products Division 155.4 150 100 Consumer Products Group 50 ｰｰ Lifestyle Division 0 ｰｰ ICT, Logistics & Healthcare Division FYE 3/17 3/18 ｰｰ Insurance, Finance & Real Estate Business Division Earnings Structure by Segment (Billions of yen) 42.3 Food Group Chemical & Forest Products Group 27.0 Consumer Products Group ｰｰ Agri-Input Business Division 41.9 Chemical & Forest Products Group ｰｰ Chemical Products Division 21.9 Energy & Metals Group ｰｰ Forest Products Division 38.9 Power Business & Plant Group 41.0 Transportation & Industrial Machinery Group Energy & Metals Group ｰｰ Energy Division ｰｰ Steel Products Division Total Assets by Segment and Business Model ｰｰ Metals & Mineral Resources Division Others Food Group Transportation Consumer & Industrial Products Machinery 4% Group Group 11% 21% Power Business & Plant Group N 16% S 7% F D ｰｰ Power Business Division 17% ｰｰ Plant Division 23% Power Business Chemical & Plant Group & Forest Energy & Metals Products Group Group Transportation & Industrial Machinery Group D Distribution Businesses ....................... 60% F Finance Businesses ............................... 10% ｰｰ Aerospace & Ship Division S Stable Earnings-Type Businesses (Infrastructure, etc.) . ............................ 10% ｰｰ Automotive & Leasing Division N Natural Resource Investments . .......... 20% ｰｰ Construction & Industrial Machinery Division Note: Figures are based on the newly reorganized organization as of April 1, 2018. 72 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N O PE RATIN G ACTI VI TI E S CHAP. 3 587 17,655 735 19,418 Total Assets by Business Model Net Profit＊ Total Assets＊ D Distribution Businesses . ........ 100% F Finance Businesses ...................... 0% (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 1,941.8 D 80 2,000 S Stable Earnings-Type Businesses 73.5 1,765.5 (Infrastructure, etc.)....................... 0% N Natural Resource Investments ...0% 60 58.7 1,500 40 1,000 20 500 D Distribution Businesses . ........ 100% F Finance Businesses ...................... 0% 0 0 D S Stable Earnings-Type Businesses FYE 3/17 3/18 FYE 3/17 3/18 (Infrastructure, etc.)....................... 0% Note: Figures are before the reorganization of the former Food & Consumer Products Group. N Natural Resource Investments ......0% (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 60 2,000 D Distribution Businesses . ........ 100% 41.9 1,500 40 1,180.0 F Finance Businesses ...................... 0% 1,120.2 D S Stable Earnings-Type Businesses 30.6 1,000 (Infrastructure, etc.)....................... 0% 20 500 N Natural Resource Investments ......0% 0 0 FYE 3/17 3/18 FYE 3/17 3/18 (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 30 2,000 1,691.2 21.9 1,613.4 D Distribution Businesses . .......... 30% 20 1,500 D F Finance Businesses ...................... 0% 10 1,000 N S Stable Earnings-Type Businesses (Infrastructure, etc.)....................... 0% 0 500 N Natural Resource Investments ... 70% (10) (6.2) 0 FYE 3/17 3/18 FYE 3/17 3/18 (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 60 56.5 2,000 D Distribution Businesses . .......... 25% 1,500 D F Finance Businesses ...................... 5% 40 39.6 1,117.6 1,120.3 S F S Stable Earnings-Type Businesses 1,000 (Infrastructure, etc.).................... 70% 20 500 N Natural Resource Investments ......0% 0 0 FYE 3/17 3/18 FYE 3/17 3/18 (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 60 2,000 S D Distribution Businesses . .......... 45% 40 1,500 36.1 F Finance Businesses ................... 50% D 28.6 1,000 F S Stable Earnings-Type Businesses (Infrastructure, etc.)....................... 5% 20 797.4 722.2 500 N Natural Resource Investments ......0% 0 0 FYE 3/17 3/18 FYE 3/17 3/18 ＊ Figures are for the five business groups for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018. I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 73 Business Groups FOOD GROUP Rangers Valley (Australia) The Food Group globally operates businesses in the broadly defined food sector, ­ supporting the everyday lives of consumers throughout the world and contributing to society ­ by stably supplying safe and reliable foods. P R E S E N T S TAT E A N A LY S I S Strengths Opportunities ｰｰAble to stably supply grains via a global network encompassｰｰStable demand in Japan and Asia, both major grain importers ing all supply chain links from grain collection through sales ｰｰGrowth in food demand in countries with growing populaｰｰCommands roughly 30% share of Japan’s raw coffee bean tions/incomes, including China, emerging Asian economies imports and developing African countries ｰｰOwns Brazilian instant coffee manufacturer with sales in over ｰｰGrowing demand for high-quality food products (e.g., coffee, 40 countries beef) by virtue of rising incomes in, e.g., China, Asia and the ｰｰOwns high-quality beef suppliers in the U.S. and Australia, Middle/Near East two of the biggest beef-producing countries Risks ｰｰVariations in grain crop conditions due to weather irregularities and resultant fluctuations in grain collection and export volumes ｰｰCountry risk due to changes in political or economic conditions in importing countries ｰｰRisk of communicable livestock disease (e.g., avian influenza, hoof-and-mouth disease) outbreaks ｰｰRisk of natural disasters including crop failures due to adverse weather ｰｰRisk of variations in fish harvests due to wild fish migration conditions Arrows indicate change in awareness of each risk compared to the previous year 74 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N O PE RATIN G ACTI VI TI E S CHAP. 3 GROUP CEO MESSAGE “ We aim to further enhance our businesses’value by strengthening our sourcing, production and sales of value-added food products while maximally leveraging our global operations and sales network to meet consumers’increasingly diverse needs. ” Akira Terakawa Chief Executive Officer Food Group T he Food Group will expand its and Asia. In the food products busigrain and food products business, the Group is enlarging its operanesses and realize sustainable growth tions’scope by acquiring high-quality by improving its grain collection and food suppliers around the world in trading operations’ efficiency and addition to strengthening existing producing and processing valueoperations and expanding domestic added food products. and international trade. In the grain business, the Group is The Group will continue to focus strengthening its earnings power by on developing a diverse workforce functionally utilizing Marubeni’ s grain and fostering an open organizational collection, storage and distribution culture to create new business capabilities in American grain-producmodels adapted to business environing regions and by expanding sales in ments undergoing incessant change, markets where Marubeni has a solid including IT innovations and fragsales foundation, particularly in Japan mentation of consumer needs. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Upstream Downstream Grain Division Food Products Division Grain collection Food production/processing Wholesaling/retailing • North American grain Overseas • Beef production business collection business • Specialty wholesaling • Processed food production Create new business models, • South American grain business business collection business strengthen existing businesses Grain transport Food production/processing Wholesaling/retailing • Livestock feed processing • General wholesaling • Oil pressing business business Japan • Port warehousing/ • Poultry production • Specialty wholesaling transport business business business • Processed food production • Greater Tokyo retailing business business Utilize Marubeni’s network/Meet consumers’ changing needs I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 75 OUR BUSINESS Q& A W What are your grain business model’s strengths? e trade more grain than any capabilities extend far beyond mere Further stabilizing supply and other general trading comcommodity trading. Such all-around boosting earnings power pany. The Grain Division has built a capabilities are the foundation of our supply chain able to flexibly and unique business model and driver of stably meet global markets’demand our current high profitability. for grains and feed ingredients We plan to revamp our cost strucsourced mainly from North and ture to further boost our earnings South America. One of our strengths power. As one initiative, we will is that we can meet special quality merge five operating companies specifications, partly by virtue of geographically dispersed in North Hidenobu Kumada advanced sourcing capabilities and South America and Asia. ConsoliChief Operating Officer, Grain Division derived from U.S. subsidiary Gavilon dating duplicative operations, particHoldings’first-rate farmer network. ularly administrative functions, will Another strength is our ability to enable the Food Group to operate meet local grain markets’ diverse more integratedly and should generneeds through such means as microate powerful synergies. calibration of delivery schedules. Our Marubeni’s Grain Trade Map Columbia Grain, Inc. (U.S.) Gavilon Agriculture Investment, Inc. (U.S.) Grain elevator network, export bases Grain elevator network, export bases Wheat, barley, corn, The Sinograin Group (China) and soybeans Government grain stockpiling firm Marubeni North America Largest grain silo network among China & Asia general trading companies No. 1 grain trading volume Middle East & for a general trading company North Africa Corn, soybeans, and soybean meal South America Terlogs Terminal Maritimo Ltda. (Brazil) Export terminal operation Market Producer Marubeni has established a grain trade system that encompasses working to optimize sea transport and is sharing information on everything from procurement in producing countries, most notably producing and consuming countries on a global basis to expand the United States and Brazil, to export and then sales to consuming transactions. Furthermore, we are leveraging Gavilon Agriculture countries, such as Japan and principal Asia nations. In addition, we Investment, Inc., to step up initiatives for addressing the continually are expanding sales to the Middle East and North Africa, positioning growing internal demand in North America. these regions as promising emerging markets. The Company is also 76 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N O PE RATIN G ACTI VI TI E S CHAP. 3 T What is your growth strategy? he Food Products Division’ s stratpriority on adequate scale, synergies Shifting from trade to marketing egies have previously been tarwith existing operations and prospects geted primarily at the domestic of capturing the top market share in market. For the past few years, howgeographic and product segments. ever, we have been internally discussOverseas, we aim to capture domestic ing which new geographic and demand in the U.S., China and ASEAN product markets to focus on in pursuit countries as core markets with favorof future growth. While the Japanese able prospects of growth in both popumarket will remain as important as lation and food demand. We are also Koji Yamazaki ever, we aim to proactively transform working on developing businesses Chief Operating Officer, Food Products Division into a specialty-product marketer focused on Africa, South America and through a paradigm shift from comother such markets’ growth potential. modity to specialty, from domestic to overseas markets and from trading to marketing. In running our businesses in accordance with this plan, we will place Group Organization Adjusted EBITDA by Sub-segment (Billions of yen) Food Group Grain, Food Products 75 FYE 3/2018 65.1 FYE 3/2017 58.0 Grain Division 50 Food Products Division ＊ Adjusted EBITDA = Gross trading profit + Selling, General & Administrative Expense + 25 Depreciation and amortization/Amortization cost of intangible assets + Interest income + Dividend income (including cash dividends from equity method investees) 0 ＊ The graph at right presents data for the fiscal year ended March 2018 by subsegment. Major Subsidiaries and Associates (Outline and Profit/Loss) (Billions of yen) Business FYE 3/2017 FYE 3/2018 Company Name Voting Rights Description of Business Model Actual Actual Gavilon Agriculture Investment D 100.0% 7.5 18.5 Parent company of Gavilon Group (Collection/sales of grain, fertilizer, etc.) (attributable to Food sub-segment) D Creekstone Holding 100.0% — 2 .9 ＊1 Beef production and sales Collection, storage, exporting and domestic sales of grain produced in D Columbia Grain International 100.0% 3.1 6.8 North America D Marubeni Nisshin Feed 60.0% 1.2 1.6 Manufacture and sales of livestock feed Wholesale of confectionery products to mass-retail and convenience D Yamaboshiya 75.6% 1.8 1.5 stores D Wellfam Foods 100.0% 3.6 4.8 Marketing of livestock, meats and processed products D Pacific Grain Terminal 78.4% 0.6 0.7 Warehousing, stevedoring and transportation operations D Marubeni Foods 100.0% 1.1 0.3 Imports, exports and sales of food products D Benirei 98.8% 1.0 0.4 Wholesale of seafood products and warehousing Holding company for United Super Markets Holdings Inc., a holding D Aeon Market Investment ＊2 28.2% company for supermarket operations in the Tokyo metropolitan area. D The Nisshin OilliO Group＊3 15.2% Processing and sale of edible oil business D Tobu Store＊3 33.5% Supermarket chain ＊1. This company’s profit is included in consolidated profit from the 2nd quarter of the fiscal year ended March 2018. ＊2. Aeon Market Investment holds 51% of issued stocks of United Super Markets Holdings Inc. which is a listed company, thus we are not able to mention the financial results of these companies. ＊3. Listed company: We are not able to mention the financial results of these listed companies. D Distribution Businesses I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 77 CONSUMER PRODUCTS GROUP Tokyo store of directly managed U.S. outdoor brand Merrell The Consumer Products Group provides goods and services that ­ support consumers’daily lives by optimally complementing its existing businesses’strengths and functions with IT/digital technologies in a broad range of consumer markets, ­ including apparel, housing and communication infrastructure. P R E S E N T S TAT E A N A LY S I S Strengths Opportunities ｰｰAdvanced production, sourcing and sales capabilities；experｰｰExpansion of opportunities to provide new solutions in tise in accurately identifying changing needs and diversifying response to changes in the everyday environment due to consumer lifestyles advances in IT/digital technologies ｰｰProprietary platform able to fulfill diverse consumer needs； ｰｰEmergence of new needs stemming from changes in lifewide range of services（e.g., internet and management styles, including the spread of the sharing economy and services for condo complexes, nationwide mobile phone women’s growing role in society retail chain） ｰｰGrowth of a new consumer class by virtue of rising standards of living, mainly in emerging Asian economies Risks ｰｰContraction in domestic demand in the wake of societal aging ｰｰA near-term consumption tax hike that may restrain domestic consumer demand ｰｰGlobal economic headwinds stemming from normalization of developed countries’ accommodative monetary policies 78 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N O PE RATIN G ACTI VI TI E S CHAP. 3 GROUP CEO MESSAGE “ We will provide high-value-added products and services aligned with consumers’needs by organically combining rapidly evolving IT/digital technologies with a wide range of consumer goods and services（e.g., mobile phone retail chain；general merchandise, including apparel and footwear；logistics network）. ” Hikaru Minami Chief Executive Officer Consumer Products Group A s a provider of various goods Recognizing that such changes in and services closely tied to peoconsumers’ everyday environment are ple’ s everyday lives, the Consumer a growth opportunity, the Group will Products Group has long been offerproactively meet consumers’diversiing products and solutions able to fying needs and create new demand meet consumers’ evolving needs as by effectively combining IT/digital times change and market trends technologies and organically inteunfold. Today, new products and sergrating the product and service vices are emerging on a daily basis, expertise separately amassed by its catalyzed by stunning advances in IT/ specialized teams. digital technologies against a backdrop of increasingly prevalent new lifestyles such as the sharing economy and work-life balance. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Maximize businesses’ Lifestyle Division • Apparel, footwear value • Lifestyle products, office supplies • Textile materials, industrial materials Optimal combinations New demand growth driven Insurance, ICT, Logistics ＆ by lifestyle changes Finance ＆ Real Estate Healthcare Division Business Division • Systems solutions • Insurance • Network business • Fund/J-REIT management • Mobile handset sales agents • Property management • Logistics business • Domestic/overseas housing development • Healthcare ＆ medical business I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 79 OUR BUSINESS Q& A What is your differentiation strategy in increasintegrator for SPA and e-commerce What is your growth strategy amid an evolving ingly diverse markets? companies that support middle-class industrial structure? Building a consumer-focused demand. A case in point is our partnerProactively creating new ­ BtoC model unique to Marubeni ship with Saide, a Turkish company in value earnings which we acquired an equity stake in 2017. We plan to deploy Saide’ s planning functions and short lead-time production know-how in rapidly growing Asian markets in the aim of upgrading our SPA OEM＊1/ODM＊2 functions and strengthening our product mix and Yuichi Ohira Koji Kabumoto Chief Operating Officer, Lifestyle Division price competitiveness. We also intend Chief Operating Officer, ICT, Logistics ＆ Healthcare Division to build our own direct-to-consumer G W lobal growth in middle-class conbusiness model encompassing both e will proactively create new sumption and diversification of goods and services. value, recognizing digital techconsumer preferences are future ＊1. OEM：Original Equipment Manufacturer; manufacturing of nologies’ongoing transformation of products sold under the contractee’s name or brand growth opportunities. Going forward, ＊2. ODM：Original Design Manufacturer. An ODM does everything industrial and societal structures as a from the development and design to the production of a product we will focus on acting as an indisthat is eventually sold under another firm’s name or brand business opportunity. pensable supply-chain partner and Specifically, we aim to further Meeting Consumers’ Diverse Needs with Comprehensive Capabilities The Consumer Products Group accurately identifies consumers’diverse needs and provides goods and services tailored to individual lifestyles. Its three divisions will continue to develop goods and services that enrich and bring comfort to people’ s daily lives by organically combining IT/digital technologies while Lifestyle Division leveraging the expertise and creativity they have amassed in their respective specialized domains. IFME children’s shoe brand Footwear Apparel Lifestyle products Network Property ICT, Logistics ＆ solutions development ＆ Insurance, Finance ＆ Healthcare Division Renovation Real Estate Business Division Information communication Property services management Mobile Subsidiary MX Mobiling’s NTT handset sales Insurance Docomo shop in Fukaya agents （Saitama Prefecture） Sungai Long Residence （Malaysia） 80 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N O PE RATIN G ACTI VI TI E S CHAP. 3 expand operations in our core busiWhat is your strategy to harness external change opportunities by utilizing our Group’ s ness domains, including ① ICT soluas a growth driver？ functions, including the unmatched tions such as corporate IT systems Converting risk（uncertainty） information networks of a general and 3D printers for manufacturers, into commercial opportunity trading company. We will accordingly ② high-security, high-speed networks put the following strategies into action. and ③ mobile handset sales, a market in which we rank in the top tier. We Insurance: will also develop new businesses, Further develop intermediary business model Finance: including new services based on our Soundly invest existing private-equity (PE) funds’ existing businesses’customer bases uninvested assets, exit existing PE investments and/or ties with partner companies Kenichiro Oikawa and launch new funds as well as high-value-added logistics Chief Operating Officer, Real estate: Insurance, Finance ＆ Real Estate Business Division services driven by ICT-enabled visualｰｰ Expand peripheral businesses by increasing T ization and optimization. he division tends to be heavily REITs/real estate funds’ assets under management affected by major countries’ ｰｰ Carry out housing and urban development projects in Japan, China and ASEAN countries monetary policies, demographic ｰｰ Upgrade existing buildings into smart buildings changes and advances in digital techand build smart communities in collaboration nologies. However, we can convert with other Divisions such future risks into new business Group Organization Adjusted EBITDA by Sub-segment (Billions of yen) Lifestyle, ICT, Logistics ＆ Healthcare, Consumer Products Group 75 Insurance, Finance ＆ Real Estate Business FYE 3/2018 Lifestyle Division FYE 3/2017 50 41.5 37.5 ICT, Logistics ＆ ＊ Adjusted EBITDA = Gross trading profit + 25 Healthcare Division Selling, General & Administrative Expense + Depreciation and amortization/Amortization cost of intangible assets + Interest income + Insurance, Finance ＆ Dividend income (including cash dividends Real Estate Business Division from equity method investees) 0 ＊ The graph at right presents data for the fiscal year ended March 2018 by subsegment. Major Subsidiaries and Associates (Outline and Profit/Loss) (Billions of yen) Business FYE 3/2017 FYE 3/2018 Company Name Voting Rights Description of Business Model Actual Actual D MX Mobiling 100.0% 6.0 6.4 Sales, repair and maintenance of mobile handsets and related equipment D Marubeni Information Systems 100.0% 1.9 1.5 IT solution provider for full range of IT lifecycle in every industry Sale of industrial materials, lifestyle material-related textile goods D Marubeni Intex 100.0% 1.1 1.2 and products International combined transport operation (NVOCC), 3PL (ThirdD Marubeni Logistics 100.0% 1.2 0.9 party Logistics), ocean & air freight forwarding, consultancy relating to logistics D Marubeni Fashion Link 100.0% 0.9 0.9 Planning, production and sale of textile products Planning and design of information and communication systems, D Marubeni IT Solutions 80.0% 0.5 0.7 software development and sales D Marubeni Safenet 100.0% 0.6 0.4 Insurance agency and lending business D Saide Tekstil Sanayi ve Ticaret 45.5% — 0.3＊3 Design-led planning, sourcing, sales of apparel and miscellaneous goods Telecommunication business, data communication service business, D ARTERIA Networks 50.0% 1.9 1.9 data center business ＊3. This company’s profit is included in consolidated profit from the second quarter of the fiscal year ended March 2018. D Distribution Businesses I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 81 CHEMICAL & FOREST PRODUCTS GROUP Helena (U.S.) Loading woodchips（Australia） The Chemical ＆ Forest Products Group will increase its agri-input market share, ­ primarily through Helena Agri-Enterprises in the U.S., and strengthen its competitive advantage in the chemical and forest products businesses. P R E S E N T S TAT E A N A LY S I S Strengths Opportunities ｰｰSubsidiary Helena, a locally focused agri-input retailer, is ｰｰM＆A-driven expansion of Helena Agri-Enterprises’ operations ranked second by market share in North America ｰｰDevelopment of feed-related businesses centered around ｰｰCommands roughly 30％ share of global ethylene trade Orffa International Holding BV ｰｰForest products business is vertically integrated from tree ｰｰInvolvement in biomass/solar power plant projects that farming through paper end-product sales, including a pulpfacilitate wider use of renewable energy wood plantation in Indonesia ｰｰAgri-input market growth due to need to increase food proｰｰDutch subsidiary Orffa International Holding BV has a big duction and limits on expansion of arable land area presence in European feed additive markets ｰｰGrowth in petrochemical and industrial paper（e.g., containerboard）markets in developing countries Risks ｰｰRisk of weather impacts on agricultural and tree plantation operations ｰｰChanges in farmers’ incomes, a key determinant of Helena Agri-Enterprises’ sales ｰｰTrade in products sensitive to changes in market prices, such as petrochemicals and pulp ｰｰPolitical and economic risks in China, a major petrochemical importer ｰｰU.S. economic downturn or stagnation in trade with U.S. due to protectionist U.S. policies 82 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N O PE RATIN G ACTI VI TI E S CHAP. 3 GROUP CEO MESSAGE “ We plan to proactively expand into new businesses with promising growth prospects and further upgrade existing ­ assets by leveraging our broad global network, including our local personnel throughout the world and long-standing business relationships across a broad swath of industries. ” Takeo Kobayashi Chief Executive Officer Chemical ＆ Forest Products Group T he Chemical ＆ Forest Products around Orffa International Holding Group is pursuing mediumto BV and its diverse domestic and overlong-term growth by further augseas operations/trade in basic chemimenting its existing strengths in the cals, salts, inorganic resources and industries and geographic markets in electronics, among other products. which it operates. With the biomass fuel market The Agri-Input Business Division expected to grow, the Forest Prodwill expand its global operations ucts Division will strengthen its biothrough affiliated retailers and agrimass fuel operations, including its cultural chemical and fertilizer manuVietnamese-made pellet sales busifacturers/distributors in Europe and ness, in addition to operating its other Asia while pursuing further market businesses ranging from tree plantashare gains through acquisitions by tions and pulp production to paper Helena. The Chemical Products Diviproduct manufacturing and trading. sion will focus on expanding both its life science operations centered BUSINESS OVERVIEW Upstream Downstream Agri-Input/Chemical Products Businesses Basic petrochemicals Petrochemical derivative products Broad range of industries served Crude oil （Olefin） • Synthetic resins Ethylene • Synthetic fiber intermediates • Synthetic rubber • Agriculture Propylene • Paint materials and organic • Food Naphtha Butadiene solvents • Livestock • Specialty chemicals • Medical and healthcare （Aromatics） • Raw materials for synthetic • Automobiles, ships, and railcars Methane, ethane, and propane Benzene detergents and surfactants • IT and electronic devices Toluene • Crop protections • Toiletries Xylene • Fertilizers • Feed additives • Industrial materials Natural gas and associated gas etc. • Others • Apparel • Papermaking Inorganic chemicals, mineral resources （salts, caustic soda, sulfur, sulfuric acid, boric acid, etc.） Cultivate new geographic markets utilizing prime assets Forest Products Afforestation and wood chips Pulp Paper and paperboard Sales, distribution, and processing Trading volume： Production capacity： Paper trading volume: Approx. 2.2 million Trading volume： Approx. 1.6 million tons per year Approx. 1.05 million tons per year bone dry tons（BDT）per year Approx. 1.7 million tons per year Paperboard trading volume: Afforestation area： Approx. 1.00 million tons per year Approx. 210,000 ha I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 83 OUR BUSINESS Q& A What are your targets in the dynamic environment. We also provide serWhat is the globally economically sensitive agribusiness market? vices that boost farmers’productivity chemical business’s strategy? Supporting global agriculture ­ and operating efficiency, including A group of professionals catalyzas a solutions provider consulting services that leverage ing novel“chemical reactions” AgTech knowledge. The Agri-input Business Division currently has manufacturing and retailing operations spread across both Asia–mainly in Japan, Malaysia and Myanmar–and the Americas and Europe, mainly in the U.S., U.K. and Netherlands. We will Michael McCarty Jun Horie Chief Operating Officer, Agri-Input Business Division further expand our global footprint Chief Operating Officer, Chemical Products Division through our vision of becoming a T T he Agri-Input Business Division major solutions provider for agriculhe Chemical Products Division supplies crop protection products, tural producers globally. has a broad product line. In comfertilizer, seeds and other inputs to modity chemical markets, we plan to agricultural producers facing the imperprovide added value to customers by ative to adapt to an ever-changing increasing our cost competitiveness Major Marubeni Subsidiaries/Associates in Chemical Business Business expansion focused on life sciences Marubeni’ s Chemical Products Division operates businesses <Investee> Netherlands • One of Europe’s largest feed additive around the world through four business units and a global distributors, with sales in approxinetwork revolving around a nucleus of over 20 consoliOrffa International Holding BV mately 80, mainly European, countries dated subsidiaries and associates. Marubeni Group’s equity stake: 60% • Operates food/feed additive, functional （April 2017 investment） feed and other life science businesses Investments/alliances Locations of major consolidated subsidiaries/associates other than the above Livestock feed additives European-style feed additive usage standards focused on safety and environment Global standards Marubeni Specialty Chemicals Inc. • Marubeni Plax Co., Ltd. (specialty chemicals, synthetic resins) Sales expansion into Asia (synthetic resins, industrial materials, electronics) • Marubeni Chemix Corp. (organic chemicals, functional chemicals, pharmaceutical raw materials) Salt Exports to Japan Olefin trading Exports to China 2,000,000 t/yr Sales of olefins sourced from Japan, Korea, Taiwan, Singapore, Thailand, Middle East, etc., to users in China, Indonesia, etc. Capturing more <Investee> Australia demand growth Among the world’s top olefin Dampier Salt Limited traders by trading volume (solar salt) • Roughly 30% share of global olefin trade Marubeni Group’s equity stake: 21.51% • 30 specialty tankers chartered at all times • World’s top exporter of industrial salts by volume • Roughly 30% share of Asian salt <Investee> China trade Shen Hua Chemical Industrial Co., Ltd. (synthetic rubber) Marubeni Group’s equity stake: 22.56% 84 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N O PE RATIN G ACTI VI TI E S CHAP. 3 through expansion of trading volWhat is the timber resource business’s potential? businesses can contribute greatly to umes and upgrading supply-demand Building closed-loop businesses the environment and society. balancing functions. In the specialty while also developing new Among our existing businesses, chemical sector, we are focusing on materials we will focus on keeping our tree creating added value through initiaplantation and pulp manufacturing tives such as our 2017 acquisition of businesses in Indonesia operating Orffa International Holding BV, a smoothly and on improving domestic Dutch feed-additive distributor paper and paperboard manufacturrenowned for its exceptional proding and sales operations’profitability. uct development capabilities and Meanwhile, we are pursuing growth consulting services. We aspire to be a through new products, including ① Tsuyoshi Teragaki group of sales professionals who wood biomass fuels that contribute Chief Operating Officer, Forest Products Division provide added value while catalyzto a low-carbon society, ② packagT ing novel “chemical reactions”and he Forest Products Division’ s ing, demand for which is growing closely collaborating with Marubeni products derived from trees in tandem with e-commerce and ③ Group companies across the breadth have three hallmarks： they are susinnovative cellulose nanofiber. We aim of industries we serve. tainable, renewable and recyclable. to make the world a better place as a Our closed-loop or eco-friendly direct function of Marubeni’ s growth. Group Organization Adjusted EBITDA by Sub-segment Chemical ＆ FYE 3/2018 (Billions of yen) 75 Forest Products Group FYE 3/2017 Agri-Input Business Division 50 42.9 46.5 27.4 Chemical Products Division ＊ Adjusted EBITDA = Gross trading profit + 25 20.2 Selling, General & Administrative Expense + Depreciation and amortization/Amortization cost of intangible assets + Interest income + Forest Products Division Dividend income (including cash dividends from equity method investees) 0 ＊ The graph at right presents data for the fiscal Agri-Input Business Chemical Products, year ended March 2018 by subsegment. Forest Products Major Subsidiaries and Associates (Outline and Profit/Loss) (Billions of yen) Business FYE 3/2017 FYE 3/2018 Company Name Voting Rights Description of Business Model Actual Actual D Helena Agri-Enterprises 100.0% 20.1 27.1 Sales of agri-input products and related services in the U.S. Gavilon Agriculture Investment D (attributable to Agri-Input Business 100.0% 3.8 3.0 Parent company of Gavilon Group (collection/sales of grain, fertilizer, etc.) sub-segment) TEL 85.1% D MUSI Pulp Project (15.2) (1.9) Afforestation, production and sales of pulp in Indonesia MHP 100.0% D Olympus Holding (Orffa) 60.0% — 1.1＊ Sales of feed additives D Koa Kogyo 80.0% 0.0 (0.2) Manufacture and sales of corrugating medium and liner D WA Plantation Resources 100.0% 0.1 1.1 Wood chip production and plantation in Australia D Marubeni Pulp & Paper 100.0% 1.8 1.9 Sale of paper products D Marubeni Plax 100.0% 0.6 0.9 Sales and foreign trade of plastic products and resins D Marubeni Chemix 100.0% 0.8 1.0 Sales and foreign trade of organic chemicals and fine chemicals D Fukuyama Paper 55.0% 0.2 0.3 Manufacture and sale of corrugating medium and core board D Daishowa-Marubeni International 50.0% (0.6) 1.3 Manufacture and sale of pulp in Canada D Marusumi Paper 32.2% 0.2 (0.4) Manufacture and sale of paper ＊ This company’s profit is included in consolidated profit from the second quarter of the fiscal year ended March 2018. D Distribution Businesses I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 85 ENERGY & METALS GROUP Los Pelambres Copper Mine（Chile） The Energy ＆ Metals Group is engaged in broad, vertically integrated operations to ­ support people’ s quality of life and economic growth and contribute to society through ­ stable energy and metal supplies. P R E S E N T S TAT E A N A LY S I S Strengths Opportunities ｰｰStrong earnings foundation rooted in ownership of highly ｰｰLong-term increase in demands for energy, metals and mincost-competitive projects eral resources underpinned by global economic growth ｰｰPartnership with top-caliber business partners willing to ｰｰIncrease in infrastructure projects and growth in steel strive together with Marubeni to enhance the value of demand ahead of Tokyo Olympics and Expo 2025 in Osaka various assets ｰｰLong-term nonferrous metal demand growth driven by ｰｰOne of the world’s top traders of naphtha and LNG by advent of IoT era and proliferation of EVs trading volume ｰｰNew trading/investment opportunities arising from oil and ｰｰWorldwide steel distribution network natural gas production growth, mainly in the U.S. Risks ｰｰVolatile resource prices that can affect each project’s profitability ｰｰChanges in government policies that affect resource investments or trading businesses ｰｰDecreased coal, petroleum and/or natural gas demand due to the emergence of a low-carbon society 86 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N O PE RATIN G ACTI VI TI E S CHAP. 3 GROUP CEO MESSAGE “ We operate our businesses with a long-term vision based on relationships of trust with our partners. We aim to sustainably strengthen our earnings foundation while pursuing new ventures targeted at societal needs. ” Ichiro Takahara Chief Executive Officer Energy ＆ Metals Group T he Energy ＆ Metals Group aims to suppliers and customers together with maximize its cash flow and profits sales-channel expansion. in investments such as oil and gas The Group will establish the founexploration, development and prodation for stable earnings growth by duction as well as iron ore, coal and building a suitable portfolio compriscopper mine development and opering a broad array of businesses spread ation, by working together with its across the supply chain, including strong business partners to improve new businesses undertaken in the competitiveness of existing operresponse to market changes. For ations through cost-control and effiexample, the Group plans to intensify cient operation. In trading businesses, its efforts to develop new energy the Group will focus on markets where sources for a low-carbon, electroit can provide high-value-added sermobile society and to supply metals vices in response to market needs by necessary for mass adoption of EVs. tapping into Marubeni’ s global network while also pursuing diversification of BUSINESS OVERVIEW Upstream Downstream Resource investment Distribution, processing, sales, etc. Petroleum product trading Raw material trading Processing and LPG, naphtha, gasoline, middle Retail operations Crude oil and condensate refining business investment Sustainably reinforce earnings bases distillates, and fuel oil Oil and gas LNG trading LNG business investment Power generation and (Transportation and storage) gas supply Iron ore, coal, Steelmaking Intermediate material and Recycling Raw material trading and copper product trading Iron and non-ferrous Iron ore, coal, copper concentrate, Smelting and refining Non-ferrous ingots, steel products, scrap trading and alumina, and ferroalloy business investment and non-ferrous products automobile recycling Focus on gaining supply sources such as overseas suppliers, and strive to improve added values Focus on strengthening cost competitiveness in existing projects, and establishing full capacity operation systems for developing projects I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 87 OUR BUSINESS Q& A Do you have any new initiatives conducive to a for which is expected to grow subWhat is your growth strategy in the fiercely next-generation energy society？ stantially, we are focusing on expandcompetitive steel market？ Meeting customers’changing ing our supply chain and moving up Promoting steel business by needs on the path to a lowthe value chain, primarily through our collaborating with Marubeni’ s carbon/carbon-free society Qatar Project. divisions and utilizing our comIn the petroleum business, we will prehensive strength. grow trading–Marubeni’ s forte–and other operations while partially restructuring. Additionally, we are cross-organizationally reorganizing the Energy Division from April 2018 with our sights set on the arrival of a Akihiko Sagara Chief Operating Officer, Energy Division low-carbon and ultimately carbon-free Masahiro Inoue society. We are pursuing distributed Chief Operating Officer, Steel Products Division W ith the shift toward low-carbon new energy initiatives and projects S energy accelerating globally, involving prospective energy carrier teel is a fundamental material that we are building leading-edge busicandidates, including hydrogen and has been supporting industry and nesses as an innovator. First, in the ammonia, from the feasibility-testing people’ s everyday lives since antiqmarket for natural gas/LNG, demand stage onward in Japan and overseas. uity. It still has many more potential Marubeni’s Resource Interests U.K. North Sea Oil and gas exploration, development, Alouette Smelter and production (U.K.) (Canada) Sakhalin-1 Project (Russia) Qatar Kharassan Uranium Mines United States Qatar LNG (Kazakhstan) U.S. Gulf of Mexico Papua New Guinea Indian Ocean Papua New Guinea LNG Equatorial Guinea LNG Queensland Coal Mines Peru LNG (Australia) Antucoya Copper Mine Roy Hill Iron Ore Project (Chile) Boyne Smelter (Australia) (Australia) Los Pelambres Copper New South Wales Coal Mines Mine (Chile) (Australia) Portland Smelter (Australia) Roy Hill Iron Ore Project (Australia) Oil and gas LNG Uranium Iron ore Coal Copper Centinela Copper Mine Aluminum (Chile) Marubeni has energy, metals and minerals resource development production operations in the U.S., the U.K. and Russia; and iron ore, and production operations throughout the world. Its resource intercoal and copper mine development projects and aluminum smeltests include a geographically diversified portfolio of LNG projects, ing operations in Australia, Canada and Chile. most notably in Qatar; oil and gas development projects and 88 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N O PE RATIN G ACTI VI TI E S CHAP. 3 uses as applications of materials used What is your next-generation portfolio strategy？ Hill Iron Ore Mine in Australia ramped in manufacturing become ever more Increasing equities of existing up production to full capacity and we diverse. The Steel Products Division first-class assets and targeting acquired an additional interest in the aims to increase the corporate value new products Los Pelambres Copper Mine in Chile. of our core operating companies, With globally competitive upstream Marubeni-Itochu Steel and Marubeni mining interests as our core business, Construction Material Lease, and conwe are pursuing organic growth, tribute to the growth of the Marubeni including growth in trade. We will Group’ s overall earning by enhancing improve cost competitiveness and collaboration with each of Marubeni’ s operating efficiency at the mines we other divisions and using our compreco-own, increase our interests in them Shinichi Kobayashi hensive strength. Utilizing the business and maintain or enlarge our portfolio Chief Operating Officer, Metals ＆ Mineral Resources Division platforms, know-how and the global of prime resource interests from a T networks that both companies have he Metals & Mineral Resources mediumto long-term perspective. In built, we will pursue and create new Division owns mining, refining addition to existing trade, we will also business models and added value that and smelting interests in iron ore, focus on commodities with promisgrasp the market trend. coking coal, copper and aluminum, ing growth prospects in light of trends all of which are essential for ecolike proliferation of EVs and automonomic development. In 2017, the Roy tive weight reduction. Group Organization Adjusted EBITDA by Sub-segment (Billions of yen) Energy ＆ Metals Group FYE 3/2018 75 FYE 3/2017 54.4 Energy Division 50 41.9 Steel Products Division ＊ Adjusted EBITDA = Gross trading profit + 25 23.8 Selling, General & Administrative Expense + Depreciation and amortization/Amortization 16.0 cost of intangible assets + Interest income + Metals ＆ Mineral Dividend income (including cash dividends 2.6 2.9 Resources Division from equity method investees) 0 ＊ The graph at right presents data for the fiscal Energy Steel Products Metals & year ended March 2018 by subsegment. Mineral Resources Major Subsidiaries and Associates (Outline and Profit/Loss) (Billions of yen) Business FYE 3/2017 FYE 3/2018 Company Name Voting Rights Description of Business Model Actual Actual N Oil & Gas Interests 100.0% (52.7) (31.5) Oil and gas exploration, development, production and sales D MIECO 100.0% 0.8 2.9 Sale of all types of petroleum products and natural gas D ENEOS GLOBE 20.0% 1.2 1.7 Import and sale of LPG, and sale of new energy-related equipment D Marubeni-Itochu Steel 50.0% 7.6 9.2 Sales and business management of steel products N Marubeni LP Holding 100.0% 3.0 11.5 Investment in copper mines in Chile N Marubeni Coal 100.0% 16.1 26.0 Investment in coal mines in Australia N Marubeni Aluminium Australia 100.0% (3.2) (0.3) Investment in aluminum smelting in Australia N Marubeni Metals ＆ Minerals（Canada） 100.0% 0.2 1.4 Investment in aluminum smelting in Canada D Distribution Businesses N Natural Resource Investments I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 89 POWER BUSINESS & PLANT GROUP Nakasode Clean Power power plant（Japan） Gold Coast City light rail project（Australia） As a global player in the infrastructure business, the Power Business ＆ Plant Group contributes to countries’ /regions’ economic growth and social infrastructure upgrades through installation and maintenance of social capital and basic infrastructure that is the foundation of industry and everyday life. P R E S E N T S TAT E A N A LY S I S Strengths Opportunities ｰｰBroad upstream-through-downstream track record in the ｰｰPower/social/industrial infrastructure demand driven by electric power business, including IPP＊1 projects, electricity economic growth, population growth and rising living retailing, power plant maintenance, overseas electric power standards in developing countries EPC＊2 projects and offshore wind farm installation business ｰｰDiversification of power generation resources（e.g., renewable ｰｰDiverse investment portfolio in transport, water, energy energy, distributed power sources, etc.）and grid management infrastructure and industrial plants (railway PPPs,＊3 railcar projects（e.g., storage batteries, demand response,＊5 etc.） leasing, industrial parks, port operation, water and wastewaｰｰNew PPP business opportunities by virtue of growing use of ter projects, piped-gas distribution, FPSOs＊4) and plant EPC private capital track record ｰｰInfrastructure（e.g., waste-to-energy,＊6 railway, etc.）development demand driven by environmental regulations and growing environmental consciousness Risks ｰｰDecreased business opportunities due to slower economic growth ｰｰIntensification of competition due in part to new market entrants from other sectors ｰｰRegulatory tightening or other legal/regulatory changes ＊1. IPP：Independent Power Producer ＊2. EPC：Engineering, Procurement and Construction ＊3. PPP：Public-Private Partnership ＊4. FPSO：Floating Production, Storage and Offloading system ＊5. Demand response：changes in electricity consumption patterns resulting from users curtailing their power usage in response to higher electricity rates or incentive payments when wholesale market prices rise sharply or grid reliability decreases ＊6. Conversion of waste products to energy 90 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N O PE RATIN G ACTI VI TI E S CHAP. 3 GROUP CEO MESSAGE “ We will expand our stable earnings foundation and challenge new business domains, capitalizing on our network, asset management functions and project development capabilities backed by over six decades of experience and a proven record as a global player in the infrastructure business. ” Masumi Kakinoki Chief Executive Officer Power Business ＆ Plant Group T he Power Business ＆ Plant Group better balancing its portfolio across is engaged in infrastructure busicountries and sectors. It will also pronesses that are important economically actively enhance existing assets’ and socially, displaying its ample projvalue through such means as utilizing ect management and financing capathe IoT. The water, energy and transbilities. Such infrastructure includes portation infrastructure business electric power, water, energy and transaims to build up a stable earnings portation infrastructure and industrial foundation by acquiring water and plants. The Group aims to build a busisewage utilities, gas infrastructure, ness portfolio that sustainably genermarine businesses and PPP projects. ates more stable profits, simultaneously In the EPC business, the Group will proactively upgrading existing assets. focus on projects related to electric The IPP business will accumulate power, water, transportation systems prime assets with an emphasis on and industrial plants. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Construction Business investment and operation Retail and other businesses EPC EPC Business-related Investments （I W）PP＊7 Electricity Wholesale and Retail Businesses • EPC contract generation • PIC Group, Inc.（U.S.）O＆M-related businesses • Global generation stake： • SmartestEnergy Ltd.（U.K.） Power volume：110,108 MW • Seajacks International Ltd.（U.K.）Offshore wind 12,219 MW • Marubeni Power Retail Corporation Co., Ltd. power facility installation vessel operations （Japan） EPC/O＆M＊8 BOO＊9/BOT＊10 Concessions • Water, wastewater and desalination plants, etc. • Water, wastewater and desalination plants, etc. • Water and wastewater treatment facilities Water （water intake, water supply, water/wastewater services, meter reading, and billing/collections） EPC Business Investment Gas Delivery ＆ Retail Businesses • Crude oil, oil, gas, and chemical products • Crude oil and gas storage, transportation and production equipment • Distribution and retail sale of gas to households Oil ＆ Gas • FPSO and industries • Manufacture and sale of chemical products such as fertilizer Transportation System EPC/O＆M Business Investment Transportation • Railways, roads, ports, airports, etc. • Railway and road PPPs, and harbor operation Infrastructure • Railcar leasing ＊7. I（W）PP：Independent（Water）Power Producer • Development and operation of industrial estates ＊8. O&M：Operating and Maintenance ＊9. BOO：Build, Own and Operate EPC Business Investment ＊10. BOT：Build, Operate and Transfer Industrial Plant • Steel, non-ferrous metals, cement, paper, • Industrial cogeneration pulp, textiles, and waste-to-energy Strengthen stable earnings foundation with balanced portfolio Enhance existing assets’ value, challenge new business domains I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 91 OUR BUSINESS Q& A T What is your new electric power business model? he Power Business Division is a leading global player. Among assetTransforming into a“general embarking on business model lite businesses, we will continue to power trading company” reforms in the aim of becoming an run an EPC business. Additionally, we Energy Solutions Division under the plan to expand what could be called banner of “transformation from a an Uberized＊1 electric power busigeneral trading company’ s power ness that matches power sellers and business to a general power trading buyers using a platform developed company.” In the power generaby SmartestEnergy,＊2 a U.K. power tion business domain, we will build wholesaler/retailer. We also intend an energy solution business with to optimize our power generation Yoshiaki Yokota a strong ESG consciousness. In the assets by utilizing AI and the IoT and Chief Operating Officer, Power Business Division power-related services domain, we to offer services that support optimal plan to focus on asset-lite businesses. operation of major customers’power In the energy solutions business, generation assets. we will develop fuel-to-power and ＊1.  Uberization is a coin termed in reference to Uber Technologies, a U.S. company with an IT platform that connects empty taxis renewable energy projects more with customers. ＊2.  SmartestEnergy, founded in the U.K. in 2001, purchases power, actively than in the past while conmainly renewably sourced power, from small/mid-sized IPPs and resells it on the wholesale market or to retail customers. tinuing to develop new IPP projects as Domestic and Overseas Power Projects Marubeni’s Domestic Generation Assets  21 Domestic Projects Europe Gross capacity: 664 MW 5,947 MW Net capacity: 454 MW 1,154 MW Americas 4,814 MW 1,820 MW Asia ＆ Oceania Middle East & Africa 15,522 MW Marubeni’s Overseas Generation Assets 13,811 MW 5,370 MW 23 Countries 52 Projects 3,421 MW Gross capacity: 40,094 MW Net capacity: 11,765 MW Gross capacity Net capacity As of March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2018, Marubeni is developing power generation busirange of eco-friendly power generation businesses, including offness in 24 countries around the world (including Japan), and has stable shore and other wind, solar, and micro-hydro power generation. earnings sources through long-term power purchase agreements. Major projects undertaken in recent years include the Sweihan Focused on highly profitable development projects, Marubeni Photovoltaic IPP Project in the United Arab Emirates and a combinedfunctions as a project leader, playing a central role in projects cycle power plant, a pioneering fuel-to-power project, in Jamaica. through construction to operation. We are engaged in a diverse 92 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N O PE RATIN G ACTI VI TI E S CHAP. 3 T What is the infrastructure sector outlook? he Plant Division has project countries and regions where we have Aiming for sustainable growth development and construction been successful, we will carefully by embracing market changes ­ management capabilities gained select plant and transportation system as opportunities through the plant construction and construction, operation and manageinfrastructure businesses it operates ment projects in which we can exerglobally. We will generate stable cise our strengths. earnings by leveraging the experiBoth developed and developing ence and knowledge we have countries are implementing various acquired through our diverse portfopolicies to access private capital in lio of businesses to invest in infraglobal markets to meet booming structure projects such as railway and infrastructure demand. DecarbonizaEiji Okada road PPPs； water treatment and tion and circular economies are Chief Operating Officer, Plant Division desalination；gas transport and distriemerging trends. Embracing such bution； FPSO facilities for crude oil； market changes as opportunities, we and waste incineration. We will also will contribute to societal and indusdeepen our involvement in managtrial infrastructure development and ing the portfolios of businesses to Marubeni’ s sustainable growth. maximize their value. Focusing on Group Organization Adjusted EBITDA by Sub-segment Power Business ＆ FYE 3/2018 (Billions of yen) 75 Plant Group FYE 3/2017 Power Business Division 50 42.6 37.0 Plant Division ＊ Adjusted EBITDA = Gross trading profit + 25 Selling, General & Administrative Expense + 19.9 Depreciation and amortization/Amortization cost of intangible assets + Interest income + 8.2 Dividend income (including cash dividends from equity method investees) 0 ＊ The graph at right presents data for the fiscal Power Business Plant year ended March 2018 by subsegment. Major Subsidiaries and Associates (Outline and Profit/Loss) (Billions of yen) Business FYE 3/2017 FYE 3/2018 Company Name Voting Rights Description of Business Model Actual Actual S Overseas IPP Projects＊3 — 40.9 44.5 Overseas power generation D SmartestEnergy 100.0% 1.8 1.8 Electricity aggregation and retail business in the U.K. Overseas Water and Wastewater S — 7.5 4.8 Overseas water and wastewater services Services＊4 S FPSO Projects＊5 — 2.3 4.2 FPSO project investment and management F Marubeni SuMiT Rail Transport 50.0% 1.1 2.9 Investment in railcar leasing business ＊3. Total of share of profits of associates and joint ventures of our overseas IPP business. ＊4. Total profits of consolidated subsidiaries and share of associates and joint ventures of our overseas water and wastewater services. ＊5. Total profits of consolidated subsidiaries and share of associates and joint ventures of our FPSO projects. D Distribution Businesses F Finance Businesses S Stable Earnings-Type Businesses I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 93 TRANSPORTATION & INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY GROUP Aircraft parts business（U.S.） Construction and mining machinery distributorships The Transportation & Industrial Machinery Group operates businesses globally. It has over 90 Group companies and more than 130 personnel posted abroad from Tokyo HQ. It will continue to diversify its operations, capitalizing on the Group’ s all-around capabilities and knowledge in its various business sectors. P R E S E N T S TAT E A N A LY S I S Strengths Opportunities ｰｰSolution provider for every product lifecycle stage (developｰｰAircraft, ship and motor vehicle demand growth driven by ment, sales, ownership, operation, resale) movements of people and goods; growth in demand for ｰｰA large number of domestic and overseas customers and a construction & mining equipment for infrastructure and broad range of businesses (e.g., sales finance, aftermarket natural resource development parts distribution) that meet the customers’ needs ｰｰCreation of future business model (Connected, Autonomous, ｰｰGlobal operational foundation based on strong relationShared, Electric) with AI, IoT, automation and mobility services ships with manufacturers, trustworthiness and growing ｰｰIndustrial technological innovations accompanying growth in peripheral businesses use of renewable energy and new energy technologies such as distributed energy resources, EV charging infrastructure and storage batteries Risks ｰｰRisk of terrorism, regional conflict, war, epidemics or other changes in international conditions ｰｰRisk of fluctuations in the markets due to natural resource/ energy price volatility; risk of changes in marine freight or airline passenger traffic due to fuel price increases or supplydemand imbalances ｰｰRisk of existing markets disappearing in the wake of disruptive technological innovations; risk of new competitors from other sectors 94 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N O PE RATIN G ACTI VI TI E S CHAP. 3 GROUP CEO MESSAGE “ We aim to build a strong, proactive, forward-thinking Transportation & Industrial Machinery Group that goes ahead and drives even faster than the speed at which the world is changing. We will harness comprehensive capabilities from both within our Group and throughout the Company to create many exciting businesses. ” Toshiaki Ujiie Chief Executive Officer Transportation ＆ Industrial Machinery Group A s its business strategy, the Transto its portfolio of aircraft, ship, autoportation & Industrial Machinery mobile, leasing, construction & Group will further strengthen its earnmining equipment and industrial ings foundation by endeavoring to machinery businesses. The Group maximize operating efficiency based will not only strengthen individual on traditional trading and investment businesses but also pursue new techbusinesses while expanding periphnologies and new businesses that eral businesses. Additionally, the transcend existing delineations among Group will create profit opportunities industries. As part of its human through such means as branching resources strategy, the Group aims to into new technological fields like strengthen its management capabiliautomation and EVs and developing ties through management of its Group new business models in fields such as companies, actively hire and train renewable energy and distributed young employees and promote exterenergy resources. The Group will furnal networking in the aim of cultivatther solidify its profitability and stabiling human resources that contribute ity by newly adding a rubber business to maximizing the Group’ s value. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Trading/sales businesses New technologies/ Exporting, importing, Diversification of business domestic/overseas sales Sales business businesses that transcend investments ＆ businesses Products offered inter-industry boundaries Aircraft ＆ engine leasing Investment in aircraft engine development Aerospace Businesses combining Aircraft, engines, merchant ships, LNG tankers ＆ Ship Ship ownership/operation transport equipment, services, IT and financing Aircraft equipment outsourcing Aftermarket parts Automotive Passenger vehicles, commercial vehicles Asset management, fleet management ＆ Leasing Leasing, rental, sales finance Construction machinery, mining equipment Mobility services Repair ＆ maintenance （including EV infrastructure） Construction Rubber parts, tires/belts ＆ Industrial Machinery Auto production equipment, machine tools EV charging infrastructure business New energy systems （renewable energy, distributed generation） Industrial machinery Solar power business, digital signage business I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 95 OUR BUSINESS Q& A What are Marubeni’s strengths in the aerospace we likewise possess a diverse range What is your growth strategy as modes of and ship sectors? of intra-Group functions, from sourcmobility evolve? Aero-marine solutions provider ing and ownership structuring to ship Aiming to create new ­ management and chartering. We will mobility services lead both industries as a comprehensive aero-marine solutions provider, further augmenting our strengths with the ability to create new value by organically connecting customers’ needs. In the defense sector, we are Kosuke Takechi Chief Operating Officer, Aerospace ＆ Ship Division proactively entering new business Atsushi Suzuki domains in response to changes in Chief Operating Officer, Automotive ＆ Leasing Division I n the aerospace sector, we prothe external environment, including A vide functions spanning the entire amendment of Japan’ s national secumid megatrends such as migraaircraft lifecycle–from sales to mainrity laws. tion to a low-carbon society in tenance support, leasing and parts response to global warming and digitrading–supported by buoyant pastalization of customer interfaces, the senger demand. In the ship sector, automobile industry is undergoing a Global Group Network Aircraft Operating Lease Refrigeration and Freezing (U.S.) Trailer Leasing (U.S.) Car Dealerships (U.K.) Tire Retailer （Thailand） Construction Machinery Distributorships Ship Owning and Chartering of (Construction machinery sales & services network spreading around the world) LNG Carriers (Worldwide) Aerospace & Ship Division Automotive & Leasing Division Construction & Industrial Machinery Division The Transportation & Industrial Machinery Group has 93 operating businesses, the Group has amassed a wealth of operational know-how companies throughout the world, with expat personnel posted at 40 of via its overseas operating companies. The Group will tap into such its overseas branches and subsidiaries. Having long operated overseas know-how as it continues to globally diversify its operations without auto dealerships and construction machinery distributorships in overexposing itself to any specific market or business model. numerous countries in addition to cross-border aircraft and ship 96 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N O PE RATIN G ACTI VI TI E S CHAP. 3 once-in-a-century transformation; rapid How are you pursuing earnings growth? services to our current distributorchange including a shift from interComprehensive service provider ships’platform of Japanese manufacnal combustion engines to electric of construction/heavy machinery turers around the world. vehicles and technological innovaIn the industrial/production machintion of autonomous vehicles. We are ery sector, we aim to penetrate into entering an age in which mobility diverse industries and manufacturers, services for both people and goods by primarily focusing on new techare available through apps and nologies such as EVs, distributed people have access to vehicles whenenergy resources and smart factories, ever they want without owning while always placing priority on cusJiro Itai them. The Automotive & Leasing tomers’satisfaction. Chief Operating Officer, Construction & Division is forging ahead with digital Industrial Machinery Division In the rubber products and raw transformation and creating next materials distribution business, we I generation mobility services by n the construction machinery sector, aim to rise to the top by globally leveraging both our global assets we aim to become an all-around expanding trade in Japanese-made and fleet management functions that construction/heavy machinery sertires and growing the sales/service we have developed. vice provider by adding and expandoperations of tires and conveyor belts. ing new products, functions and Group Organization Adjusted EBITDA by Sub-segment Transportation ＆ Aerospace ＆ Ship, Automotive ＆ (Billions of yen) 75 Industrial Machinery Group Leasing, Construction ＆ Industrial 66.5 Machinery 57.6 FYE 3/2018 Aerospace ＆ Ship Division FYE 3/2017 50 Automotive ＆ ＊ Adjusted EBITDA = Gross trading profit + 25 Leasing Division Selling, General & Administrative Expense + Depreciation and amortization/Amortization cost of intangible assets + Interest income + Construction ＆ Industrial Dividend income (including cash dividends Machinery Division from equity method investees) 0 ＊ The graph at right presents data for the fiscal year ended March 2018 by subsegment. Major Subsidiaries and Associates (Outline and Profit/Loss) (Billions of yen) Business FYE 3/2017 FYE 3/2018 Company Name Voting Rights Description of Business Model Actual Actual F Marubeni Aviation Holding＊ 100.0% Investment in Aircastle, an aircraft operating lease business F MAI Holding (Westlake) 100.0% 2.8 5.9 Investment in automobile retail finance businesses in the U.S. F MAC Trailer Leasing (PLM) 100.0% 1.8 6.0 Leasing and rental of refrigerated trailers in the U.S. D Marubeni Auto Investment（U.K.） 100.0% 0.7 0.9 Investment in retail sales business of automobiles in the U.K. D B-Quik 90.0% 1.9 2.5 Tire retailer in ASEAN D Marubeni Techno-Systems 100.0% 0.9 1.6 Sale, export and import of industrial machinery ＊Aircastle is a listed company. We are not able to mention the financial results. D Distribution Businesses F Finance Businesses I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 97 4 C H A PT E R Consolidated Financial Results at a Glance CORPORATE INFORMATION Operating Results (Billions of yen) FYE 3/2018 Results FYE 3/2017 Results Change Revenue ¥7,540.3 ¥7,128.8 +411.5 Gross trading profit 677.2 613.9 +63.4 Selling, general and administrative expenses (547.3) (518.1) -29.2 Provision for doubtful accounts (11.9) (4.2) -7.7 Operating profit＊1 118.1 91.6 +26.5 Interest expense, net of interest income (21.4) (17.1) -4.3 Dividend income 21.3 17.5 +3.7 Gain (loss) on investment securities 25.1 11.0 +14.1 Gain (loss) on property, plant and equipment (1.5) (63.4) +61.9 Other–net (35.1) 45.9 -81.0 Share of profits of associates and joint ventures 148.5 114.7 +33.8 Profit before tax 255.0 200.3 +54.7 Corporate income tax (38.4) (44.5) +6.1 Profit for the year 216.6 155.8 +60.8 Profit attributable to owners of the parent 211.3 155.4 +55.9 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 5.3 0.4 +4.9 Adjusted operating profit＊2 130.0 95.8 +34.2 ＊1. Operating profit is presented in accordance with Japanese accounting practices for investors’ convenience and is not required by IFRS. ＊2. Adjusted operating profit = Gross trading profit + SGA expenses Outline of Financial Results for FYE 3/2018 ｰｰ Profit attributable to owners of the parent for FYE 3/2018 hit a ¥1,915.8 billion, a ¥184.1 billion decrease from the end of the record high of ¥211.3 billion, with a ¥55.9 billion or 36% year-onprevious fiscal year. year increase. ｰｰ As a result, the net D/E ratio improved to 1.04 times, down 0.16 ｰｰ Yearly dividend for FYE 3/2018 was ¥31 per share, as the yearly points from the end of the previous fiscal year. profit attributable to owners of the parent was ¥211.3 billion. ｰｰ Free cash flow was positive ¥203.7 billion. ｰｰ Total equity was ¥1,835.6 billion, a ¥92.9 billion increase from the end of the previous fiscal year. Net interest-bearing debt was Main Items 1 Revenue .....................................¥7,540.3 billion (+¥411.5 billion year on year) ９ Other–net . ................................... -¥35.1 billion (-¥81.0 billion year on year) Increased profit mainly for Food & Consumer Products. Losses associated with overseas infrastructure businesses and an automotive Japanese yen depreciation resulted in an increase of approximately +¥100.0 billion. sector business in North America, etc. In addition to the above, reduced profit from a year-on-year reactionary loss ２ Gross trading profit ....................¥677.2 billion (+¥63.4 billion year on year) from the sale of solar power business a year earlier. Japanese yen depreciation resulted in an increase of approximately +¥10.0 billion. 10 Share of profits of associates and joint ventures....................... ¥148.5 billion ３ Selling, general, and administrative expenses........................ -¥547.3 billion (＋¥33.8 billion year on year) (-¥29.2 billion year on year) Major items: Increased mainly due to personnel expenses. ｰｰ Overseas IPP businesses ¥44.5 billion (+¥3.6 billion year on year) Japanese yen depreciation resulted in an increase of approximately -¥7.0 billion. ｰｰ JELLINBAH GROUP ４ Provision for doubtful accounts................................................... -¥11.9 billion (Coal business in Australia) ¥14.9 billion (+¥5.4 billion year on year) ｰｰ Copper business in Chile ¥13.4 billion (+¥8.7 billion year on year) (-¥7.7 billion year on year) ｰｰ Marubeni-Itochu Steel Inc. ¥9.2 billion (+¥1.7 billion year on year) Recognition of provision for overseas financing projects. * Effect of U.S. tax reform on share of profits of associates and joint ventures was approxi５ Interest expense, net of interest income.................................... -¥21.4 billion mately ＋¥3.0 billion.  (-¥4.3 billion year on year) Deteriorated due to increase in interest rates. 11 Corporate income tax..............................-¥38.4 billion (+¥6.1 billion year on year) Effect of U.S. tax reform was approximately +¥3.0 billion. ６ Dividend income..............................¥21.3 billion (+¥3.7 billion year on year) Increased in energy businesses. ＊(Reference) Consolidated Net Profit of Major Subsidiaries ｰｰ Gavilon ７ Gains (losses) on investment securities........................................ ¥25.1 billion ＊3 Grain business (Grain：100％)： ¥18.5 billion (+¥11.1 billion year on year) (+¥14.1 year on year) Fertilizer business（Agri-Input Business：100％） ： Recognition of gains on sale of offshore wind project in the U.K., etc.  ¥3.0 billion＊3 (-¥0.8 billion year on year) ８ Gains (losses) on property, plant and equipment........................-¥1.5 billion ｰｰ Helena (Agri-Input Business: 100％) : ¥27.1 billion＊3 ( +¥7.0 billion year on year) (+¥61.9 billion year on year) ＊3. Effect of U.S. tax reform Reactionary improvement from a year-earlier impairment loss on oil and gas Gavilon Grain business (＋¥9.5 billion), Gavilon Fertilizer business (＋¥0.9 billion), Helena (＋¥4.3 billion) development business. 98 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N CO RPO RATE I N FO R MATI O N C HAP. 4 Financial Position (Billions of yen, unless otherwise stated) March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Change Total assets 6,877.1 6,896.7 -19.6 Current assets 3,278.8 3,164.5 ＋114.3 Non-current assets 3,598.3 3,732.2 -133.9 Total equity 1,835.6 1,742.8 ＋92.9 Equity attributable to owners of 1,771.5 1,683.7 ＋87.8 the parent Net interest-bearing debt 1,915.8 2,099.9 -184.1 Net D/E ratio＊4 1.04 times 1.20 times -0.16 points ＊4. Net D/E ratio = Net interest-bearing debt/Total equity Cash Flows (Billions of yen) Cash Dividends FYE 3/2018 FYE 3/2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Cash flow from operating activities 253.4 324.3 ¥31 ¥23 Cash flow from investing activities (49.7) 46.5 Yearly dividend (interim dividend paid at (interim dividend paid at ¥12.50 per share inclusive) ¥9.50 per share inclusive) Free cash flow 203.7 370.8 Cash flow from financing activities (269.5) (258.1) Effect of exchange rate changes (13.3) (8.5) Changes in cash and cash equivalents (79.1) 104.1 Operating Segment＊5 (Billions of yen) Profit attributable to owners of the parent Main reasons for increase/decrease FYE 3/2018 FYE 3/2017 Change Food & Consumer Products 73.5 58.7 +14.8 (Food) ・Effect of U.S. tax reform was approximately +¥18.0 billion. Food (Grain & Food Products) 42.3 29.1 +13.2 ・Reduced profit from margin deterioration in soybean sales to China, etc. (Lifestyle/ICT, Logistics & Healthcare/Insurance, Finance & Real Estate Business) Lifestyle/ICT, Logistics & Healthcare/ ・Recognition of gains on sale of investment securities of an associate company 31.2 29.6 +1.6 Insurance, Finance & Real Estate Business in ICT related business. Chemical & Forest Products 41.9 30.6 +11.2 (Agri-Input Business) ・Effect of U.S. tax reform was approximately +¥5.0 billion. Agri-Input Business 30.6 23.2 +7.4 (Chemical Products/Forest Products) ・Improvement in woodchip and pulp businesses due to an increase in pulp price. Chemical Products/Forest Products 11.3 7.5 +3.8 (Energy) Energy & Metals 21.9 (6.2) +28.2 ・Reactionary improvement from a year-earlier impairment loss on oil and gas development business. Energy (22.4) (24.6) +2.2 ・Margin improvement in oil trading and LNG fields. ・Effect of U.S. tax reform was approximately -¥25.0 billion. Steel Products 8.7 7.5 +1.2 (Metals & Mineral Resources) ・Increased profit in Australian coal business mainly by an increase in coal prices. Metals & Mineral Resources 35.6 10.8 +24.8 ・Increased profit in Chilean copper business mainly by an increase in copper prices. (Power Business) Power Business & Plant 39.6 56.5 -16.9 ・Gains from the sale of offshore wind project in the U.K., etc. ・Increased profit from an equity-method investment in an overseas IPP business. Power Business 44.8 40.2 +4.6 (Plant) ・Recognition of losses associated with overseas infrastructure businesses. Plant (5.1) 16.4 -21.5 ・Effect of U.S. tax reform was approximately +¥4.0 billion. Transportation & Industrial Machinery ・Effect of U.S. tax reform was approximately +¥4.0 billion. (Aerospace & Ship/Automotive & Leasing/ 36.1 28.6 +7.5 ・Increased profit in aerospace related businesses. ・Recognition of reduced profit in automotive sector business in North America, etc. Construction & Industrial Machinery) Other (1.8) (12.9) +11.1 ・Increased expense of corporate income tax. Consolidated 211.3 155.4 +55.9 Resources Total 13.3 (13.8) +27.0 Non-resources Total 198.0 169.1 +28.9 Non-resources Ratio 94% — — ＊5. Indicated numbers have eliminated the transactions within the operating segment. Note: As of April 1, 2017, the Power Business & Plant segment, which has been renamed from Power Projects & Plant has been reorganized within the Group, integrating “Energy & Environmental Infrastructure” and “Plant” into the “Plant” Division. In addition, parts of the Food & Consumer Products segment have been incorporated into Chemical & Forest Products, and parts of Other have been incorporated into Food & Consumer Products. In October 2016, the Chemical & Forest Products segment was reorganized, and “Helena Business” was renamed “Agri-Input Business.” To integrate the agri-input business, parts of the “Chemical Products” division has been transferred to the “Agri-Input Business” Division. With the mentioned revisions, while Gavilon’s net profit was formerly distributed 85% to Food & Consumer Products and 15% to Chemical & Forest Products, the fertilizer segment of Gavilon has also been transferred to Chemical & Forest Products (Agri-Input Business Div.) from FYE 3/2018 (Grain segment of Gavilon belongs to Food & Consumer Products (Grain Div.)). In conjunction with these revisions, operating segment information for the year-earlier has been reclassified. I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 99 Management’ s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Position and Business Results Overview of Business Results In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, the global econ（Millions of yen） omy generally grew at a stable pace amid continued gradFYE 3/2018 FYE 3/2017 Change ual recovery in developed economies, particularly the U.S., Total revenue 7,540,337 7,128,805 ＋411,532 and a pickup in growth in China and other emerging Gross trading profit 677,237 613,880 ＋63,357 market economies. Meanwhile, crude oil and other comOperating profit 118,054 91,597 ＋26,457 modity prices, which were previously weak, rebounded. Share of profits of associates 148,503 114,725 ＋33,778 The U.S. economic expansion continued, supported by a and joint ventures robust employment environment. In response, the Federal Profit for the year attributable 211,259 155,350 ＋55,909 Reserve continued to raise its policy rate and has started to to owners of the parent reduce its asset holdings. Notes: 1. Figures are rounded to the nearest million yen unless otherwise stated. The European economy continued to grow at a stable 2. “Operating profit” is presented in accordance with Japanese accounting practice for investors’ convenience and is not required by IFRS. “Operating profit” is the sum of “Gross trading profit” and “Selling, pace. Political risk has subsided for the time being in general and administrative expenses” including “Provision for doubtful accounts.” response to the outcomes of recent key elections, most notably the French presidential election. Revenue Emerging economies such as China, Brazil and Russia Revenue was up ¥411.5 billion (5.8%) year on year to seemed to regain growth momentum. ¥7,540.3 billion, due mainly to an increase in Food & ConThe Japanese economy continued to grow at a stable sumer Products. pace, driven chiefly by external demand while domestic demand held steady, bolstered by continued improvement Gross Trading Profit in employment. Gross trading profit increased ¥63.4 billion (10.3%) from Under the aforementioned business environment, conthe year-earlier period to ¥677.2 billion. By operating segsolidated operating results for the fiscal year ended March ment, profits increased mainly at Energy & Metals and 31, 2018 are as follows: Chemical & Forest Products. Operating Profit Operating profit increased ¥26.5 billion (28.9%) from the year-earlier period to ¥118.1 billion. Yen-Dollar Exchange Rates TIBOR (Tokyo Interbank Offered Rate) (Yen/U.S.$) (%) 130 0.3 120 0.2 110 0.1 100 90 0 4/13 4/14 4/15 4/16 4/17 4/18 4/13 4/14 4/15 4/16 4/17 4/18 100 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N CO RPO RATE I N FO R MATI O N C HAP. 4 Share of Profits of Associates and Joint Ventures Profit Attributable to Owners of the Parent Share of profits of associates and joint ventures increased Profit attributable to owners of the parent for the fiscal year ¥33.8 billion (29.4%) from the year-earlier period to ¥148.5 ended March 31, 2018 (also referred to as net profit for the billion. By operating segment, profits increased mainly in year under review) increased ¥55.9 billion (36.0%) to Energy & Metals. ¥211.3 billion relative to the year-earlier period. Business Results by Operating Segment Results for each operating segment for the fiscal year virtue of accounting effects of U.S. tax reform. The segended March 31, 2018 are as follows: ment’ s assets at March 31, 2018, totaled ¥1,180.0 billion, a ¥59.8 billion increase from a year earlier. Food & Consumer Products Gross trading profit decreased ¥0.5 billion (0.2%) year on Energy & Metals year to ¥271.6 billion, largely as a result of deterioration in Gross trading profit grew ¥31.9 billion (121.8%) year on year margins on soybean sales to China. Net profit increased to ¥58.0 billion, driven largely by margin improvements in ¥14.8 billion (25.2%) year on year to ¥73.5 billion, boosted oil-trading and LNG field along with higher coal, oil and gas by a gain on the sale of equity holdings in an IT-related prices. Despite adverse income tax ramifications of U.S. tax associate and accounting effects of U.S. tax reform. The reform, net income improved ¥28.2 billion (-%) year on year segment’ s assets at March 31, 2018, totaled ¥1,941.8 bilto ¥21.9 billion, largely on account of non-recurrence of lion, a ¥176.3 billion increase from a year earlier. year-earlier impairment losses on oil and gas development projects and improved returns from equity-method investChemical & Forest Products ments in Chilean copper and Australian coal projects. The Gross trading profit grew ¥18.0 billion (9.7%) year on year segment’ s assets at March 31, 2018, totaled ¥1,613.4 bilto ¥203.2 billion, largely in response to growth in Helena’ s lion, a ¥77.8 billion decrease from a year earlier. transaction volume and yen depreciation’ s impact on its yen-equivalent gross trading profit. Net profit increased Power Business & Plant ¥11.2 billion (36.6%) year on year to ¥41.9 billion, partly by Gross trading profit decreased ¥3.4 billion (7.4%) year on Crude Oil Price (WTI) (U.S.$ per barrel) 120 80 40 0 4/13 4/14 4/15 4/16 4/17 4/18 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 101 year to ¥41.9 billion, largely owing to deconsolidation of a Transportation & Industrial Machinery former consolidated subsidiary, now an equity-method Gross trading profit rose ¥16.9 billion (18.1%) year on year associate, in the offshore wind turbine installation services to ¥110.2 billion, boosted by newly consolidated subsidiarbusiness. Net profit likewise declined by ¥16.9 billion ies in aerospace, automotive and construction and indus(29.9%) year on year to ¥39.6 billion, largely as a result of trial machinery-related businesses. Despite loss from a losses on an overseas infrastructure projects. This is despite North American automotive business, net profit increased gains from sales of offshore wind project in the United ¥7.5 billion (26.3%) year on year to ¥36.1 billion, due to gain Kingdom, growths in profit from equity-method investon a divestment of another North American automotive ments in overseas IPP businesses and in offshore oil probusiness and by virtue of accounting effects of U.S. tax duction services, as well as other projects and beneficial reform. The segment’ s assets at March 31, 2018, totaled accounting effects of U.S. tax reform. The segment’ s assets ¥722.2 billion, a ¥75.2 billion decrease from a year earlier. at March 31, 2018, totaled ¥1,120.3 billion, a ¥2.8 billion Notes: 1. From FYE 3/2018, parts of Food & Consumer Products have been incorporated into Chemical & Forest increase from a year earlier. Products, and parts of Other have been incorporated into Food & Consumer Products. In conjunction with these revisions, operating segment information for the year-earlier has been reclassified. 2. Inter-segment transactions are generally priced in accordance with the prevailing market prices. Analysis of Operating Results Profit attributable to owners of the parent in the year ended Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses March 31, 2018 increased ¥55.9 billion year on year to ¥211.3 Selling, general, and administrative (SGA) expenses for the billion. An analysis of the operating results is provided as follows. year ended March 31, 2018 increased ¥36.9 billion to ¥559.2 billion, mainly as a result of growth in personnel expenses. Gross Trading Profit Gross trading profit for the year ended March 31, 2018 was Losses on Property, Plant, and Equipment ¥677.2 billion, up ¥63.4 billion year on year. By operating Losses on property, plant and equipment in the year ended segment, the increase was driven by Energy & Metals and March 31, 2018 amounted to ¥61.9 billion. This is an Chemical & Forest Products. improvement of ¥1.5 billion largely due to the absence of Copper Prices (U.S.$ per ton) 8,000 7,000 6,000 5,000 4,000 4/13 4/14 4/15 4/16 4/17 4/18 102 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N CO RPO RATE I N FO R MATI O N C HAP. 4 non-recurring impairment losses on resource interests that consolidated subsidiaries received dividends totaling ¥0.4 were recorded in the year ended March 31, 2017. billion, while overseas consolidated subsidiaries received dividends of ¥12.8 billion. Other–Net Other–net in the year ended March 31, 2018 equated to Gains and Losses on Investment Securities loss of ¥35.1 billion, an ¥81.0 billion change year on year. Gains on investment securities in the year ended March 31, The swing from gain to loss was largely attributable to 2018 totaled ¥25.1 billion, up ¥14.1 billion year on year. impairment losses on overseas infrastructure projects and This included a gain on the sale of a U.K. wind power a North American automotive business, coupled with the business. non-recurrence of a gain on a solar power project that was recorded in the year ended March 31, 2017. Share of Profits and Losses of Associates and Joint Ventures Interest Income and Interest Expenses Share of profits of associates and joint ventures in the year Interest income in the year ended March 31, 2018 decreased ended March 31, 2018 totaled ¥148.5 billion, up ¥33.8 bilby ¥2.7 billion year on year to ¥13.5 billion. Interest expenses lion year on year, mainly attributable to Energy & Metals increased ¥1.6 billion year on year to ¥34.9 billion. operating companies. Dividend Income Income Taxes Dividend income in the year ended March 31, 2018 Income taxes for the year ended March 31, 2018 decreased increased ¥3.7 billion year on year to ¥21.3 billion. Of this ¥6.1 billion year on year to ¥38.4 billion. figure, ¥8.1 billion (¥3.5 billion in Japan and ¥4.6 billion from overseas) was received by the Company. Domestic Funding and Sources of Liquidity Financial Position cash flow of ¥203.7 billion for the year ended March 31, Total assets as of March 31, 2018 stood at ¥6,877.1 billion, 2018. Net cash used in financing activities amounted to down ¥19.6 billion from the end of the previous fiscal year. ¥269.5 billion, mainly due to the redemption of binds, Total equity as of March 31, 2018 increased by ¥92.9 billion repayment of borrowings and dividends paid. As a result, year on year to ¥1,835.6 billion. cash and cash equivalents as of March 31, 2018 were Net interest-bearing debt (total of current and noncur¥625.8 billion, a decrease of ¥79.1 billion (11.2%) from the rent bonds and borrowings less cash and cash equivalents end of the previous fiscal year. and time deposits) stood at ¥1,915.8 billion on March 31, 2018, down ¥184.1 billion. As a result, the net debt/equity Fund Procurement (D/E) ratio was 1.04 times at March 31, 2018. The fundamental policy of Marubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries is to maintain an optimal mix of funding in line Cash Flows with the requirements of its asset portfolio. The goal is to Net cash provided by operating activities was ¥253.4 bilsustain a stable level of liquidity while trimming financing lion, due to steady operating income, mainly from overseas costs. Funding sources include indirect financial procuresubsidiaries. Net cash used in investing activities was ¥49.7 ment from banks and other financial institutions and the billion, largely because capital expenditures of overseas issuance of bonds, as well as direct procurement through businesses outweighed proceeds from the divestment of commercial paper and other means. With the aim of maxiequity holdings. These activities resulted in positive free mizing fund utilization efficiency across the Group, I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 103 Marubeni is accelerating the shift toward a centralized fund procurement scheme, under which principal consolidated subsidiaries procure funds directly from Marubeni Corporation, domestic and overseas financing subsidiaries, and/or overseas corporate subsidiaries. This approach enables Group companies holding surplus funds to reallocate such funds to other Group companies in need of operating funds, allowing for more flexible fund procurement on a Group-wide scale. In order to further strengthen our financial foundation, we secured financing of ¥250.0 billion from perpetual subordinated loans on August 16, 2016. As a means of procuring funds directly from capital markets, Marubeni registered ¥200.0 billion for the public sale of ordinary bonds in Japan. Marubeni has also acquired credit ratings from Moody’ s Investors Service, Inc. (Moody’ s), Standard & Poor’ s Financial Services LLC (S&P), Rating and Investment Information, Inc. (R&I), and Japan Credit Rating Agency, Ltd. (JCR). In the year ended March 31, 2018, Marubeni’ s long-term credit ratings consisted of long-term ratings of Baa2 from Moody’ s, BBB from S&P, A from R&I, and A+ from JCR. Liquidity On a consolidated basis, the liquidity ratio was 118.7% as of March 31, 2018, down from 121.0% as of the end of the previous fiscal year. In terms of liquidity, Marubeni is maintaining a sound financial position. In addition, Marubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries maintain a sufficient level of liquidity, mainly in the form of cash and deposits and established commitment lines. As of March 31, 2018, cash and cash equivalents and time deposits totaled ¥626.9 billion. Details regarding commitment lines are as follows: ｰｰ ¥300.0 billion from syndicates consisting largely of major Japanese banks (long term) ｰｰ US$555 million from syndicates consisting largely of major European and U.S. banks (short term) In addition to these commitment lines, Marubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries hold highly liquid assets, such as marketable securities. In all, these assets provide sufficient liquidity to cover the Group’ s funding demand as well as the funds linked to market interest rates, such as corporate bonds redeemable within one year, which totaled ¥50.1 billion as of March 31, 2018. 104 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N CO RPO RATE I N FO R MATI O N Business Risks C HAP. 4 Major risks that could have a serious impact on investor To prevent credit risks from materializing, the Group decisions associated with the business operations and other conducts extensive risk management at the credit screenactivities of Marubeni Corporation and its consolidated subing stage. Nevertheless, the Company is susceptible to a sidiaries are outlined below. The risks discussed, however, variety of credit risks. are not inclusive of the full range of possible risks faced in In preparation for the incurrence of possible losses when the broad range of activities engaged in by the Group. Any credit risk becomes apparent, the Group establishes allownumber of additional risks other than those discussed ances for doubtful accounts based on the estimated amount below could also impact business performance. Furtherof loss, the business partner’ s creditworthiness, collateral more, risks considered to have a low likelihood of materialvalue, and other set factors. In the event of such losses, izing have also been disclosed, from the perspective of however, the Company cannot guarantee that actual losses ensuring proactive information disclosure. Forward-looking will not exceed these established allowances. statements with respect to the risks discussed below reflect the reasonable judgment of the Company’ s management Investment Risk based on information available as of March 31, 2018. Marubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries, both independently and in collaboration with other companies, estabImpact of Changes in Global Economy and lish new companies and purchase existing enterprises in Industrial Structure on the Marubeni Group the course of their business operations. Most of these busiThe Company is a general trading company engaged in a ness investments require sizable amounts of capital. The wide range of business activities through bases in Japan Group may be unable to withdraw from such businesses in and over 60 other countries. Examples include the producan optimal manner or time frame, in which case it would tion and procurement of natural resources and other pribe obliged to commit additional capital. mary commodities, as well as the manufacture and sale of In an effort to prevent the occurrence of risks associated finished goods and various commercial and investing with investments and other activities, the Group conducts activities in Japan and overseas in many industrial fields. extensive risk management, including checking new They are consequently affected by global economic condiinvestments to determine whether expected returns are tions. They also constantly need to develop new business commensurate with the risks involved. Nevertheless, a models and revamp existing ones in response to changes decline in the value of these investments or the necessity in the industrial structure driven by forces such as technoof additional expenditures of capital could adversely affect logical innovation and diversification of values. A global the Group’ s business results and financial condition. economic downturn or slowdown or failure to adequately adapt to changes in the industrial structure could adversely Concentrated Risk Exposure affect the Company and its subsidiaries’operating activiAs part of their commercial and investment activities, ties, business results and/or financial condition. Marubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries are concentrated in specific investment targets, markets, and regions. Credit Risks Regarding Business Partners In the context of the Group’ s country risk management, the Marubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries extend credit to Company classifies countries according to their level of business partners in the form of accounts receivable, risk, and has established transaction management stanadvances, loans, guarantees, and other means. In addition, dards and promotes efforts to ensure optimal portfolio as a part of its sales activities, the Group concludes mermanagement and appropriate risk/reward ratios. Neverchandise supply, subcontracting, operational outsourcing, theless, a deteriorating operating environment in these and other types of contracts with business partners. The markets or regions could adversely affect the Group’ s busiincurrence of credit risk due to the inability of business ness results and financial condition. partners to fulfill their credit obligations or a breach of contract by these business partners could adversely affect the Group’ s business results and financial condition. I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 105 Ability to Procure Funds and Funding Cost receivables, and liabilities denominated in foreign curMarubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries engage in fund rencies, the Group enters into forward exchange conprocurement with an emphasis on maintaining an optimal tracts and other derivative transactions. Despite these mix of funding in line with the requirements of their respecmeasures, fluctuations in exchange rates could tive asset portfolios and ensuring liquidity. However, sigadversely affect the Group’ s business results and finannificant disruptions in major global capital markets, cial condition. shortages of cash flows from operating activities, declining profitability, failure in asset-liability management, or a 4 Fluctuations in Interest Rates sharp downgrade in the credit rating of the Group by ratMarubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries procure ings agencies could constrain fund procurement or lead to necessary business funds through borrowings from an increase in funding cost, which could adversely affect financial institutions, the issuance of corporate bonds, the Group’ s business results and financial condition. and other methods of procuring from capital markets. A large portion of floating rate liabilities is proportionate to Market Risks operating assets that can counteract adverse impacts of 1 Fluctuations in the Price of Goods and Merchandise interest rate fluctuations. However, interest rate fluctuaMarubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries handle a tion risks cannot be completely eliminated, and a certain variety of merchandise. In order to mitigate the risk of degree of exposure remains. Among the liabilities profluctuations in market conditions for certain merchancured for interest insensitive assets, such as investment dise, contracts, and scheduled contracts, the Group securities and property, plant and equipment, the porenters into commodity futures and forward contracts. tion at procured floating rates is categorized as However, changes in respective market conditions unhedged through the asset-liability management could adversely affect the Group’ s business results and practices of Marubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries. financial condition. Monitoring market movements in interest rates, the In addition, the Group participates in energy and Group utilizes interest rate swaps and other measures natural resource exploration and production (E&P) busito mitigate the risk of interest rate fluctuations. nesses and other manufacturing businesses. FluctuaThere is no guarantee that the Group will be able to tions in the markets of the products sold through these completely avoid interest rate risk, even after having activities could adversely affect the Group’ s business implemented these management measures. Therefore, results and financial condition. changes in market interest rates could adversely affect the Group’ s business results and financial condition. 2 Market Liquidity (Liquidity Risk) Marubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries hold a vari5 Fluctuations in Values of Marketable Securities Subject ety of assets that are subject to market trading, includto Market Volatility ing financial instruments. Financial market turmoil and To strengthen business relationships and for other purother factors can cause the market liquidity of held poses, Marubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries assets to decline dramatically, a situation that could invest in marketable securities that are subject to potentially trigger a precipitous drop in the value of market volatility. Such securities held by the Group carry held assets. Such an occurrence could adversely affect the risk of fluctuations in original value due to changes the Group’ s business results and financial condition. in fair value. Drops in the fair value of these securities could adversely affect the Group’ s business results and 3 Fluctuations in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates financial condition. Marubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries conduct transactions in a variety of currencies and under a vari6 Risks Regarding Employees’Retirement Benefits ety of terms. In order to mitigate the risk of exchange As the Group holds domestic and foreign stocks and rate fluctuations associated with transactions, bonds as pension assets, sluggish performance in 106 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N CO RPO RATE I N FO R MATI O N C HAP. 4 securities markets could decrease the value of those expenses, and legal fees in response to litigation by local assets or could require it to accumulate additional penresidents. In addition, the Group’ s social reputation could sion assets. Such an event could adversely affect the be damaged. In the year ended March 31, 2000, an environGroup’ s business results and financial condition. mental management system was introduced to cope with such environmental risks, under which various initiatives Impairment of Real Estate, Machinery and Equipment, have been implemented to assess the potential environand Other Property, Plant and Equipment mental burden and reduce environmental risk, including Marubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries hold real estate, environmental impact evaluations for each new financing machinery and equipment, and other property, plant and and development project. In the event, however, that some equipment for sale and lease to other parties as well as for form of environmental impact occurs, it could adversely their own use. A decline in the value of these assets could affect the Group’ s business results and financial condition. potentially require the Group to recognize impairment losses. The Group accounts for impairment of property, Natural Disaster Risk plant and equipment in accordance with IFRS. NevertheEarthquakes and other natural disasters could cause less, a dramatic decline in asset value could adversely affect damage and loss to the Group’ s offices and facilities and the Group’ s business results and financial condition. inhibit the normal business activities of Marubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries. While every effort has been Laws and Regulations made to implement appropriate countermeasures, such as In the course of operations, Marubeni and its consolidated the formulation of business continuity plans, earthquake subsidiaries are subject to a broad range of laws and regucountermeasures, and fire prevention drills, the potential lations both in Japan and other applicable countries. for damage from natural disasters cannot be completely Changes in or unanticipated interpretations of these laws mitigated. Consequently, there is no guarantee that such and regulations could increase the obligations pertaining disasters will not adversely affect the Group’ s business to legal and regulatory compliance placed on the Group. results and financial condition. Accordingly, changes or altered interpretations of laws and regulations may result in punitive measures, including the Risk Relating to Terrorists and Violent Groups interruption of operations, lower the Company’ s credibilMarubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries conduct business ity, or cause the occurrence of other circumstances that operations globally, and these operations are therefore could adversely affect the Group’ s business results and exposed to risk from unexpected situations relating to terrorfinancial condition. ists and violent groups, as well as trends in politics and social factors. The materialization of such risks could adversely Significant Litigation affect the Group’ s business results and financial condition. In the course of business activities in Japan and overseas, Marubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries may be a party to Other Risks Inherent and Related to Overall litigation, disputes, and other legal proceedings. When party Marubeni Operations to such litigation, predicting the outcome is impossible Negligence on the part of employees charged with executgiven the inherent uncertainty of these matters. The Coming business operations and malfunctions pertaining to pany cannot guarantee that such litigation will not adversely information leakages from computer systems supporting affect the Group’ s business results and financial condition. business activities are among other risks, the materialization of which could adversely affect the Group’ s business Environmental Risk results and financial condition. Marubeni and its consolidated subsidiaries conduct business activities globally across a broad range of industries, and environmental pollution as a result of these activities could result in business stoppage, pollution remediation I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 107 Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Position Statement Marubeni Corporation As of March 31, 2017 and 2018 Millions of yen Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Assets March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2018 Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents ¥ 704,972 ¥ 625,834 $ 5,904,094 Time deposits 1,227 1,046 9,868 Investment securities 10,075 0 0 Notes, trade accounts and loans receivable 1,235,392 1,315,336 12,408,830 Other current financial assets 200,560 213,941 2,018,311 Inventories 767,365 835,021 7,877,557 Assets classified as held for sale 36,689 61,452 579,736 Other current assets 208,206 226,141 2,133,406 Total current assets 3,164,486 3,278,771 30,931,802 Non-current assets: Investments in associates and joint ventures 1,755,952 1,764,169 16,643,104 Other investments 334,441 322,628 3,043,660 Notes, trade accounts and loans receivable 162,961 138,715 1,308,632 Other non-current financial assets 85,799 72,492 683,887 Property, plant and equipment 968,392 905,479 8,542,255 Intangible assets 289,334 293,583 2,769,651 Deferred tax assets 88,216 45,233 426,726 Other non-current assets 47,152 56,047 528,745 Total non-current assets 3,732,247 3,598,346 33,946,660 Total assets ¥6,896,733 ¥6,877,117 $64,878,462 108 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N CO RPO RATE I N FO R MATI O N C HAP. 4 Millions of yen Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Liabilities and equity March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2018 Current liabilities: Bonds and borrowings ¥ 643,049 ¥ 611,756 $ 5,771,283 Notes and trade accounts payable 1,243,087 1,374,022 12,962,472 Other current financial liabilities 361,768 370,103 3,491,538 Income tax payable 19,454 17,858 168,472 Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale 4,086 — — Other current liabilities 344,761 387,975 3,660,141 Total current liabilities 2,616,205 2,761,714 26,053,906 Non-current liabilities: Bonds and borrowings 2,163,089 1,930,948 18,216,491 Notes and trade accounts payable 18,349 16,713 157,670 Other non-current financial liabilities 70,285 66,316 625,622 Accrued pension and retirement benefits 83,468 79,099 746,217 Deferred tax liabilities 105,630 95,944 905,132 Other non-current liabilities 96,949 90,746 856,094 Total non-current liabilities 2,537,770 2,279,766 21,507,226 Total liabilities 5,153,975 5,041,480 47,561,132 Equity: Issued capital 262,686 262,686 2,478,170 Capital surplus 142,881 135,295 1,276,368 Other equity instruments 243,589 243,589 2,298,009 Treasury stock (1,374) (1,379) (13,009) Retained earnings 856,647 1,014,709 9,572,726 Other components of equity: Gains (losses) on financial assets measured at fair value through 54,606 82,596 779,207 other comprehensive income Foreign currency translation adjustments 165,310 76,253 719,368 Gains (losses) on cash flow hedges (40,622) (42,274) (398,811) Remeasurements of defined benefit plan — — — Equity attributable to owners of the parent 1,683,723 1,771,475 16,712,028 Non-controlling interests 59,035 64,162 605,302 Total equity 1,742,758 1,835,637 17,317,330 Total liabilities and equity ¥6,896,733 ¥6,877,117 $64,878,462 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 109 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Marubeni Corporation Years ended March 31, 2017 and 2018 Millions of yen Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Year ended Year ended Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2018 Revenue Sales of goods ¥6,940,332 ¥7,361,808 $69,451,019 Commissions on services and trading margins 188,473 178,529 1,684,236 Total revenue 7,128,805 7,540,337 71,135,255 Cost of goods sold (6,514,925) (6,863,100) (64,746,227) Gross trading profit 613,880 677,237 6,389,028 Other income (expenses): Selling, general and administrative expenses (522,283) (559,183) (5,275,312) Gains (losses) on property, plant and equipment: Impairment losses (69,246) (5,197) (49,028) Gains (losses) on sales of property, plant and equipment 5,852 3,728 35,170 Other–net 45,934 (35,063) (330,783) Total other income (expenses) (539,743) (595,715) (5,619,953) Finance income (expenses): Interest income 16,213 13,526 127,604 Interest expenses (33,318) (34,948) (329,698) Dividend income 17,512 21,254 200,509 Gains (losses) on investment securities 11,002 25,147 237,236 Total finance income (expenses) 11,409 24,979 235,651 Share of profits of associates and joint ventures 114,725 148,503 1,400,972 Profit before tax 200,271 255,004 2,405,698 Income taxes (44,485) (38,429) (362,538) Profit for the year ¥ 155,786 ¥ 216,575 $ 2,043,160 Profit for the year attributable to: Owners of the parent ¥ 155,350 ¥ 211,259 $ 1,993,009 Non-controlling interests 436 5,316 50,151 110 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N CO RPO RATE I N FO R MATI O N C HAP. 4 Millions of yen Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Year ended Year ended Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2018 Other comprehensive income: Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss: Gains (losses) on financial assets measured at fair value through ¥ 7,998 ¥ 18,191 $ 171,613 other comprehensive income Remeasurements of defined benefit plan 1,207 3,916 36,944 Changes in other comprehensive income of associates and 3,384 2,070 19,528 joint ventures Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss: Foreign currency translation adjustments (27,860) (86,554) (816,547) Gains (losses) on cash flow hedges 4,185 (2,779) (26,217) Changes in other comprehensive income of associates and 7,809 (413) (3,896) joint ventures Other comprehensive income, net of tax (3,277) (65,569) (618,575) Total comprehensive income for the year ¥152,509 ¥151,006 $1,424,585 Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to: Owners of the parent ¥153,449 ¥145,671 $1,374,255 Non-controlling interests (940) 5,335 50,330 Yen Yen U.S. dollars Year ended Year ended Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2018 Basic earnings per share attributable to shareholders of the parent ¥88.08 ¥119.43 $1.13 Diluted earnings per share attributable to shareholders of the parent ¥88.06 ¥119.37 $1.13 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 111 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Marubeni Corporation Years ended March 31, 2017 and 2018 Millions of yen Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Year ended Year ended Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2018 Issued capital: Balance at beginning of year ¥ 262,686 ¥ 262,686 $ 2,478,170 Balance at end of year 262,686 262,686 2,478,170 Capital surplus: Balance at beginning of year 141,504 142,881 1,347,934 Disposal of treasury stock (1) 1 9 Equity transactions with non-controlling interests and others 1,378 (7,587) (71,575) Balance at end of year 142,881 135,295 1,276,368 Other equity instruments: Balance at beginning of year — 243,589 2,298,009 Issuance of other equity instruments 243,589 — — Balance at end of year 243,589 243,589 2,298,009 Treasury stock: Balance at beginning of year (1,369) (1,374) (12,962) Purchases and sales of treasury stock (5) (5) (47) Balance at end of year (1,374) (1,379) (13,009) Retained earnings: Balance at beginning of year 737,215 856,647 8,081,575 Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 155,350 211,259 1,993,009 Transfer from other components of equity 803 (4,063) (38,330) Dividends to shareholders of the parent (34,711) (45,124) (425,698) Distribution to owners of other equity instruments (2,010) (4,010) (37,830) Balance at end of year 856,647 1,014,709 9,572,726 Other components of equity: Balance at beginning of year 177,016 179,294 1,691,452 Gains (losses) on financial assets measured at fair value through 11,212 20,397 192,425 other comprehensive income Foreign currency translation adjustments (28,298) (89,057) (840,160) Gains (losses) on cash flow hedges 14,054 (458) (4,321) Remeasurements of defined benefit plan 1,131 3,530 33,302 Transfer to retained earnings (803) 4,063 38,330 Transfer to non-financial assets or non-financial liabilities 4,982 (1,194) (11,264) Balance at end of year 179,294 116,575 1,099,764 Equity attributable to owners of the parent ¥1,683,723 ¥1,771,475 $16,712,028 112 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N CO RPO RATE I N FO R MATI O N C HAP. 4 Millions of yen Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Year ended Year ended Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2018 Non-controlling interests: Balance at beginning of year ¥ 98,150 ¥ 59,035 $ 556,934 Dividends to non-controlling interests (3,480) (5,802) (54,736) Equity transactions with non-controlling interests and others (34,695) 5,594 52,774 Profit for the year attributable to non-controlling interests 436 5,316 50,151 Other components of equity: Gains (losses) on financial assets measured at fair value through 235 167 1,575 other comprehensive income Foreign currency translation adjustments (1,716) (258) (2,434) Gains (losses) on cash flow hedges 94 27 255 Remeasurements of defined benefit plan 11 83 783 Balance at end of year 59,035 64,162 605,302 Total equity ¥1,742,758 ¥1,835,637 $17,317,330 Millions of yen Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Year ended Year ended Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2018 Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to: Owners of the parent ¥153,449 ¥145,671 $1,374,255 Non-controlling interests (940) 5,335 50,330 Total comprehensive income (loss) for the year ¥152,509 ¥151,006 $1,424,585 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 113 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Marubeni Corporation Years ended March 31, 2017 and 2018 Millions of yen Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Year ended Year ended Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2018 Operating activities: Profit for the year ¥ 155,786 ¥ 216,575 $ 2,043,160 Adjustments to reconcile profit for the year to net cash provided by (used in) operating activities Depreciation and amortisation 111,682 120,331 1,135,199 (Gains) losses on property, plant and equipment 63,394 1,469 13,858 Finance (income) expenses (11,409) (24,979) (235,651) Share of profits of associates and joint ventures (114,725) (148,503) (1,400,972) Income taxes 44,485 38,429 362,538 Changes in notes and accounts receivable (25,820) (135,801) (1,281,141) Changes in inventories 24,791 (102,626) (968,170) Changes in notes and trade accounts payable 64,793 158,159 1,492,066 Other–net (45,474) 56,719 535,085 Interest received 13,425 9,607 90,632 Interest paid (33,358) (35,069) (330,840) Dividends received 102,467 126,086 1,189,491 Income taxes paid (25,774) (26,974) (254,472) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities 324,263 253,423 2,390,783 Investing activities: Net (increase) decrease in time deposits 3,665 171 1,613 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 89,684 15,647 147,613 Proceeds from sale of investment property 13,446 246 2,321 Collection of loans receivable 30,005 31,658 298,660 Proceeds from sale of subsidiaries, net of cash and cash equivalents 56,622 51,722 487,943 disposed of Proceeds from sale of investments in associates and joint ventures, 105,816 63,366 597,793 and other investments Purchase of property, plant and equipment (130,987) (103,176) (973,358) Purchase of investment property (181) (406) (3,830) Loans provided to customers (21,052) (11,488) (108,377) Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash and cash equivalents acquired (10,705) (22,990) (216,887) Purchase of investments in associates and joint ventures, (89,809) (74,492) (702,755) and other investments Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 46,504 (49,742) (469,264) 114 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N CO RPO RATE I N FO R MATI O N C HAP. 4 Millions of yen Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Year ended Year ended Year ended March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2018 Financing activities: Net increase (decrease) in short-term borrowings ¥(135,725) ¥ 41,733 $ 393,707 Proceeds from long-term bonds and borrowings 126,589 229,867 2,168,557 Repayments of long-term bonds and borrowings (450,820) (487,202) (4,596,245) Dividends paid to shareholders of the parent (34,711) (45,124) (425,698) Net cash outflows on purchases and sales of treasury stock (8) (15) (142) Capital contribution from non-controlling interests 374 2,420 22,830 Acquisition of additional interests in subsidiaries from non(1,656) (1,375) (12,972) controlling interests Proceeds from issuance of other equity instruments 243,589 — — Distribution to owners of other equity instruments (2,010) (4,010) (37,830) Other (3,745) (5,801) (54,726) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (258,123) (269,507) (2,542,519) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (8,512) (13,312) (125,585) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 104,132 (79,138) (746,585) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 600,840 704,972 6,650,679 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year ¥ 704,972 ¥ 625,834 $ 5,904,094 I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 115 Global Network As of June 1, 2018 Moscow Risley Hamburg London Astana Düsseldorf Warsaw Kiev Paris Prague EUROPE & CIS Ulan Bator Khabarovsk Budapest Almaty Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk Milan Bucharest Changchun Vladivostok Istanbul Tashkent Madrid Beijing Ankara Dalian Lisbon Athens Tianjin Algiers Tehran Qingdao Seoul JAPAN Casablanca Baghdad Islamabad Amman Chengdu Hefei Nanjing Lahore Cairo Kuwait City Wuhan Shanghai New Delhi Xiamen Doha Guangzhou Dubai Karachi Taipei Dhaka Kunming Riyadh Muscat Shenzhen Abu Dhabi Kolkata Chittagong Hanoi Hong Kong CHINA / EAST ASIA MIDDLE EAST & AFRICA Mumbai Nay Pyi Taw Yangon Vientiane Quang Ngai Goa Manila Bangkok Chennai Phnom Penh Addis Ababa Ho Chi Minh City Abidjan Accra Lagos Kuala Lumpur SOUTHWEST ASIA Singapore Kuching Nairobi Jakarta Luanda ASEAN Johannesburg Maputo OCEANIA Perth Sydney Auckland Melbourne Locations of Branches and Offices N ORTH & C EN T R A L A M E R I C A S OUT H A ME RI CA E UROP E & CIS MIDDLE EAST & AFR ICA Guatemala City Bogota Almaty Moscow Abidjan Johannesburg Houston Buenos Aires Astana Paris Abu Dhabi Kuwait City Los Angeles Caracas Athens Prague Accra Lagos Mexico City Havana Bucharest Risley Addis Ababa Luanda New York Lima Budapest Tashkent Algiers Maputo Omaha Rio de Janeiro Düsseldorf Vladivostok Amman Muscat Queretaro Salvador Hamburg Warsaw Ankara Nairobi Silicon Valley Santiago Khabarovsk Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk Baghdad Riyadh Toronto São Paulo Kiev Cairo Tehran Vancouver Lisbon Casablanca Washington, D.C. London Doha Madrid Dubai Milan Istanbul 116 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N CO RPO RATE I N FO R MATI O N C HAP. 4 Vancouver Toronto New York Silicon Valley Omaha Washington, D.C. Los Angeles NORTH & Houston CENTRAL AMERICA Havana Queretaro Mexico City Guatemala City Caracas Bogota SOUTH AMERICA Lima Salvador Rio de Janeiro São Paulo Santiago Buenos Aires S O U TH W E S T A S I A A SE A N CHI NA / EAST ASIA O CEAN IA JAPAN Chennai Bangkok Beijing Taipei Auckland Sapporo Chittagong Hanoi Changchun Tianjin Melbourne Sendai Dhaka Ho Chi Minh City Chengdu Ulan Bator Perth Tokyo Goa Jakarta Dalian Wuhan Sydney Shizuoka Islamabad Kuala Lumpur Guangzhou Xiamen Hamamatsu Karachi Kuching Hefei Nagoya Kolkata Manila Hong Kong Osaka Lahore Nay Pyi Taw Kunming Fukuyama Mumbai Phnom Penh Nanjing Hiroshima New Delhi Quang Ngai Qingdao Imabari Singapore Seoul Fukuoka Vientiane Shanghai Naha Yangon Shenzhen I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 117 Major Subsidiaries and Associates The scope of consolidation of Marubeni Group comprises a total of 430 companies: 276 consolidated subsidiaries and 154 associates accounted for by the equity method as of March 31, 2018. The list is based on data current as of March 31, 2018, with recent data reflected. Business Voting Model Company Name Business Country/Area Rights Food Group Grain Division Consolidated Domestic D Pacific Grain Terminal Warehousing, stevedoring and transportation operations Japan 78.40% Subsidiaries D Marubeni Nisshin Feed Manufacture and sales of livestock feed Japan 60.00% Overseas D Gavilon Agriculture Investment Parent company of Gavilon Group (collection/sales of grain, U.S. 100.00% fertilizer, etc.) D Columbia Grain International Collection, storage, exporting and domestic sale of grain U.S. 100.00% produced in North America D Harrison Grain Investment Investment company specializing in grain businesses U.S. 100.00% Associate Domestic D The Nisshin OilliO Group Processing and sale of edible oil business Japan 15.22% Food Products Division Consolidated Domestic D Wellfam Foods Marketing of livestock, meats and processed products Japan 100.00% Subsidiaries D Benirei Wholesale of seafood products and warehousing Japan 98.76% D Yamaboshiya Wholesale of confectionery products to mass-retail and Japan 75.62% convenience stores Overseas D MBC EUROPE Holding company of Iguacu de Cafe Soluvel U.K. 100.00% D Iguaçu de Café Solúvel Manufacturing and sale of instant coffee Brazil 100.00% Associates Domestic D Nacx Nakamura Wholesale of frozen foods primarily to mass-retail and Japan 44.25% convenience stores D Toyo Sugar Refining Manufacturing and sale of sugar and functional food materials Japan 39.30% D Tobu Store Supermarket chain Japan 33.56% D Aeon Market Investment Holding company for United Super Markets Holdings Inc., a Japan 28.18% holding company for supermarket operators in the Tokyo metropolitan area D Kokubu Shutoken Wholesale of foods, alcohol, and other products primarily to Japan 20.00% mass-retail and convenience stores D SFoods Meat-related production, wholesale, retail, and restaurant businesses Japan 15.29% Overseas D Acecook Vietnam Manufacturing and sale of instant noodles and other products Vietnam 18.30% Business Voting Model Company Name Business Country / Area Rights Consumer Products Group Lifestyle Division Consolidated Domestic D Marubeni Intex Sales of industrial materials, lifestyle material-related textile Japan 100.00% Subsidiaries goods and products D Marubeni Fashion Link Planning, production and sale of textile products Japan 100.00% Overseas D Marubeni Textile Asia Pacific Purchase agent of textile products for Japan and other countries Hong Kong 100.00% Associate Domestic D LACOSTE JAPAN Manufacturing and sales of Lacoste-brand apparel and other Japan 33.36% related products ICT, Logistics & Healthcare Division Consolidated Domestic D MX Mobiling Sales, repair and maintenance of mobile handsets and Japan 100.00% Subsidiaries related equipment D Marubeni Information Systems IT solution provider for full range of IT lifecycle in every industry Japan 100.00% D Marubeni Logistics International combined transport operation (NVOCC), 3PL (ThirdJapan 100.00% party logistics), ocean & air freight forwarding, consultancy relating to logistics Associates Domestic D ARTERIA Networks Telecommunication business, data communication service Japan 50.00% business, data center business Overseas D Shanghai Jiaoyun Rihong Freight transport China 34.00% International Logistics D Distribution Businesses 118 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N CO RPO RATE I N FO R MATI O N C HAP. 4 Business Voting Model Company Name Business Country/Area Rights Consumer Products Group Insurance, Finance & Real Estate Business Division Consolidated Domestic D Marubeni Safenet Insurance agency and lending business Japan 100.00% Subsidiaries D Marubeni Real Estate Development Real estate sales Japan 100.00% D Japan REIT Advisors Utilization of investee assets Japan 100.00% Overseas D Shanghai House Property Housing development in Shanghai, China China 60.00% Development Associate Domestic D Koshigaya Community Plaza Commercial facility rental Japan 42.86% Business Voting Model Company Name Business Country / Area Rights Chemical & Forest Products Group Agri-Input Business Division Consolidated Overseas D Helena Agri-Enterprises Sales of agri-input products and related services U.S. 100.00% Subsidiaries Chemical Products Division Consolidated Domestic D Marubeni Chemix Sales and foreign trade of organic chemicals and fine chemicals Japan 100.00% Subsidiaries D Marubeni Plax Sales and foreign trade of plastic products and resins Japan 100.00% Associates Domestic D Sun Agro Manufacture and sale of fertilizer and other products; sale of Japan 22.78% agrochemicals; golf-related business D Katakura & Co-op Agri Manufacture and sale of fertilizer; sale of livestock feed and materials Japan 20.44% Overseas D Shen Hua Chemical Industrial Production and sale of synthetic rubber (SBR) China 22.56% D CMK Electronics (Wuxi) Development, manufacture, and sale of printed circuit boards China 20.00% (PCBs) N Dampier Salt Production and sale of salt and gypsum Australia 21.51% Forest Products Division Consolidated Domestic D Marubeni Pulp & Paper Sale of paper products Japan 100.00% Subsidiaries D Koa Kogyo Manufacture and sales of corrugating medium and printing paper Japan 79.95% D Fukuyama Paper Manufacture and sales of corrugating medium and core board Japan 55.00% Overseas D Tanjungenim Lestari Pulp Manufacturer/Distributor of broad-leaved tree-based bleached Indonesia 100.00% and Paper kraft pulp Associates Domestic D Marusumi Paper Manufacture and sale of paper Japan 32.16% D SMB Kenzai Sales of housing/construction materials Japan 27.50% Overseas D Daishowa-Marubeni International Manufacture and sale of pulp Canada 50.00% D Distribution Businesses N Natural Resource Investments I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 119 Business Voting Model Company Name Business Country/Area Rights Energy & Metals Group Energy Division Consolidated Domestic D Marubeni Energy Sale of petroleum products, management and leasing of oil Japan 66.60% Subsidiaries terminals and service stations Overseas D Marubeni Petroleum Sales of crude oil and petroleum products Bermuda 100.00% D MIECO Sale of all types of petroleum products and natural gas U.S. 100.00% D Marubeni International Sales of crude oil and all types of petroleum products Singapore 100.00% Petroleum (Singapore) N Marubeni LNG Development Investment company for participation in LNG project in Peru Netherlands 100.00% N Marubeni Oil & Gas (USA) Exploration, development, production, and sale of oil and gas U.S. 100.00% in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico N Marubeni North Sea Exploration, development, production, and sale of oil and gas U.K. 100.00% in the North Sea N Marubeni Shale Investment Investment in onshore shale oil and gas development projects U.S. 100.00% in the United States Associates Domestic D ENEOS GLOBE Import and sale of LPG, and sale of new energy-related equipment Japan 20.00% Overseas N Merlin Petroleum Exploration, development, production, and sale of oil and natural gas U.S. 20.37% Steel Products Division Associate Domestic D Marubeni-Itochu Steel Sales and business management of steel products Japan 50.00% D Marubeni Construction Leasing, sale, repair, and processing of steelmaking materials Japan 35.21% Material Lease Metals & Mineral Resources Division Consolidated Domestic D Marubeni Tetsugen Sale of raw materials for steelmaking Japan 100.00% Subsidiaries D Marubeni Metals Sales of non-ferrous and light metals Japan 100.00% Overseas N Marubeni LP Holding Investment in copper mines in Chile Netherlands 100.00% N Marubeni Iron Ore Australia Investment in iron ore mining operations in Australia Australia 100.00% N Marubeni Coal Investment in coal mines in Australia Australia 100.00% N Marubeni Aluminium Australia Investment in aluminum smelting in Australia Australia 100.00% N Marubeni Metals & Minerals Investment in aluminum smelting in Canada Canada 100.00% (Canada) D Distribution Businesses N Natural Resource Investments 120 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N CO RPO RATE I N FO R MATI O N C HAP. 4 Business Voting Model Company Name Business Country/Area Rights Power Business & Plant Group Power Business Division Consolidated Domestic D Marubeni Power Retail Retail sale of electricity in Japan Japan 100.00% Subsidiaries D Marubeni Power Systems EPC services for overseas power projects Japan 100.00% S Marubeni Power Development Development and operation of overseas IPP projects Japan 100.00% F Japan Offshore Wind Power Holding company for Seajacks International Ltd. in Japan Japan 100.00% Overseas D SmartestEnergy Electricity aggregation and retail business in the U.K. U.K. 100.00% S Axia Power Holdings Holding company of overseas power assets Netherlands 100.00% Associates Overseas D Lion Power (2008) IPP in Singapore Singapore 42.86% S TeaM Energy Holding company for the Ilijan, Pagbilao, and Sual power Philippines 50.00% plants in the Philippines S TrustEnergy IPP in Portugal Portugal 50.00% S Uni-Mar Enerji Yatirimlari Gas-fired combined-cycle thermal power generation in Turkey Turkey 33.33% S Mesaieed Power IPP in Mesaieed, Qatar Qatar 30.00% S PPN Power Generating IPP in India India 26.00% Plant Division Consolidated Domestic D Marubeni Protechs Sale of steelmaking and industrial devices, environment-related Japan 100.00% Subsidiaries business and sale of related devices, and logistics for factory construction and machinery installation overseas Overseas S Aguas Decima Water/sewage utility Chile 100.00% Associates Overseas D Eastern Sea Laem Container terminal operation Thailand 25.00% Chabang Terminal F Marubeni SuMiT Rail Transport Investment in railcar leasing business U.S. 50.00% S Southern Cone Water Holding company of Aguas Nuevas S.A., which provides full water U.K. 50.00% supply and wastewater services in Chile D Distribution Businesses F Finance Businesses S Stable Earnings-Type Businesses (Infrastructure, etc.) I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 121 Business Voting Model Company Name Business Country/Area Rights Transportation & Industrial Machinery Group Aerospace & Ship Division Consolidated Domestic D Marubeni Aerospace Import and sale of aircraft and related components Japan 100.00% Subsidiaries F MMSL Japan Ship management Japan 100.00% F Scarlet LNG Transport Investment, finance, and consulting services for shipping-related Japan 100.00% businesses Overseas F Marubeni Aviation Holding Investment in Aircastle, an aircraft operating lease business Netherlands 100.00% F Royal Maritime Ship chartering and trade Liberia 100.00% Automotive & Leasing Division Consolidated Overseas D （U.K.） Investment in retail sales business of automobiles in the U.K. Marubeni Auto Investment U.K. 100.00% Subsidiaries D Marubeni Auto & Construction Investment in retail sales business of automobiles U.S. 100.00% Machinery America F MAI Holding Investment in automobile retail finance businesses U.S. 100.00% F MAC Trailer Leasing Leasing and rental of refrigerated trailers U.S. 100.00% Associate Domestic F MG Leasing General leasing Japan 45.00% Construction & Industrial Machinery Group Consolidated Domestic D Marubeni Techno-Systems Sale, export and import of industrial machinery Japan 100.00% Subsidiaries D Marubeni Tekmatex Sale of textile machinery and equipment Japan 100.00% Overseas D Marubeni-Komatsu Sales distributor for Komatsu construction equipment U.K. 100.00% Associates Overseas D Temsa Is Makinalari Imalat Sales distributor for Komatsu construction equipment Turkey 49.00% Pazarlama Ve Satis D Unipres U.S.A. Manufacturer/distributor of pressed auto body parts U.S. 25.00% D Hitachi Construction Machinery Sales distributor for Hitachi Construction Machinery Co., Ltd. Australia 20.00% (Australia) D Distribution Businesses F Finance Businesses Voting Company Name Business Country/Area Rights Others Consolidated Domestic Marubeni Financial Service Loan and zero-balance transactions; provision of finance-related Japan 100.00% Subsidiaries support and consulting for the Marubeni Group Overseas Marubeni Finance America Group finance U.S. 100.00% Marubeni Finance Europe Group finance U.K. 100.00% 122 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N CO RPO RATE I N FO R MATI O N Corporate Data C HAP. 4 As of March 31, 2018 Company Name Founded Marubeni Corporation May 1858 Securities Code Incorporated 8002 December 1, 1949 Head Office Paid-in Capital 7-1, Nihombashi 2-chome, Chuo-ku, ¥262,686 million Tokyo 103-6060, Japan Tel: 81-3-3282-2111 Number of Employees E-mail: tokb138@marubeni.com 4,436 (Including 631 employees seconded to companies in Japan and 913 employees assigned to overseas sites, employees seconded to overseas companies and overseas trainees. Excluding 443 local employees of overseas branches and offices and 1,504 Number of Branches and Offices (Including Tokyo Head Office) (As of June 1, 2018) local employees of overseas corporate subsidiaries) 130 locations in 66 countries/regions Consisting of 12 domestic branches and offices, 56 overseas branches and offices and 29 overseas corporate subsidiaries with 62 offices Corporate Website https://www.marubeni.com/en/ IR page https://www.marubeni.com/en/ir/ Sustainability page https://www.marubeni.com/en/csr/ Business Year April 1 to March 31 of the following year Regular General Meeting of Shareholders June of each year I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 123 Stock Information As of March 31, 2018 Number of Shares Authorized Major Shareholders 4,300,000,000 Stake in the Corporation Name of Shareholder Number of Shareholding Shares Held Ratio (Hundreds) (%) Number of Shares Issued and Outstanding The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Trust account) 88,763 5.11 1,737,940,900 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust account) 76,370 4.40 Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Company 41,818 2.41 Stock Listings Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Insurance Inc. 40,000 2.30 Tokyo, Nagoya Japan Trustee Service Bank, Ltd. (Trust account 9) 35,426 2.04 State Street Bank West Client Treaty 505234 31,657 1.82 Number of Shareholders Japan Trustee Service Bank, Ltd. (Trust account 5) 30,930 1.78 174,746 Mizuho Bank, Ltd. 30,000 1.73 Tokio Marine & Nichido Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. 24,930 1.44 Share Unit The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company, Limited 24,859 1.43 100 shares Note: The number of shares owned is rounded down to the nearest thousand. The shareholding ratios are calculated after deducting the treasury stock from the number of shares issued and outstanding. The percentages are rounded to the nearest two decimal points. Record Date for Year-End Dividend March 31 of each year Record Date for Interim Dividend Distribution of Shares by Type of Shareholder (%) September 30 of each year Others 3.86 Transfer Agent of Common Stock Financial institutions Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. Foreign individuals  36.26 and companies 33.14 Long-Term Credit Rating (As of June 30, 2018) Credit Rating Agency Long Term (Outlook) Other domestic Japan Credit Rating Agency (JCR) A+ (Stable) companies 5.42 Individuals 21.32 Rating and Investment Information (R&I) A (Stable) Note: The sum of each ratio may not be 100%, because each ratio has been rounded. S&P Global Ratings BBB (Positive) Moody’s Baa2 (Stable) Stock Price/Monthly Volume (Yen) 900 800 700 600 500 400 (Thousands of shares) 500,000 400,000 300,000 200,000 100,000 0 4/13 4/14 4/15 4/16 4/17 4/18 Stock price (left axis) Monthly volume (right axis) 124 M A R U B E N I CO R P O R AT I O N CO RPO RATE I N FO R MATI O N C HAP. 4 Independent Assurance of Environmental and Social Data Marubeni obtains independent assurance of its environmental and social data to enhance the data’ s reliability. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. provided assurance＊ on the following data posted in the Sustainability section of Marubeni’ s website. ＊ The indicators to Third-Party Assurance are assured by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd., through an independent assurance engagement in accordance with ISAE 3000 and 3410. ＊ KPMG AZSA Sustainability’s Independent Assurance Report is available in the Sustainability section of Marubeni’s website. Environmental Data https://www.marubeni.com/en/csr/environment/env_data/ Employee Data https://www.marubeni.com/en/csr/human_resources/employee/ Independent Assurance Process 1 . Planning ｰｰ Ascertain assurance engagement’s scope, indicators subject to independent assurance and the criteria to be applied in the preparation of the indicators ｰｰ Determine assurance procedures and schedule 2 . Execution ｰｰ Conduct interviews and analytical procedures, ask questions based on analytical results and examine evidence (done mainly on site) ｰｰ Review content of disclosure media subject to third-party assurance 3 . Submission of Assurance Report ｰｰ Confirm completion of all required revisions ｰｰ Conduct internal review (assessment of assurance work’s adequacy by personnel not on the team that performed the work) ｰｰ Submit assurance report Indicators Subject to Independent Assurance Marubeni Group: Energy consumption, Greenhouse gas (CO2) emissions (energy-related), Waste generated, Water consumption, No. of employees (Consolidated) Marubeni Corporation: Amount transported (Unit: Thousand ton-km), CO2 emissions during transport, Intensity (kl crude oil eq per thousand ton-km), No. of employees (of which, Domestic and Overseas), Percentages of male and female, Average age, Average service years, No. of managerial employees (of which, general managers or above), Ratio of women in career-track positions, Ratio of women in managerial positions, Average use of vacation time per year, Usage of annual paid leave, No. of employees who took maternity leave, No. of employees who took childcare leave (of which, male), No. of employees who took nursing care leave, No. of employees who took volunteer leave, Lost-time injuries frequency rate, Occupational illness frequency rate, No. of occupational accidents or incidents leading to injuries or fatalities, No. of fatal occupational accidents, Turnover rate Marubeni Corporation and certified special-purpose subsidiary Marubeni Office Support Corporation: Employment rate of persons with disabilities I N T EG R AT E D R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 125 https://www.marubeni.com/en/ Printed in Japan
