Helvetia Group helvetia.com Corporate Responsibility Report 2017. Content 3 Preamble 4 Helvetia Group 6 Our focus 7 Our ambitions 8 CR strategy 20.20 11 How we work 16 CR progress 17 Sustainable insurance – CR in the core business 24 Trustworthy company – Helvetia pursues sustainable management 31 Attractive employer – for and with our employees 38 Committed location partner – Helvetia is active locally 44 Overview of our key figures 45 Key figures employees 48 Key figures environment 52 Notes 53 About this report 54 GRI Content Index 59 Imprint This PDF is interactive Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Preamble﻿ 3 Preamble Dear Readers, As an insurance, Helvetia has the future firmly in view. It is in the nature of our business to GRI 102-14  recognise the opportunities and risks of economic, social and ecological developments at an early stage. We would like to create values for our customers, shareholders, employees and society and in this regard also make a lasting contribution to a sustainable economy, which creates benefits for the people and regions in which we operate. By acceding to the UN Global Compact in January 2018, we underlined our commitment to responsible corporate management in relation to human rights, work standards, environmental protection and corruption. To achieve this, we integrate sustainability aspects in our risk management, promote strong, sustainable investment portfolios, and have a procurement process that is environmentally friendly and socially responsible, for example. The regulatory requirements and social expectations regarding professional corporate responsibility management have been increasing for several years. We have responded to these challenges with our CR strategy 20.20 and have created the framework for the CR activities of the Helvetia Group. We pursue “We want to create the following four sustainability ambitions across all country markets: values sustainably and at the same time −−As a “sustainable insurance”, we make provision for an attractive product range to secure environmentally friendly technologies and maintain sermake a contribution vice-oriented dealings with our customers as partners. to the environment and society.” −−As a “responsible company”, we are reducing our CO2 emissions and conduct business cautiously and with respect for our stakeholders. −−As an “attractive employer”, we take care of our employees and offer them interesting options to harmonise their professional career with their personal objectives. −−As a “committed location partner”, we play an active role in the preservation and reforesting of protection forests and support social projects in our area. We would like to provide you with simple and clear information on our challenges and progress in achieving these ambitions. This is why it is particularly gratifying for me to be able to submit a CR report for the first time for the entire Helvetia Group. I hope you find it enjoyable and interesting reading! Philipp Gmür Group CEO Helvetia Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Helvetia Group﻿ 4 Helvetia Group Overview Helvetia is a Swiss insurance group with international operations. It provides services for GRI  02-2, 102-3, 102-4, 1 102-5, 102-6, 102-7 more than 4.7 million customers with 6,592 employees. Helvetia Holding AG with its registered office in St. Gallen is a Swiss limited company listed on the Swiss stock market (SIX). The main activities of Helvetia are to be found in the business activities Non-Life and Life and to a lesser extent in the reinsurance business. Helvetia subdivides its business activities into the three market areas Switzerland, Europe and Specialty Markets. The market area Europe combines the country markets Germany, Austria, Spain and Italy. In the Specialty Markets area, Helvetia provides tailor-made cover in the areas of marine/transport, art and technical insurance. Apart from Switzerland and France, Helvetia is also present here in Liechtenstein, Miami, Singapore and Malaysia with 23 employees. You can find more detailed information on our business model and our products in our Company brochure. Business development in 2017 Helvetia records gratifying business development for the year under review. Total business GRI 102-7 volume increased by 1.5 per cent or CHF 8,641.3 million. The Swiss domestic market accounted for 58 per cent of this, the other European countries for 32 per cent and the Specialty Market area for 10 per cent. Gross premiums decreased by 3.1 per cent in the Life business, but there was a gratifying increase in the operational result in this area of 11.3 per cent to CHF 193.1 million. Non-Life business makes up 47 per cent of the business volume of Helvetia and developed positively with an increase in the result by 6.7 per cent to CHF 363.5 million. The net combined ratio increased slightly to 91.8 per cent. Please consult the Financial report for more details. see Financial report, p. 50 ff. Our focus 7 Our ambitions 7 159 years of trust, drive and enthusiasm 7 Fit for the future: helvetia 20.20 8 CR strategy 20.20 8 Our top themes 9 Strategic starting points and goals by 2020 11 How we work 11 CR management 12 Strong partnerships Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Our focus 7 Our ambitions 159 years of trust, drive and enthusiasm In the course of almost 160 years, Helvetia has grown from its beginnings as “General Insurance Company Helvetia” in 1858 to an insurance group with international operations. Today, as then, we are a reliable partner for our customers, employees and business partners. Our GRI 102-16 mission and values are laid down in our Company policy. They apply to all country markets. We also live our corporate values “trust”, “drive” and “enthusiasm” in our commitment to corporate responsibility (CR). −−Trust: We act honestly and responsibly and stand for long-term, fair and balanced partnerships. In doing so, we pursue the ambition of being a trustworthy company and being perceived as such. −−Drive: We think in a way that is modern and future-oriented. We operate in a dynamic global environment, characterised by uncertainties, with new methods and innovative solutions. Thanks to the anchoring of our CR commitment in our core business, we respond as sustainable insurance to global challenges, such as climatic change, the observance of human rights, fair working conditions and the preservation of the natural environment. −−Enthusiasm: We approach our environment openly, with interest and in a committed manner and see ourselves in all country markets as a committed location partner and an attractive employer, which can rely on the joy and enthusiasm of its employees. Fit for the future: helvetia 20.20 Currently, the insurance business is confronted by great challenges: the capital markets are characterised by a long-lasting low-interest phase, which puts insurance companies in a difficult position regarding their investment management. More and more national and international regulations are expected, especially in the fields of corporate governance, con­­sumer protection and also corporate responsibility (CR). Client structure and client expectations are changing in step with demographic change. Finally, digitalisation is affecting the entire value addition chain of insurance. On the one hand, this provides opportunities, such as more efficient processes, the development of new and individualised insurance solutions, and the opening-up of new distribution channels. On the other hand, we also have to face new challenges. For example, the demands on distribution are changing, data security is playing an increasingly important role and the trend to individualisation has put the solidarity principle of the insured into question. Moreover, due to the market launch of providers with purely digital business models, the competitive pressure is increasing. As a reaction to this and other challenges, we developed the strategy helvetia 20.20 for the Helvetia Group. By means of it, we will place our customers even more at the centre and see  Company brochure, p. 14 ff. become more innovative, digital and agile as a company in the years to come. This orientation is also expressed by our new group-wide brand positioning under the motto “simple. clear. helvetia”: we provide clear and simple solutions for our customers. Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Our focus 8 CR strategy 20.20 With the conclusion of the first CR programme at the end of 2015 and based on the helvetia 20.20 strategy, we also reviewed the approach of the CR commitment at the level of the Helvetia Group and developed it further. For this purpose, we tested the major CR themes that had already been identified in 2012 for their current relevance and overhauled the strategic approach points and goals. The 20.20 CR strategy supports the goals of the helvetia 20.20 strategy as a functional strategy. It was approved by the Executive Management of the Helvetia Group in June 2016 and constitutes the framework for the CR commitment of the country markets. We hope to achieve four ambitions with it: positioning Helvetia as a sustainable insurance, a trustworthy company, an attractive employer and committed location partner. Our top themes What counts for us is that we commit ourselves where we can achieve the greatest effects GRI 102-46 on the environment and society and make positive contributions with our corporate action. This is why we reviewed our top themes. As a first step in this direction, we identified 15 potentially relevant aspects for CR at Helvetia. To do so, we analysed recognised national and international sustainability and industry standards, checked feedback on the previous materiality mix and conducted a screening of our most important stakeholder groups and their concerns. In autumn 2015, we discussed these 15 aspects with 29 representatives of internal and external stakeholder groups and tested or specified these in relation to their current and medium-term relevance. The materiality mix derived from this was finally approved for the entire Helvetia Group in June 2016 by the Executive Management. It applies to all country markets. Our top themes can be assigned to the four ambitions, which constitute the objectives for the GRI 102-47  20.20 CR strategy. The following diagram presents Helvetia’s current materiality mix. It illustrates the assessment of the relevance of the individual topics from the point of view of our external stakeholders and from the point of view of the internal stakeholders of Helvetia. Topics were regarded as relevant if they were important for achieving the goals of the respective stakeholders, if Helvetia was assigned a certain effect regarding this aspect and/ or if the stakeholders assumed that the topic would have a major influence on the environment or society. This is not yet associated with an objective impact assessment, which is to be made up for in the next strategy period. Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Our focus 9 Customer expect­ ations and protection Highly relevant Risk management Employee commitment Promotion of employees Sustainable investments Corporate Governance Stakeholder Relevant Public Policy Sustainable offer Corporate Citizenship Less relevant Sustainable procurement Sustainable insurance Trustworthy company Attractive employer Less relevant Relevant Highly relevant Committed location partner Helvetia Strategic starting points and goals by 2020 GRI 102-47  Based on the revised materiality mix, the 20.20 CR strategy defines our top CR topics, starting points and goals for the years 2016 to 2020. They apply to the entire Helvetia Group. During this period, the main aims for the strategy should be the following: 1. Increased integration of ESG criteria in the core business 2. Implementation of measures to reduce CO2 emissions 3. Orientation to CR industry standards and compliance with national and international regulation on CR 4. Expansion of the stakeholder communication and reinforcement of the management system At the same time, Helvetia has formulated four ambitions with specific goals, which apply to successful implementation of the 20.20 CR strategy. The targets set are in part quantitative and in part qualitative and thereby reflect the “degree of maturity” of our CR efforts: whereas development work is still required in several thematic fields, we have already established solid foundations in others and specified our potential contribution. Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Our focus 10 Ambitions and goals for 2020 Expected impact/motivation Sustainable insurance ESG aspects have been integrated in the core business −− Offering new products and investment protection for new, energy-efficient technologies −− Opening up new customer groups −− Indirect contribution to reducing negative effects on the environment and society −− Promotion of a more inclusive and lower CO2 economy −− Observe customer interests and handle the data and information entrusted carefully ESG criteria given systematic consideration −− More comprehensive risk evaluation for financial and in the investment process real-estate investments by adding non-financial information and reducing risks in the investment portfolio −− Contribution to observance of fundamental human rights, labour rights and environmental standards −− Reduction of portfolio footprint −− Compliance with international CR standards, conventions and laws −− Observance of fiduciary obligation vis-à-vis the insured to protect customer funds Trustworthy company Reduction in the absolute CO2 footprint by 10 per cent −− Contribution to combating climate change compared to 2012. −− Cost reductions for operation and maintenance of office real estate Reduction in relative CO2 emissions per employee (FTE) −− Reduction in direct and indirect CO2 emissions despite by 20 per cent compared to 2012. the growth of the Helvetia Group −− Sensitisation of employees regarding environmentally conscious behaviour −− Gentle handling of natural resources −− Promotion of circular economy (waste management) Annual CR reporting −− Transparent information of our stakeholders −− Evaluation of our sustainability performance in industry comparison Continuous stakeholder dialogue −− Transparency and feedback culture for regular strategy revision and focusing on important topics −− Obtaining new ideas and identifying possibilities for cooperation to achieve the goals of our CR management Attractive employer Helvetia employees can integrate sustainability −− Long-term success of Helvetia taking sustainability aspects in their work conduct aspects into account is ensured −− Productivity enhancements and stronger ties of employees to our company −− Enhancing motivation of employees to commit themselves in their personal environment too Helvetia promotes voluntary commitment −− More efficient deployment of knowledge and capabilities of employees for the environment and/or social concerns −− Promotion of economic/social development and reinforcement of life and business area Committed location partner Cooperation with the foundation Helvetia Patria Jeunesse −− Reinforcement of social cohesion is intensified and rolled out across the entire group. −− Promotion of children and adolescents −− Contribution to education promotion and development Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Our focus 11 How we work CR management Ultimate responsibility for the CR commitment of the Helvetia Group is held by Philipp Gmür, GRI 102-18  CEO of the Helvetia Group. The highest CR committee is the CR Advisory Board. As an ad­ visory and controlling committee, it steers and coordinates the strategic orientation of CR in the country markets and provides resources for national implementation. Each country market has one responsible Executive Management member in this committee. Switzerland is represented here by Kasper Hartmann, Head of the Corporate Center. At Group level, the Corporate Responsibility department (CR department) conducts the further development of the CR strategy and CR programme and advises Executive Management at the country and Group level in CR questions. It is assigned to the Corporate Center and is supported by the CR agent of the country companies, which carry out this function with a load of at least 50 per cent. To better anchor CR in the Group, the CR department cooperates directly with experts from the relevant Group functions and country markets when implementing new projects and observing operational CR functions. They are the contacts for the CR department and participate in the adjustment of internal business processes in relation to sustainability. These ensure smooth information management and dialogue with stakeholders regarding sustainability topics. They provide support regarding the CR strategy, CR risk management, sustainability reporting and sustainability communication. CEO Helvetia Group Members of Executive CR Advisory Board Management of the country markets Corporate Responsibility Department Group functions: – Group Risk Management CEOs Switzerland, – Compliance Europe, specialty Group functions – Investor Relations markets – Corporate Communications – Investment Management CR project manager and local operational entities for example: Specialty markets, – HR country markets and – Compliance CEOs country markets local entities – Controlling – Logistics – Marketing & Communication Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Our focus 12 Strong partnerships Helvetia maintains regular and constructive exchanges with its most important stakeholder GRI 102-42,  102-43 groups. These include employees, customers, investors, competitors, business partners, supervisory authorities, NGOs, politics and society. In this regard, we pursue the following objectives: 1. Compare internal and external points of view 2. Receive critical feedback on location determination to see where there is potential for optimisation 3. Reinforce consensus formation and sensitisation on priority CR topics 4. Compare and validate the main sustainability topics of Helvetia 5. Facilitate further development of the CR programme and CR strategy The scope and form of the commitment differ according to the needs of the stakeholders. see also table p. 13–14 Employees, customers, shareholders and investors are regularly informed via benchmark studies and surveys and at events, investor conferences and at the Shareholders’ Meeting. They are also involved in dialogues in which CR topics are discussed. For example, in the Swiss domestic market we survey the satisfaction of our employees regarding their work content, working environment and development options. In addition, we operate the internal idea platform “idea!” where CR topics are also regularly looked at. Exchange with NGOs, supervisory authorities, associations, politicians and business partners occurs on a subject-specific basis. Moreover, Helvetia commits itself in initiatives and associ­ ations to compare its CR commitment with its environment and for internal industry and crossindustry bundling of forces. Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Our focus 13 Stakeholder Core concern GRI 102-40, 102-44 Customers Discussions with sales force employees are the most import­ −− Transparent information s ee p. 21, Customer ant platform for exchange with our customers. Concerns −− Generous, fast claims processing expectations and and feedback expressed there are recorded by the sales −− Comprehensive insurance coverage and access to protection force employees and passed on internally. Formal custominsurance er surveys occur at twoor three-year intervals. −− Data protection Employees Regular discussions with superiors, among others also at the −− Performance-related payment s ee p. 32, Promotion annual employee discussions, are the basis for the dialogue −− Health in the workplace of employees with employees. In addition, the Helvetia intranet provides −− Flexible working hours, life-domain balance comprehensive information and dialogue options across −− Development of own ideas and capacities hierarchies, specialist areas and country companies. In −− Further education addition, various formal and informal occasions take place −− Equal opportunities annually at which employees can engage in exchanges −− Integration, social attachment, networking with each other. Formal surveys and the Commit satisfaction −− Co-determination and participation survey round off the dialogue with our employees. Sales partners/brokers Sales Management organises contact with our sales −− Long-term relationship as partners partners, exchanges information regularly with them and −− Attractive product range in this way obtains important feedback and suggested −− Guarantee of high-quality consulting and protection of improvements. customer interests Suppliers Exchange with suppliers occurs via the central Group −− Long-term relationship as partners see p. 28, Sustainable Procurement department. Targeted supplier surveys are also −− Transparency regarding purchase criteria and procurement conducted occasionally in order to obtain input for further supplier selection optimisation of procurement processes. −− Prompt payment of supplies and services received Investors We inform our shareholders on a regular base by means −− (Dividend) income and price increases  Financial report, see of annual and semi-annual reports, CR reports and at −− Reputation, compliance, good governance p. 8 f. the annual Shareholders’ Meetings about the course of −− Transparency of reporting business. With an open and shareholder-friendly strategy, −− Forward-looking risk management Helvetia is targeting a shareholder base that is as widely distributed, international and long-term in orientation as possible. Analysts We maintain a regular dialogue by means of road shows −− Information on making business decisions and CR and investor conferences with the approximately 500 institu−− Governance and transparency in accounting tional investors who hold Helvetia shares, and with analysts. −− Readiness to provide information by Helvetia on CR In doing so, we are receiving more and more requests aspects for information regarding our sustainability performance. Helvetia is working continuously to improve the information basis through its CR reporting, answering questions and developing its Internet presence. In addition, we orient ourselves to the assessment of our CR service by sustainability experts and analysts. Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Our focus 14 Stakeholder Core concern GRI 102-40, 102-44 Location communities Representatives of Helvetia, especially the Executive Man−− Tax revenue and location development agements and General Agents, are in regular contact with −− Reputation, compliance, good governance representatives of the location communities. This occurs at −− Job offers, job security and professional training local events or directly in bilateral discussions. −− Social commitment −− Relationships with local suppliers NGOs and universities Cooperation with NGOs and universities occurs selectively −− Taking the company’s own interests into account in and subject-specifically on the basis of projects, talks or making business decisions requests. For example, in Switzerland Helvetia supports −− Corporate commitment to environment and society the starting week at the University of St. Gallen and the Institute of Insurance Economics. Associations and initiatives GRI 102-12, 102-13 Helvetia is a member of various initiatives and associations −− Corporate commitment to environment and society and maintains a regular exchange as part of these mem−− Positioning in socially relevant questions berships. For example, our CEO Philipp Gmür takes an −− Cooperation on sustainability aspects at the industry active part in the Executive Board of the Swiss Insurance policy level Association (SIA), in which questions on climatic risks and financial market regulations are also handled. Moreover, Helvetia is also a founding member of Swiss Sustainable Finance (SSF) and has acceded to the UN Global Compact in early 2018. Initiatives and associations with great relevance for CR topics in which Helvetia plays an active role at the Group level: −− Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) −− RE 100 −− Swiss Sustainable Finance (SSF) −− UN Global Compact −− UNEP Finance Initiative −− VfU – sustainability network for financial institutions −− World Demographic & Ageing Forum (WDA Forum) For specific information on commitment to our country markets, please consult the respective CR pages on the Internet. Media and publicity Helvetia’s Media Relations office engages in active media −− Open and transparent information work with a high service standard and balanced reputation management. CR progress 17 Sustainable insurance – CR in the core business 17 Sustainable offer 19 Sustainable investments 21 Customer expectations and protection 24 Trustworthy company – Helvetia pursues sustainable management 24 Corporate Governance 26 Risk management 28 Sustainable procurement 31 Attractive employer – for and with our employees 32 Promotion of employees 36 Employee commitment 38 Committed location partner – Helvetia is active locally 38 Public Policy 40 Corporate Citizenship Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 CR progress 17 Sustainable insurance – CR in the core business With the CR strategy 20.20, Helvetia has decided to integrate ESG criteria into its core business processes to a greater extent, especially in underwriting, product development and investment decisions. Initial starting points were defined for this purpose in 2016 in the CR Advisory Board at the Helvetia Group level. Apart from the integration of ESG criteria in investment management, the CR managers of the Helvetia national companies see market opportunities for new insurance solutions in particular for the environmental area. To integrate CR aspects permanently in the core business processes, Helvetia is taking a bottom-up approach. This is based heavily on the cooperation between CR experts and line managers: based on an initial suggestion from the CR department, we have formulated ideas and starting points in dialogue with internal and external stakeholders. Together with the internal specialist and line man­ agers, we have developed and are implementing (pilot) projects from this. Ideas which have proven themselves during the pilot implementation will then be introduced into our business processes by experts from the departments. In this way, we will establish the know-how transfer that ensures that CR aspects are permanently considered in the core business. Sustainable offer Limited control effect of sustainable insurance solutions GRI 103-1  Helvetia takes sustainability aspects in insurance solutions and services into account. In this way, it would like to recognise risks on the way to a low-carbon and inclusive economy at an early stage, exploit market opportunities and avoid financial losses. For example, we support sustainable solutions and the distribution of sustainable technologies by granting them attractive insurance coverage. Due to the fact that the insurance coverage offered only has an indirect effect on the decision to purchase an energy-efficient vehicle or install a photovoltaic system, we can only provide very limited incentives for more sustainable behaviour by our customers. Nevertheless, where possible and economically viable, we would like to offer solutions to our customers that promote ecologically sustainable behaviour. Sustainable insurance solutions GRI 103-2 We orient ourselves to the needs of our customers with our product range. This also includes investment protection for the use of environmentally friendly technologies for private and corporate customers. For example, in the Technical Insurance/Specialty Lines area, Helvetia provides artesian well, downhole heat exchanger and photovoltaic insurance and in this way supports the development of these forms of regenerative energy. Custom15 – 20 % ers also benefit from Helvetia’s advanced know-how in the areas of construction, transport and energy here. Moreover, Helvetia rewards the holders of energy-efficient vehicles with premium discounts between 15 and 20 per cent Premium discounts for new vehicle types and develops tailor-made solutions for new vehicle types, like e-bikes. like e-bikes and vehicles with electric drive Since the integration of Nationale Suisse, Helvetia has also been providing see Risk management p. 26 insurance for major projects, such as for infrastructure projects like harbours or railway stations. In this regard, we make allowance for a selective and risk-conscious subscription policy. As a member of the UNEP Finance Initiative, we have committed ourselves to integrating relevant ecological, social and governance (ESG) aspects into our underwriting. Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 CR progress 18 2017 review and progress GRI 103-3 In the year under review, the share of sustainable insurance products in the Helvetia Group was almost 1 per cent (0.9 per cent), measured by gross premiums in Non-Life. In this area, we assume moderate growth in the coming years and would like to expand our product offers as well as their share in particular areas. However, this development will be greatly influenced by the consumer decisions of our customers, over which we have only limited influence. Helvetia does not provide any explicit sustainability products in the Life area. Change to previous year Sustainable insurance products in CHF 2016 2017 in % GRI FS8 Turnover artesian well and downhole heat exchanger 800,000 900,000 12.5 insurance Premiums – photovoltaic insurance 600,000 450,000 –25.0 Premiums – insurance for vehicles with hybrid drive 3,700,000 4,874,000 31.7 Premiums – insurance for vehicles with natural gas 700,000 1,014,000 44.9 or electric drive Total Switzerland 5,800,000 7,238,000 24.8 Premiums – photovoltaic insurance 3,308,150 3,467,520 4.8 Vehicles with alternative drives (electric, hybrid, gas) – 516,704 – Total Germany 3,308,150 3,984,224 20.4 Premiums – photovoltaic insurance, renewable 1,111,800 938,459 –15.6 energy and liability against environmental pollution Premiums insurance for vehicles with electric drive 10,900 58,606 437.7 Turnover supplementary insurance ecological – 7,032 – construction Total Italy 1,122,700 1,004,097 –10.6 Premiums – vehicles with electric drive 156 766 325 381 107.6 Premiums – vehicles with hybrid drive 583 428 781 199 33.9 Total Spain 740,194 1,106,580 49.5 Premiums for photovoltaic insurance 140,099 158,720 13.3 Premiums insurance for vehicles with hybrid drive or 8,686,254 14,603,923 68.1 CO2 bonus Premiums for e-bike insurance 33,508 46,555 38.9 Total Austria 8,859,860 14,809,198 67.1 Total France – – – Helvetia total 19,830,904 28,142,100 41.9 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 CR progress 19 Sustainable investments Responsibility as investor GRI 103-1  As a leading European insurance company with financial and real-estate investments to the value of CHF 52.3 billion, Helvetia has a lot of leverage with regard to designing ecological, social and economic realities. We are convinced that taking the sustainability information into account improves the overall performance of an investment portfolio. For us, responsible handling of capital means taking the criteria of ecology, social issues and governance (ESG) into account. Associated with this, we take an active role in the topics climate change, envir­ onmental catastrophes and disregard of elementary rights or improper corporate management. In recent years, considering ESG criteria as part of investment analysis and deciding on investments has grown out of being a niche. Requirements have also become more demanding vis-à-vis transparency in reporting, cooperation with other investors and the interest of stakeholders, especially analysts, shareholders and customers. By contrast, in the carbon/greenhouse gas emissions area, the discussion is conducted more from a financial perspective: if many countries agree on strong environmental protection measures, large quantities of coal, oil and gas resources could lose greatly in value. Some investors have already reacted to this risk with a “decarbonisation” of their portfolio. ESG criteria in the investment process GRI 103-2 Investment management Helvetia invests the premiums of its customers in high-return, long-term instruments. As a responsible investor, in addition to financial criteria we also apply ESG criteria in making investment decisions. The aim is to meet the high return requirements of our pension customers while maintaining an average sustainability rating for the financial investment portfolio. We conduct semi-annual assessments of the sustainability of our portfolio, drawing upon the valuation of the independent provider MSCI, which rates more than 9,000 companies and governments on the basis of their sustainability. Issuers of investments are assessed relative to 37 key issues, ranging from greenhouse gas emissions and energy efficiency to occupational safety and corruption. With this analysis, we cover all of the financials for which a corresponding rating is available. These are above all government and corporate bonds and GRI FS11 shares and fund products based on these securities, which make up about two-thirds of our financial investment portfolio. No corresponding ESG rating can be obtained for the remaining financial assets (mortgages, liquid funds and loans to policyholders and employees). Findings are discussed in Investment Management area meetings and by the national Investment Commissions, the CR Advisory Board and Group Executive Management. The Portfolio Management team also utilises monthly information updates on issuers which evidence low ESG quality and/or are the subject of serious controversy. When a security is put on this Portfolio Watchlist, an alternative investment is recommended. This ensures that negative ESG ratings are taken into account in the investment-making process without excluding specific investment vehicles based on pre-defined thresholds or industry affiliation. Systematic exclusions are allowed, however, in areas where this is required due to statutory provisions. For example, we do not invest in manufacturers of banned weapons under the Swiss War Material Act and the Oslo Convention. Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 CR progress 20 Portfolio emissions GRI 103-2 We regularly analyse financed emissions of our portfolio to measure their estimated climate impact, and participated in the year under review in the Voluntary Climate Impact Assessment sponsored by 2degrees and the Swiss Federal Office for the Environment. However, data coverage is still incomplete in this area and we see the findings as an initial estimate. Therefore, we have decided to continue monitoring the situation and develop and implement medium to long-term initiatives to reduce the CO2 footprint of our investments as the methodology and base of data evolve. Real-estate management Helvetia also has a major lever to optimise sustainability performance with a real-estate portfolio amounting to CHF 7.07 billion. We rely on the most environmentally friendly and attractive method of construction in the case of new construction and renovation and in this respect make use of recognised labels, like Minergie. The focus here is on the Swiss domestic market in which almost 92 per cent of our real-estate portfolio is located. 2017 review and progress GRI 103-3 Our CHF 52.3 billion investments are divided into 14 per cent real-estate investments, 58 per cent bonds, 10 per cent mortgages, 5 per cent shares, money market securities and 13 per cent other, including funds, loans, etc. You can find more information on our investment strategy in the financial report. The financial investments portfolio of Helvetia has low ESG risks for all countries with an average A rating as of January 2018. The proportion of investments with a high ESG risk (letter rating B – CCC) is under 3 per cent. Share of financial investments CH AT DE with ESG rating in per cent AAA AA A BBB BB B CCC IT ES FR Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 CR progress 21 Customer expectations and protection Customer trust as a vital resource GRI 103-1  A balanced partnership with our customers is the foundation for long-term business relationships and as a result the basis for our corporate success. Fair and transparent consulting is just as important for this as responsible handling of customer data and offering attractive services. Since customers make a prepayment with the payment of their premiums, trust in the reliability of Helvetia is crucial for them. Drawing benefits in the event of losses is often associated with a negative experience, which can be of vital significance for the parties affected. Easily accessible and unbureaucratic loss management creates trust and improves the individual situation. Breaching the principle of treating our customers fairly involves an enormous reputational risk. Customer orientation as a cornerstone of helvetia 20.20 GRI 103-2, 103-3 Customer orientation is one of the three pillars of the helvetia 20.20 strategy. Our goal is to optimise the customer journey and give our customers the easiest possible access to our services in the digital and analogue communication channels. In addition, we want to get to know the expectations, habits and needs of our customers as well as possible, and use them as the starting point for developing new products and services. These findings are integrated directly in the strategic considerations of the corporate development department. Customer satisfaction and consulting Irrespective of whether customers make direct contact with us through an advisor or via a website, social media channel or otherwise, they should be able to come to informed decisions regarding whether and to what extent they want to take advantage of a product or service. We ensure this through transparent and understandable product information and regular training of our sales force employees. For example, as part of the training programme Cicero (Certified Insurance Competence) launched by the Swiss Insurance Association SIA and recognised throughout the industry, all sales force employees in Switzerland must complete accredited training modules amounting to 60 Cicero credits within two years. This corresponds to about seven training days. Nevertheless, some customers find the information and documents on our insurance products to be in part difficult to understand. Since our contracts have to meet the applicable regulatory requirements, which involve a high number of rules, our insurance documents are indeed comprehensive. Within the bounds of what is legally permissible, we are constantly improving information on our product offers and inform customers as comprehensively and clearly as possible with detailed calculation and product documentation. Accordingly, there GRI 417-2 were no breaches against regulations or voluntary agreements with regard to product information in the year under review in the entire Helvetia Group. Customer service at Helvetia is decentralised in national companies in order to be able to address local customer needs and expectations optimally. We carry out these surveys and benchmark studies regularly to compare our image, consulting services and our services as well as the quality of our products with those of our competitors. Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 CR progress 22 Data protection GRI 103-2, 103-3 Apart from customer orientation, innovation – especially with regard to the continuing digitalisation of the insurance industry – is a central orientation of helvetia 20.20. This imposes special demands on data protection – on the one hand to make the best possible use of data, but on the other hand also to ensure comprehensive protection of the data. The highest priority is safeguarding the right to protection of privacy for our customers at all times. At the same time, we depend on the targeted evaluation of the information from and about our customers in order to continuously develop our product offers and exploit the potential of digitalisation. Only in this way can we preserve our competitiveness in a rapidly changing market. Our customers are provided with comprehensive information on the processing of their personal data and they decide which data they disclose and for what purpose. Trust and transparency are the guidelines of our data processing. In this respect, data protection at Helvetia prescribes the framework conditions for use of personal data and thereby ensures appropriate and proportionate use of the data. These data protection principles are integrated in the regular compliance process at Helvetia and are reviewed in this context for compliance. s ee Corporate Governance, p. 24 In organisational terms, data protection at Helvetia in Switzerland is embedded centrally in a competence centre (Data Protection department) and decentrally through many specialists. Local compliance officers ensure data protection in the country markets. Our specialists exchange information with each other and in the national business line and specialist associ­ ations on current developments and in this way ensure up-to-date data protection. The main responsibility for functioning data protection is borne in the final analysis by our employees, who have access to the personal data in the context of their work areas. We carry out regular awareness campaigns to achieve corresponding sensitisation. Moreover, data protection and the obligation to confidentiality is part of the terms and conditions of employment and of the Code of Compliance mandatory for all employees. Regular compliance mechanisms ensure observance of the data protection provisions at Helvetia. In this respect, specialists for various control functions (e.g. information security and risk management) engage in intensive cooperation. In the year under review, there were GRI 418-1  isolated complaints by customers regarding our handling of their data. These were either unjustified or could be eliminated without further consequences through specific adjustments in the IT system and retraining of employees. In order to adapt data protection at Helvetia to the constantly changing legal and technical demands, we are planning to overhaul the framework concept for data protection and the associated directives and processes for 2018. Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 CR progress 23 Digital accessibility GRI 103-2 With the increasing digitalisation of our services, it is becoming more and more important to make these accessible without restrictions to people with audiovisual disabilities as well. In addition, an accessible Internet also corresponds to the demands of the UNO Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (Art. 9) ratified by Switzerland. Our internal guidelines for accessible web design entered into force in January 2016. The goal is the orientation of the web design of Helvetia to the guidelines for simplified Internet accessibility formulated by the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). The Internet presence of Helvetia will be made accessible in phases in accordance with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) in their current version 2.0 conformity level A. In this way, we will improve the general usability of the Internet contents. Customer satisfaction The top priority in the country market Spain is the satisfaction of the almost 750,000 customers. Helvetia Spain scored correspondingly well in the annual satisfaction surveys of the ICEA (Investigación Cooperativa entre Entidades Aseguradoras y Fondos de Pensiones). Over 87 per cent of customers had a positive view of advice provided locally in the year under review. While receiving telephone advice, over 96 per cent of customers felt they had received friendly treatment and 93 per cent had a positive view of the problem-solving. In order to improve customer support even further, in the year under review the CRM (customer relationship management) tool was optimized. The advisors thus have a comprehensive 360-degree view of customers’ needs and behaviours. In this way, they can offer even more personal support. Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 CR progress 24 Trustworthy company – Helvetia pursues sustainable management Trust is one of the most important resources in customer-oriented insurance and is reflected correspondingly in our corporate values. We would like to earn this trust not only with our services in our core business, but also in the manner we do business. For us, this includes observance of the applicable laws and voluntary standards that go further as well as attentive risk management and the deliberate handling of resources. This requires the cooperation of our company’s broad-ranging areas. The CR department is responsible in this respect for monitoring the main sustainability developments in international and national discussions. It cooperates with line managers to integrate these developments in the processes of corporate management, control and transparency. Corporate Governance Importance of corporate governance for Helvetia GRI 103-1 Credible and honest company management is the foundation for the integration of compulsory and voluntary standards in day-to-day business. As a result, good corporate governance is the prerequisite if Helvetia is to proactively handle shortand long-term socially and environmentally relevant challenges. Breaches of applicable legal standards and basic ethical values can have considerable negative consequences in the form of reputational damage, sanctions and fines up to and including restrictions of business activities. Conversely, good corporate governance promotes the positive effects Helvetia has on its business environment, by supporting fair competitive conditions and hindering breaches of environmentally or socially relevant standards. Approach for reliable compliance GRI 103-2 In the configuration and division of labour of our management and controlling bodies, we have oriented ourselves to recognised frameworks and applicable regulatory codes, such as in particular the “swiss code of best practise for corporate governance”, the guidelines regarding information on corporate governance of the SIX Swiss Exchange (Directive Corporate Governance, DCG), the “Corporate governance – insurers” circular of the Swiss Financial Market Supervisor Authority (FINMA), the Ordinance against Excessive Remuner­ ation in Listed Companies Limited by Shares (ERCO), and the FINMA circular “Remuneration schemes”. We report transparently on this in our Financial report. In addition, Helvetia has positioned itself as a reliable and compliance-conscious financial services company. We do all we can to support conduct in compliance with regulations and values, from the highest executive body to new recruits. The basic principles and guidelines of compliance management are laid down in the Compliance Regulations of the Helvetia Group, which was commissioned and approved by the Board of Directors. It follows a riskbased approach on three levels: 1. Responsibility of each employee and the line management 2. Compliance process to avoid breaches against valid legal standards and internal regulations under the supervision of the compliance officer of the country markets 3. Audit of efficacy of the compliance measures and processes by the internal review Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 CR progress 25 In this regard, we take the classic governance risks into account, as well as the sustainabil­ity GRI 103-2 risks, and focus above all on changing legal conditions, data protection and protection of privacy, information and IT security, anti-trust law and unfair competition, money-laundering and terrorism financing, discrimination, work and health protection, criminal actions like fraud, embezzlement, theft, bribery and corruption, conflicts of interest, intellectual property and intangible property rights, environmental standards, and tax questions. Depending on the legal situation in the country markets, additional, more specific directives and guidelines have been drawn up. An example for this is the “Directive on combating money laundering” of the Money Laundering department in Switzerland. We regularly monitor observance of our standards through random samples, walk-throughs or joint audits. Organisation GRI 102-18 The Group Compliance Officer is technically subordinate to the Corporate Governance Officer (General Secretary) and as a result to the Board of Directors. In organisational terms, it is part of the Corporate Center. The country markets have their own compliance officers, who in each case are supported by specialists for the subjects of money laundering, data protection, competition law and other subject fields, such as sanctions and embargoes. During the identification, evaluation, control, monitoring and documentation of the risks, the Group Compliance Officer cooperates closely with the qualitative risk management. Current developments are observed on an ongoing basis as part of the ICOR process (Internal Control System and Operational Risk Management) and are placed on the compliance agenda as required. s ee also Risk management, p. 26 Involvement of employees We have recorded the main regulations and basic principles for the most important compliance subjects in the Code of Compliance. It also includes references on the avoidance of corruption and bribery, for example. It is binding on all employees of the Helvetia Group. 96 % Regular courses at all levels promote an awareness of compliance and conduct in accordance with the regulations. An e-learning basic training is compulsory for all employees on joining and is repeated subsequently every two years. For this purpose, specific courses occur regularly for especially exposed functional of our employees are familiar areas (such as awarding mortgages with regard to money laundering). with the Code of Compliance Our employees can contact the corresponding compliance officers in their country markets with complaints or observations. Information and contacts can be found easily on the intranet and are transparently communicated. For example, 88 per cent of Helvetia Group employees confirmed in the comprehensive employee survey Commit in 2016 that they knew which bodies they could contact in the case of identified or suspected breaches in their area. Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 CR progress 26 2017 review and progress GRI 103-3  The compliance officers of the country markets submit reports to the Group Compliance Officer at least every half year on important topics and any cases and breaches that have occurred. The latter informs the CEO of the Helvetia Group of the compliance process, corres­ ponding activities and the evaluation of the compliance risks. Moreover, the Group Compliance Officer submits an annual report. In the year under review, there were no conGRI 205-3 firmed incidents of corruption in any country market and accordingly no sanctions were imposed. In 2017, there were no significant breaches against laws and regulations in the social GRI 419-1 and economic sphere. The Code of Compliance is communicated to all new employees and can in addition be inspected at any time on the intranet. For technical reasons, there has not been any explicit evaluation of how many employees at which hierarchical level inspected the Code of Compliance in the year under review to date. Moreover, all newly recruited employees are called on to complete an e-learning module on the Code of Compliance. In addition, 20 classroom compliance courses were carried out. Apart from introductions to GRI 205-2 compliance, these were above all courses on the subject of sanctions/embargoes and the prevention of money laundering and terrorism financing. Risk management Importance of sustainability risks for Helvetia GRI 103-1, 102-11 Professional handling of risks is part of everyday business. We have to have enough capital at all times to cover the insurance risks entered into according to the risk tolerance we have chosen. Apart from the proactive protection of our capital basis, our risk management focuses on the reputation of the Helvetia Group and its companies. In this respect, we continuously include social developments in the preparation of our strategies for risk evaluation and avoidance. see Financial report, p. 4 f. Perceptions regarding which circumstances or behaviours are classified as social, ecological or also economically legitimate or illegitimate have changed in recent years. We are convinced that sustainability risks, such as the infringement of human or labour rights or environmental standards will become increasingly important, just like discussions on forward-looking energy use and water shortage. These developments have the potential to lead to great changes and global imbalances that could also have financial repercussions in the medium to long term. The reorientation of the UN Global Compact and discussions on the contribution of companies to the achievement of sustainable development goals show that companies are assigned an important role in boosting sustainability performance and their behaviour is therefore evaluated critically. Approach for comprehensive consideration of sustainability risks GRI 103-2 Making allowance for relevant ecological, social and governance risks is a part of everyday decision-making and is part of our processes in risk management. Our goal in this context see  Financial report, p. 4 f. is to minimise the risk of human rights violations or breaches of environmental standards in our area of influence as much as possible. For this purpose, we make allowance for ESG risks in underwriting in a multi-level process. Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 CR progress 27 In general, we observe all applicable economic sanctions in the countries in which we GRI 103-2 operate. Furthermore, our underwriting guidelines cover human rights and environmental aspects. These are checked as part of the due diligence process for insurance decisions. In addition, we identify countries in which there are systematic violations of human rights or where sanctions and embargoes have been imposed by the UN, the OECD or the Swiss State Secretariat for Economic Affairs (SECO). There are specific rules governing transactions in these countries which provide for detailed review if material risks have been identified. In addition to area managers, additional units including CR and Compliance may be involved in such reviews as appropriate as well as the responsible member of Group management. In this regard, we make an effort to ensure that the risk is limited and preventive measures are taken. Should this not be possible, we rate the risks as “unacceptable” if appropriate. This decision can be based on the severity of the violation, the extent of potential harm to people or the environment and/or economic impact. This also applies to cases in which our influence is limited, since we are not the leading insurer, for example. In order to sensitise employees in Underwriting for ESG risks, they receive a current evalu­ ation every quarter on high-risk sectors and a compilation of the most important emerging ESG risks. Moreover, we conduct regular information events. In the reporting year 2017, for example, the employees of Asset Management were informed of the latest developments in sustainable investment and the status at Helvetia. Moreover, the subject was brought up in the investment management meeting and with the Art & Marine department heads and Speciality Markets. The information and current reporting can be inspected by the employees of Asset Management in its own intranet section. Externally, we furthermore cooperate with other firms and stakeholders in civil society in such frameworks as the United Nations Financial Initiative and the UN Global Compact so as to raise awareness of risks connected with corporate social responsibility and develop effective responses to these risks. 2017 review and progress GRI 103-2, 103-3 ESG risks are being integrated systematically in our risk management process. To this end, the CR Department, Risk Management, Compliance and the internal audit analysed processes to make allowance for environmental and sustainability risks in the year under review and proposed adjustments and supplements of the Underwriting Guidelines. These were discussed with the affected departments and are to be embedded in 2018. The central aspect here is earlier consideration of ESG aspects in advance of decisions that could have longterm effects on risk structures. These include, for example, entering new business sectors or selecting technologies to be insured. The responsibilities for the identification, observation and evaluation of ESG risks is to be better documented, as well. Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 CR progress 28 Sustainable procurement Responsibility for environment and company GRI 103-1, 102-9 Protection of the environment and the climate is one of the most important global challenges. Helvetia supports the development of a low CO2 and inclusive economy. However, compared to manufacturing companies, the flow of material and resources in a financial services company like Helvetia are limited. Our direct influence on the environment and society arises above all through the procurement and use of the infrastructure we need to render our services. This in particular includes the office buildings and corresponding building technology, business travel, the IT and office infrastructure, and office and marketing material. Sustainable and climatically responsible procurement GRI 103-2 Procurement guideline We highly value local, environmentally friendly and socially responsible procurement and use of our infrastructure and consumable materials. We define the guidelines for environmentally and socially compatible procurement with our basic principles for sustainable procurement. An internal procurement guideline specifies this for our purchasing managers. It defines clear minimum requirements and additional voluntary criteria, which are intended to promote environmentally friendly and socially compatible purchasing for 13 goods categories. The product categories extend from the food in the staff restaurant, the IT infrastructure and cleaning materials to customer gifts. The guideline is based on recognised labels and standards, such as Blue Angel, the energy label or the Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI). In addition, it provides those responsible for the procurement of goods and services with information on the relevant social or ecological aspects and provides advice on how they can address these in supplier discussions. Procurement is organised decentrally in the country markets with managers for individual product groups. IT infrastructure, which is procured Group-wide, is an exception. CO2 emissions and environmental management GRI 305-1, 305-2, 305-3 In 2015, we set ourselves the goal of lowering our absolute CO2 emissions by 2020 by 10 per cent compared to 2012. We would even like to cut the relative CO2 emissions per employee (in FTE) in the period 2012 to 2020 by 20 per cent. In doing so, we will take all emissions into account arising from our building use, business travel, paper and water consumption and waste disposal. To calculate these greenhouse gas emissions, we will rely on the methodology of the VfU sustainability network for financial institutions in the version of the reference year 2012. We will also define our measures to reduce our emissions on the basis of this data. Following the switch to 100 per cent electricity from renewable sources at the level of the Helvetia Group in 2015, the CR Advisory Board decided to focus on the areas of heating and business travel up to 2020 and to identify and realise potential for reduction in a targeted manner. The specialist managers for the procurement and management of the corresponding product groups, installations and infrastructure are responsible for the optimisation of environmental management. In implementing individual measures, they are supported by the CR department at the Group level. A Group-wide CO2 plan of action bundles the planned measures. Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 CR progress 29 To render the results of our efforts transparent and credibly understandable for our stakeGRI 103-2 holders, the Helvetia Group has been reporting annually on its climate protection measures since 2012 as part of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). As a member of the RE 100 Initiative of the Climate Group, we publicly affirm that we make exclusive use of electricity from renewable sources and in this way would also like to motivate other companies to convert to environmentally friendly electricity. Environmental performance: climate rating of CDP A = best assessment Climate rating B B A C B D C Public disclosure D-(D– and D) Awareness D (C– and C) Active management (B– and B) E Leadership 2012/2011 2013/2012 2014/2013 2015/2014 2016/2015 2017/2016 (A– and A) 2017 review and progress GRI 103-3 Revision of procurement guideline In recent years, the standards as well as the supply of more sustainable solutions have undergone considerable development in individual product groups. Consequently, in the year under review we looked at how up-to-date the procurement guidelines were and made minor adjustments. For example, in the fields of promotional articles and customer gifts, the requirements were tightened in terms of child safety and environmentally friendly processing. Since the end of 2017, we have been using recycled paper and are gradually converting individual paper categories (printed products, copying paper, etc.). To strengthen expertise in sustainable procurement in the Helvetia Group and ensure implementation of the procurement guidelines, a working group of the procurement managers for the various product groups of the country companies was established. It takes up its work in 2018. Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 CR progress 30 Development of CO2 emissions Compared to the previous year, the absolute CO2 emissions at Helvetia increased slightly by 0.9 per cent to 15,765 tons. The relative CO2 emissions decreased slightly per full-time equiva­ lent to almost 2.4 tons (decrease by 1.3 per cent compared to the previous year). Compared to the reference year 2012, they decreased in total by 26 per cent. see also key figures, p. 44 Development of CO2 emissions per employee (FTE) 7000 6000 5000 4000 3000 CO2 2000 1000 Electricity Heating Business travel 0 Paper Water 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Waste CH DE IT ES AT FR Group Target value Share absolute CO2 emissions The driver for the increase in the year under review was an increase in business travel, esGRI 103-2 pecially in the country market France. Business there with Southeast Asia intensified, leading to an increase in long-distance flights. In total, over 70 per cent of our CO2 emissions arise from business travel, followed by the heating energy used (about 20 per cent). The electricity we used in the year under review was 100 per cent from renewable sources. We achieved this on the one hand through corresponding supplier agreements and on the other through the acquisition of certificates of origin for hydro and solar power from European sources. Our environmental key figures for 2017 were audited independently in April 2018. s ee assurance statement in appendix Climate Alliance Linz In the country market Austria, the sales directorate Linz with about 80 employees is among the biggest locations. We renovated these office premises according to the latest sustainability standards in summer 2017. They were converted into a modern, barrier-free service centre, equipped with heat regeneration and LED lighting. Cross-location energy monitoring across the four biggest Helvetia locations in the country market Austria analyses the energy consumption on the spot and permits targeted adjustments and a reduction in energy consumption. We were honoured by the Upper Austria Climate Alliance as a “Climate Alliance Business” for the comprehensive package of measures. Following Vienna and Graz, this is the third Climate Alliance award for Helvetia Austria. Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 CR progress 31 Attractive employer – for and with our employees As a financial service company, Helvetia is dependent to a high degree on capable and GRI 103-1 committed employees in order to maintain its position on the market in the long term. Helvetia can meet current challenges – such as digitalisation, changing customer needs and demographic developments – best with well-trained and agile employees. By means of the strategy helvetia 20.20, we consistently place customers at the centre of our actions and operate agilely and innovatively to exploit the opportunities of digitalisation for our company. This places high demands on our employees and our human resources management (HR). Requirement and job profiles are changing rapidly and require flexibility, networked thinking, and pragmatic and collaborative work-sharing. Moreover, the expectations of our (future) employees are shifting. Apart from attractive compensation models, points deemed important in employer assessments include flexible lifeand-work models, enough room for one’s own ideas and creativity, and work which has an individual meaning. Helvetia weighs its role as attractive employer correspondingly highly. For us, this includes on the one hand good employment conditions, with which it is possible to acquire good employees and retain them with the company in the long term. On the other hand, this includes a working environment in which employees can fully develop their potential. An attractive working environment is the foundation for the physical and psychological well-being of our employees and as a result also for their commitment to the company and to society. Responsibility for HR at Helvetia resides with Roland Bentele, who as Head Human Resources reports directly to the CEO Philipp Gmür. Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 CR progress 32 Promotion of employees HR strategy GRI 103-2 Our goal is to employ satisfied and efficient employees in the long term, who have the capabilities and competences to master challenges in a constantly changing working world. We need employees with the right capabilities at the right time at the right place. In the last two years, we have carried out comprehensive analyses on the positioning of Helvetia as an employer. In this regard, it became clear that the attractiveness of our employment conditions, the development options as well as our culture may be regarded as sound both from internal and external perspectives. The relatively long duration of employment, especially among the managers, indicates great satisfaction with Helvetia as an employer. At the same time, there is still optimisation potential in terms of flexibility, agility, promotion of above-average performance, innovative energy and diversity. We have reacted to this with the preparation of a “Group HR strategy”, which from spring 2018 will formulate the direction of the HR management. At the core is the promotion of a heterogeneous employee structure in relation to origin, gender, education and capabilities. However, the duration of employment and loyalty as well as basic attitudes, modes of thinking and life concepts are also the subject of the strategy. To achieve this, we develop individual work models, which employees can make use of depending on their needs and expectations. With so-called life-phase-oriented employee services, our employees can adjust the conditions across their professional career according to their needs and in this way find thoroughly attractive conditions at Helvetia. At the same time, a heterogeneous employee structure also requires extensive scope for action and room to manoeuvre in order to make the best possible use of individual potential. For the managers in particular, this requires switching to a culture based more on setting individual guiding principles than on the identical treatment of all employees. The HR strategy includes the following four directions, which can be adjusted by the country markets in their individual HR strategies to the specific local needs. Active workforce management Helvetia pursues the aim of having the appropriate number and quality of employees at all times. In the 2017 year under review, we launched comprehensive talent and successor management. Based on annual standardised employee discussions, employees with potential are identified here, whose professional development receives targeted support. The goal is to expand the individual scope for action and make the best possible use of the employees’ potential. At the same time, managers are to be developed internally and open position should mainly be filled from our own ranks. Furthermore, we provide various sectors with targeted support in their business transformation. Internal key figures, such as the job occupation rate and data on internal mobility, permit us to monitor achievement of the objectives continually. Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 CR progress 33 Cultural transformation GRI 103-2 We are initiating a cultural transformation towards greater customer orientation, innovation and agility. The goal is to transform the understanding of work and management from within. For this purpose, we connect the many different initiatives within Helvetia and promote the exchange of ideas and joint learning. The aim in this regard is for employees to develop an understanding of what our strategic objectives really mean in day-to-day work and how they can support their implementation. We can determine whether we are on target here by means of customer and employee surveys and not least through our business result. Apart from an internal cultural identity, Helvetia will in addition be promoting greater diversity in its workforce in the coming years. A diverse employee structure will promote the exchange of knowledge and experience and favour the development of creative problem solving. For example, various measures aim to achieve a balanced generational relationship, boost the share of women in the sales force and increase the proportion of women in management positions. Employer of choice We have positioned ourselves as an attractive employer and in the long term, we would like to acquire the right employees. To this end, we have expanded the above-mentioned offering of life-phase-oriented employer services and have adopted new approaches in recruiting. For example, this permits our employees to configure their work load, payment and place of work according to their personal needs to some extent during their career at Helvetia. Furthermore, we are continuously investing in attractive framework conditions and promote an environment in which our employees can contribute their strengths and ideas. Helvetia also assigns a high priority to the health as well as the physical and spiritual well-being of its employees and promotes this as part of its company health management. We check whether we are on course with our measures with employer attractiveness studies and internal key figures, such as the length of time new entrants remain. Customer focus and efficiency We support our managers by providing them with strategically relevant HR key figures and straightforward HR processes and workflows. With processing options that are independent of time and place as well as improved means of communication, we help our managers and employees to complete their tasks and concerns smoothly. We continuously check our progress here with customer and employee surveys, internal key figures and by reviewing adherence to our service level agreements. Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 CR progress 34 2017 review and progress GRI 103-3 Commit employee survey In order to examine the effect of our many different measures on employee satisfaction and commitment and if necessary deduce improvement measures, we conduct the Group-wide employee survey Commit every three years. In this regard, all employees of Helvetia are surveyed by an external institute on their work satisfaction and their attachment to Helvetia. The focus is on questions to assess framework conditions, such as organisation and processes, corporate culture, management behaviour, goals and performance incentives and the flow of information. In addition, aspects like “compliance”, “Helvetia as company” and “Motives for part-time employment” are queried. The results are analysed by the individual area, department and team managers in the country markets and by the Executive Management. They are supported here by the HR Leadership & Development department in interpreting the data correctly and deducing specific measures. The respective managers are responsible for implementing and controlling the measures. The progress of the measures is surveyed annually at the Group level. The last survey took place in 2016; 5,614 people participated, corresponding to a very high quota of 83 per cent. Direct superiors, the team and work content received very high grades in this regard. Moreover, Helvetia employees had a feeling of attachment and belonging. However, the results indicate a clear need for action, especially in the fields of culture and service/development. These subjects were considered when developing the HR strategy and are now being pursued at the Group level. Further education GRI 404-1 Helvetia invests in the further development of its employees with an average of 24 training hours per employee. However, the prime focus for us is not the scope, but the orientation to the existing and future needs of both the employee and Helvetia. The fact that the average training period of internal service and sales force employees is converging is proof of our focus on life-long learning: a single course or degree is no longer 24 enough in internal services either in order to permanently do justice to the changing requirements of the working environment. Helvetia promotes innovative approaches in further education and development and is also continually expanding the e-learning product range. hours of training per employee Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 CR progress 35 Training in hours per FTE 2017 GRI 404-1 Sales force 52.0 see also key Internal service 16.1 figures, p. 44 Women 22.2 Men 25.5 Executive Board members 18.3 Management 25.7 Specialists 11.5 Clerks 24.2 Total 24.4 Diversity Currently, the proportion of female managers at Helvetia is 19.4 per cent with an average female proportion of over 36 per cent. Whereas the gender proportion of the employees under 30 is approximately balanced, the female proportion falls markedly, calculated in full-time equivalents (FTE), in those over 30. This makes it more difficult to develop female managers from our own ranks and indicates that women who leave the company while starting a family do not return. We would like to improve this situation with various measures, such as flexible work time models, management positions with a part-time work load and the funding of day care places for better compatibility of family and profession. These measures are part of the development of life-phase-oriented employee services. Employee dialogues GRI 404-3 In the year under review, about 76 per cent of the employees received comprehensive feedback and evaluation of their performance and development options. At the same time, they were able to give their managers feedback on their current condition, cooperation in the team and with superiors, and propose improvements. Since 2017, these discussions have been integrated in the Group-wide talent and successor management. On this basis, potential development paths for the talents identified in department-specific talent conferences are now formulated and matching (further education) measures deduced. As a result of this change to Employee dialogues, there were delays in the implementation in isolated cases and as a result a temporary decline compared to the previous year. Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 CR progress 36 Proportion of employees with regular performance evaluation Change to previous In % 2016 2017 year in % GRI 404-3 Women 84.2 71.6 –15.0 Men 86.3 78.1 –9.5 Executive Board members 57.8 60.9 5.4 Management 98.2 94.5 –3.7 Specialists 88.8 87.3 –1.7 Clerks 82.6 70.0 –15.3 Junior staff 95.9 99.1 3.3 Total 86.4 76.8 –11.1 Employee commitment Environment for comprehensive commitment GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Helvetia promotes a corporate and business culture in which personal initiative and co-determination are required, promoted and valued. Only in an open environment in which risks are taken and ideas can be contributed do employees develop their potential and drive innovations. For this, official ports of call and means of co-determination are necessary on the one hand, such as regular feedback discussions with superiors and the (legally provided for) co-determination opportunities or advice services for employees. Furthermore, regular campaigns and workshops target motivated employees and encourage them to take part in the further development of innovations, also across departments. Committed employees and an open idea and error culture are the condition for our employees assuming responsibility in their respective areas and contributing CR commitment to all relevant business processes and decisions. They reinforce innovative energy and as a result also the resilience of Helvetia to react to challenges in the ESG area and beyond. Every three years, we use the employee survey Commit to find out how strongly our em­ GRI own indicator ployee identify themselves with Helvetia and how they see their room to manoeuvre at work. When last conducted in 2016, the commitment to Helvetia had a pleasing value of 76 (scale of 0 to 100), only two points under the value of 2013. Against the background of the mer­ ger with Nationale Suisse in 2015 and the associated uncertainty of various employees, this was a very stable value, which we would like to improve in the years to come. Employee co-determination GRI 102-41 The legal conditions for employee co-determination at Helvetia differ considerably in part in the individual countries. Helvetia grants all of its employees the co-determination opportunities legally provided for and grants them the possibility to organise themselves in employee representative bodies. While representation of the rights of the employees in Germany, Austria, Spain, Italy and France through works councils and trade unions is traditionally very strong, co-determination in the Swiss domestic market has been regulated for 15 years through a voluntary agreement between the personnel commission PEKO and Helvetia as employer. Helvetia has set up a European forum to which representatives of the country companies belong for the international exchange of information and consultation of employees regarding issues with international implications. It meets at least once a year, chaired by Executive Management member for Europe, Markus Gemperle. The collective wage agreement structure differs considerably in the country markets, too. Whereas in Switzerland a collective labour agreement exists neither for the internal services nor for the sales force, in Spain, for example, all employees (with the exception of eight interns) are subject to a collective wage agreement. Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 CR progress 37 Share of employees with collective wage agreement Share Change compared to in % Share 2016 2017 previous year in % GRI 102-41 Switzerland 0.0 0.0 – Germany 86.2 86.5 0.3 Austria 97.4 96.7 –0.7 Italy 100.0 98.6 –1.4 Spain 82.0 83.0 1.3 France 99.9 100.0 0.1 Helvetia total 40.3 40.0 –0.7 Social commitment of employees GRI 103-2 Helvetia supports employees who devote themselves as volunteers for public affairs, society and environmental protection. Taking sabbaticals or unpaid leave is possible in consultation with their manager for a commitment in the private or personal area. Working time can also be made available for a corresponding commitment. The specific arrangements in this matter are made by the country markets. Clothing donations by employees Helvetia Italy made a commitment with a clothes collection campaign in spring 2017 for the charitable organisation “Arche”. While clothing is often only worn a few times, great effort is required to produce them and negative social and ecological consequences can result in the manufacturing countries. At the same time, some people in Italy cannot afford to buy new clothes regularly. Therefore, Helvetia Italy collected well-preserved women’s and children’s clothing of their employees. The clothing was distributed via the organisation Arche to the needy in the Milan region and was thereby given a second life. Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 CR progress 38 Committed location partner – Helvetia is active locally As a successful international insurance group, Helvetia maintains good and constructive relationships at the locations where it operates. It makes a contribution to the local community with its business through the occupational benefit scheme for individuals as well as investment protection for the investments and assets of small, medium and large companies. Furthermore, we meet our responsibilities as “good neighbour” and are actively committed to the environment and society. Public Policy Helvetia in political dialogue GRI 103-1  As a financial services company, Helvetia is a part of society and is engaged in a continual dialogue with administration, politics, science and civil society. The environment for insurance companies is heavily regulated and is in a state of constant transformation due to technological change, demographic challenges and additional regulation. For example, digital innovations permit the development of new business models and at the same time engender new market participants in the form of Fintech and Insurtech companies. However, the regu­ latory framework for these developments has so far only been formulated to a limited extent. Additional focus areas are international capital and solvency standards, international cooperation in the area of cyber risks and regulation in the field of data processing and protection. In this complex situation, it is important for Helvetia and its business success to help configure the framework conditions in a committed and transparent manner and in this way represent the interests of our investors, customers and employees. Public Affairs Policy GRI 103-2 Helvetia has devoted itself to the most helpful political and regulatory framework conditions possible by means of an active, responsible and permanent dialogue with various social players and stakeholders. We would like to create an environment that permits us to adopt trends in our business activity proactively, minimise barriers and actively manage reputational risks. Public Affairs Policy To this end, our Public Affairs Policy formulates long-term normative guidelines for the Helvetia Group and its country markets. At its heart lies participation in the current political formation of opinion in relation to the core business. This occurs via cooperation in the local industry associations. In these, we coordinate positions and represent these transparently and reliably. The country markets commit themselves in stakeholder discussions, know-how transfers, studies, media contributions and events. The aim here is in particular the distribution of specialised knowledge as the basis for making informed decisions. Political sponsoring is only possible within clearly defined criteria, for example as event sponsoring for selected topics, support of politically committed employees and via party financing. The guidelines for this are laid down in the “Helvetia party financing” policy. In the country markets, we define medium-term public affairs strategies, which are coord­ inated with the strategic goals of the country market and the Group helvetia 20.20 strategy. Here, we define overriding themes of great relevance and detailed basic principles for operational implementation. Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 CR progress 39 At the operational level, the countries develop individual public affairs plans based on these GRI 103-2 framework conditions. Continuous monitoring of the relevant legislative and regulatory activities and regular reconciliation at the Group level guarantee a systematic evaluation of the effects and opportunities to be expected and permits the well-founded development of our own positions. A review of Public Affairs Policy – and if necessary, an overhaul – is planned in 2018/2019 as part of the regular evaluation. Anchoring in the Group and country markets In organisational terms, public policy is the remit of the Public Affairs Department, which belongs to the Corporate Center. Helvetia is committed to the professional code regulations of the Swiss Public Affairs Society (SPAG) and the associated “Code de Lisbonne”. It coord­ inates the activities within the Group, is involved in the Swiss domestic market and observes the relevant developments at the European and international level. 2017 review and progress GRI 103-3 Party financing GRI 415-1  Helvetia only supports political parties in the Swiss country market. Since 2016, Helvetia has been making an annual contribution of CHF 123,000 to constituency work. All of the parties represented in the Swiss Federal Assembly and more than half of those active in Swiss cantons receive on request a contribution that they can dispose of freely, without a political quid pro quo. The contribution is based on the respective parliamentary mandates: the total sum is distributed in halves to the two chambers, National Council and Council of States, corresponding to a contribution of about CHF 308 per National Council and about CHF 1,337 per Council of States mandate. This transparency is in harmony with the recommendations of the European Council committee GRECO (Groupe d’Etats contre la Corruption). On request, Helvetia can also support candidatures of employees for political offices at cantonal and national level. In addition, Helvetia promotes the political commitment of its employees with an appropriate regulation of their working hours. Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 CR progress 40 Corporate Citizenship Helvetia as good neighbour GRI 103-1  Helvetia sees itself as part of society and as a result also as a protagonist at the locations where it operates. It makes a contribution to the positive development of the environment and society through contributions in the form of time, specialist knowledge and funding. Above all, in the country markets with a strong sales force network, the employees of Helvetia are in part strongly integrated in local communities and as a result have a good understanding of the needs of the population. Our commitments and progress in 2017 GRI 103-2, 103-3 With our Corporate Citizenship commitment, we would like to play an active role and make a social contribution, which extends beyond the occupational benefit scheme and the coverage activities of our core business. Helvetia and the people who work for it should have a positive influence primarily by means of their business services, but also through the voluntary work for customers and society. In contrast to classic sponsoring, where clearly defined quid pro quos are agreed, we understand public welfare management to mean promotion or support where our service goes clearly beyond any counterperformance (such as in the form of communication). Public welfare commitment: number of projects and support amount GRI Own indicator in CHF Number 2017 2017 Switzerland 239 1,871,300 Germany 22 21,334 Italy 6 14,784 Spain 49 825,102 Austria 3 8,288 France 1 36,960 Helvetia total 320 2,777,768 In the year under review, 320 projects totalling almost CHF 2.8 million were supported. In this respect, we direct our commitment to the four core areas of protection forests, cooper­ ation with the Helvetia Patria Jeunesse Foundation, art, and promotion of health and popular sports. In addition, we support smaller local projects and initiatives, depending on the situation. These depend on local circumstances and permit the country markets and sales force units to set their own priorities. However, the basic principle is always the connection to our core business and close orientation to our central values of “drive, trust and enthusiasm”. Helvetia is also active in classical sponsoring, especially in sport sponsoring. In contrast to this, we understand public welfare commitment to mean the support of citizenship activities at Helvetia are primarily taken care of in organisational terms by Branding, Corporate Responsibility, Communications and HR. More systematic recognition, coord­ination and impact measurement are to be developed in the coming years. Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 CR progress 41 Protection forest initiative GRI 103-2 Protection forests make a great contribution to the protection of settlements and infrastructure against falling rocks, landslides, mudflows or avalanches. We have been working for the (re-)forestation and care of these forests since 2011. Careful management of protection forests can alleviate the severity of natural events and protect life and property against damage. We develop and realise the protection forest projects in close cooperation with the local forest authorities. Helvetia finances the planting of about 10,000 trees per project. Through the acquisition of protection forest certificates, Helvetia customers can participate in the plantings and in this way contribute to the protection forests becoming bigger faster. In the year under review, we realised six new protection forest projects in five countries. Helvetia has to date implemented 28 protection forest projects and financed the planting of over 300,000 trees. Since 2014, we have been the main sponsor of the Alpine Protection Forest Award Helvetia, which is awarded by the Consortium of Alpine Forestry Associations to projects especially devoted to protection forests. Four projects in Bavaria, St. Gallen and Tyrol were honoured in the year under review. This year, the award as protection forest patron went to Ulrich Ammer. The retired professor has devoted himself to the constructive cooperation between vari­ ous interest groups for decades on the topic of protection forests. He pointed out the import­ ance of comprehensive protection forest rehabilitation early on. Helvetia Patria Jeunesse Foundation We work together closely with the Helvetia Patria Jeunesse Foundation, which has been supporting individual projects for children and adolescents since 1978. It focuses on the subject areas sport and leisure, music and theatre as well as the promotion of physically or mentally impaired adolescents. The Helvetia Patria Jeunesse Foundation relies on versatility and provides innovative projects, which often do not fit into bigger support programmes, with the “realisation assistance” needed. The general agencies or sales force organisations of Helvetia act as a kind of connecting element between the foundation and local population. They inform individuals and institutions locally about the foundation and possibility of support. Apart from this, they support the foundation in the preliminary examination of requests and in the administrative processing and communication of projects. In 2017, the Helvetia Patria Jeunesse Foundation supported 69 projects with CHF 234,072. The roll-out of the foundation’s work in the other country markets began in the year under review. “Impariamo giocando” (“we learn in play”) was the first project in Italy to benefit from financing. This project promotes leisure activities for children between the ages of three and five. Moreover, the procedure for the country market Austria was defined to ensure that projects can already be financed in 2018. Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 CR progress 42 Art commitment GRI 103-2 Helvetia is active in the safeguarding of works of art in its core business with the Artas art insurance. In addition, it does a great deal for art and artists. Previously, the Swiss domestic market was the focus of this commitment, since it originated with the Nationale Suisse insurance company, which was integrated in Helvetia in 2015. Helvetia maintains a large art collection with about 1,700 works by about 400 artists and awards the Helvetia Art Prize to an up-and-coming Swiss artist every year, worth CHF 15,000. In 2017, the prize was awarded to Andriu Deplazes. In addition, Helvetia is trying to lower the threshold and widen the audience for art appreciation. For example, digitalisation projects in cooperation with renowned museums facilitate the archiving and incorporation of selected portfolios. Based on this, participatory exhibition formats have been developed, which can then also be appreciated beyond the borders of Switzerland. Health and popular sports Helvetia takes an active part in sports sponsoring, focused on Alpine sports and football, above all in its Swiss domestic market and Austria. Apart from these classic sponsoring partnerships, Helvetia supports numerous popular sport activities in CompiSternli all of its country markets and projects to promote balanced In Switzerland, the Helvetia Patria Jeunesse nutrition or healthcare. We are guided here by our values Foundation introduced the new promotion focus “digitalisation”. We would in particular like “drive” and “enthusiasm”, which should be reflected in the proto emphasise the support of the “CompiSternli” jects supported. association. In this project, pupils trained to do so show older people how to use a tablet and in this way help them to get started in the digital world. CompiSternli is a project of digital transformation, which also directly affects Helvetia as an insurance company. This project builds bridges between generations – which is also a central concern of the insurance industry. From June to September 2017, the company health management of Helvetia conducted a step challenge together with the Corporate Responsibility department. Helvetia employees in Switzerland collected as many steps as possible and at the same time supported the charitable project “CompiSternli”. Together with the Helvetia Patria Jeunesse Foundation, the company health management donated CHF 0.20 to the project for every kilometre walked. A total of 67,623 km were covered and a sum rounded off to CHF 15,000 was donated. Overview of our key figures 45 Key figures employees 48 Key figures environment Key figures employees Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Overview of our key figures 45 Group CH DE ES IT AT FR Change compared to previous year 2016 2017 in % 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 Personnel structure in full-time GRI 102-8 equivalents Executive Board members 47 46 –2.1 15 16 6 6 7 7 8 7 5 5 6 5 Management 998 1,006 0.8 570 578 102 95 79 80 109 116 76 76 61 61 Specialists 717 725 1.1 591 571 52 74 26 29 12 12 28 31 8 8 Clerks 4,545 4,537 –0.2 2,245 2,291 630 600 447 448 372 353 640 614 212 230 Junior staff 285 280 –1.7 198 204 31 24 5 8 17 16 20 19 15 10 Temporary employees 99 92 –7.8 89 80 8 12 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 Employees total 6,691 6,685 1 –0.1 3,708 3,739 2 830 810 565 572 518 504 769 745 302 315 Internal service 5,160 5,166 0.1 2,751 2,797 711 683 418 405 518 504 461 462 302 315 Sales force 1,531 1,518 –0.8 957 942 119 127 147 167 0 0 308 283 0 0 Female temporary employees 235 226 –4.0 143 147 25 17 33 33 16 7 3 5 16 17 Male temporary employees 217 207 –4.8 143 130 27 27 18 15 2 9 17 18 10 7 Total temporary employees 452 432 –4.4 287 277 51 45 51 48 18 16 20 23 26 24 Full-time female employees 2,161 2,221 2.8 1,021 1,072 288 287 204 212 199 201 289 283 160 166 Full-time male employees 4,077 4,031 –1.1 2,400 2,389 491 478 310 312 301 287 460 439 116 125 Total full-time employees 6,239 6,252 0.2 3,421 3,461 778 766 514 524 501 488 749 722 276 291 Fluctuation ratio (departures in % of existing personnel) 10.2 9.5 –9.6 10.9 9.6 10.9 12.6 4.4 6.6 10.7 3.1 9.5 11.5 10.4 11.8 1 Incl. temporary workers, in contrast to the total number of 6,592 employees mentioned on p. 4 and in the Company brochure. 2 Incl. smile.direct and Europäische RV. Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Overview of our key figures 46 Group CH DE ES IT AT FR Change compared to previous year 2016 2017 in % 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 Female temporary employment ratio 24.3 24.1 –0.6 31.1 32.3 27.0 25.4 0.3 0.4 11.1 12.6 27.9 28.3 16.5 14.0 GRI 102-8 Male temporary employment ratio 4.0 3.6 –8.7 5.1 5.4 2.1 3.3 0.3 0.0 0.4 0.7 5.7 2.0 0.0 0.0 Total temporary employment ratio 11.2 11.1 –1.4 13.3 13.4 11.5 11.6 0.3 0.2 4.9 5.6 14.2 12.2 9.6 8.1 Diversity ≤ 29 years of age 1,138 1,157 1.6 754 779 113 119 32 33 27 21 172 164 41 42 30 – 39 years of age 1,324 1,337 1.0 740 768 142 140 113 112 91 88 168 158 70 72 40 – 49 years of age 1,888 1,823 –3.4 949 921 244 225 198 209 230 220 181 164 86 84 50 – 59 years of age 1,913 1,942 1.5 1,027 1,042 258 265 176 168 153 154 219 222 80 91 ≥ 60 years of age 428 426 –0.5 238 229 72 62 46 50 18 22 29 37 25 26 Female ratio ≤ 29 years of age 49.5 51.0 3.1 50.2 51.7 48.4 47.3 60.0 63.5 73.8 42.9 39.3 47.7 58.5 57.1 Female ratio 30 – 39 years of age 39.9 40.1 0.4 33.8 34.0 44.5 45.4 65.6 67.0 43.8 47.7 35.7 31.1 60.0 63.8 Female ratio 40 – 49 years of age 35.3 35.4 0.3 28.3 29.2 37.4 38.2 42.5 44.1 41.3 40.1 41.4 38.1 61.8 57.1 Female ratio 50 – 59 years of age 27.8 28.6 2.9 21.7 21.7 30.6 30.4 22.7 22.0 37.7 41.9 40.1 42.5 57.4 59.3 Female ratio ≥ 60 years of age 24.6 24.3 –1.2 19.1 20.0 33.8 29.4 43.8 40.3 16.7 21.9 3.5 9.3 44.0 42.3 Female ratio total 35.8 36.4 1.6 31.4 32.2 37.7 37.5 42.0 42.9 41.5 41.3 37.9 38.6 58.3 58.0 Female ratio in leadership roles 18.1 19.4 7.3 16.5 17.5 10.7 13.5 16.3 18.4 17.1 21.1 19.4 18.5 46.3 44.3 Female ratio in Executive Management 0.0 0.0 – – – 0.0 0.0 14.3 14.3 12.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Female ratio on Board of Directors 20.0 22.2 11.1 – – – – 0.0 14.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 – – Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Overview of our key figures 47 Group CH DE ES IT AT FR 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 Training GRI 404-1 in hours Sales force 52 52 81 41 – 48 – Internal service 16 18 3 20 16 25 12 Total 24 26 15 26 16 34 12 Women 22 25 18 34 15 17 12 Men 26 27 14 20 18 44 12 Executive Board members 18 – 30 74 15 5 2 Management 26 26 33 50 26 5 9 Specialists 11 11 10 6 19 19 13 Clerks 24 33 12 23 14 13 13 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Overview of our key figures 48 Key figures environment GRI 305-1, 305-2, 305-3 Helvetia Group Change compared to previous year Unit 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 20171 in % Consumption absolute Electricity kWh 22,518,241 25,696,263 24,188,445 28,780,787 26,944,323 28,008,985 4.0 Heating kWh 17,071,473 19,008,087 16,915,752 18,421,375 18,815,315 17,602,748 –6.4 Business travel km 29,409,551 34,600,965 33,929,954 49,346,040 47,925,503 50,805,118 6.0 Paper t 728 563 682 528 665 683 2.7 Water m3 209,275 133,533 127,261 113,726 139,011 141,045 1.5 Waste t 1,340 1,189 1,048 1,199 1,276 1,296 1.6 Consumption per FTE Electricity kWh 4,318 4,785 4,509 4,312 4,157 4,228 1.7 Heating kWh 3,274 3,540 3,153 2,760 2,903 2,657 –8.5 Business travel km 5,639 6,443 6,325 7,393 7,395 7,669 3.7 Paper kg 140 105 127 79 103 103 0.5 Water m3 40 25 24 17 21 21 –0.7 Waste kg 257 221 195 180 197 196 –0.6 CO2 emissions absolute Electricity t 5,118 5,149 4,337 572 436 351 –19.4 Heating t 2,618 3,047 2,747 3,116 3,368 2,975 –11.7 Business travel t 7,668 9,137 9,314 11,054 10,696 11,268 5.4 Paper t 876 677 821 636 800 820 2.5 Water t 157 100 95 85 104 106 1.5 Waste t 379 194 206 217 222 244 10.1 Total t 16,816 18,304 17,520 15,679 15,626 15,765 0.9 CO2 emissions per FTE Electricity kg 981 959 808 86 67 53 –21.2 Heating kg 502 567 512 467 520 449 –13.6 Business travel kg 1,470 1,701 1,736 1,656 1,650 1,701 3.1 Paper kg 168 126 153 95 123 124 0.3 Water kg 30 19 18 13 16 16 –0.7 Waste kg 73 36 38 32 34 37 7.7 Total kg 3,224 3,408 3,266 2,349 2,411 2,380 –1.3 1 Calculation of the greenhouse gas emissions was carried out according to the methodology of the Association see statement in appendix for Environmental Management and Sustainability in Financial Institutions (Verein für Umweltmanagement und Nachhaltigkeit in Finanzinstituten e.V., VfU) in the version of the reference year 2012. The environmental key figures of 2017 were audited independently. Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Overview of our key figures 49 Country markets GRI 305-1, 305-2, 305-3 CH DE IT ES AT FR Unit 2017 Trend 2017 Trend 2017 Trend 2017 Trend 2017 Trend 2017 Trend Consumption absolute Electricity kWh 16,307,914 2,320,432 2,784,464 2,167,101 2,166,850 2,262,224 Heating kWh 12,397,439 1,419,192 1,840,314 346,727 1,599,076 – Business travel km 31,768,885 6,640,651 2,937,584 3,121,143 3,383,681 2,953,174 Paper t 238 34 139 107 148 18 Water m 3 55,660 6,116 47,591 7,125 16,315 8,237 Waste t 671 158 83 58 260 66 Consumption per FTE Electricity kWh 4,433 2,865 5,520 3,788 2,910 7,191 Heating kWh 3,370 1,752 3,648 606 2,147 – Business travel km 8,637 8,198 5,823 5,456 4,544 9,387 Paper kg 65 42 275 187 198 56 Water m3 15 8 94 12 22 26 Waste t 182 195 164 101 349 211 CO2-Emissions absolute Total t 9,567 1,915 1,446 840 1,375 622 Electricity t 202 30 33 29 31 27 Heating t 1,649 395 475 90 366 – Business travel t 7,265 1,416 719 568 757 544 Paper t 286 41 167 129 177 21 Water t 42 5 36 5 12 6 Waste t 125 29 17 19 31 23 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Overview of our key figures 50 GRI 305-1, 305-2, 305-3 CH DE IT ES AT FR Unit 2017 Trend 2017 Trend 2017 Trend 2017 Trend 2017 Trend 2017 Trend CO2-Emissions per FTE Total kg 2,601 2,365 2,867 1,468 1,846 1,977 Electricity kg 55 37 65 51 42 85 Heating kg 448 488 942 156 492 – Business travel kg 1,975 1,748 1,425 993 1,017 1,730 Paper kg 78 51 331 225 237 68 Water kg 11 6 71 9 16 20 Waste kg 34 35 33 34 42 75 Decrease by > 2% +/– 2% Change Increase by > 2% compared to previous year Greenhouse gas balance sheet of the Helvetia country companies GRI 305-1, 305-2, 305-3 Greenhouse gas balance sheet of the Helvetia Group 10,000 9,000 7,258 7,639 8,000 7,000 THG 6,000 5,000 4,000 868 3,000 Scope 1 2,000 Scope 2 (market based) Scope 3 1,000 in tonnes CO2 0 CH DE AT FR IT ES Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 in tonnes CO2 Notes 53 About this report 54 GRI Content Index 59 Imprint Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Notes 53 About this report Helvetia Holding AG is for the first time providing information on its corporate responsibility GRI 102-48, 102-49 activities in the entire Group in the form of this report. Reporting for the country markets Switzerland and Spain occurred for the first time for the years 2012 to 2016. The report simul­ taneously serves to disclose the non-financial information of the country market Germany in compliance with the country-specific implementation of the EU Directive 2014/95. The country companies Italy, Austria and Spain publish CR reports independently, which refer to the CR Report of the Helvetia Group. The Helvetia Group issues a CR Report annually. GRI 102-52 Unless stated otherwise, the data and information listed in this CR report of the Helvetia HoldGRI 102-50  ing AG refer to the financial year 2017 (1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017) and supplement the “Company brochure 2017” and the “Financial report 2017”. If the report refers to “Helvetia”, this means the Helvetia Group. We collected the information carefully. Moreover, the environmental key figures published in GRI 102-56 this report were audited by an independent body (limited assurance). see assurance statement in appendix This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. You can find an overview of the standards selected and the corresponding references in the GRI Content Index. At the same time, this report serves as a progress report in the meaning of the UN Global Compact. Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Notes 54 GRI Content Index GRI 102-55  GRI 101: Foundation 2016 General Disclosures Page Comments and further GRI Standard Disclosure number sources Organisational profile GRI 102: 102-1 Name of the organisation Helvetia Insurance General 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and 4 You can find a detailed description Disclosures 2016 services in the Company brochure 2017 pp. 19–34. 102-3 Location of headquarters 4 102-4 Location of operations 4 102-5 Ownership and legal form 4 Helvetia Holding AG with its registered office in St. Gallen is a Swiss limited company listed on the Swiss stock market (SIX). 102-6 Markets served 4 Company brochure 2017 p. 19 102-7 Scale of the organisation 4 Company brochure 2017 pp. 2, 41 Financial report 2017, pp. 4–5 102-8 Information on employees 45 Helvetia did not employ any and other workers supervisory employees in the year under review. 102-9 Supply chain 28 102-10 Significant changes to the There were no important changes in organisation and its supply chain the corporate structure in the year under review (e.g. acquisitions or sales) compared to the previous year. 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 26 Financial report 2017, pp. 4–5 Company brochure 2017 pp. 42–43 102-12 External initiatives 14 102-13 Membership of associations 14 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 3 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and 7 Helvetia’s values, Company policy, norms of behaviour Code of Compliance Governance 102-18 Governance structure 11 Financial report 2017, pp. 10–34 25 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Notes 55 Page Comments and further GRI Standard Disclosure number sources GRI 102: Stakeholder engagement General 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 13–14 Disclosures 2016 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 36–37 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 12 102-43 Approach to stakeholder 12 engagement 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 13–14 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated Financial report 2017, pp. 183–184 financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic 8 Boundaries 102-47 List of material topics 8–9 102-48 Restatements of information 53 102-49 Changes in reporting 53 102-50 Reporting period 53 102-51 Date of most recent report This is the first report of the Helvetia Group. 102-52 Reporting cycle 53 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding 59 the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance 53 with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI Content Index 54 102-56 External assurance 53 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Notes 56 Material topics Page GRI Standard Disclosure number Omission and further sources Sustainable insurance offering GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 17 Management Approach and its boundary 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 17 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 18 approach Specific Standard FS8: Monetary value of products and services 18 Disclosures for Financial designed to deliver specific environmental Services: Product Port­ benefit for each business line broken down folio 2013 by purpose Sustainable investments GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 19 Management Approach and its boundary 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 19–20 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 20 approach Specific Standard FS11: Percentage of assets subject to positive 19 The share of assets with ESG audit Disclosures for Financial and negative environmental or social can currently only be compared Services: Active Ownerscreening to financial assets. Future data ship 2013 collection for other assets is being examined. Customer expectations and protection GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 21 Management and its boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 21–23 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 21–23 approach GRI 417: 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concern21 Marketing and ing product and service information and Labelling 2016 labelling GRI 418: 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning 22 Customer Privacy 2016 breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Notes 57 Page GRI Standard Disclosure number Omission and further sources Corporate Governance GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 24 Management and its boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 24–25 Financial report 2017, pp. 10–34 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 26 approach GRI 205: 205-2 Communication and training about 26 Anti-corruption 2016 anti-corruption policies and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption 26 and actions taken GRI 419: 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regula26 Socioeconomic tions in the social and economic area Compliance 2016 Risk management GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 26 Company brochure 2017 Management and its boundary pp. 42–43 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 26–27 Company brochure 2017 components pp. 42–43 103-3 Evaluation of the management 27 approach (Own indicator) Number of major projects reviewed The question is being examined whether the number of audited major projects can be collected as an indicator for the measurement of this subject for future reporting. Sustainable procurement GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 28 Management Apand its boundary proach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 28–30 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 29 approach (Own indicator) For future reporting, the development of an independent indicator is planned with which the subject of sustainable procurement can be measured. GRI 305: 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 28 Emissions 2016 50 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) 28 GHG emissions 50 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) 28 GHG emissions 50 Employee motivation GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 31 Company brochure 2017 Management and its boundary pp. 40–41 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 32–33 Company brochure 2017 components pp. 40–41 103-3 Evaluation of the management 34 approach Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Notes 58 Page GRI Standard Disclosure number Omission and further sources GRI 404: 404-1 Average hours of training per year per 34 Training and Education employee 35 2016 47 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving 35–36 regular performance and career development reviews Employee commitment GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 36 Management and its boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach 36–37 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 36 approach (Own indicator) Employee satisfaction 36 Public Policy GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 38 Management and its boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach 38–39 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 39 approach GRI 415: 415-1 Political contributions 39 Public Policy 2016 Corporate Citizenship GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 40 Management and its boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach 40–42 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 40 approach (Own indicator) Community Investments 40 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Notes 59 Imprint The Corporate Responsibility Report of the Helvetia Group is available in German and English. Points of contact Helvetia Insurance GRI 102-53 Dr Alexandra Sauer St. Alban-Anlage 26 4002 Basel, Switzerland E-mail: cr@helvetia.ch Texts Alexandra Sauer, Helvetia Insurance GRI Reporting Advice BSD Consulting, Zurich Copyright © 2018 by Helvetia Group, St. Gallen Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Notes 60 Ernst & Young Ltd Phone +41 58 286 31 11 Maagplatz 1 Fax +41 58 286 30 04 P.O. Box www.ey.com/ch CH-8010 Zurich To the group management of Helvetia Holding AG, Basel Zurich, 20 April 2018 Independent assurance report We have undertaken a limited assurance engagement of the following quantitative key performance indicators (KPIs) disclosed in Helvetia Holding AG’s Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 for the reporting period starting from 1 January 2017 and ending on 31 December 2017: ∂ Information regarding electricity from renewable sources in chapter “Development of CO2 emissions” on page 30 ∂ Environmental indicators including the allocation to CO2 emissions from Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 in the chapter “Key figures environment” on page 48 Limitations of the engagement Our engagement was limited to the information listed above. We have not assessed the following KPIs or information disclosed in the report: ∂ Information other than the sustainability KPIs indicated above ∂ KPIs related to previous reporting periods ∂ Qualitative and future oriented statements Responsibility of Helvetia Holding AG The management of Helvetia Holding AG is responsible for the preparation of the disclosed KPIs in accordance with the applicable criteria. This responsibility includes the design, implementation and maintenance of internal controls relevant to the preparation of KPIs that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Applicable criteria Helvetia Holding AG defined as applicable criteria (hereafter “applicable criteria”): ∂ VfU, Verein für Umweltmanagement und Nachhaltigkeit in Finanzinstituten (2013 Version) A summary of the guidelines can be inquired on https://vfu.de/. We believe that these criteria are a suitable basis for our review. The quantification of greenhouse gases (GHG) is subject to inherent uncertainty because of incomplete scientific knowledge used to determine emissions factors and the values needed to combine emissions of different gases. Independence and Quality Control We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA Code), which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. The firm applies the International Standard on Quality Control 1 and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Notes 61 Ernst & Young Ltd Phone +41 58 286 31 11 Maagplatz 1 Fax +41 58 286 30 04 P.O. Box www.ey.com/ch CH-8010 Zurich Our responsibility Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the above mentioned KPIs based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained. We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3410, Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements (“ISAE 3410”), issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. This standard requires that we plan and perform this engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether the KPIs are free from material misstatement. In accordance with the engagement agreement, our duty of care for this engagement only extends to the management of Helvetia Holding AG. A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement in relation to both the risk assessment procedures, including an understanding of internal control, and the procedures performed in response to the assessed risks. The selection of procedures depend on the auditor’s professional judgment. This includes the assessment of the risks of material misstatements in the report with regard to the applicable criteria. The procedures we performed included inquiries, observation of processes performed, inspection of documents, analytical procedures, evaluating the appropriateness of quantification methods and reporting policies, and agreeing or reconciling with underlying records. Summary of work performed Our limited assurance procedures included, amongst others, the following work: ∂ Assessment of the suitability of the underlying criteria and their consistent application ∂ Inquiries of company’s representatives in Switzerland and Germany who are responsible for collecting, consolidating and calculating the KPIs in order to assess the process of preparing the data, the reporting system, the data capture and compilation methods as well as internal controls to the extent relevant for the limited assurance engagement ∂ Inspection of the relevant documentation of the systems and processes for compiling, analyzing, and aggregating sustainability data and testing such documentation on a sample of basis ∂ Analytical procedures and inspection of documents on a sample basis with respect to the compilation and reporting of quantitative data The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had we performed a reasonable assurance engagement. Accordingly we do not express a reasonable assurance opinion about whether Helvetia’s KPIs have been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the applicable criteria. Our conclusion Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the above mentioned KPIs are not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the applicable criteria. Ernst & Young Ltd Roger Müller Mark Veser Partner Senior Manager (Translation of the original report in German language) 05.18 12-11541 Helvetia Insurance T 058 280 10 00 (24 h), www.helvetia.com
