Corporate Social Responsibility Progress Report 2017 Index 4 Letter from the CEO 6 Össur at a Glance 9 Vision and Values 10 Össur’s Approach to Corporate Social Responsibility 13 Human Rights and Labor Practices 18 Equal Opportunities and Diversity 24 Environment and Quality 26 Environmental Compliance Obligations 30 Anti-Corruption 31 Compliance 32 Support and Responsibility 4 | CSR REPORT Letter from the CEO At Össur, we take seriously our mission to improve people’s mobility. We are constantly Inspiration striving to change the perception of people who have disabilities by providing products that We have so many examples of triumph and success in our business that there is no help them live life without limitations. Delivering the highest standard of products to our shortage of inspiration. In 2017, Team Össur succeeded at the IPC Para Athletics World users allows them to get back on their feet and that is the most important responsibility we Championships winning 15 medals, and there are countless stories of our users pushing the have—it is our contribution to society. At the same time, we aspire to maintain the highest boundaries of limitation. We are also happy to have been voted one of the “Top Workplaces” standards of ethical, environmental and social responsibility. in Orange County, California, as well as being named the most popular company in Iceland. Mid-year, our #MyWinningMoment campaign, which celebrates overcoming individual Health Economics challenges, was nominated for two Digital Communications Award. This fantastic program We have always committed ourselves to research and development. In the prosthetics shows the courage and tenacity our users embody as they face any obstacle in their path segment, Össur has created products that imitate the functions of the human body, as towards living life without limitations. The success of our users enables us to take pride in closely as possible. This means users have increased opportunities to be active, be able to everything we do. work and be able to take care of their families. Thanks to our prosthetics products, users are less likely to need assistance from the healthcare system. In our bracing and supports Looking Forward segment, we adhere to what we call an indication-based approach. This means we focus on Our passion for what we do make us stand out. Guided by our mission to improve people’s medically indicated and clinically validated product development, offering both users and mobility, and our vision to be an industry leader in non-invasive orthopaedics, Össur rises to any challenge that might emerge. Our drive for innovation enables us to provide premier healthcare systems effective and efficient alternative treatments to well known indications. solutions for all who face mobility challenges. We would like to thank our amazing employees, We believe this approach offers more sustainability as we focus on identifying conditions, and customers, and users, as well as our shareholders for making this possible. We look forward offer valuable solutions and alternative treatments for both the healthcare system and the user. to continuing to work with all of you as we invest in our bright future. Sustainable Product Design and Product Cycle In 2017, the Research & Development department initiated a pilot project in our design process, the aim of which was to minimize the environmental impact of our products throughout their lifecycle. We are pleased that we have been invited to participate in a Nordic Project on Circular Economy, which will assist us in taking this effort to the next level. Jon Sigurdsson The Nordic Project is expected to take place through 2018, providing us with important Össur President and CEO knowledge and support. CSR REPORT | 5 6 | CSR REPORT Össur at a Glance We Improve People’s Mobility help these individuals regain their mobility by developing, producing, and providing them Össur is a global leader in non-invasive orthopaedics; innovating, producing, and providing with prosthetic and bracing solutions. advanced technological solutions within prosthetics and bracing & supports. Our mission is to improve the mobility of our users, so they can live their Life Without Limitations®. In 2017 alone, our solutions helped millions of users Össur was founded in 1971 and has since grown through innovation and acquisitions in improve their mobility, so they can live their life both prosthetics and bracing & supports. Today, Össur has a strong global position in the without limitations. industry and key markets, being the second largest player worldwide in both segments and in a good position to leverage future growth opportunities. Össur has been listed since 1999 World Class Innovation Capabilities and since 2009 on Nasdaq Copenhagen. Össur has operations in over 25 countries and Össur is a pioneer of advanced technology where the brand recognition is based on innovative more than 3,000 employees. and scientifically-proven solutions that deliver effective clinical outcomes. By listening and understanding people’s needs and pushing the boundaries of technology, Össur continues Our Users Are at the Core of Everything We Do to create some of the best products and services available in the fields of prosthetics and Every year there are individuals who are born without a limb or lose a limb at different stages bracing & supports. Every year between 4-5% of Össur’s sales is re-invested in research & of their life due to vascular diseases, diabetes or trauma. There are also individuals who development with roughly 150 full-time employees working on new innovative products. develop knee pain, are diagnosed with osteoarthritis in their joints, incur fractures to their In 2017 Össur introduced more than 30 prosthetics products and more than 10 bracing & ligaments or injure themselves resulting in movement impairment. Össur’s mission is to supports products to the market. Americas EMEA APAC 44 % 49 % 7% Organic growth: 1% Organic growth: 7% Organic growth: 15% FTEs: ~1200 FTEs: ~1200 FTEs: ~150 HQ FTEs: ~450 CSR REPORT | 7 Segments Össur operates within two market segments of the orthopaedic market: bracing & supports and prosthetics. Prosthetic products include artificial limbs and related products for amputees. Bracing & supports products are primarily used to support joints and other body parts, both for preventive and therapeutic purposes. BRACING 50% PROSTHETICS 50% & SUPPORTS of total sales of total sales Sub-segment User profile Improving mobility Sub-segment User profile Improving mobility Injury solutions People recovering from Products stabilizing joints Mechanical People living with lower Broad product oﬀering fractures, ligament injuries and improving healing extremity amputation of lower extremity or need a post operative solutions prosthetics treatment OA solutions People living with Non surgical treatment Bionic People living with lower Advanced microprocessor osteoarthritis by unloading aﬀected joint and upper extremity controlled feet, knees, hands with braces solutions amputation and fingers 8 | CSR REPORT CSR REPORT | 9 Vision and Values Össur’s core values ensure successful Össur’s vision is to be the leading company in non-invasive orthopaedics. Össur’s business is improving people’s mobility cooperation and partnerships, and are the through innovative technologies within the fields of bracing and supports and prosthetics. Össur will continue to generate foundation for our strategy and success. value for individuals and healthcare systems by focusing the business strategy on innovation, efficiency and sustainable growth. OUR VALUES Stay True Innovation Growth Efficiency Execute Ideas that add Value Sustainable Growth Do Business Efficiently We embrace innovation in all our We will achieve growth by We strive to increase efficiency and Make Every Step Count actions by creating value successfully commercializing our drive continuous improvement. for our customers. innovation through our local go-tomarket strategy and commitment We run efficient operations in We will be at the forefront of to our customers’ needs. the most optimal locations, hire Aim Higher ­­indication-related innovation to passionate employees and deliver ensure our consistently strong We will further develop our strong profit and cash flow. position in the market. business and leverage untapped market opportunities. 10 | CSR REPORT Össur’s Approach to Corporate Social Responsibility Scope of Reporting Environment, Social and Corporate Governance (ESG) disclosure to support companies This Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) report constitutes the statutory report for listed on these exchanges. The Nasdaq’s voluntary reporting guide focuses on the 33 ESG the Icelandic Financial Statements Act, section 66d, regarding social responsibility, metrics that the World Federation of Exchanges (WFE) has recommended to stock exchanges environmental matters, human rights and anti-corruption and bribery, and the EU Directive around the world. Össur has chosen to report in accordance with these guidelines. on disclosure of non-financial and diversity information (2014/95/EU). UK’s Modern Slavery Act The CSR report is published annually and covers the calendar year 2017. This report also As stated in Össur’s Code of Conduct, the Company complies, both in letter and spirit, with functions as the Communication on Progress (COP) to the UN Global Compact, Össur’s all applicable laws, rules and regulations in conducting its business. In addition, Össur has statement under Section 54 of the UK’s Modern Slavery Act 2015, and the California a Human Rights policy supporting all internationally recognized human rights, including Transparency in Supply Chain. Össur also follows the Nasdaq ESG Reporting Guide, issued labor rights as in the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business & Human Rights in in March 2017. the United Nations Global Compact. This includes preventing slavery and human trafficking occurring in any of the Company’s activities. The Code of Conduct and Human Rights policy This report contains an overview of the company’s approach to CSR, as well as key are available at ossur.com/CSR measurements and progress. It discusses various aspects within social responsibility and how the Company approaches the subject. Össur identifies its critical focus areas, and Össur’s risk assessment shows there is no material risk of child labor or forced labor addresses related projects, scope and initiatives in this report. The report includes data associated with its operations. However, Össur recognizes that, in relation to suppliers and supporting the progress Össur has made addressing CSR. other third party business partners, there is a risk. To mitigate this risk Össur has screened its business partners in high-risk areas and conducts audits on product suppliers. In addition, California Transparency in Supply Chain Act business partners and raw material suppliers working with Össur are required to sign and The California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010 became effective on January 1, confirm Össur’s Supplier Code. Further details can be found in the chapters on supply chain 2012. The act declares that slavery and human trafficking are crimes under state, federal, and anti-corruption. and international law, and requires that retailers and manufacturers doing business in the state of California disclose their efforts to eradicate slavery and human trafficking from their UN Global Compact direct supply chain. Össur has an operation in California, conducting sales, marketing and In 2011, Össur formally committed to the UN Global Compact. Össur research and development of bracing and support products. As discussed in this report, is committed to maintaining high standards of ethical, environmental Össur has systems in place to evaluate and audit its supply chain to ensure slavery and and social responsibility. The company’s values—Honesty, Frugality and human trafficking do not exist. Courage—serve as the foundation and driving force behind Össur’s culture. These values guide employees in their day-to-day activities and in their decision-making. The Nasdaq ESG Guidelines structure and reporting in this report covers the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact in In March 2017, Nasdaq’s Nordic and Baltic exchanges issued voluntary guidelines for the following chapters: Human Rights, Labor Practices, Environment and Anti-Corruption. CSR REPORT | 11 UN Global Compact Principles The UN Global Compact is the world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative. It is a call to companies to align strategies and operations with universal principles on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption, and take actions that advance societal goals. By committing to sustainability, businesses can take shared responsibility for achieving a better world. UN Women’s Empowerment Principles HUMAN RIGHTS • Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed The Women’s Empowerment Principles are a set of principles for businesses human rights offering guidance on how to empower women in the workplace, marketplace • Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses and community. They are the result of collaboration between the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN LABOR Women) and the United Nations Global Compact. • Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining • Establish high-level corporate leadership for gender equality • Businesses should eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor • Treat all women and men fairly at work – respect and support human rights • Businesses should abolish all child labor and nondiscrimination • Businesses should eliminate discrimination in respect of employment • Ensure the health, safety and well-being of all employees regardless of gender and occupation • Promote education, training and professional development for women • Implement enterprise development, supply chain and marketing practices that ENVIRONMENT empower women • Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges • Promote equality through community initiatives and advocacy • Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental • Measure and publicly report on progress to achieve gender equality responsibility • Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies ANTI-CORRUPTION • Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 12 | CSR REPORT Overview of Main Initiatives That Focus On Supporting the Global Compact Principles Environment Labor Practices Human Rights Anti-Corruption Össur works in accordance with the Össur is determined to offer a safe Össur’s most comprehensive project Global processes and procedures have ISO 14001 environmental management workplace. In fact, two of Össur primary regarding human rights has been been established to better evaluate the system and all its main manufacturing goals are providing a safe workplace audits on product suppliers in Asia. Company’s main risk areas. locations are certified. and eliminating discrimination in any Other activities include clauses and An internal training program has been form. declarations with respect to human established, containing both online rights in contracts with business training and face-to-face training. partners. Areas of Action: • Össur has published its goals • Constant monitoring of • Audits on health and safety and fire • Screening and risk assessment for 2020 on the reduction of procedures and measurements ­ protection at product suppliers in of business partners in high-risk greenhouse gases of a safe workplace Asia areas • Continued increase of employee • Audit on equal pay for equal • Social and compliance audits at • Training and maintaining awareness responsibility in accordance with product suppliers in Asia awareness ISO 85:2012 in 2017 • Review and improve processes • Signed declarations by business • Special focus on employees with • Women‘s initiative in the O&P partners on human rights responsibilities in high-risk areas industry CSR REPORT | 13 Human Rights and Labor Practices Human Rights Össur respects and supports internationally recognized human rights, including labor rights as stated in the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, as framed in the first six principles of the UN Global Compact. Össur has a Human Rights policy supporting all internationally recognized human rights, including labor rights. As stated in Össur’s Human Rights Policy the Company is committed to comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations in relation to human rights, which covers areas such as forced labor, slavery, child labor, sex trafficking, human trafficking, workplace abuse or any other form of discrimination as outlined in Össur’s Human Rights Policy. Össur encourages its employees to report any suspected violation. Össur prohibits any retaliatory actions against good faith reporting of actual or suspected violations. Furthermore, Össur expects its business partners and all other strategic partners to understand and address the Company’s expectations related to human rights. Read Össur’s Human Rights Policy in full at ossur.com/CSR Below are social measurements in accordance with the ESG guidance from Nasdaq Nordic: Social Metrics Social Metrics Measurement Comments S1 CEO Pay Ratio 25 S2 Gender Pay Ratio Audits: equal pay for equal Össur Headquarters is audited in accordance responsibility with the ISO standard on Equal pay for Equal responsibility ISO 85:2012 and Össur Americas complies with the Equal Pay Act in the USA S3 Employee Turnover Ratio 13% Excluding Mexico S4 Gender Diversity Male 52%, Female 48% Historically Össur has had good balance beetwen male and female employees S5 Temporary Worker Ratio 2.7 S6 Non-Discrimination Policy In Place Össur Policies S7 Injury rate 1.3 S8 Global Health and Safety policy In Place Össur Policies S9 Child & Forced Labor Policy In Place Össur Policies S10 Human Rights Policy In Place Össur Policies S11 Human Rights Violations None No Human rights violations were reported in 2017 S12 Board Diversity Men 60%, Women 40% No employees have a seat on the Board 14 | CSR REPORT Employees Participate In Community Support Össur encourages employees to participate in community service, and each year initiatives are supported by employee participation in various events. In Mexico, for example, employees bought Christmas presents for children in orphanage homes. For the past two years, Össur employees in Mexico have also participated in “Help a Senior,” a program where employees visit a retirement home for the homeless. The employees bring necessities to the home and also spend time with retirees, playing lotto, singing and playing cards. The employees are happy to make a difference in their community. These programs are so successful Össur Mexico has received recognition from the Tijuana Government FilantroRed program. CSR REPORT | 15 Occupational Health and Safety The health and safety of Össur’s employees are two of the Company’s most important priorities. Thirteen Össur locations around the world take part in the Safety Program, the key focus areas of which are Employee Safety, Operational Safety and Employee Participation. The program’s goal is to continually improve the safety management system to ensure a safe work place. The Workplace Within Employee Safety the aim is to identify, prevent and eliminate job related risk through Össur employs over 3,000 people in more than 25 countries. Össur’s values a Job Hazard Analysis (JHA). In 2017, a total of 251 potential risks were identified and encourage employees to take social, ethical, and environmental stands beyond the 74% were eliminated or controlled by the end of the year. Össur monitors Total Recordable Company’s legal obligations. In addition, these values help the Company adapt Incidents per 100 employees and in 2017 it was 1.3 compared to 1.6 in 2016. There were 25 to the various cultures in which it conducts business. Every day, employees make incidents in 2017, which caused a lost day, compared to 21 in 2016. decisions that can impact the Company. It’s of great importance that employees understand the impact of their decisions and consider the Company’s possible gains or losses in terms of financial value, as well as environmental or social value. MEASUREMENTS ON SAFETY Measurement Indicator 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Goal 2018 Due to both the location of Össur’s manufacturing units and the skills needed with regards to manufacturing operations at Össur, the Company considers forced Incidents per 100 employees 2.2 2.0 3.4 1.6 1.3 1.0 labor and child labor a limited risk. At Össur, all employees have the freedom of Incidents causing a lost day 12 16 28 21 25 0 association and the HR department engages in dialogue with employees informing them of their rights on a regular basis. Job Hazard Analysis (JHA) 60% 74% percentage of eliminated risks However, Össur is aware that this might be different when it comes to the Company’s suppliers. Accordingly, Össur has procedures in place for approving suppliers, and Operational Safety is an important part of the safety management system. Össur works the Company runs special audits on product suppliers in Asia; see further details in systematically on raising awareness of Property Loss Control by performing local operational the chapter on the Company’s supply chain. audits quarterly, and external audits every third year at all major manufacturing and warehouse locations. Audit results are used to continually improve the system and thereby sustain business availability. 16 | CSR REPORT Employee Participation is crucial to maintain a culture of continual safety improvement, Safety Policy and Össur employees are encouraged to submit ideas to improve the safety of their work environment. The total number of employee ideas implemented in 2017 was around 9,700. Safety is our first priority and part of everything we do. Össur operates at all Suggestions relating to workplace safety accounted for 14 percent of ideas, while other times in accordance with relevant health and safety standards, and all employees suggestions dealt with delivery performance, environment, quality, efficiency, personal are committed to providing a safe and hazard-free workplace. Continuous development and general improvements of the working environment. improvement and preventive measures are the key to our safety program. Össur strives to promote the importance of a healthy lifestyle to its employees and end-users. Össur offers employees regular health checks and promotes preventive health measures. Program Strategy Additionally, Össur supports and promotes activities meant to improve employee health, such as running and cycling events that raise money for charity. To continually improve our safety management system to ensure a safe work place. Equally, Össur strives to educate reimbursement authorities and relevant healthcare professionals, as well as the Company’s end-users, about the importance of staying mobile. Mobility and general health and well-being is very important, and even more important for 1 amputees and people with impaired mobility. Össur tests and researches the effectiveness of its products to promote health economics and benefits for healthcare systems and endusers. EMPLOYEE SAFETY ÖSSUR SAFETY Focus Areas 2 3 EMPLOYEE OPERATIONAL PARTICIPATION SAFETY CSR REPORT | 17 18 | CSR REPORT Equal Opportunities and Diversity Össur nurtures a spirit of innovation, offering an open and vibrant environment where an environment where both men and women can perform and contribute to the Company’s each employee can achieve his or her full potential. The Company’s values—Honesty, success. To support the equal opportunity plan, Össur ensures that recruiting and internal Frugality, and Courage—guide the employees in their day-to-day activities and decisionpromotion strategies are aligned. The Company’s goal is to utilize the skills, strengths and making. Employees strive to live these values in their interactions with both colleagues and knowledge of all employees without gender-based discrimination. customers. Össur recruits competent and ambitious individuals who are capable of working on Össur has more than 3,000 employees working in more than 25 countries. The Company’s demanding projects and the Company is proud to be able to provide advancement employees are a diverse group, but they work as one to improve people’s mobility. In a opportunities to its employees. Hiring decisions are based on the skills and abilities of global company like Össur, employees and stakeholders interact with people from many the potential employee. When recruiting for open positions, the Company makes an effort different cultures and backgrounds. Therefore, diversity must be addressed. To build a to source diverse candidates, which often includes posting open positions on job sites strong and successful team of employees in a global company, diversity in its broadest sense targeting women, minorities, disabled persons and military veterans. is important. Different functions of the Company require different types of skillsets. For each and every employee to thrive and add value to the Company, it is essential for them to be assigned appropriately challenging tasks, and to be trusted to take on broad responsibilities. Women In Management Positions Össur has systematically monitored and measured the development of women in The encouragement of a diverse workplace benefits the Company because diversity brings management positions for years. In 2017, we saw a 60% increase of women in EVP and VP a myriad of perspectives from which to make decisions, ultimately leading to better results. roles, as well as a 21% increase of women in senior management. Due to the proportionally Össur wants to be an attractive workplace. To reach that goal the Company needs to create large group of middle and first management, where female members have decreased by 1 %, the overall split between male and female employees remains the same at 33% women and 67% men. The Company is pleased with these results and feels that it has been successful Gender Ratio in Össur Management in its goal to increase the number of woman in management positions. Össur will continue to advocate for women in management positions, primarily women in middle management, as they are the potential talent pool for higher positions. 33% The number of women in management positions has 52% 48% increased, particularly at the Company’s higher level. Female in management positions CSR REPORT | 19 Demonstrating Össur’s commitment to diversity, the Americas region joined the California Diversity Council in 2015, an affiliate of the National Diversity Council. The Council is a non#METOO profit organization that seeks to champion diversity in both businesses and communities Social icon Circle Össur takes the message from the #MeToo movement seriously. across the nation in order to create a truly open society where everyone is valued for their Only use blue and/or white. For more details check out our Brand Guidelines. The Company has for a long time had a policy of not tolerating unique perspective and viewpoint. Össur, along with other employers in the Council, will sexual harassment or discrimination of any kind. To show champion diversity in the community, host multi-cultural roundtables, participate in Women support for the #Metoo movement, Össur has increasingly In Leadership Symposiums, and offer education, development and networking opportunities emphasized its non-discriminatory policies, making information and for members. guidelines more conspicuous. In 2017 Össur Americas launched a new antiharassment training to educate leaders on unlawful harassment and other social issues that can impede diversity. Managers are required to complete Women in management positions by management level this training every two years. EVP & VP Senior Mgmt. Middle & First Management 50 39% 40 38% 37% 35% 36% 29% 30 20% 21% 21% 21% 20 19% 17% 18% Össur’s operation in California has been listed as one of Orange 15% 16% 10 County’s Top Workplaces of 2017, for the midsized company group, or organizations with 35-499 employees. Össur ranked 30th out of the top 40 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 companies which is a great honor and demonstrates that the employees value Össur as a great place to work. The companies included in The Orange County Register’s Top Workplaces list were selected based on a Audit on Equal Remuneration survey of employees measuring qualities such as company leadership, Since 2014, Össur has conducted an external audit focusing on the equal remuneration compensation and training, workplace flexibility and diversity. for equal responsibility. In 2016, Össur decided to follow an Icelandic standard on equal remuneration for equal responsibility, IST 85:2012, which is audited by a third party. Össur For the eighth year in a row, Össur has been named one of Iceland’s had its first audit under the IST 85:2012 in 2017 and was among the first companies in Strongest Companies. Only 2.2% of Icelandic companies passed the Iceland to be audited in accordance with this standard. In the Americas, salary audits on all financial conditions to appear on the list, which includes a total of 870 employees are conducted annually as part of standard compensation review procedures and companies. Össur finished in 6th place overall. in accordance with the Equal Pay Act. 20 | CSR REPORT United Nations Women’s Empowerment Principles In 2016, the women’s leadership initiative hosted its first conference, and the first Women’s Encouraging diversity in the workplace helps the Company gain diverse perspectives, which Leadership Conference in the O&P industry. The second conference was hosted by Össur leads to better decision-making and results. Össur signed the United Nations Women’s in September 2017. The conference was well attended and attracted a diverse group of Empowerment Principles in May 2014. professionals from 14 states in the US and Canada, including two men. The purpose of the Össur Women’s Leadership Conference is to bring together a diverse mix of successful Women’s Leadership Initiative to Encourage Diversity in the Industry women leaders who, by discussing topics that pertain to today’s O&P professionals, will Since 2014, Össur has been working on a Women’s Leadership Initiative (ÖWLI). The aim of educate, inspire, and encourage attendees to reflect on their own goals as they strive to the initiative is to encourage greater diversity and inclusiveness in the Orthotic and Prosthetic advance within their profession. (O&P) industry. The program is intended to support O&P practitioners by providing a new forum that encourages interaction, community-building and educational opportunities that In addition to the annual conference there are various activities during the year, such as serve the needs of the growing number of women in the field. Currently, the initiative is regular blogs and educational webinars. Each quarter, the blog highlighted one woman in focused on the US market, the Company’s largest market. Women currently comprise about O&P in a feature entitled, “Women in O&P Leadership.” Each individual highlighted was 20% of all O&P professionals in the US. This number has more than doubled over the past nominated by her peers as an example of a leader in the profession. Additionally, this year decade, and women now comprise more than half of all students enrolled in graduate-level the blog expanded to include guest contributors including four Ossur employees and two O&P programs. practitioners who are ÖWLI registrants. ÖWLI also held three educational webinars on the topics of Time Management, Finding a Sponsor, and Building Confidence. These webinars Goals: averaged 45 registrants each and were opened up to Ossur employees as well. • Engage inclusively with both men and women to provide development support to female practitioners In 2017, ÖWLI was also proud to sponsor the first OPGA Woman of the Year award given to • Bring awareness to gender biases in the workplace and practices that promote diversity a female in O&P who contributed above and beyond to the profession. ÖWLI also provided • Create a forum for female practitioners to network and provide support to one another a travel scholarship awarded to a female student presenting research at the American • Establish a greater number of female role models for future practitioners Academy for Orthotics and Prosthetics national symposium. • Create a positive and balanced perception of both male and female industry leaders In the first year, ÖWLI garnered 150 registrants comprised of O&P Practitioners, residents and students. To-date this number has doubled to 300 subscribers who also include members from industry professional organizations and Össur employees, and includes registrants from Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Columbia, Iceland, India, Mexico, Sweden, and the UK. CSR REPORT | 21 Supply Chain In addition to business impact, any supplier that provides a component that could cause Össur manufactures its products in five locations. The two main manufacturing locations unreasonable risk to the end-user, clinician or others involved is now defined as a critical are Iceland and Mexico. Smaller locations are in France, the UK and the US. In addition, supplier and, as such, stricter controls are applied. Suppliers that reach a score of 80 points Össur has product suppliers in Asia, which manufacture bracing and supports products. or more on the scale of 100 are considered to show “good results”, score in the range of 65-80 is considered acceptable and score below 65 is not acceptable. In 2017 92% of the Bracing and supports products are manufactured in Mexico, France and by suppliers in critical suppliers scored above 65. Following each evaluation, the results are sent to the Asia. The vast majority of the Company’s prosthetic products are manufactured in Iceland; suppliers along with feedback, as well as opportunities for improvement. Suppliers who do however, smaller locations are in the UK, France and Michigan. The Company’s main not deliver results in line or above the Company’s target are offered the opportunity to adapt distribution centers are in Holland and the US. All manufacturing locations and distribution accordingly, and in some instances suppliers are replaced. centers have adopted lean manufacturing processes in addition to extensive loss prevention initiatives which are focused on both personal and plant safety. In previous years Össur has been working on getting suppliers to sign statements on Human Rights and Anti-Corruption and Bribery and at yearend 2016 90% had signed Raw Material Suppliers such statements. In 2018 these statements will be replaced by a Supplier Code covering Össur has more than 800 active suppliers, of which about 200 are considered critical. The Human Rights, Health & Safety, Working Environment, Environmental Compliance and Anticritical suppliers are evaluated annually. In 2015, it was decided to change the definition of Corruption. The code will be an appendix to all contracts and agreements with suppliers a critical supplier from a business and health risk to more patient focused measurements. going forward, replacing statements and clauses in previous agreements. Read Össur’s Supplier Code in full on ossur.com/CSR Measurements on raw material suppliers RAW MATERIAL SUPPLIERS 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Evaluation of critical suppliers – portion of suppliers evaluated with good and 84% 85% 95% 88% 92% acceptable results Critical raw material suppliers that have signed clauses on human rights and n/a 56% 88% 90% n/a* anti-corruption *To be replaced by supplier code 22 | CSR REPORT Product Suppliers Responsible Sourcing The Asia Manufacturing and Sourcing team is responsible for the product suppliers in Asia, In 2016, Össur established a process for the responsible sourcing of suppliers. The process i.e. suppliers that fully manufacture products for Össur. The division consists of a team guides the employees in the decision making process when selecting a new partner, as well of 11 people. The team works closely with the suppliers, and on average there are one to as through the regular auditing process for product suppliers in Asia. The process offers two Össur employees at each supplier, up to three days every week. Össur and its partners guidance on what Össur is willing to accept in terms of performance of social parameters. are instructed to follow a special code of conduct and all contracts address human rights If a supplier receives an A or B it is considered to be in good order and will be audited again clauses with special focus on compensation and health and safety. in 12 months. However, if a supplier receives a C or D a follow up audit will be performed in six months. For suppliers that do not achieve the required grade, Össur has certain criteria In 2017, two new product suppliers were on-boarded into Össur’s supplier auditing program. for what percentage of non-conformities need to be resolved, including all critical nonThe new suppliers previously worked with companies Össur acquired in 2016. Both are in conformities. The suppliers will have two chances to fulfill the requirements, and if these Asia. During the year agreements with two suppliers were discontinued. At yearend 2017, the requirements are not met Össur will reevaluate possibilities for further cooperation. total number of product suppliers was eight. To ensure compliance with Össur’s ethical standards, external parties audit suppliers Audits on product suppliers 2014 2015 2016 2017 annually on social compliance and human rights in addition to audits performed by Össur Social compliance audit* √ √ √ √ employees. To improve the risk profile of its suppliers, Össur has hosted risk and safety seminars, educating and training the Company’s strategic product suppliers in order to Fire and safety audit ** √ √ √ √ improve processes. To follow up, Össur has an external party auditing its strategic product Internal audits* (audits performed by suppliers with regards to risk and safety on a regular basis. Össur uses the results to help √ √ √ √ Össur employees) suppliers make progress and to develop their operations. All of the suppliers have welcomed *All suppliers manufacturing outsourced products. this cooperation and Össur’s willingness to assist them in further building their business. **Strategic product suppliers manufacturing over 90% of outsourced products. Product Suppliers In Asia – Main Milestones 2009 2010 2011 2014 2014 2015/16 2017 First Internal Signed First Fire Fire Annual internal audits the Global social and TUV protection protection follow up audits 2x pr. year Compact compliance audit seminar at audits audit strategic product suppliers CSR REPORT | 23 24 | CSR REPORT Environment and Quality Quality Össur has had a certified Quality Management system in place since 1993 and it’s based upon ISO management standards. Össur is currently certified with ISO13485 and ISO14001. The Quality Management system also complies with the applicable medical device regulations in the countries that Össur sells to, including but not limited to the requirements of the FDA Quality System 21CFR820, the European Medical Device Directive EU 93/42/ECC and the Canadian Medical Device regulations SOR/98-282. Quality Policy We strive to provide products and services to exceed our customers’ expectations. Strongly focused on continuous improvement, we monitor and respond to needs, complying with all regulatory requirements. Certifications of Össur sites (total 9 sites) ISO 9001 ISO 13485 ISO 14001 Reykjavik, Iceland X X Eindhoven, Holland X X Manchester, UK X X St. Etienne, France X X X Foothill Ranch, California X Tijuana, Mexico X X Albion, Michigan X Paulsboro, New Jersey X Camarillo, California X Customer Feedback Össur values feedback from its customers in relation to its products and services. Össur regularly conducts surveys among its customers and monitors feedback. Össur has strengthened the customer feedback process, allowing enhanced capture and responses, facilitating detailed analysis to identify improvement opportunities. Össur’s Quality Centers located in Iceland and California play a key role in the cooperation and the alignment between departments, allowing Össur to provide quality products and increased safety for users. CSR REPORT | 25 Environment Össur understands its responsibility to reduce and control its environmental footprint. 2 Össur’s environmental compliance obligations stem from legal and regulatory requirements, and from voluntary initiatives, such as participation in climate projects and the UN Global Compact. WASTE MANAGEMENT The main environmental impact from Össur’s operations comes from manufacturing, waste 1 3 generation and the transport of raw materials and finished goods. Plastics, silicone and carbon fiber are the primary raw materials used in the manufacturing process. The anodizing of metals also takes place during manufacturing. The Company’s environmental impact is EMISSION TO AIR Össur’s CHEMICAL PRODUCT reflected in its environmental focus areas: Emission to Air and Water, Waste Management, AND WATER environmental MANAGEMENT Chemical Product Management, Sustainable Product Design and Employee Participation. focus areas 5 4 EMPLOYEE SUSTAINABLE PARTICIPATION PRODUCT DESIGN Össur’s Environmental Policy Össur aims to minimize its environmental impact by: • Preventing, reducing, or controlling waste and pollution from our operations • Meeting all applicable environmental compliance obligations and commitments • Focusing on continual improvement of the environmental management Program Strategy system by meeting our objectives To continually improve environmental performance in a sustainable and • Encouraging employee participation effective manner. 26 | CSR REPORT Environmental Compliance Obligations Legal Chemical Products Pollution Operational Permits Waste Icelandic Climate Agreement Targets for CO2 emissions and waste Scope: Össur Iceland ISO14001 Environmental Management System Policy Metrics Targets CDP, Carbon Disclosure Project Measuring/Checking Management review Continuous improvements UN Global Compact Principles 7, 8 and 9: Businesses should: 7. support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies CSR REPORT | 27 Declaration to take active measures on Climate Issues Össur is one of more than 100 companies and institutions in Iceland that have signed a Greenhouse gas emission is an inevitable part of energy consumption but can differ Declaration on Climate Issues in relation to the UN Climate conference in Paris in November significantly considering the primary energy source. In 2017, 59% of all energy consumed by 2015. By signing the declaration, the companies committed to set goals for reducing their Össur was from renewable energy sources, resulting in a Renewable Energy Intensity factor emission of greenhouse gases and waste generation, and regularly publish information on of 1.5. This reflects the fact that the Company’s main energy source derives from hydro their progress. Össur’s goals apply to the headquarters in Iceland but the project is seen and geothermal energy. A positive initiative in 2017 comes from Össur’s new warehouse in as the first step in the Company’s corporate commitment towards emission of greenhouse Eindhoven, Holland, where solar panels installed on the roof generated nearly 30% of all the gases. One of the largest contributors to greenhouse gas emission is business travels. electricity consumed there in 2017. Össur is an international company with operations in more than 25 countries and therefore it is hard to avoid business travels. For that reason, Össur Iceland offsets CO2 emission from business travel and it is the single biggest contributor to reduced emission in 2017. Waste reduction has decreased between years, however the largest part of the reduction is expected to materialize in relation to changes that will take place within manufacturing from 2019 and 2020. Össur Iceland Objectives in Declaration of Climate Issues Requirement Reference year 2015 Results 2016 Results 2017 Target 2020 Action items Reduce emission of greenhouse 1500 tons CO2 750 tons 820 tons Reduce CO2 • Reduce air transport of goods from 32% to 25% gases emitted from Össur (-50%) (-45%) emission by 50% • Reduce waste to landfill from 38% to 25% Iceland’s operations • Buy electric company cars when practical • Offset CO2 emissions from business travels Reduce waste 420 tons of waste 410 tons 398 tons Generate • Improved waste management generated (-2%) (-5%) 25% less waste/ • Cutting sand reuse & recycling employee • Carbon fiber recycling 983 kg/employee 979 kg/empl. 910 kg/empl. (-0,4%) (-7%) Monitor the results and regularly Össur’s annual CSR report (Corporate Social Responsibility) The same as 2015 Össur’s annual CSR report (Corporate Social Responsibility) publish information on the status 28 | CSR REPORT Waste Management to improve employee safety. In 2017, four hazardous chemical products were substituted Waste management has been one of the key focus areas at the main manufacture and for other less hazardous products at Össur Iceland. Chemical Product Management is an distribution locations for the past few years. Results for 2017 show a substantial manufacturing important part of job risk assessment. Each Össur location has managed their SDS locally of 20% in total waste generated and a decrease in waste per employee from 990 kg/employee but in 2018 global alignment of SDS management for Össur locations will be executed. in 2016 to 740 kg/employee in 2017. These positive results can be explained by an increased focus on resource efficiency and LEAN management in the manufacturing processes which One of Össur’s environmental focus areas is Sustainable Product Design, as product design results in improved efficiency and less waste. It should be noted that comparable numbers can affect the environmental impact of the Company. In 2017, the Research & Development for 2016 were unusually high in Europe due to the relocation of the warehouse in Eindhoven, department initiated a pilot project in the design process, the aim of which was to minimize and the clearance of stock from companies acquired in 2016. the environmental impact of a product throughout its entire lifecycle. To take this effort to the next level, Össur will in 2018 and 2019 take part in a Nordic project on Circular Economy Waste Management where the focus is on closing the product cycle, development of circular products and services and circular business models. 60 49% 49% 50 42% 42% 40 36% 34% 30 20 Employee Participation 17% 16% 15% Employee Participation is the key to a successful implementation of a management 10 system that focuses on continual improvement. Employees are encouraged to propose 0 improvement ideas in their work areas and effort is made to raise environmental awareness Recycled Not Recycled Hazardous through seminars, campaigns, intranet and by other means. 2015 2016 2017 Chemical Product Management Chemical Product Management is an important part of Össur’s operations as various Energy Usage 41% Renewable Energy hazardous chemical products are used in the manufacturing of medical devices. One of 59% Not Renewable Energy Össur’s legal obligations is to ensure employee access to Safety Data Sheet (SDS) for hazardous chemical products that they use or may be exposed to during their work. Össur aims to substitute hazardous chemical products with less hazardous ones, when possible, CSR REPORT | 29 Below measurements on Environment in accordance with Nasdaq EGS guidelines: Environmental Metrics 2017 2016 2015 E1 Direct & Indirect GHG Emissions (Össur Iceland only) Scope 1 (tons CO2e) 43 41 38 Scope 2 (tons CO2e) 49 47 51 Scope 3 (tons CO2e) 730 670 1,390 E2 Carbon Intensity Kg CO2e/item manifactured 1.0 0.8 1.5 E3 Direct & Indirect Energy Consumption Renewable Energy consumption (GJ) 30,090 27,690 27,710 Non-Renewable Energy consumption (GJ) 20,650 19,600 14,650 Renewable Energy generation (GJ) 600 0 0 E4 Energy Intensity Energy consumed per FTE (GJ/Employee) 44 44 43 E5 Primary Energy Source Coal (GJ) 620 870 680 Natural Gas (GJ) 920 1,310 850 Liquid Gas (GJ) 920 1,460 1,000 Oil (GJ) 18,120 15,860 12,050 Hydro and Geothermal (GJ) 28,910 26,390 26,740 Solar (GJ) 780 320 0 Wind (GJ) 410 990 400 Nuclear (GJ) 70 100 70 E6 Renewable Energy Intensity Renewable energy / Non-renewable energy 1.5 1.4 1.9 E7 Water Management Cold water consumed (m3) 80,000 112,000 E8 Waste Management Waste recycled (tons) 360 380 300 Waste not recycled (tons) 360 520 440 Hazardous waste (tons) 130 150 150 Waste Intensity (kg/employee) 740 990 900 E9 Environmental Policy Does your company publish and follow an EP: Yes, No? If yes, the location Yes, see Össur website of relevant public information should be declared. E10 Environmental Impacts Did your company bear any legal/regulatory responsibility for an environmental impact: Yes/No? If yes, the location of relevant public No No No information should be declared. 30 | CSR REPORT Anti-Corruption Bribery and corruption are real risks for companies around the world and a real challenge in many markets. Össur has operations in more than 25 countries and distributes its products worldwide. Össur has zero tolerance for corrupt activities. Along with the Company’s values – Honesty, Frugality, Courage – Össur has various policies in place such as a Code of Conduct, an Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery policy and a Supplier Code, to name a few. These policies and the Company’s values serve as guiding principles for the employees. Össur has been building its Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery programs, increasing awareness and providing education and training to its employees. Overview of main initiatives regarding Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery 2014 2015 2016 2017 Risk assessment and screening Training and education of Continued training and Writing and implementation of of business partners and management and employees in education of employees and policies contract review sales functions awareness building Risk Assessment Össur has performed a risk assessment of its sales and distribution network. The scope of the risk assessment was based on certain minimum thresholds of annual sales and the business partner’s territory, and countries with a low score on the Transparency International List on corruption were given priority. The assessment has provided a good overview and understanding of Össur’s businesses, primarily businesses that operate in high-risk countries, and revealed potential exposures related to corruption and bribery. Össur monitors selected high-risk markets and is implementing procedures to mitigate the potential risks. Training and Awareness Training of employees has been prioritized based on position and geography. The training program has two main levels. Some employees go through both face-to-face training and on-line training whereas others receive only on-line training. In 2017 and 2018, the main emphasis was, and is, on the continued training of key employees and employees located in high-risk areas, or those responsible for the Company’s businesses in high-risk areas, in addition to continued awareness building and education. Össur has policies in place that guide and support employees, such as the Anti-Corruption and Bribery policy and the Supplier Code, which are signed by the Company’s business partners. Review a full list of policies at ossur.com/CSR CSR REPORT | 31 Compliance A Whistle Blower Scheme A complete report on the Company’s compliance with each recommendation in the Danish The Company provides employees with ways of reporting conduct that they reasonably Recommendations on Corporate Governance is available on the Company’s website: believe violates applicable laws, regulations or the Company’s policies. The Company treats ossur.com/investors all reports as confidential and any issue will be discussed only with those individuals who have a “need to know.” The Company’s policy strictly prohibits any retaliatory action against Measurements On Governance a person reporting actual or potential compliance issues in good faith, whether or not the Below, measurements on Governance in accordance with ESG guidance form Nasdaq reports ultimately prove to be well founded. Nordic. Corporate Governance Össur hf. is an Icelandic company listed on Nasdaq Copenhagen. As a listed company, Governance Metrics Össur communicates with its shareholders and other stakeholders about the Company’s financial and business developments in an open and honest manner. Status Comments G1 Board Separation of Powers √ The CEO does not have a seat on the Board, act as Chairman or lead Össur provides investors, analysts and other stakeholders with timely and accurate Committees information. Every year, Össur hosts investor meetings and teleconferences with the CEO G2 Board transparent practices √ BOD Rules and the CFO, following quarterly reports and other key events. As a listed company, Össur G3 Incentivized pay No Remuneration Policy does not include ESG Strategy complies with all relevant rules and regulations, and follows the Danish Recommendations G4 Fair Labor practices √ Össur Policies on Corporate Governance. G5 Supplier Code of Conduct √ Össur Policies G6 Ethics Code of Conduct √ Össur Policies The Company’s Corporate Governance statement includes information on the following G7 Anti-Corruption and Bribery √ Össur Policies items: G8 Tax transparency √ Össur Policies • A reference to the corporate governance recommendations the Company follows and G10 Other Framework Disclosures √ UN Global Compact, UN Women, Carbon Disclosure Project, Festa how the Company addresses the recommendations, including any deviations and Declaration of Climate Issues explanations thereto. G11 External Validation & Assurance No • A description of the main aspects of the Company’s internal controls and risk management √ = In Place. No= Not in Place systems in connection with the preparation of financial statements. • A description of the Company’s organizational structure and the role of each function. • A description of the Company’s diversity policy relating to the Board of Directors and the CEO, the aim of the policy and its execution. 32 | CSR REPORT Support and Responsibility One aspect of the Company’s responsibility is to show support for the societies and environment in which the Company operates. Össur believes that it has a responsibility towards people of all abilities, not only to provide high quality products, but equally to support third-party initiatives aimed at better care and support for people with disabilities. The Company believes it is important that the perception of people of varying abilities is positive and together with great athletes participating in the Paralympics, as well as other elite sporting events, the perception of people with a disability has changed for the better. Additionally, Össur believes it has a responsibility in relation to the education of healthcare professionals that work in the field of prosthetics and bracing and supports. In this respect, Össur cooperates with universities in both the US and Europe on research projects, and has, on average, six to 10 interns at any given time. For over a decade, Össur has had an educational program called Össur Academy, which educates prosthetists all over the world. The Össur Academy is committed to furthering the level of education and quality of prosthetic and orthopaedic knowledge among professionals, end-users and their families. The aim is to enable orthotists, prosthetists and other medical professionals to achieve clinical success through accessible information and the services Össur provides. Össur also has in place a program called “The Össur Orthopaedic Fellowship Program.” This is a 12-month academic program designed to enhance the clinical, surgical, and research skills of orthopaedic/musculoskeletal healthcare specialists. Össur offers a research grant program both in the field of prosthetics and bracing and supports. The program is designed to provide funding for scientific research in the areas of lower extremity biomechanics, dynamic/active rehabilitation, ortho biologics, functional bracing, clinical patient outcomes and related healthcare economics. The Össur and Ottobock Research Trust Fund In 2016, Össur and its main competitor Ottobock signed an agreement on a joint philanthropic effort to further develop the field of mind-controlled prosthetics. The fund is named “The Össur and Ottobock Research Trust Fund”, and will award international grants for scientific research and innovative projects in the field of advanced neural control of prosthetic limbs. The companies’ initial combined contribution to the Research Fund was USD 1 million. The establishment of this fund confirms Össur’s commitment and belief that advanced technology is one of the greatest benefits for people with disabilities. Advancements in technology will further help people with disabilities achieve lives without physical limitations. CSR REPORT | 33 #MyWinningMoment To further encourage and motivate amputees, Össur initiated a contest in 2016 called #MyWinningMoment. Amputees were encouraged to share pictures of themselves depicting their personal “winning moment.” Whether playing with their children, finishing their first 5K, or walking down the aisle, everyone has a winning moment. Össur promoted the contest by leveraging many different online and traditional platforms, engaging key customers, as well as Team Össur members and Össur Ambassadors. The participation was beyond expectations so Össur repeated the contest in 2017. Through the power of social media, these many incredible photos and stories reached thousands of amputees and others globally, and helped increase awareness for the quality of life amputees continue to enjoy. 34 | CSR REPORT Team Össur Team Össur is an accomplished group of elite international athletes and sporting role to raise public awareness of the true potential of people with limb loss and impaired models. Team Össur includes athletes from world-class triathletes that help Össur raise mobility, demonstrating how to lead active and fulfilling lives. public awareness. Team Össur members are all exceptional individuals helping Össur Paralympian Sarah Reinertsen Alan is a Paralympic sprinter Sara Reinertsen Alan Fonteles Cardoso Oliveira holds World Records in the and World Record holder from 100m, 200m, 400m, 5km and Brazil. As a child, Alan had marathon distance races, and both legs amputated below is the first above-knee amputee the knee following an illness, woman to complete the but was competing in sports Ironman World Championships by the age of 8. He competed in Kona, Hawaii. Sara became in his first Paralympic Games an above-knee amputee at in Beijing, China, in 2008 age 7 due to proximal femoral and won a silver medal in the deficiency. She says Össur 4x100m relay as a member technology has helped her of the Brazilian team. At the tremendously in everyday life 2012 Paralympics in London, as well as in sports, giving her Alan won a gold medal in the the ability to truly feel like a T44 200m race, and in July woman by enabling her to wear 2013, Alan broke the T43 100m high heels for the first time. World Record with a time of Sarah actively mentors other 10.77. women and girls with limb loss, encouraging them to build endurance and using mantras “Fear less, live more” “It doesn’t matter what you like “keep moving forward” and dream, what matters is to dream “fear less, live more” to stay motivated. and make it come true.” CSR REPORT | 35 Marie-Amélie is a successful Rudy had already undergone Marie-Amélie Le Fur Rudy Garcia-Tolson French Paralympic athlete who 15 surgeries by the age of 5. competes in the T44 sprints Rudy had to choose between a 100m, 200m, 400m and 800m life in a wheelchair and walking and in F44 long jump events. with artificial limbs. He opted Marie-Amélie has won eight for greater mobility and a full, Paralympic Medals since active life with prosthetics, 2008. Marie-Amélie had been which necessitated the surgical training since the age of 6 amputation of both his legs and she was a French junior through the knee. Undaunted, running champion. In March he began swimming, then 2004, she was unfortunately running. Having won his the victim of a serious scooter first gold medal at the 2004 accident and had to undergo the Paralympic Games in Athens, amputation of her left leg below Greece, Rudy was also the first the knee. After four months of bilateral above-knee amputee difficult rehabilitation, Marieto finish the Ironman Triathlon. Amélie went back to the track Rudy says Össur has given him to try to run again. Her first the opportunity to live without competitions in disabled sports limitations and he hopes to took place in 2005 and since “Make of your life a dream!” encourage other amputees to “If I wasn’t an amputee, I then she has won many French live active lifestyles regardless of probably wouldn’t have the championships and annually the challenges, saying, “A brave established new records. heart is a powerful weapon, and same drive to do what I do!” people should never let their challenges define who they are.” 38 | CSR REPORT © ÖSSUR, 02. 2018
