COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS for the UN Global Compact Roland Berger GmbH Reporting period: October 2017 to September 2018 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2017 to September 2018 About Roland Berger Roland Berger, founded in 1967, is the only leading global consultancy of German heritage and European origin. With 2,400 employees working from 34 countries, we have successful operations in all major international markets. Our 50 offices are located in the key global business hubs. The consultancy is an independent partnership owned exclusively by 220 Partners serving around 1,000 international clients. We consider corporate responsibility to be a strategic business approach. From our consulting experience we see that corporate responsibility has gained relevance for international companies in recent years, as it reconciles economic, social and environmental success. As a global company, we live up to our social responsibility by treating our employees, clients, suppliers and the environment responsibly. We are a social community made up of different people from many nations with diverse backgrounds and outlooks. As a business, we are also part of a community – namely, the society in which we work. About this report This report illustrates how Roland Berger GmbH, as the German pillar of our group of companies, is working to bring the Global Compact to life in our consulting operations. This Communication on Progress is the sixth report since Roland Berger Strategy Consultants GmbH became a member of the UN Global Compact. In September 2015, we changed our name to Roland Berger GmbH. The following report describes the current status, past development and what we plan for the future, by setting goals related to the ten principles of the Global Compact. This is our Communication on Progress in implementing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We welcome feedback on its contents. PAGE 2 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2017 to September 2018 CONTENTS P.5 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 | Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 | Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. P.10 LABOR STANDARDS Principle 3 | Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 | The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5 | The effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6 | The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. P.18 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 | Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 | Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 | Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. P.22 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 | Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. P.4 OUR CEO’S DECLARATION P.25 THE ORIGIN OF OUR GOALS PAGE 3 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2017 to September 2018 Our CEO’s declaration of continued support Since 2012, Roland Berger has been committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of our company's strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. This letter underscores our intent to endorse these principles within our sphere of influence. In the following report, we describe our company's efforts to implement the ten principles in our core business activities. In 2017, we launched a vast consultation process about Roland Berger's culture and diversity. Colleagues from all our offices worldwide provided valuable, detailed, positive and sometimes critical feedback, from which we have derived concrete actions. To underline the importance of diversity for our firm, we put the topic on the agenda of the bi-annual shareholder meeting of all Roland Berger Partners worldwide, with whom we discussed in detail and defined measures to further improve our company in this field. We are committed to making the complex task of increased diversity of all kinds a reality at Roland Berger. With our increasingly multifaceted business footprint, which covers many emerging markets, we have put a special focus on issue compliance; for example by supplementing our Global Compliance Policy with new rules regulating our business activities in sanctioned countries. Early this year, the new European General Data Protection Regulation ( GDPR ) came into effect. Roland Berger fulfils all the transparency obligations as an employer. All employees worldwide received our updated and standardized policy concerning the private usage of email and internet and information on the new Data Protection Policy. I am pleased to confirm our continued support of the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. We will continue and further increase our efforts to move forward in the four areas of the Global Compact over the next 12 months. Charles-Edouard Bouée CEO, Roland Berger Group PAGE 4 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2017 to September 2018 Human rights COMMITMENT | IMPLEMENTATION | GOALS Principle 1 | Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 | Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. PAGE 5 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2017 to September 2018 OUR COMMITMENT Roland Berger explicitly supports the protection of human rights. We emphasize this support in our primary policy document: the Code of Conduct. We are committed to ensuring that we as a company, as well as our employees as individuals, respect and uphold human rights in every way. CURRENT STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION Our commitment to protect all human rights is not only anchored in our Code of Conduct, but also enacted in the form of various established processes and control mechanisms. HUMAN RIGHTS The Code of Conduct is a compulsory contract annex for all employees, freelancers and subcontractors. Additionally, an e-training session with a compliance test is compulsory for all permanent employees. Designed as an introduction course, this training session aims to foster awareness of the issue of ethical behavior. Any failure to complete this course is reported to the Compliance Officer, who acts accordingly. If employees suspect a human rights violation, they can communicate their information to the Compliance Officer through a number of channels. We are proud to say that to date no human rights violations have occurred at Roland Berger. In order to encourage our people to report irregularities, abuses and risks, we set up a totally anonymous internet–based whistle-blowing platform in 2014. A substantial number of our employees have read our intranet information on the whistleblowing system, but no incident has been reported via this platform since its introduction. HEALTH & SAFETY We care about the well-being of all our employees, so we have a comprehensive network of health and safety measures in place to address issues such as stress resilience. Roland Berger employees are encouraged to make full use of their annual vacation days. A trust-based vacation policy has been implemented for our managers, to ensure sufficient down time. PAGE 6 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2017 to September 2018 The Office Friday policy stipulates that consultants should spend Fridays at their local offices instead of with the client. In addition, to deal with potential situations of high pressure, a series of two stress management seminars is offered as part of the regular seminar curriculum. In 2017, we held eight seminars for experienced consultants and service staff and four stress-management refresher seminars. We also introduced the Team Barometer tool seven years ago to monitor team atmospheres and situations of extraordinary stress and pressure. We perform annual workplace inspections to ensure the health and safety of our employees. On these occasions we make sure that the rooms and office equipment meet the highest ergonomic standards. Should any employee ever have a concern or special needs, we promise to take action to meet their requirements. Since travelling is necessary for all our employees, we have control mechanisms to ensure their safety. To offer optimal care and coverage, Roland Berger has engaged a globally acting service provider to help us with medical, health, insurance and security matters. The services it provides include a 24/7 hotline for all colleagues, emergency services worldwide (for health or security problems) and pre-travel advice on security situations, medical standards and visa information. We provide our employees with an e-training session about the services provided within our travel community. All employees are encouraged to download an app ensuring immediate alerts in their travel country about unforeseen events such as terrorist attacks or natural disasters. We also track whether any colleagues are in the country or city concerned. Affected colleagues are contacted directly to arrange a safe trip home or hotel bookings and to offer general care. In the event of insecure situations over protracted periods, Roland Berger tries to arrange long-term solutions. SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT Since we are a service provider, our supply chain is not usually confronted with human rights issues. Our employees all work for us of their own accord and are all of legal age. The prevention of forced or compulsory and child labor is not explicitly phrased in our internal guidelines thus far, mainly because German legislation addresses and enforces a respective corporate behavior. The elimination of these issues is of course a very important topic that must not be disregarded. Our Human Resources department and Compliance Officer are not only designated, but well equipped to deal with any situation regarding human rights at Roland Berger. PAGE 7 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2017 to September 2018 ACHIEVEMENT OF GOALS In the last Communication on Progress, we defined some objectives that we wanted to achieve in order to continuously improve and expand our actions in the field of human rights protection. GOALS COMMENT We want to keep the rate of successfully We fully achieved this goal. completed e-trainings on the Code of Conduct at least at the same level. We plan to improve the visibility of our We have updated our compliance portal and compliance portal and want to increase improved the transparency and clarity of its content. awareness about compliance topics e.g. All employees have received a compliance newsletter through regular newsletters, compliance to get familiar with latest developments, especially refresher trainings or likewise. regarding restrictions to business in sanctioned areas and our anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy. All of our employees worldwide receive regular updates and links to our compliance portal to keep them informed about the EU data protection regulations. In the next period we want to increase the We rolled out a new educational app in 2018, but it sustainability of the stress management ultimately didn't convince us, so we stopped it again. seminars by introducing a new learning app. Within the next two years we want to The new process was rolled out in 2017 in Germany, roll out the new performance process for France, SEA and China, and is therefore now effective all consultants worldwide, to track each for the majority of our consultants worldwide. consultant's workload and to be able to take action to reduce the individual stress level where necessary. GOALS FOR THE FUTURE In the future we will of course remain committed to the protection of human rights within our sphere of influence. Particularly, we will strive to reach the following goals: • We want to keep the rate of successfully completed e-trainings on the Code of Conduct at least at the same level. • We want to keep the number of stress management seminars at the same level. • We want to select and pilot a new app-based employee engagement survey in Germany to gain more transparency regarding the mood and workload in the organization. PAGE 8 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2017 to September 2018 Responsible business Many of the issues that the United Nations Global Compact addresses are explicitly covered by German and EU law, which companies based in Germany must observe. As a German company, Roland Berger GmbH does CODE OF CONDUCT so too. But we go further, proactively Living up to our values taking steps in line with the guidelines set out by the Global Compact. By introducing our Code of Conduct in 2004, To emphasize the importance of anti-bribery and Roland Berger established general rules for ethical anti-corruption rules we have summarized and behavior in our business dealings. That document supplemented the existing rules in a separate antiis a formal element of every employment contract bribery and anti-corruption policy. we offer, and we expect our employees to comWith the introduction of the new European ply with it. Additionally, all Roland Berger Partners General Data Protection Regulation ( GDPR ), all have to confirm their compliance with the Code of employees worldwide received the updated and Conduct on a yearly basis. standardized policy concerning the private use of Our compliance management system encomemail and the internet and information on the new passes all tools and mechanisms that define and Data Protection Policy. It describes what data proimplement the principles and values of our orgatection at Roland Berger means and what binding nization, including the guidelines of the Code of obligations this entails for every employee. It also Conduct. Thus, it allows us to uphold them in our serves the purpose of fulfilling Roland Berger's strategic and operational business. transparency obligations as an employer. The code was designed to meet the specific Our Code of Conduct is a living core document demands faced by Roland Berger. It provides guidof our firm that undergoes constant amendment. ance for behavior in our dealings with clients, Thus, it now even more explicitly covers the four colleagues, suppliers and competitors. Our Code areas that the Global Compact addresses. of Conduct is built on the pillars of corporate reRoland Berger takes many actions that build sponsibility, professional integrity, confidentiality, on the ten principles set out by the Global Comsafety and personal conduct. pact, as described in this report. It covers issues such as data security, anti-bribery and anti-corruption rules, intellectual properFIND THE LATEST VERSION ty rights, insider information, respectful conduct, OF OUR CODE OF CONDUCT HERE: recruitment standards, health and safety at work, https://www.rolandberger.com/en/Publications/ human rights and environmental protection. pub_code_of_conduct.html PAGE 9 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2017 to September 2018 Labor Standards COMMITMENT | IMPLEMENTATION | GOALS Principle 3 | Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 | The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5 | The effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6 | The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. PAGE 10 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2017 to September 2018 OUR COMMITMENT We are committed to providing our employees with a work environment that is open, friendly and non-discriminatory and that is fully in accordance with German legislation, our Code of Conduct and the Global Compact. CURRENT STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION Everyone at Roland Berger is dedicated to our three corporate values: entrepreneurship, excellence and empathy. These values are an imperative for each of us, and they determine our thoughts and actions. As a result, we undertake continuous efforts to improve our personal skills and professional know-how in our consulting teams. EDUCATION AND DEVELOPMENT To provide our clients with the best possible consulting services, we offer our employees a broad educational program with a vast range of both mandatory and optional seminars. These seminars include topics such as methodology, soft and leadership skills and individual coaching. Currently, consultants attend 5-6 days of compulsory training per year. Support staffs typically have 2-3 days of training per year. Relevance of the topics and the quality of the training measures are guaranteed by a carefully arranged selection and quality-management process. We enable our employees to pursue their academic interests by sponsoring Master, MBA and doctoral programs. We also offer a sabbatical to enable employees to pursue interests beyond Roland Berger's daily operations. Our common understanding of quality and performance for our clients and the way we all work together is reflected in a climate of equality, respect, openness and constructive feedback. We have extensive evaluation mechanisms installed: regular project assessments (both topdown and bottom-up) allow employees to voice their opinions on all matters. An additional leadership assessment is held annually. The results of this anonymous feedback have a direct impact on the individual supervisors' remuneration. In 2015, we introduced a new evaluation process to further improve the feedback quality, to make assessment more objective and give even better career and personal development advice. The international participation rate of consultants in these bottom-up assessments this year was 60%, and the service staff participation rate was 50%. PAGE 11 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2017 to September 2018 DIVERSITY MANAGEMENT Diversity is critical to Roland Berger, because as a firm we exist in a diverse society. For us to deliver the next higher standard of service to our clients, we have to reflect the society we exist in. This will allow us to future-proof ourselves in a fast-changing world by embracing all types of talent. Outstanding management consultants are more than just brilliant analysts and strategists. Above all, they are strong and creative personalities from a variety of backgrounds. Diversity and non-discrimination lie at the heart of our Code of Conduct and are thus part of our business and personal behavior. We acknowledge and value the differences among our workforce, clients and business partners and consider them an opportunity. Germany's Equal Treatment Act (Allgemeines Gleichbehandlungsgesetz or AGG) is part of every employee's contract in Germany. To underscore its importance, all new employees are required to participate in an e-learning course on this subject. Also, several processes have been installed to ensure equal treatment of all employees. Roland Berger strives to offer an inclusive work environment where lesbian, gay, bi-sexual and transgender (LGBT) colleagues are valued and respected, where they can be themselves and can help lead the way for others. Two years ago, Just be (our internal LGTB platform) was set up as a caring network for these colleagues and as a forum to help them raise questions or concerns with others who have experienced similar situations. Since then, members of this global community get together annually for a day of networking and brainstorming. Another step towards more diversity is the formation of a Diversity Committee at Roland Berger. The goal of this committee is to launch initiatives for a diverse workforce, including topics such as LGBT, women and multiculturalism. Although women are increasingly active in business today, there is an imbalance higher up in the hierarchies. Women today need to support and inspire one another by sharing their experiences regarding career advancement and professional achievement. It is for this reason that Roland Berger hosted several women's events at different venues during the year. In addition, Roland Berger supports various initiatives such as Women in Africa, which aims to create the first global network of women executives and leaders in Africa, and to promote their role and economic, social and political influence in Africa and beyond. Roland Berger is also the sponsor of the INSEAD celebrates Women initiative. Offering a series of events on all three campuses (Asia, Europe & Middle East), the top-ranked business school and important MBA target school for RB increases awareness of the role of women in society. PAGE 12 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2017 to September 2018 RECRUITING PRACTICES Roland Berger is a strategic partner of several international business schools whose students have particularly diverse backgrounds. These partnerships further strengthen our diversity approach. Our entire recruiting process of addressing, identifying and selecting new employees is based on talent, performance and potential. Our promotion system is likewise based on transparency, performance evaluation and merit. We apply state-of-the-art methods to ensure an impartial and skill-based decision-making process. The remuneration of our employees is linked strictly to their rank within the company. Employees are rewarded for their work performance, so the remuneration process is transparent. Our International Staff Exchange Program is also designed to foster diversity at the workplace. In 2017, 127 employees participated in the exchange program and 24 different countries were involved. At the same time we increased the amount of regular cross-border staffing. Cross-border networking beyond the day-to-day work is enhanced by events like our international kick-off meetings and our development program for high performers: the Challenge Club. This program – which includes the most promising high potentials within the firm – aims to contribute to the individual development of the consultants. The members – up to 62 consultants from 25 countries – meet twice a year for a few days to further develop their personal and business skills and network across borders. The diversity of our employees is also reflected in the array of nationalities represented in our offices. Currently, Roland Berger in Germany has employees from 25 countries. At the end of 2017, 24% of Roland Berger employees in Germany were female. 18% of consultants and 9% of consultants in management positions are now women. In order to make consulting more attractive for women we have implemented measures to improve the work and family life balance and we have a special buddy program for female consultants in place. To better attract and retain female consultants and to strengthen the role and number of female leaders, Roland Berger recently launched the Women in Consulting@RB initiative. Within this initiative we have introduced special recruiting events and new recruiting formats focused on female consultants (i.e. web chat and university marketing formats). In order to raise awareness for Roland Berger as an employer embracing diversity, consultants and HR colleagues recently teamed up for two recruiting fairs specifically targeting LGBT high potentials. In May, colleagues from our São Paulo office participated in the Reaching Out: Brazil summit. In June, a group of consultants represented Roland Berger at the Sticks & Stones Job Fair in Berlin for the fourth consecutive year. In 2017 we conducted an internal survey on Roland Berger culture and diversity . Nearly 700 colleagues worldwide provided valuable, detailed, positive and critical feedback. To underline the importance of the diversity topic for our firm we also put diversity on the agenda of our Partner Leadership Camp (bi-annual shareholder meeting of all Roland Berger Partners worldwide) in December 2017. We invited a guest speaker and addressed our challenges in two workshops, where we used the comments from the survey as food for thought to refine the topic. The results of the survey were also presented to our employees during one of our Munich Office Meetings. PAGE 13 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2017 to September 2018 Since September 2017, we regularly compile a management report to track activities and progress of our women in consulting@RB initiative. Through our membership in the Charta der Vielfalt (Diversity Charta) we express how much we value diversity. WORK-LIFE BALANCE The company's continuous efforts to create a better work-life balance for our employees – men and women alike – is expressed by the berufundfamilie certification which was awarded to Roland Berger five years in a row. For instance, in 2017, 47% of our employees on parental leave were men. The share of male colleagues who entered parenthood remained stable at 70%. To foster the opportunity to combine sports and work, we launched an internal task force in Germany in 2016, with the goal of pushing all kinds of joint physical exercise, and local sports ambassadors were elected. These local sports ambassadors organize and coordinate several sporting events during the year at all German office locations, such as beach volleyball, canoeing or just going for a run together, and for a limited time even personal trainers for small groups of employees. Recently we also introduced weekly Business-Yoga sessions at some German locations. In the company's intranet you can follow the #rbsports community, and stay informed about the events and activities worldwide. We are proud to be ranked among the top three employers in our industry in our European core markets. This reflects how the efforts we undertake to create the best possible work environment bear fruit. PAGE 14 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2017 to September 2018 ACHIEVEMENT OF GOALS As expressed in the previous report, we aim to further live up to internationally accepted labor standards and to build the diversity of our employees by setting the following goals. GOALS COMMENT We want to maintain or even increase the We achieved this goal. number of female colleagues. Our targets for 2020 are as follows: Between the end of 2016 and mid 2018 35% female applicants in all regions; we made progress towards achieving 25% women among Senior Consultants and our goals: Project Managers (first management level) · 28% share of female applicants in DACH and 15 new female Partners. Plus one female · 20% women among Senior Consultants Partner to be elected to one of our formal and Project Managers governance bodies, one to be represented in · Two new female Partners in DACH local HR committees and one to be in a leadership · One female Partner represented in the position (country leadership team or CC head). HR committee in DACH · Two female Partners elected Country Heads in France and Russia. Regarding the seminar program, we want We achieved our goal by adding a new to maintain the current level of training days Senior Project Manager Bootcamp to our per employee, while increasing the number seminar program in 2018. We also rolled of mandatory global trainings to ensure equal the Bootcamp out in Asia to support training standards for all our employees, e.g. the participation of our Asian colleagues. by introducing a new Senior Project Manager An additional Digital Bootcamp for all Bootcamp. Partners worldwide was launched in 2018. For 2017/18 we plan to achieve at least the We fully achieved this goal. same participation rates in the leadership assessment as in 2016. We want to maintain or even increase the We fully achieved this goal. number of participants in the International Staff Exchange Program and provide more transparency about program conditions by introducing a mobility policy. We aim to further increase international We fully achieved this goal. cooperation on topics such as staffing, evaluation processes, graphics, research and IT. PAGE 15 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2017 to September 2018 GOALS FOR THE FUTURE In the months to come, we will continue our efforts to reach the goals regarding our work force. • We plan to pilot a new onboarding app to support a homogeneous and comprehensive information flow and onboarding process for all consultants. • Regarding the seminar program, we want at least to maintain the current level of training days per employee, while introducing new mandatory global training courses to promote digital readiness among our consultants and ensure equal training (e.g. Data Science, Design Thinking). • For 2018/19, we plan to achieve at least the same participation rates in the leadership assessment as in 2017. • We want to maintain or even increase the number of participants in the International Staff Exchange Program. • We want to maintain or even increase the number of female colleagues. • Our targets for 2020 are as follows: 35% female applicants in all regions; 25% women among Senior Consultants and Project Managers (first management level) and 15 new female Partners. Plus one female Partner to be elected to one of our formal governance bodies, one to be represented in local HR committees and one to be in a leadership position (country leadership team or CC head). • We want to better support work-life-balance by marketing and promoting the use of existing flexible working models. PAGE 16 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2017 to September 2018 Diversity@RB Diversity is an important topic for our company. conducted special leadership and development We firmly believe that we need to further diversify training courses and dedicated HR marketing in order to serve our clients better in a globalized and recruiting activities, and installed a Diversity world, and make all of our teams happier and Committee. more impactful. In addition, we are also looking into some of the In the recent past we have tried to do more on suggestions from the survey, elaborating on the this topic on many levels. The firm's leadership, best ideas and disseminating them across the firm. the partnership itself and the HR processes have all geared up in trying to identify issues and work DIVERSITY AT ROLAND BERGER ... towards finding solutions. ... is about more than pushing activities for Since June we have also had a new intranet minorities community devoted to diversity at Roland Berger. ... is about being respectful of each other as individuals with different life and career choices, different gender and ethnicity and with different sexual, religious and political orientations ... is about being curious about people whose personalities, backgrounds, goals and patterns of behavior are not like our own INTERNAL SURVEY ... is about creating a company culture that makes every colleague feel cherished and In November last year we launched an internal welcome culture and diversity survey. Nearly 700 colleagues provided valuable, detailed, positive ... is about all of us joining our various talents and critical feedback. and personalities in order to reach a common goal: serving our clients as best as The vast majority of survey participants are we can while thriving as individuals. satisfied with their jobs at RB. They believe building our diversity will benefit us as a firm, and Diversity today is not only the nice thing to do they reported not having witnessed or experienced but has been proven to be the profitable thing to any inappropriate behavior at our company. In this do. Also, building greater diversity in the firm at context, the survey also unveiled a few examples all levels and in all forms is extremely important that show this has not always been the case. from a sustainability perspective. It allows us to future-proof ourselves in a fast-changing world In order to enhance our diversity, we have already by embracing all types of talent. implemented multiple initiatives like Women@ RB , launched our LGBT community Just be , PAGE 17 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2017 to September 2018 Environment COMMITMENT | IMPLEMENTATION | GOALS Principle 7 | Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 | Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 | Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. PAGE 18 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2017 to September 2018 OUR COMMITMENT As a professional services company, Roland Berger is certainly less exposed to environmental issues than many other companies, as our product does not have a direct ecological impact. Nevertheless, we strive to minimize our negative ecological influence, even though environmental protection is not as central for us as other elements of the Global Compact. CURRENT STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION We believe that within our corporate responsibility we have an obligation toward the environment. Hence, in our operations we consider environmental protection part of our duty and are committed to contributing our fair share to this important matter. ECOLOGICAL FOOTPRINT The greatest impact on the environment is indisputably created by the traveling done by our consultants. However, we aim to keep our carbon footprint small. Our travel guidelines are intended to encourage cost-conscious, environmentally aware and efficient travel. Our employees can choose between plane, train, leased car, rental car, car-sharing options or public transport as possible modes of transportation. For travel routes with high-speed connections, the train is our preferred means of transport. In 2017, 5,484,919 kilometers of our German train travel were realized using environmentally friendly electricity (2015: 4,001,600 km and 2014: 3,063,976 km). We also give benefits to every employee who chooses the train instead of the plane. In addition, we encourage telephone and video conferencing in lieu of travel. All German offices utilize state-of-the-art video conferencing devices, and all employees have an individual equipment set for their laptops. For instance, again from 2016 to 2017 we significantly increased our time spent (+12%) in video conferences in Germany. And we will further improve our equipment in the next year so that our employees use video conferencing even more frequently. PAGE 19 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2017 to September 2018 To help our employees be as environmentally conscious in their individual behavior as possible, we provide them with Eco Tips on our intranet. Last year we set up a new sustainability community on the intranet to push the topic at Roland Berger and provide a space for colleagues to effectively share and receive information about the topic. Within this initiative, the World Alliance for Efficient Solutions recently asked us to provide experts on sustainability issues to assess some of the clean and profitable solutions submitted by its members. The goal of this innovative project is to promote these solutions among governments, businesses and other institutions, to encourage more ambitious environmental targets in light of real economical solutions, and to bring these solutions to the market. To reduce our environmental impact at the German offices a number of processes have been put in place. For instance, in our central purchasing we select products that meet environmental standards or have relevant certificates. We give preference to regional suppliers of food and beverages to reduce the amount of carbon emissions caused by processing, packaging and transport. Furthermore, we separate trash, such as paper, batteries and other electronic waste to facilitate the recycling process. We constantly strive to minimize our paper consumption and use FSC certified paper in all offices in Germany. When moving our head office in Munich in 2015, we were able to reduce our energy consumption by about 75%. The new building has a high standard of energy conservation, using shade, lighting, etc. in a way that wastes as little and stores as much energy in the building as possible. And like our offices in Frankfurt and Düsseldorf, it has been certified with the LEED® Gold standard. We only have customary air-conditioning installed in technical rooms, and instead use heating/cooling ceilings in the offices. A surface analysis showed that we do not need as much space as in 2014. We have open space areas and a clean desk policy, so our utilization of working space is close to 90%. This concept will be assigned to all German offices in future. We want to save as much energy as we can in our office buildings and with our equipment and travel policy, etc. As shown in the table below, we have constantly reduced our energy consumption in our German offices in the past. As a matter of fact, the decrease amounts to 63% since 2011. Office 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 buildings [kWh] [kWh] [kWh] [kWh] [kWh] [kWh] [kWh] Berlin 110,350 90,200 78,370 33,738 30,560 42,054 38,974 Dusseldorf 137,339 133,100 110,167 141,378 176,000 172,632 172,666 Frankfurt 126,272 120,155 106,266 87,693 109,136 103,182 105,797 Hamburg 63,423 63,797 53,210 66,004 52,306 49,900 46,378 Munich 1,190,347 1,129,288 1,062,841 937,872 249,060 232,822 219,995 Stuttgart 45,524 50,000* 43,000* 38,558 41,400 43,442 37,980 Total 1,673,255 1,586,540 1,453,854 1,305,243 658,462 644,032 621,790 consumption REDUCTION -5.18% -8.36% -10.22% -49.55% -2.19% -3.45% -13.11% -21.99% -60.65% -61.51% -62.84% * Estimate PAGE 20 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2017 to September 2018 We use environmentally friendly electricity at all our sites and we seek to rent energy efficient offices. With the implementation of our new Energy Management System (DIN ISO EN 50001 we have now a better overview of our energy usage and energy consumers in the offices. With this new knowledge we can replace wasters with new equipment with better energy figures. In recent years, we have changed printers and other materials to reduce our energy consumption to the lowest rate ever. As the audit takes place every year, we can review and question our consumption figures annually. Recently we also changed our entire range of beverages, and now offer only certified regional and organic products. Additionally, we switched our coffee machines from environmentally unfriendly capsules to sustainably reusable capsules. ACHIEVEMENT OF GOALS With the goals set in our previous report, we wanted to have a greater positive impact on our environment. GOALS COMMENT With the German railway's new high-speed Since the new high-speed train line between lines, we will have more employees on trains Munich and Berlin was open in December 2017 and reduce our flight frequency. more and more colleagues travel this route by train instead of by plane. With an expansion of our mobility concept we In the recent past the offering of alternative will inspire more colleagues to get an e-bike means of transport has steadily grown and or other means of transportation than the car. is becoming increasingly popular within our employees. GOALS FOR THE FUTURE We will continue our efforts to reduce our ecological footprint by setting the following environmental goals: • We would like to give our colleagues more incentives to focus on energy-friendly means of transport and promote these initiatives better within the company. • We want to further develop in the field of energy efficiency and environmentally friendly products. PAGE 21 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2017 to September 2018 Anticorruption COMMITMENT | IMPLEMENTATION | GOALS Principle 10 | Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. PAGE 22 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2017 to September 2018 OUR COMMITMENT As a leading consultancy, Roland Berger is committed to operating with a clear conscience and speaking out against any and every form of unethical behavior. We confirm our opposition to corruption, extortion and bribery within and outside our company. CURRENT STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION Our Code of Conduct conveys a clear understanding of ethical behavior and guides us in our day-to-day business decisions. TRANSPARENT CONTRACTS To prevent abuse, all payments to freelancers or senior advisors are made via bank transfer, without exception. Furthermore, contracts for all Roland Berger freelancers and senior advisors have been standardized and their payment is controlled using proApproval , a tool for avoiding disproportionate remuneration. During our annual audit, the contracts for senior advisors and all related payments are subject to strict scrutiny. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY To avoid potential conflicts of interest amongst client teams, a steering body and strict guidelines in the form of Chinese walls are in place. All employees must adhere to binding confidentiality rules, in accordance with both their employment contract and our Code of Conduct. Our clean desk policy is regularly monitored in our German offices. E-learning courses are compulsory for all employees, to keep them aware of the issue. Like our employees, freelancers must also adhere to our Code of Conduct. All Partners sign a formal declaration every year that they have adhered to the Code of Conduct. DATA SECURITY We treat all our clients' non-public information with strict confidentiality and keep proprietary and confidential information secure at all times. To ensure utmost security in all our electronic communications, our information and communication equipment – PAGE 23 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2017 to September 2018 IT infrastructure, hardand software – fulfills highest security and technolog y standards. We operate our own IT infrastructure for business communication, using encrypted notebooks and secure mobile devices that allow e-mail encryption. Furthermore, all Roland Berger employees have to know and comply with our IT User Policy, which is part of the company's Code of Conduct and as such also the subject of regular e-trainings. The IT User rules cover issues like password and access control, data protection, installing and using IT-equipment, using e-mail and the internet, mobile working and protecting against malware. We do not use public cloud programs, such as freeware provided by Yahoo! or Google, for our business communication. Data exchange between companies of the Roland Berger group is governed by compliant contractual regulations. ACHIEVEMENT OF GOALS To demonstrate that the prevention of corruption is very important to us, we set a number of shortand mediumterm goals one year ago. GOALS COMMENT We will include anti-corruption We have introduced a new anti-corruption and information in our compliance portal anti-bribery policy as separate supplement to our and will create awareness through a Code of Conduct, underlining the importance of this newsletter to employees. element. The policy covers topics such as bribes and kickbacks, facilitation payments, gifts, hospitality and expenses, charitable donations, business relationships (freelancers, subcontractors, Senior Advisors, agents, joint venture partners) and accounts and controls. We have also updated our Compliance Portal and improved its structure for better clarity and transparency. All employees received a compliance newsletter where the new anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy was briefly outlined. GOALS FOR THE FUTURE In order to prevent corruption, we aim to realize the following: • Random checks of anti-bribery and anti-corruption rules especially in risk related countries. • Continue creating awareness for compliance topics through ongoing communication (e.g. newsletter). PAGE 24 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2017 to September 2018 The origin of our goals Summarizing the implementation status and the achievement of the goals set in the last Communication on Progress, we at Roland Berger GmbH still strive to constantly improve ourselves in our core business activities with respect to the four areas of the UN Global Compact. Thus, our future objectives are as follows: Global Compact Goal Deadline Page area / issue Human Rights We want to keep the rate of successfully completed e-trainings Sep. 2019 p. 8 on the Code of Conduct at least at the same level. Human Rights We want to keep the number of stress management seminars Sep. 2019 p. 8 at the same level. Human Rights We want to select and pilot a new app-based employee Sep. 2019 p. 8 engagement survey in Germany to gain more transparency regarding the mood and workload in the organization. Labor Standards We plan to pilot a new onboarding app to support a Sep. 2019 p. 16 homogeneous and comprehensive information flow and onboarding process for all consultants. Labor Standards Regarding the seminar program, we want at least to maintain Sep. 2019 p. 16 the current level of training days per employee, while introducing new mandatory global training courses to promote digital readiness among our consultants and ensure equal training (e.g. Data Science, Design Thinking). Labor Standards For 2018/19, we plan to achieve at least the same participation Sep. 2019 p. 16 rates in the leadership assessment as in 2017. Labor Standards We want to maintain or even increase the number of participants Sep. 2019 p. 16 in the International Staff Exchange Program. Labor Standards We want to maintain or even increase the number of female Sep. 2019 p. 16 colleagues. Labor Standards Our targets for 2020 are as follows: 35% female applicants Dec. 2020 p. 16 in all regions; 25% women among Senior Consultants and Project Managers (first management level) and 15 new female Partners. Plus one female Partner to be elected to one of our formal governance bodies, one to be represented in local HR committees and one to be in a leadership position (country leadership team or CC head). Labor Standards We want to better support work-life-balance by marketing and Sep. 2019 p. 16 promoting the use of existing flexible working models. Environment We would like to give our colleagues more incentives to focus on Sep. 2019 p. 21 energy-friendly means of transport and promote these initiatives better within the company. Environment We want to further develop in the field of energy efficiency and Sep. 2019 p. 21 environmentally friendly products. Anti-corruption Random checks of anti-bribery and anti-corruption rules Sep. 2019 p. 24 especially in risk related countries. Anti-corruption Continue creating awareness for compliance topics through Sep. 2019 p. 24 ongoing communication (e.g. newsletter). PAGE 25 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2017 to September 2018 Contact: Peter Hochstrasser E-mail: Peter.Hochstrasser@rolandberger.com Tel.: +49 30 39927-3454 © Roland Berger 2018 www.rolandberger.com
