UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 ® Great at Control Version 1.0 2018 Contents Statement of Continued Support 3-4 Human Rights Principles 5-6 Labor Rights Principles 7-8 Environmental Protection Principles 9-10 Anti-corruption Principles 11-12 ® Great at Control COP Report 2018 Statement of 3-4 Continued Support February 20, 2018 Mita-Teknik develops, produces and distributes advanced We have identified our prioritized sustainability issues, and electronic control automation technology primarily for use in have initiated a process of optimizing these. We will follow up the wind industry. Mita-Teknik has a proven track record in the on our progress on a yearly basis. wind industry with more than 35 years of experience, and more than 50,000 Control Systems in operation worldwide. Our In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our global customer base is divided on +47 active markets, which actions to continually improve the integration of the UN Global we serve from our 7 locations. Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. I am pleased to confirm that Mita-Teknik reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact We also commit to share this information with our customers, in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Antiemployees, suppliers and other stakeholders using our primary corruption. channels of communication. Our collected CSR Policy, which includes our Code of Conduct This year, we have worked intensively on making our reporting and Business Ethics, has been approved by the Mita-Teknik of progress more quantitative, resulting in an even more clear Executive Management Team and the Board of Directors. Our overview of progress and results. CSR Policy is based on the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Sincerely yours, Jesper Andersen CEO, Mita-Teknik This is our Communication on Progress in implementing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We welcome feedback on its contents. ® Great at Control 5-6 Human Rights Performance Evaluation In 2017, we have updated the Danish and Chinese Employee In the past year, Mita-Teknik has not been subject to any Handbooks. Herein, we clearly state that we do not tolerate investigations, legal cases or incidents involving human rights Principles any discrimination at our workplace due to gender, race, violations. No incidents or violations of the human rights religion, sexuality, nationality or age. principles have been reported to the Executive Management Team. Along with the new Employee Handbooks in Denmark and China, we have also introduced a global whistleblower scheme. We are working intensively on implementing the new EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). The GDPR replaces the Data Protection Directive 95/46/EC and is designed to harmonize data privacy laws across Europe, to protect and Commitment Implementation empower all EU citizens’ data privacy and to reshape the way organizations across the region approach data privacy. Mita-Teknik respects cultural differences and does not do We take several actions to implement our CSR Policy and Code business with a supplier if the supplier practices discrimination of Conduct in our global divisions. We want to ensure that our suppliers are familiar with our CSR at work based on race, religion, gender, age, nationality or policies. Therefore, we have added an appendix to our existing sexual orientation. We have completed self-assessment surveys with all global partnership contracts with our suppliers that includes article divisions in order to ensure compliance. 24 ‘Code of Conduct’. Currently, Mita-Teknik employs 225 people from 10 different nationalities, working in 7 global divisions. 29% of our Action KPI Status * Target employees are women and 71% are men. Include article New purchase Strategic 24 ‘Code of contracts must suppliers: 100% for Conduct’ in include article 100% strategic and No employee should ever be exposed to any physical new purchase 24 ‘Code of preferred contracts Conduct’ Preferred punishment, threats of violence or physical, sexual, suppliers suppliers: psychological or verbal harassment or maltreatment in the 66% work place or in work-related situations. Other suppliers: 50% for other 11% suppliers Mita-Teknik actively supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We respect human rights within our sphere * Based on purchase in 2017 of influence and operate our business in a transparent and trustworthy way. Mita-Teknik sees no significant risks that the company or its suppliers violate the UN Global Compact Principles 1-2. ® Great at Control 7-8 Labor Rights We continuously collect information from our global divisions in order to ensure complete compliance to international In accordance with the Danish Working Environment Act, Mita-Teknik conducts APV (Workplace Assessment Surveys) Principles minimum standards in regards to working hours, compensation every three years, and continually carries out follow-up actions. and absences. In order to ensure safe working conditions, we also follow-up on all accidents and near-miss accidents. All Mita-Teknik employees undergo annual performance reviews to set individual plans and targets for promotions. Action KPI Status Target Annual performance reviews has been carried out with all Ensure safe Working 2 accidents 0 accidents working accidents employees globally. conditions Near-miss 3 near-miss 0 near-miss accidents accidents accidents Action KPI Status Target Conduct annual All employees Management: employee with more than 100% Commitment Implementation performance 5* months 100% for reviews seniority must White colour management, globally undergo professionals: white colour Performance Evaluation Mita-Teknik commits to provide a competitive compensation We take several actions to implement our CSR Policy and Code the annual 100% professionals package, a safe and comfortable working environment, openly of Conduct in our global divisions. performance and blue colour review review Blue colour: In the past year, Mita-Teknik has not been subject to any communicated career paths and well-established performance 100% investigations, legal cases or incidents involving labor rights and development evaluation tools. We have completed self-assessment surveys with all global violations. No incidents or violations of the labor rights divisions in order to ensure compliance. principles have been reported to the Executive Management Mita-Teknik respects the rights of workers and operate our * 12 months seniority in the Ningbo division. Team. business with safe and attractive working conditions. We Mita-Teknik’s Management System is audited annually to respect the employees’ right to organize and enter collective ensure continued compliance with the ISO9001 standard. We monitor the overall sickness absence in Mita-Teknik on a labor agreements and have zero tolerance for forced labor, During 2018, we will update our ISO system, and going forward, monthly basis in order to detect employee health issues, and child labor and discrimination. we will be audited against ISO9001:2015. assess if follow-up actions are required. Mita-Teknik has a dedicated Health and Safety Committee in Further, Mita-Teknik (Ningbo) is audited annually to ensure Action KPI Status Target Monitor the The overall place to regularly assess and evaluate the working environment compliance with the OHSAS18001 standard. In 2017, Mitasickness sikness 1.64% 2% in Mita-Teknik. Teknik Ningbo was recertified OHSAS18001 after moving to a absence absence must new factory. be below 2% Mita-Teknik sees no significant risks that the company or its suppliers violate the UN Global Compact Principles 3-6. In 2017, we started to implement the APQP4Wind standard. The main goal for Mita-Teknik to implement the APQP4Wind is our continuously focus on improving product quality. The implementation will continue in 2018 and involves several employee training sessions globally. ® Great at Control Environmental 9-10 Protection Principles Commitment At Mita-Teknik, we encourage the development and diffusion Measures to reduce travel activity are continuously of environmentally friendly technologies. We actively support a implemented and optimized. Global travel policies have been sustainable environmental progress through the development implemented to ensure that we reduce our travel activities and distribution of intelligent Control Solutions for the wind as much as possible with respect for running our business. industry, which improves the performance of wind turbines, By optimizing our organizational structure and moving and the overall competitiveness of ‘clean’ wind generated Sales, Project Management and Customer Projects closer energy. to our customers, we have improved our cooperation and communication both internally and towards our customers, Mita-Teknik supports a precautionary approach to which has resulted in reduced travel activity. environmental challenges, and undertakes initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. With the move to our new facility in Ningbo, we are able to focus even more on the LEAN production philosophy, continue Overall, we consider our production process to have a relatively to prioritize local production and reduce the need for long low impact on the environment, however we do recognize that distance transport and shipping hereby reducing our impact parts of our production and transports have a negative impact to the environment significantly. In 2017, Mita-Teknik (Ningbo) on the environment, and we constantly work to minimize has been recertified ISO14001 after moving to the new these effects. factory. Going forward, Mita-Teknik (Ningbo) will be our main production hub. Implementation Performance Evaluation At Mita-Teknik, we actively support a sustainable and environmentally friendly progress. In the past year, Mita-Teknik has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving violations We have completed self-assessment surveys with all global to the environmental protection principles. No incidents or divisions in order to ensure compliance. violations of the environmental protection principles have been reported to the Executive Management Team. Our waste management is in compliance with all applicable national laws and regulations, and we educate our employees in this area. ® Great at Control Anti-corruption 11-12 Principles Commitment Corruption and bribery are recognized as barriers to sustainable We have updated the Danish and Chinese versions of the development and free trade, and Mita-Teknik supports the Employee Handbooks. Herein, we stress that our employees work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and are obliged to follow the guidelines of the UN Global Compact bribery. and Mita-Teknik’s own Business Ethics Policy. Mita-Teknik acknowledges that minor business gifts and Along with the new Employee Handbooks in Denmark and moderate entertainment, including meals, are accepted ways China, we have also introduced a global whistleblower scheme. to build relationships. This practice must however always be conducted in a transparent way, and only to an extent Action KPI Status Target appropriate to our integrity guidelines and business ethics. Global Cases that call 0 cases 0 cases whistle-blower for legal action programme Implementation Performance Evaluation Guidelines for handling issues of corruption, hospitality (gifts and entertainment) and donations are provided to employees In the past year, Mita-Teknik has not been subject to any through our Business Ethics document, CSR Policy and Code investigations, legal cases or incidents involving antiof Conduct. corruption violations. No incidents or violations of the anticorruption principles have been reported to the Management All presents that are sent from customers and suppliers to Team. employees at Mita-Teknik are collected and distributed via an annual lottery once a year. It is not allowed to have presents from customers or suppliers sent to a private address. Presents to employees must be sent to Mita-Teknik. The same applies for prizes and gifts that are won in a competition, in which they participate via their job. This policy is stated in our Employee Handbook. We have completed self-assessment surveys with all global divisions in order to ensure compliance. ® Great at Control ® Great at Control We Make Wind Competitive © 2018 Mita-Teknik. All rights reserved. Content may not be reproduced in any form without written permission from Mita-Teknik Denmark Version R1_0, 2018
