UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 Contents Letter of Commitment About First Bahrain Human Rights Labor Environment Anti-Corruption Health and Safety Letter to Stakeholders To our stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that First Bahrain Real Estate Company reaffirms its support of then Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment, and Anticorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress (COP), we describe actions we have taken to improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture, and daily operations for the period of January 2017 – December 2017. Sincerely yours, Amin Al Arrayed Chief Executive Officer About us First Bahrain Real Estate Development Co. (First Bahrain) was originally established under the name of Baraq Al Khaleej Holding Company in 2004. Today it has paid-up capital of over USD 77 million. Since its inception the organization has been guided by the principles of Islamic Sharia in all its daily operations and business interests. Building on a strategic acquisition of land in the Seef district of Bahrain, the board appointed Amin Al Arrayed to lead the new company and assemble a professional management team. New offices were acquired and fitted-out in both Kuwait and Bahrain as well. Additionally, land was acquired for a proposed warehousing development at the Bahrain Investment Wharf. At the beginning of 2008, the Company made a strategic land acquisition in Janabiya, Bahrain, bringing the total land area owned or controlled by the company to over 1 million square feet. By the end of 2008, however, the world was reeling from the Global Financial Crisis and First Bahrain prudently and proactively decided to cancel its multi-tower development in Seef, preserving the Company’s capital in the face of uncertain times. In early 2009, the Company pressed forward with a defensive strategy to develop its warehousing project near the new Khalifa Bin Salman Port. Construction began in early 2009 and the brand for our new wholly owned subsidiary, Majaal Warehouse Co. was launched in October 2009. Given the strong demand for the SME-focused industrial facilities, the Company began construction in July 2012 on three additional buildings identical to Phase I. These buildings were delivered on time and on budget at the end of May 2013. A long-term lease with a single new tenant was signed to occupy these facilities immediately upon delivery in June 2013. The construction of both Phases II and III was financed through an agreement with BMI Bank, signed in February 2013, providing BD 5 million (USD 13 million) with repayment over seven years. This major finance agreement affirmed Majaal’s business model and the quality of its cash flows. In 2015, the Company activated its holding in Janabiya, initiating the development of a neighbourhood retail centre. While construction was 93% finished by year end, contracts for 47% of the 50,000 square feet of leasable area had also been executed, notably featuring an anchor supermarket. The retail centre commenced operations in Q4 2016. Building on the success of the neighbourhood retail centre, the Board of Directors approved commencement of a residential project on the adjacent property in their last meeting of the year. The 150,000-square foot plot is to be subdivided for the construction of 42 single family homes, which are to be built and delivered by the middle of 2018. With the addition of commercial and residential developments to its portfolio of industrial properties, the Company is focusing on diversification and growth. Despite the potential negative economic shocks coming from lower oil prices, the Company sees good potential for its business in the years ahead as it takes advantage of low construction costs and adds new sources of revenue across multiple sectors. As it has done with Majaal, the Company is continuing to convert its raw land holdings into robust fully-developed income generating assets. Marked by entrepreneurial leadership, commitment and integrity, First Bahrain is actively putting its potential to work for benefit of all of its stakeholders. Human Rights There have been zero incidents of human rights violations, including child labour, slavery, bonded labour, or violations of the rights of indigenous people. We ensure that all our workers are provided safe, suitable, and sanitary working facilities in our offices, working environments, and development sites. Forms must be submitted by line managers to justify the need for new hires. Following careful review of the form by the HR department, the recruitment process begins. All short-listed candidates are required to go through a three-step interview process and assessment, if needed. We do not discriminate against any applicant for employment in reference to age, race, religion, sex, disability, sexual orientation, status, pregnancy, or nationality Employee Benefits: 1. Above market wages 2. Medical insurance 3. Life insurance 4. Transportation and Communication allowances 5. Above market annual leave 6. National pension scheme / leaving indemnity Workforce Composition As of 31 December 2017, First Bahrain had 17 employees in total. Our current Bahrainization rate is at 71%, with expatriate staff totalling 29%. In regards to age, 47% of the employees are under the age of 30. Given the regional context of the youth bulge and the high percentage of youth unemployment, First Bahrain makes it a point to hire youth talent to aid in developing youth leadership and management skills. 35% are between the age of 30-40 with and 18% are above the age of 40. The company is currently comprised of 71% males and 29% females. The Board of Directors is presently 86% male and 14% female. Historically, a total of five women have served as members of the Board across ten of the thirteen years of its history. Founded in 2004 by an investment bank led by a Kuwaiti woman, First Bahrain has always celebrated diversity and benefited from the strategic leadership provided by women who have been part of its leadership. Within the staff, there are currently more women in key positions at First Bahrain than ever before and we hope to work on equalizing the gender gap through the company in the future. Labour All employees receive a written contract outlining their job description, responsibilities, and benefits. Employees are given a 30-day notice regarding significant operational changes and termination. All staff go through a mid-year and end-year performance appraisal review. Results of the performance review determine the increment and bonus percentage for the employees for that fiscal year. Environment In El Mercado, First Bahrain’s commercial project in Janabiya, we have allocated recycling bins around the mall instead of garbage bins. We also encourage all our tenants to sort and recycle their waste as well. We have a company assigned to collect the waste each day and deliver it to recycling companies. In our offices, we attempt to recycle a 100% of the paper waste. Private documents are shredded and other papers are put aside to be collected once a month by a recycling company. Anti-Corruption The risk of corruption is always assessed as we do business at First Bahrain. The management is obliged to sign off on Conflict of Interest Disclosure forms for all the companies we choose to work and partner with. In doing so, we ensure that corruption and unethical behaviour is discouraged. The staff is also taught to report any cases of fraud or bribery to the Audit Committee to investigate. This procedure assures the security of the staff against other staff members and the management.
