MIPRO GROUP LTD OY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) REPORT 2017 MIPRO GROUP LTD OY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) REPORT GENERAL This document is the Communication on Progress (COP) report for Mipro Group Ltd Oy covering the reporting period of 01.05.2017 – 30.4.2018. STATEMENT BY THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD 27 April 2018 To our stakeholders, We are pleased to confirm that Mipro Group Ltd Oy and its subsidiaries support the United Nations Global Compact, including each of the Ten Principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress report, we describe our actions of integrating the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, company culture and daily operations. We commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Stiina-Maria Snäll Chairman of the Board ABOUT THE COMPANY AND COP At Mipro Group, our work has always been engaged in building safe and well-functioning communities. Reliable and responsible operations have always been an integral part of Mipro Group’s activities, vision and values. Throughout the company’s history, it has been of the highest importance for the owners and the management to do things right and keep our promises. The Group has special expertise in functional safety; we supply solutions to rail traffic and water supply ensuring the safety of operations for our customers, and thus ensuring the safety of public transport, environment, water supply and drinking water. Customers and the legislation set strict requirements for the company’s products and services in regard to reliability and functionality. Hence, responsibility is highly important for us in our daily business. As for this year’s report we have decided to include an additional section about the quality and safety of our products and services. As our systems have such an important role in the communities we serve, our greatest social responsibility is to ensure that our products and services meet the safety and quality requirements and the promises we make. Reporting on our social responsibility has become not only a great tool for improving our operations, but also a way to remind ourselves why we are in this business in the first place. We want to actively be part of building and improving communities, and see the value and opportunity in building a successful company through both our local and global involvement in social responsibility. Responsibility reporting and endeavours are important for us; we communicate our values to our stakeholders through them, and encourage other small and medium sized enterprises to participate. We strive to be in that group of companies that has a pervasive approach to corporate social responsibility, and have made it a natural part of their daily operations. In recent years our customers, personnel and job applicants have had a growing interest in corporate responsibility. Matters of responsibility are increasingly discussed; employees have taken initiatives related to responsibility. The Group has evolved in recent years. Our operations and the number of employees have grown considerably. In the midst of all change and growth we are committed to long-term continuity and our goal is to retain and strengthen our basic values, our commitment to the ten UNGC Principles (https://www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/mission/principles) and our long-term operating policy of doing the right thing. HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS The UN Global Compact is driving business awareness and action in support of achieving the UN’s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). During this reporting period we have increased the awareness of our management on the SDGs and assessed possible impacts that our business and operations can have on the SDGs. Since we supply safety related systems to rail traffic and water supply, our solutions have a direct impact on a number of the SDGs. We can have a significant positive effect on these goals locally, as we conduct our business responsibly and strive for new enhanced solutions. Although, as a regional medium size company our impact in the global context is relatively small, we believe that even the smallest act is of great significance for achieving the SDGs. In terms of a number of the goals, we have already set our standards at a high level. However, we recognise the risk of adverse development and the need for continuous effort going forward. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Our goal is to adhere to all aspects of the Declaration of Human Rights, and through our own example and actions influence all our stakeholders and business partners to set their standards to a similar level. As a company primarily based in Finland, Mipro Group adheres to Finnish laws and regulations. On that account, our standard on enforcing human rights is already at a high level. However, we do not wish to be complacent about our own and current partners’ actions. Instead we have to look for ways to ensure that we will not be part of any human rights infringements either due to our own actions or even implicitly. IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES Our employees have been informed of the contents of the Declaration of Human Rights, and have been advised to look for and report any breaches of its contents caused either by our own actions or by our stakeholders. The Management system is reviewed periodically to ensure that human rights principles are appropriately taken into account in our daily operations. EU’s new privacy directive is to be implemented from May 25, 2018. It brings new responsibilities for companies managing personal information, and gives more rights for individuals whose personal data is being processed. According to the directive, Mipro Group (and its subsidiaries) is a data controller. Handling personal information with confidentiality, responsibility and security has always been important for us. We also want to act according to legislation, and thus communicate our dedication to respect privacy and individuals’ control over their own personal data. During the last year, we have been documenting and updating our procedures and have upgraded our systems. Before May 25, we will also train our personnel to handle the data in an appropriate way and provide information on our measures to the individuals whose data we process, whether they are our own personnel, customers, partners or other interested parties. In the future, fulfilling these requirements and continuous improvement on them will be handled through our management system. Mipro Group has not been even implicitly involved in any breaches of human rights principles during the reporting period. LABOUR PRINCIPLES We are committed to comply with labour legislation and we want to be a good and fair employer. A competent and committed personnel has been one of the company’s main assets through its history and will be in the future. We have identified “Doing things together” as one of the key factors in our strategy and we measure employee satisfaction with annual employee satisfaction surveys. The overall results from this reporting period are somewhat lower than the results from the previous reporting period. Several focus areas for improvement have been identified. Corrective actions and improvement work will be carried out throughout the next reporting period. The commitment of employees is reflected in their answers to our employee satisfaction surveys. The list below shows on a scale of 1 to 5 the commitment of employees in the entire group in the years 2015 and 2018. The average commitment of all employees that responded to the surveys is as follows: • 3.5 in 2018 • 4.0 in 2017 • 4.0 in 2016 • 3.9 in 2015. The average rating that was given on the scale of 1 to 5 to the statement I am very proud of what we accomplish as a company is as follows: • 4.0 in 2018 • 4.5 in 2017 • 4.4 in 2016 • 4.2 in 2015. In Finland, authorities monitor the fulfilment of working terms and conditions at workplaces, and the related audit function is directed by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health1. During the reporting period, the Finnish labour inspectorates made a periodic inspection in the group. The purpose of the inspection is not only to monitor but to help the working place to develop its occupational safety activities and working conditions. The targets to be examined include the maintenance and promotion of working capacity, prevention of accidents at work and occupational diseases, prevention of musculoskeletal disorders, mental well-being at work, coping with workload and management of work2. No deficiencies were found in the inspection, but it resulted in a few operational instructions regarding the update of the occupational safety training and reduction of disadvantages caused by physical work-load. 1 http://stm.fi/tyosuojelu 2 http://www.avi.fi/web/avi/tyosuojelu#.WtCA0S5uZhF EMPLOYEES, ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS EMPLOYEES’ RIGHTS Our goal is to adhere to all local laws and regulations in addition to adhering AND LABOUR LAW to the labour principles stated in the Global Compact. As Finnish law is compliant with the labour principles set by the ILO conventions, we believe that our actions fulfil the labour principles to satisfactory levels when operating in Finland. However, we realise that we need to pay attention to recruitment and rights of employees when operating abroad and to our dealings with foreign stakeholders, should the need arise. IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES Our employees have been informed of the labour principles and contents of the ILO conventions, and have been advised to report any breaches of these terms should they come across any. All our employees are covered by the collective agreement. All our employees have contracts of employment adhering to Finnish labour laws. Our recruitment process is designed to prevent any (even unintentional) possibility of breaching the contents of ILO conventions regarding child labour, forced labour or discrimination. We provide training to our managers in matters related to labour legislation to ensure that we act correctly and in accordance with the laws. We aim to support the knowledge of employees about labour legislation by providing copies of the labour legislation to employee cafeterias. As a part of our internal purchasing and partner management procedures, we discuss the labour principles with our partners and subcontractors. We provide our smaller partners with feedback, information and our experience that may help them to develop their own practices in relation to labour principles. Mipro Group has not been involved in any breaches of labour principles during the reporting period. EQUAL ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS OPPORTUNITIES We recognise the importance of a diverse, skilled workforce for our AND DEVELOPMENT success. We are committed to creating a corporate culture that provides all employees with equal opportunities. We are dedicated to provide our employees with possibilities to develop their skills and knowledge in order to support their work and personal development in different stages of their careers. IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES The outcome of this corporate culture is reflected in the composition of our top management the management groups and board of directors of our group companies are divided approximately equally between women and men, and between people of various educational backgrounds and age. We support our employees in advancing their career, developing their skills and acquiring education. The management together with each employee define requirements for skills and knowledge and create individual plans for personal development and education. At the beginning of the employment relationship, a preliminary training plan is drawn up for the employee and it will be complemented during his/her career when needed. As the Group has grown rapidly, we also need to emphasise the importance of proper induction in the coming years in order to be able to address the induction and training challenges caused by growth. During the last reporting period we have invested significantly in our employee training. The group companies participate in the Finnish Government’s labour EQUAL educational program that is designed to provide further education to job OPPORTUNITIES seekers and create jobs in the ICT sector1 . We also cooperate with local universities, colleges and polytechnics by providing their students with AND DEVELOPMENT internships and practical job placement for thesis work. We employ students directly and also through their educational institutions. In all cases, we provide the students with the same benefits as the other employees and implement the same employment principles. OCCUPATIONAL ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS HEALTH Our goal is to adhere to all local occupational health laws and regulations, and we believe that our actions result in a satisfactory occupational health environment for our operations in Finland. The experts we employ are critical for the success of the group; therefore our goal is to minimise the number of sick leaves. We aim to achieve a low level of absences caused by health-related issues through preventive actions and policies as well as with an inclusive employee health insurance policy. IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES Finland provides its citizens with wide-ranging public health services, which we have complemented with a comprehensive employee health insurance policy that gives our employees access to additional private health services. The policy includes instant access to basic private health services and complementary specialist services such as the services of a physiotherapist. 1 http://www.digitalentakatemia.fi/ Mipro Group companies have implemented preventive policies that aim OCCUPATIONAL to ensure a satisfactory level of occupational health. The goal of the HEALTH Early Support Program1 is to identify possible health issues and take any necessary preventive actions as early as possible. We also conduct a semiannual review of occupational health status with our private health care provider, which is reviewed by the management team of each subsidiary. We realise the importance of employees’ own actions and thus we encourage our employees to actively take care of their own health and well-being (TYKY). In this reporting period we have improved the availability of occupational health services by arranging visits of occupational health service providers to our office. As in previous years, the group has organised various events for the personnel to promote their health and well-being (TYKY). The group has healthy, active and relatively young employees and as a result of this and our long-term focus on occupational health issues, we have been able to achieve a relatively low number of sick leave days. Our sick leave days per employee ratio is below the industry average in Finland. Furthermore, the number of long-term sick leaves has remained low over the years. For the reporting period, health-related absences have remained at the similar low level as in the previous reporting periods. OCCUPATIONAL ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS SAFETY Managing occupational safety is a part of our management system, including controls required by Finnish law, and the ones we have put in place voluntarily. Our goal is simply to ensure the safety, health, well-being and physical ability of all our employees working in and outside the office. The field we work in requires a multitude of trainings, approvals and certificates regarding safety. Keeping all these up to date on the employee level constitutes an integral part of occupational safety. 1 Varhaisen tuen malli; http://www.ttk.fi/tyoterveyshuolto/tyokyvyn_hallinta OCCUPATIONAL Some of the required training is rather specific and not directly available; in such cases our goal is to acquire enough expertise in the company itself to SAFETY be able to train our own employees with regard to occupational safety. IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES Occupational safety is managed by the occupational safety committee, which is responsible for and empowered by the management to handle all observations, notices, incidents and improvement suggestions regarding safety, well-being and work environment. Occupational safety committee members include both employee and management level representatives. The committee works in a yearly cycle, which includes creating objectives, planning, implementation and measurement. Occupational safety is measured by the number of incident-related absence days, ”close call” incidents, safety-related deviations, audits of safety equipment usage, reviewing risk management documentation and a facility safety scorecard. The first meeting of the cycle is dedicated to a review of all the results of measurement. In 2017, there were • Five minor incidents, none of which resulted in sick leave. All incidents were reported on, actions carried out, and followed up on. • No occupational safety-related deviations • No reported cases of neglecting the use of safety equipment ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Mipro Group is committed to take the environment into consideration in all company activities. The group develops and supplies safety-related systems for rail traffic, industrial processes and water supply management that are characterised by a long lifecycle of maintainability and extendability. Our focus is strongly on digitalising the products and services of environmental industries, thus targeting total safety, practical efficiency of operations and value co-creation. Since May 2014 Mipro Oy has operated the Environmental Management System (EMS) certified according to ISO 14001:2015. The system is based on continual reviewing, selfassessment, planning and improvement. It requires us to adopt an active role and a preemptive stance in overcoming challenges and our impact on the environment. Furthermore, it encourages us to implement new technologies and practices which are environmentally friendly and sustainable. The certificate is granted by DNV GL that audits the Environmental Management System on an annual basis. Censeo Oy operates the Environmental Management System according to ISO 14001:2015 since August 2017. Furthermore, the environmental management systems were audited internally in July and August 2017. ENVIRONMENTAL We apply the following environmental principles to develop our operations and products: PRINCIPLES 1. Our operation policy, products and services meet the requirements of legislation and regulations, and customers. 2. We develop our operations and products so as to reduce detrimental environmental impacts. 3. We develop products that have a long lifecycle and are maintainable and extendable. 4. We extend the lifecycle of the systems we have delivered by means of our own proactive measures. Our organisational structure and operations policy support lifecycle management tasks. 5. We track energy consumption and reduce the amount of waste generated by making correct daily choices. 6. We reduce the number of business trips by planning them carefully and by using remote meeting applications and remote connections. IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES Mipro Oy’s implementation of EMS is described in the relevant documents and is part of the company-wide management system. All the roles and responsibilities are assigned, and Mipro Oy’s EMS is subject to both internal and external reviews and audits. During the reporting period, there were no incidents with an environmental impact. As such, no corrective actions were required during 2017. There were no incidents of non-compliance with environmental regulations and legislation. In order to be well informed and prepared for possible legislative and regulatory changes, we have a systematic approach to the identification and review of relevant environmental regulation and legislation (Principle 1). ENVIRONMENTAL IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES PRINCIPLES Outcomes and implementation of our six environmental principles are discussed shortly below. Development (Principle 2) We strive to make efficient solutions for safe transportation and water management, and continuously develop new and improved solutions for our clients. Censeo Oy and Mipro Oy implemented a joint environmental development project with the Finnish ELY Centre for Economic Development, Transport and the Environment, Regional State Administrative Agencies, SYKE Finnish Environment Institute, and the Mikkeli Waterworks and Environment unit. The project focused on the processing, visualisation and management of environmental information collected from water systems. The target was to create a real-time situational awareness picture of the load situation in the water systems. The project visualised the state of the southern waterways in Mikkeli by using the data of SYKE’s VEMALA modelling and assessing system, and developed risk management tools for the use of environmental operators. Furthermore, the Mipro REGO situation awareness system created by Mipro Oy was developed in the project to serve as an environmental safety management tool. Lifecycle management (Principles 3 and 4) Mipro Group companies provide solutions with long lifecycles. The aim is to provide our clients with the best possible long-term yield on their investments in our solutions. The products we develop and supply have a safe, high quality and long lifecycle. Furthermore, we provide lifecycle management services to ensure the value of the investment and as long a lifecycle as possible. Our goal is to take environmental aspects into account in all the various phases of our solutions’ lifecycle. Our subcontractors and cooperation partners are mainly Finnish and ENVIRONMENTAL operate according to the relatively strict Finnish environmental laws PRINCIPLES and instructions. We are interested whether our suppliers have an environmental certificate and perform audits to ensure the quality level of suppliers’ environmental systems. We perform supplier audits and follow up the results of audits very carefully. We monitor and manage the environmental load caused by our own actions by means of the environmental system; for example we have specified our own daily operations for site instructions. We dispose discarded equipment, including our own equipment and customers’ equipment returning to us – for example in connection with service and upgrade – in a responsible manner, paying attention to information security and environmental aspects. We deliver electronic waste to an ISO 14001 certified company for disposal. We draw up and supply recycling instructions for imported equipment. Energy consumption and waste (Principle 5) In our own operations, office waste, emissions from transportation and energy consumption have been identified as our most significant sources of environmental impact. To reduce the environmental impact, we monitor the company’s energy use and emissions. We have completed our site instructions with environmental aspects, for example by including a number of diverse environmental measurements, such as carbon dioxide emissions, on the site. We have also brought up environmental aspects in supplier audits. ENVIRONMENTAL Mipro encourages personnel to perform practical environmental actions in accordance with the principle that even the smallest act is of great PRINCIPLES significance for the environment. In August 2017 we arranged an environmental campaign in which we urged personnel to reduce business trips and the kilometres travelled to and from work by car. We urged people to use public transport, to walk or cycle, and use a car pool when driving a car could not be avoided and public transport was not available. We saved over 6000 driving kilometres; a significantly higher amount than in previous years’ similar campaigns. In March 2018 we arranged the second environmental campaign in which we encouraged personnel to familiarise themselves with and discuss topical environment-related matters and events, such as travelling, adequacy of water and use of disposable cups. Reduce business trips (Principle 6) We strive to use video conferences and VoIP sessions for internal and external communication whenever possible. We have invested in video conference equipment and connections and made relevant arrangements inside the company and between different offices and with important customers. Our goal is to improve communication and reduce business trips at the same time. On average, employees use VoIP and instant messaging tools two to three times per day and on average they participate in or host two remote meetings each week. Furthermore, personnel were encouraged to reduce business trips and use remote connections and meetings in the above mentioned environmental campaign that was organised in August 2017. FAIR BUSINESS PRACTICES Reliability and responsibility have always been an integral part of Mipro Group’s vision and are consequently reflected in our day-to-day operations and activities. Legal compliance, business ethics, trustworthiness and responsibility are important values for us. We require all our partners and subcontractors to fulfil their statutory obligations. Partners and subcontractors must provide information regarding proper insurance coverage, fulfilment of their statutory tax obligations and statutory filings for example. As part of our internal purchasing and partner management procedures we check that such information is up-to date and available from all our subcontractors and partners. ANTIASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS CORRUPTION As a company primarily based in Finland, corruption and bribery have traditionally been exempt from the business environment. However, we realise PRINCIPLES that corruption appears in many forms outside the exact letter of the law and these can be hard to identify. During interactions with officials and customers there may be many borderline, seemingly legal and silently accepted practices that are not in line with the principle of upholding a transparent and fair business environment. Our goal is to refrain from any such activities and encourage our stakeholders to do so as well through our example. IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES In our guidance and internal material, we outline what corruption (in all its forms) constitutes, and we inform our employees periodically against partaking in any form of corruption or bribery. They are also instructed to report on any evidence of corruption they come in contact with. To emphasise the importance of upright dealings, the group has given instructions and principles, and provided personnel with instructions concerning corporate gifts. In addition, our financial duties are separated, preventing individual employees from accessing company funds for unauthorised actions. During the reporting period we have conducted an internal assessment of our anti-corruption and fair business practices, procedures and guidance. Although our current procedures have been adequate to the demands of our We have not identified any cases current operational environment and proportional to the size and complexity of corruption or bribery within of our operations, we recognise that as our operations grow, continuous our sphere of influence during development is needed in terms of anti-corruption work and fair business the reporting period. practices. Our internal assessments’ recommendations for improvements will be carried out during the next reporting period. SAFETY AND ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS QUALITY Safety and quality of our products and services are of outmost importance for us. We deliver systems that guard the safety, efficiency, and availability of MANAGEMENT water supply and mass transport, hence our actions have a direct impact on the safety and well-being of the people and environment in the communities we serve. Our greatest responsibility rests on fulfilment of this safety commitment and promise that we have made to our customers and [indirectly] to the communities and people who are using this infrastructure in their daily lives. Our goal is to deliver the most reliable safety systems and services. We follow several voluntary and legally required standards to ensure quality of our operations and reliability of the safety systems we deliver. Our operations are regularly audited by external parties to ensure the correct application of these standards and to find areas of improvement. The ISO 9001:20151 and ISO 14001:20152 standards cover all major operative companies in Mipro Group. Thus, during the reporting period over 95% of Group’s revenue is generated by companies having ISO certified operations. EN standards are applied to all rail traffic products and projects; each safety related product and project is assessed by an independent safety assessor. Our operation and products are based on quality and safety standards: • Integrated Management System ISO 9001 • Environmental Management System ISO 14001 • Functional Safety Management IEC 61508 • Railway projects EN 50126, EN 50128, EN 50129 • Process industry projects IEC 61511 • System components and software DIN V VDE 19250, IEC 61508, EN 954-1 1 Certification in accordance with the new version of the standard in 2016. Audited by DNV at 9-month intervals 2 ISO 14001:2015; certification in accordance with the new version of the standard in 2016. Audited by DNA at 9-month intervals. SAFETY AND IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES QUALITY How the Mipro Group companies implement ISO and EN standards is MANAGEMENT described in relevant internal documents which are part of the company-wide management system. All employees are required to familiarise themselves with the management system documents and guidance that are relevant to their work and position. Employees are required to follow the procedures of the management system. Each employee has the responsibility and right to intervene, if the guidance of the management system and the common procedures are not followed. Additionally, compliance is audited internally and by independent auditors and occasionally by our customers. Common mechanisms of continual improvement – such as idea and risk management processes and the process for assessing and preventing nonconformities – are actively used to identify areas for development and to improve our products, services and quality of operations; employees’ initiatives and active participation in continual improvements are encouraged. Possible deviations and non-conformities are openly and transparently assessed within the company and with our external auditors and customers as needed. In this reporting period we have continued to strengthen and develop our safety management system. As part of this year’s endeavours we have conducted a comprehensive training for our personnel. By the end of the reporting period the vast majority of our personnel have attended a basic safety management training; the training was provided for the personnel in support and administrative functions as well. Internal training and exams were arranged for the personnel working with safety critical tasks; additionally, several employees have received the external safety engineer certification (TÜV-) granted by an external safety training provider. We recognise that further improvements in safety and quality management are still needed and we believe that this will be critical to our success in years to come. To reach our goals and to deliver the most reliable safety systems, we need to ensure continuous efforts to develop our quality and safety management systems and culture as well as the skills and knowledge of our employees. OTHER DEVELOPING THE LOCAL COMMUNICTY Mipro Group participates in the development of our local communities by cooperating with educational and other institutions. We cooperate with local colleges, universities and polytechnics by offering their students summer and training jobs on a yearly basis. Our long-term goal-directed principle is to offer local young people possibilities to find permanent jobs in their own region as well. Foundation for Advanced Technology of Eastern Finland Mipro Group is an active member of the Foundation for Advanced Technology of Eastern Finland and a founding member of the Mikkeli area special fund under the foundation. The goal of the fund is to promote technical and economic development and thesis and research activities at South-Eastern Finland University of Applied Sciences XAMK. For further information please see http://www.ists.fi/fi/Mikkelin+AMK%3An+erikoisrahasto.html The Mikkeli area special fund celebrates its 30-year anniversary in this reporting period and is therefore granting extra stipends/scholarships for research and development work in the area. A further goal of the fund is to bring companies and students together prior to their graduation. Active development work in environmental technology characterises the area. Finland 100 Mipro 50 campaign During the reporting period, we celebrated Finland’s 100 years of independence. In the spirit of Finland’s centenary year, we started a campaign “Finland 100 Mipro 50” that aimed to hire 50 people in the Mipro Group and other, new and existing partner companies during 2017. DEVELOPING We want to be involved in strengthening and developing Finland’s competitiveness; hence, we challenged other entrepreneurs who are THE LOCAL ambitious to increase their growth, to participate in this community COMMUNITY effort as well. As a part of the centenary year campaign, we recruited employees under the slogan “Things that make a difference”. We achieved many of the goals set – together with our partners. Mipro Group hired 28 new people during the campaign year and at the same time we increased the use of subcontractors. Although, the exact indirect employment effect is difficult to quantify, we estimate that a significant number of new jobs has been created in our subcontractor network. We have strengthened cooperation with our partners through common development projects and participated in various recruitment events. In general, we are pleased with the results of the campaign. Mipro Group supports local sport activities and especially children’s and DONATIONS young people’s leisure time activities by giving donations. The main AND CHARITY principle of donations for leisure time activities is to support sport and culture clubs and societies so that they are able to provide hobbies and interests for as many children and young people as possible, and support their growth and development; for example, they can strengthen social relationships, promote health, create inspiring environments or prevent young people from becoming socially isolated. Each year the company selects a charity for its Christmas donation, which this year was the Finnish Association for Mental Health and their “Lahjoita Mielenrauhaa” Christmas campaign. The campaign collects funds for preventive work that promotes mental well-being and the provision of crisis assistance and support.
