Sustainability Report 2018 Covering January–December 2017 Changing the trajectory 2 Changing A message from the CEO the trajectory Eastman is dedicated to enhancing the quality of life in a material way — making an impact on the world by Sustainability Report 2018 offering our stakeholders a dedicated approach to sustainable innovation. We find it our moral purpose to help address the changing needs of the world and its growing population. As the desire grows for products CEO statement 2 that are both safe and sustainably sourced, Eastman will continue to build on its heritage of world-class CSO statement 3 technology platforms and product innovation by offering sustainable solutions at the molecular level. Eastman at a glance 4 Awards and recognitions 5 Today, more than ever, Eastman is empowered to collaborate along the value chain, across industry sectors and with Strategy 6 community partners to identify, assess and execute sustainable strategies that expand our efforts to partner on projects Stakeholders and value chain 7 that make the greatest collective impact. Driven by global disruptions and macro trends, Eastman leverages its expertise Governance 11 in key platforms, such as cellulosic and polymer science, to convert market complexity into sustainable value. Our Code of conduct 12 transition to a specialty materials company relies on differentiated application development and innovation-driven Goals and progress 13 growth through disciplined portfolio management. We relentlessly engage the market to deliver consistent, sustainable Priority goals 15 Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 value for our stakeholders using our unique asset integration and scale to not only enable innovation but deliver Driving resource productivity 23 reliability and cost advantages in attractive niche markets. Focused good for good 31 Inclusion and diversity 35 With the publication of this report, we are reaffirming Eastman’s commitment to the 10 principles of the United Eastman Foundation 37 Nations Global Compact as well as the global Sustainable Development Goals. Throughout the report, I hope Scope of report 38 you will see that sustainability isn’t something we do; it’s a part of who we are. We are more determined Global Reporting than ever to fulfill that purpose — to make a material difference in the quality of life for billions of Initiative (GRI) 39 people around the world. GRI content index 40 GRI appendix 60 Mark J. Costa Board of Directors Chair and Chief Executive Officer 3 Changing A message from the CSO the trajectory Together, we must change the trajectory. Sustainability Report 2018 Innovation is imperative for meeting the needs of our changing world. Creating value through CEO statement 2 We know we must create far more value than the resources we use or the future is not sustainability sustainable. And as the purchasing power of the world grows, we can add tremendous value CSO statement 3 by enabling sustainable consumer choices. Eastman at a glance 4 Focused While this innovation imperative is critically important, innovation is hard. True innovation good for good Awards and recognitions 5 changes behaviors and occurs at the confluence of an unmet need, a creative mindset, and Creating shared value Strategy 6 the right resources which together can solve the problem. through strategic partnerships Stakeholders and value chain 7 and social innovation We can’t simply innovate for the sake of innovation. We must innovate to impact the world. Governance 11 Code of conduct 12 The Earth’s resources continue to be constrained, and we must deliver consumer options that will sustain and protect our world. We leverage our world-class Goals and progress 13 technology platforms across our value chain to ensure the right resources are Steering Priority goals 15 Driving being directed to identifying, influencing and providing unique insights to a sustainable Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 resource create transformative solutions. Driving resource productivity 23 portfolio productivity Focused good for good 31 As we continue our journey towards a specialty materials company, I’m optimistic Creating innovative Creating productivity Inclusion and diversity 35 that our pragmatic corporate governance, applied technical expertise and value through our value through more sustainable products efficient use of resources Eastman Foundation 37 adaptive business practices are leading to innovative solutions that Scope of report 38 enable the world’s environments and societies to thrive. Global Reporting With a global workforce that has the capability to address the world’s Initiative (GRI) 39 greatest challenges, Eastman becomes a leader in business practices GRI content index 40 that positively impact the health and well-being of our planet and GRI appendix 60 the people that populate it. Together, we are dedicated to enhancing the quality of life in a material way. This is how we are changing the trajectory. David A. Golden Senior Vice President, Chief Legal & Sustainability Officer, and Corporate Secretary 4 Changing Eastman at a glance the trajectory Sustainability Report 2018 Eastman (NYSE:EMN) Global advanced materials and specialty additives company that produces a broad range 4 business segments Additives & Functional Products Advanced Materials Chemical Intermediates Fibers CEO statement 2 of products found in items people use every day CSO statement 3 Eastman at a glance 4 2017 revenue approximately $9.5 billion Awards and recognitions 5 Strategy 6 Stakeholders and value chain 7 H Governance 11 Code of conduct 12 Headquartered in Kingsport, Tennessee, USA Goals and progress 13 Priority goals 15 2017 sales revenue by end-use market 2017 sales revenue by region 51 manufacturing sites* Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 Driving resource productivity 23 Building & in 14 countries Focused good for good 31 Construction *Including joint Inclusion and diversity 35 14% ventures Eastman Foundation 37 17% Scope of report 38 11% 44% 27% Industrial North America Chemicals & Consumables $4.2 billion Europe, Middle Global Reporting East & Africa Initiative (GRI) 39 Processing $2.5 billion 24% Asia Pacific GRI content index 40 8% – Filter Media $2.3 billion 20% GRI appendix 60 5% Approximately Latin America 7% – Consumer/ $515 million 14,500 team Medical Durables Transportation members around the 7% – Food, Feed & world Agriculture 2% – Other Personal Care 6% Serving customers & Wellness 5% 3% – Electronics Energy, Fuels & Water in more than 100 countries 5 Changing Awards and recognitions the trajectory Received seventh consecutive Recognized as a Best Place to Work for Sustainability Report 2018 ENERGY STAR® Partner LGBTQ Equality on the 2018 Corporate 8 of the Year award, fifth Sustained Equality Index by the Human Rights Excellence honor Campaign Foundation CEO statement 2 CSO statement 3 Received the Extraordinary Employer Eastman at a glance 4 Recognized for fifth consecutive year Support Award from the Department as one of the World’s Most Ethical Awards and recognitions 5 Companies® by Ethisphere Institute of Defense Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve (ESGR) program Strategy 6 for exemplary, continued support of Stakeholders and value chain 7 employees who serve the U.S. National Governance 11 Guard and Reserves Code of conduct 12 Designated as a Military Friendly Goals and progress 13 employer by Victory Media/ Recognized by Corporate G.I. Jobs® Responsibility Magazine as one of Priority goals 15 the 2017 Most Responsible Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 Companies in the Materials Sector Driving resource productivity 23 Focused good for good 31 Recognized with Responsible Care® Recognized by Corporate Responsibility Inclusion and diversity 35 Energy Efficiency Awards from American Magazine as one of the 100 Best Chemistry Council 25 years in a row, Eastman Foundation 37 Corporate Citizens for 2018 The five awards received in 2018 Scope of report 38 included two Exceptional Merit awards. Received safety excellence awards from Global Reporting two major U.S. railroad companies, Initiative (GRI) 39 Burlington Northern Santa Fe and GRI content index 40 Named in the Top 50 of America’s Norfolk Southern Most JUST Companies according to GRI appendix 60 Forbes and JUST Capital Received 2017 Responsible Care® Chairman’s Award in China from Named by Forbes as one of its 2018 Association of International America’s Best Large Employers Chemistry Manufacturers (AICM) Recognized by Newsweek Green Ranking 2017 Strategy Eastman Tetrashield™ protective resin systems creating a new product offering that saves energy in the manufacturing process and enables enhanced product longevity while exceeding today’s regulatory requirements 7 Changing Stakeholders and value chain the trajectory Eastman values the importance of collaboration and transparency to Sustainability Report 2018 drive change both corporately throughout Eastman and visibly along the value chain. Today, more than ever, these collaborations will change the CEO statement 2 trajectory of our impact. Stakeholder engagement driving collaboration to generate CSO statement 3 We are actively working across the value chain and within globally recognized sustainable solutions and bring frameworks, partnering to address the world’s biggest challenges. Eastman at a glance 4 about positive change Awards and recognitions 5 As we focus our efforts on optimized natural resource efficiencies, we address the resources consumed throughout manufacturing while providing sustainable Strategy 6 AC T I V I S T S C OA L solutions for the world’s growing population. By better understanding where ITIO Stakeholders and value chain R CH NS 7 our products go after they leave our facilities, we can actively address global S EA & CO Governance 11 RE UN D problems — exploring ideas for closing the loop, helping to unlock value AN n C Code of conduct 12 Co beyond consumption and empowering new economies of scale. EM IA su m IL S Goals and progress 13 AD er Community s Stakeholder engagement varies in type and frequency by stakeholder AC Retail Channel RE Priority goals 15 group, and we do not report specific details of all engagements. GU Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 Examples are represented online at eastman.com/sustainability. O RY L AT ST R AT EG I C PA RT N ER S Driving resource productivity 23 Focused good for good 31 B Do ra n Inclusion and diversity 35 Cu w d s st n s , Eastman G OV E R N M E N Eastman Foundation 37 o m t re rs er am Stakeholders to s ve s Scope of report 38 In Global Reporting Direct T Initiative (GRI) 39 E AD Customers GRI content index 40 INF TR Employees GRI appendix 60 Su L pp UE li e N TRY rs CE R US S IN D NO NS NG AT I O OV E NTA L O RGA N IZ RNME 8 Changing Global macro trends, disruptions and transformations the trajectory Eastman is a member of the World Business Through the WBCSD the chemical sector has Sustainability Report 2018 Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), an collaboratively worked on a roadmap to identify and Chemical sector impact organization that helps global businesses face new realize key opportunities for collective impact across the opportunities within CEO statement 2 and complex challenges and opportunities through SDG agenda, factoring in cross-cutting issues such as WBCSD roadmap science-based, targeted business solutions aimed to human rights, the low carbon economy, circularity, and CSO statement 3 scale up business impact. digitization. The roadmap outlines tangible actions that the Food Eastman at a glance 4 chemical sector can explore to accelerate impact related Specifically, the work of the greater organization targets Awards and recognitions 5 to the thematic areas of food, water, people & health, the realization of the United Nations Sustainable energy, and infrastructure & cities in the short-, mediumWater Strategy 6 Development Goals (SDGs). The United Nations has set a and long-term on the road to 2030. Stakeholders and value chain 7 sustainable development agenda. The 17 SDGs represent Governance 11 a collective effort to end poverty, protect the planet and Eastman is dedicated to exploring, articulating and helping People and Health Code of conduct 12 ensure prosperity for all. Each goal has specific targets to realize the potential of the chemical sector to leverage be achieved by 2030. its influence and innovation — significantly contributing Goals and progress 13 to the realization of the SDG agenda. We will work to Energy Priority goals 15 The SDG agenda is ambitious, transformative and incorporate this roadmap into our future goal setting and Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 universal. It will not be achieved through incremental corporate reporting. Driving resource productivity 23 change and calls on all members to go beyond business Infrastructure Focused good for good 31 as usual to address complex societal and environmental and Cities Inclusion and diversity 35 challenges. Realizing the ambitions of the goals and Eastman Foundation 37 unlocking the potential they represent is beyond the reach Scope of report 38 of any one organization and so it calls for innovative forms of partnerships at scale. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 39 GRI content index 40 GRI appendix 60 Eastman is dedicated to exploring, articulating and helping realize the potential of the chemical sector to leverage its influence and innovation — significantly contributing to the realization of the SDG agenda. 9 Changing Stakeholder priority assessment the trajectory As our corporate strategy evolves with the world’s We are currently working towards the completion of a Sustainability Report 2018 changing demands, we continue to identify the full stakeholder assessment where we actively engage a emerging issues that are most material to our diverse range of stakeholders through an ongoing process CEO statement 2 stakeholders. at the corporate, regional and local levels. By gaining this important feedback on business performance, we CSO statement 3 In preparation for our 2018 sustainability report, we better understand relevant sustainability issues and assessed sustainability-related issues that fall within Eastman at a glance 4 macro trends that can advance the company’s strategy — the standard environmental, social and governance Awards and recognitions ultimately creating sustainable value. We expect to publish 5 (ESG) framework of most of our important stakeholders. this updated stakeholder assessment as a part of our Strategy 6 Eastman believes effective management of ESG issues 2019 report. Stakeholders and value chain 7 and opportunities will lead to commercial success and is Governance 11 working to link ESG to corporate strategy, our business Code of conduct 12 models, managing risk and governance of our corporation. Goals and progress 13 While specific ESG research has shaped the thinking of Priority goals 15 our updated goals, Eastman does not conduct a formal Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 stakeholder assessment annually. Driving resource productivity 23 Focused good for good 31 Inclusion and diversity 35 Eastman Foundation 37 “The Business and Sustainable Development Commission’s Scope of report 38 flagship ‘Better Business, Better World’ report points to U.S. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 39 $12 trillion of additional market value that could be unlocked GRI content index 40 by 2030 if the SDGs are successfully implemented, creating GRI appendix 60 380 million jobs in the process.” — The Business and Sustainable Development Commission 10 Changing Stakeholder priority assessment (continued) the trajectory Sustainability Report 2018 Education/ Labor training practices CEO statement 2 Ethics/Code Product of Conduct safety CSO statement 3 Eastman at a glance 4 Financial Climate return change Awards and recognitions 5 Waste Energy Strategy 6 Stakeholders and value chain 7 Diversity Supporting Governance 11 and inclusion communities Code of conduct 12 Health care Goals and progress 13 & lifestyles Priority goals 15 Pollution Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 Human Whistleblowing rights Driving resource productivity 23 Focused good for good 31 Water Inclusion and diversity 35 Biodiversity Eastman Foundation 37 Board Scope of report 38 compensation Raw materials Fraud Focus for Eastman Global Reporting mitigation Initiative (GRI) 39 Matrix Key Leadership GRI content index 40 compensation Environmental GRI appendix 60 Population Social growth/aging Governance Focus for Stakeholders 11 Changing Governance the trajectory Eastman’s Sustainability Council was established in 2010 Eastman’s purpose: Enhancing the quality of life in a material way Sustainability Report 2018 to lead the development of an integrated sustainability strategy that informs the corporation’s innovation platform and influences Eastman’s business objectives. Presented to CEO statement 2 Eastman Board of Directors at least once a year Comprised of senior leaders from across the corporation, CSO statement 3 the Sustainability Council drives alignment across the Eastman at a glance Provides executive 4 enterprise to address emerging opportunities for Eastman Sustainability Council level guidance Awards and recognitions 5 as the world undergoes continuous transformation. and direction Strategy 6 Eastman’s three Sustainability Subcouncils continue to Sustainability Identifies and assesses Stakeholders and value chain 7 activate deeper integration of sustainability throughout Design, risks and opportunities Subcouncils Governance 11 the corporation, bringing established goals to life. They Sustainable Environment, Good for Makes recommendations for short-, midand Code of conduct 12 are dedicated to changing the trajectory through driving Portfolio & Natural Good long-term action Goals and progress 13 a sustainable portfolio, effectively managing all of our Resources Priority goals 15 resources and enhancing social innovation. Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 The Sustainability Subcouncils proactively identify Driving resource productivity 23 emerging issues, assess Eastman gaps, engage Eastman Functions Prepare for midterm Focused good for good 31 cross-functional teams and execute strategically where opportunities Inclusion and diversity 35 Eastman can make the most impact. Eastman Foundation 37 Additives & Advanced Chemical Execute against Functional Fibers short-term Scope of report 38 Materials Intermediates Products opportunities Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 39 GRI content index 40 GRI appendix 60 12 Changing Code of conduct the trajectory We understand that to be successful and fulfill our Sustainability Report 2018 purpose of enhancing the quality of life in a material way, we must maintain trust and confidence with CEO statement 2 all of our stakeholders — employees, customers, communities, investors, and suppliers. CSO statement 3 Eastman at a glance 4 Eastman has a number of policies and initiatives in place that allow its team members to cultivate a culture of Awards and recognitions 5 integrity and ethical standards. The company has an Office Strategy 6 of Global Business Conduct led by David Golden, Eastman’s Stakeholders and value chain 7 Senior Vice President, Chief Legal & Sustainability Officer, Governance 11 and Corporate Secretary, which establishes the Code of Code of conduct 12 Business Conduct. The Code raises awareness of legal and Goals and progress 13 ethical issues that may arise and outlines the company’s Priority goals 15 expectations for compliance with the most current In conjunction with the Code of Business Conduct, Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 regulations and standards. Annual training on the Code of Eastman provides a Third Party Code of Conduct to our Driving resource productivity 23 Business Conduct is required for 100% of employees. suppliers, which defines our expectations for conducting Focused good for good 31 business with Eastman. We expect the same ethical Inclusion and diversity 35 behavior of our suppliers and hold them accountable Eastman Foundation 37 by annual supplier surveys to drive the highest As we continuously look for innovative ways to standards of sustainability, fair labor practices and Scope of report 38 safety along our value chain. create value for these stakeholders, our global team Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 39 is committed to conducting business with honesty GRI content index 40 and integrity every day. While no company is perfect, GRI appendix 60 our goal is to have zero incidents of unethical behavior every year. Goals and progress Avra™ performance fibers Enabled by a proprietary spinning technology, Avra delivers exceptional moisture management — drying up to 50% faster than conventional polyester fabrics. 14 Changing Goals and progress the trajectory We have an unyielding commitment to make This year, we continue to report on the goals and Sustainability Report 2018 a positive impact on the markets, customers, targets we established looking towards 2020. As we’ve communities and employees that we serve. As we achieved goals or shifted priorities to align with our CEO statement 2 continue to achieve our goals, we do so by leveraging corporate strategy, we have added or refined our goals. our unique capabilities and expertise and working We have removed goals achieved during our previous CSO statement 3 closely with world-class partners. reporting period. Eastman at a glance 4 Going forward, we will align our goals under the framework As Eastman looks towards the future, our Awards and recognitions 5 of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Strategy 6 (SDGs), allowing us to focus on some of the world’s Sustainability Council and three Sustainability Stakeholders and value chain 7 greatest challenges as a universal call to action. We review Subcouncils are collectively identifying opportunities, Governance 11 our goals regularly and establish targets that challenge us Code of conduct 12 to continually improve. assessing priorities and facilitating deeper integration Goals and progress 13 across the enterprise that will allow Eastman to Priority goals 15 Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 continually focus its sustainability efforts to address Driving resource productivity 23 global disruptions and transformations taking place. Focused good for good 31 Inclusion and diversity 35 Eastman Foundation 37 Scope of report 38 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 39 + + = GRI content index 40 GRI appendix 60 The Eastman Equation: Challenge Challenge Partner Partner Eastman Eastman Impact Solution 15 Changing Priority goals the trajectory Sustainability Report 2018 Growth Innovation Steering CEO statement 2 a sustainable DELIVER PROJECT PORTFOLIO portfolio new business Drive Eastman to innovate more CSO statement 3 sustainably advantaged products Creating innovative value SOLUTIONS from our world-class renewable Eastman at a glance 4 technology platforms Progress: New through our sustainable Progress: In transition Awards and recognitions 5 products Strategy 6 Stakeholders and value chain 7 Governance 11 Energy Greenhouse gas emissions 20 2020 % 20 2020 % Code of conduct 12 Reduce energy Reduce GHG Goals and progress 13 intensity by by intensity by by Priority goals 15 Driving resource Progress: Needs improvement Progress: On track Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 Driving resource productivity 23 productivity Focused good for good 31 Creating productivity value Water Safety Inclusion and diversity 35 through more efficient Increase water use efficiency Maintain our strong commitment Eastman Foundation 37 use of resources and ensure sustainable withdrawals to a zero-incident culture Scope of report 38 and supply Global Reporting Progress: New Progress: Needs improvement Initiative (GRI) 39 GRI content index 40 GRI appendix 60 Focused good for good Creating shared value through SUPPORT CATALYTIC strategic partnerships and projects and initiatives focused on education, environment, empowerment, social innovation and economic development Progress: On track 16 Changing the trajectory Sustainability Report 2018 CEO statement 2 CSO statement 3 Eastman at a glance 4 Awards and recognitions 5 Strategy 6 Stakeholders and value chain 7 Governance Code of conduct 11 12 Steering Key macro trends drive Goals and progress Priority goals 13 15 Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 a sustainable product innovations to Driving resource productivity Focused good for good Inclusion and diversity 23 31 35 portfolio enhance quality of life and make a material difference. Eastman Foundation 37 Scope of report 38 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 39 GRI content index 40 GRI appendix 60 17 Changing Steering a sustainable portfolio the trajectory Macro trends drive innovation. Macro trend examples Product examples Sustainability Report 2018 Eastman is driving innovation by identifying and assessing global macro trends and • Product safety in CEO statement 2 disruptions. Health and durables and packaging wellness • Low VOC coalescents CSO statement 3 We recognize that understanding where our Eastman at a glance 4 world is going is critical to ensure the value Awards and recognitions 5 of our products in our future. We started by • Low odor in adhesives assessing our projects against macro trends Strategy 6 Emerging • Higher performing in 2016, but in late 2017, we took this a step products Stakeholders and value chain 7 middle class further and launched our product sustainability Governance 11 assessment. As we understand our projects Code of conduct 12 individually, we are elevating this to look at the Goals and progress 13 impact of our collective portfolio. For example, Natural Priority goals 15 we have set our sights on best practices to enable • CAFE standards resource Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 carbon reductions and offsets in manufacturing • Bioplastics efficiency Driving resource productivity 23 processes, and we have established a team to Focused good for good 31 help address the growing impact of plastics in Inclusion and diversity 35 our waterways and ocean. Eastman Enhanz™ Eastman Foundation 37 Feeding a • Antibiotic free Adding value to your recipe We know that applying our global experts and growing Scope of report • Crop yields Eastman 38 world-class technology platforms to the world’s population Banguard® propionic acid crop protection Global Reporting challenges will allow us to create a pipeline Initiative (GRI) 39 of sustainable innovation that enhances the GRI content index 40 quality of life in a material way. “Using regulatory and nonregulatory drivers to spur new product innovations that GRI appendix 60 are responsibly sourced and produced, Eastman is meeting the societal demands for producing products that are safer for the planet and all its inhabitants.” — Dr. John Hott, Director, Global Product Stewardship and Regulatory Affairs 18 Changing Goals and progress the trajectory Steering a sustainable portfolio Sustainability Report 2018 Goal Progress Progress details CEO statement 2 Deliver new business solutions from our In transition During 2017, Eastman launched three exciting new products from our renowned cellulosic platform: world-class renewable technology platforms ™ and Vestera™. Building off of our nearly century-long history in these products, we have Naia™, Treva CSO statement 3 been able to launch new products quickly that have the opportunity to become market leaders. We Eastman at a glance 4 acquired USDA BioPreferred certifications for these products and completed Vinçotte biodegradation certification for Vestera™. While we are marking this goal as complete for 2017, note that we are Awards and recognitions 5 still actively working on new innovations from our world-class renewable technology. We are transitioning to a single focus of driving development of sustainably advantaged products across our Strategy 6 entire portfolio. Stakeholders and value chain 7 Governance 11 Innovation project portfolio New As mentioned above, we are expanding our focus on sustainable innovation beyond our renewable Code of conduct 12 Drive Eastman to innovate more sustainably platform. Currently, we are implementing a redesigned Portfolio Sustainability Assessment for advantaged products our innovation project portfolio, which is deepening our understanding of our innovation project Goals and progress 13 sustainability performance. In 2016, we piloted the assessment tool with targeted projects to allow Priority goals 15 Replaces previous Eastman goal of assessing us to learn, review and adjust to make improvements to the approach. In 2017, we launched the all innovation projects through lens of global assessment for all innovation projects. We expect to complete assessments on all current innovation Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 macro trends projects by late 2018. The assessment is designed to occur early in the innovation process, and we Driving resource productivity 23 aim to complete assessments on >90% of innovation projects on an ongoing basis. Focused good for good 31 We anticipate reporting the overall sustainability performance of our entire innovation Inclusion and diversity 35 portfolio in our 2019 sustainability report, which will likely include metrics such as: Eastman Foundation 37 • Percent of our projects (count) that are classified as sustainably advantaged or leadership level Scope of report 38 • Sustainability Index improvement of advantaged projects compared to neutral and disadvantaged projects Global Reporting As we continue the launch, we will establish baselines and set targets for these metrics. Initiative (GRI) 39 GRI content index 40 GRI appendix 60 continued on page 19 19 Changing Goals and progress (continued) the trajectory Steering a sustainable portfolio Sustainability Report 2018 Goal Progress Progress details CEO statement 2 Existing product portfolio New This new goal is complementary to our innovation project portfolio. We aim to make our product Drive Eastman portfolio toward more portfolio more sustainable over time using a two-pronged approach: by innovating more sustainable CSO statement 3 sustainable offerings products and steering our existing portfolio toward the offerings recognized as sustainability advantaged and leaders. We focused first on understanding and evaluating sustainability Eastman at a glance 4 performance of innovation portfolio because it ultimately influences performance of product Awards and recognitions 5 portfolio. Strategy 6 Based on our learnings from the innovation project assessments, we will begin to develop a Stakeholders and value chain 7 commercial portfolio assessment process in 2018 with launch of the process in 2019. At this time, Governance 11 we anticipate being able to report progress on metrics for this goal in our 2020 sustainability report. We intend to track progress on metrics such as percent of Eastman revenue generated by sustainably Code of conduct 12 advantaged products vs. others with goals for improvement over time. Goals and progress 13 Priority goals 15 Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 Driving resource productivity 23 Focused good for good 31 Inclusion and diversity 35 Eastman Foundation 37 “It is imperative that we look at the disruptions and transformations Scope of report 38 Global Reporting happening around the world to ensure that we are innovating for an Initiative (GRI) 39 abundant future. To do this, we are constantly executing strategies GRI content index 40 GRI appendix 60 that enable a sustainable portfolio for Eastman.”   — Cathy Combs, Director, Sustainability  20 Changing Modifying our molecules to innovate a new solution the trajectory Sustainability Report 2018 CEO statement 2 CSO statement 3 Eastman at a glance 4 Awards and recognitions 5 Challenge Partner Eastman Impact Strategy 6 India’s increasing middle class Mahindra & Mahindra Eastman Tetrashield™ protective 300,000+ SUVs on the road with Stakeholders and value chain 7 demands higher quality products. resin systems Tetrashield technology, creating Governance 11 Mahindra & Mahindra, a leading Derived from the TMCD molecule with a new product offering that saves Code of conduct 12 Indian automaker, was experiencing properties that make Eastman’s Tritan™ energy in the manufacturing process, Goals and progress 13 coating failures on their SUVs resulting copolyester so successful, the Eastman adds value to the product through Priority goals 15 in loss of share and diminished trust team worked across borders to deliver eliminated capital expenditures, and Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 in their brand. a drop-in replacement and fast! In enables enhanced product longevity Driving resource productivity 23 just 15 months, our experts modified while exceeding today’s regulatory Focused good for good 31 molecules to develop a new coatings requirements. Inclusion and diversity 35 technology that had exceptional Eastman Foundation 37 durability. Scope of report 38 “Tetrashield is a perfect example of how Eastman seeks Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 39 to create value. By relentlessly engaging the market, collaborating GRI content index 40 across the value chain and leveraging our technology strengths, GRI appendix 60 we strive to be essential to our customers’ success.”  — Dr. Lucian Boldea, Senior Vice President, Additives & Functional Products 21 Changing Revitalizing a 100-year-old cellulosic platform the trajectory Sustainability Report 2018 CEO statement 2 CSO statement 3 Eastman at a glance 4 Awards and recognitions 5 Challenge Partner Eastman Impact Strategy 6 There is a push for new material Eastman works cross-functionally to Leveraging 100 years of cellulosic Eastman has successfully introduced Stakeholders and value chain 7 innovation that is sourced from understand market drivers — scaling expertise, Eastman rapidly identified, specialty materials that meet the Governance 11 renewable resources. As a company, up new material innovations. assessed, and launched two new growing environmental demands of Code of conduct 12 we must help consumers look beyond biobased materials into separate our changing world. Our integrated Goals and progress 13 the extractive “take, make, dispose” markets in less than one year: world-class technology platforms Priority goals industrial model, and design materials allow us to offer scaled solutions — a • Eastman Tr–eva™ engineering 15 Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 that can be valued as renewable competitive advantage that is hard to bioplastic, with a biobased content Driving resource productivity 23 resources without losing performance match in niche applications. of 42% Focused good for good 31 benefits. Learn more about Naia. Inclusion and diversity 35 • Eastman Naia™ cellulosic yarn, with Eastman Foundation 37 a biobased content of 56% Read the Tr–eva™ processing and design guide. Scope of report 38 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 39 “We believe in sustainability and the necessity to deliver GRI content index 40 GRI appendix 60 innovative and sustainable fiber options to the textiles industry. Naia™ cellulosic fiber embraces our vision to bring consumers luxury, comfort and ease of care without any compromise on sustainability.” — Ruth Farrell, Marketing Director, Textiles 22 Changing Understanding healthcare needs, protecting patient safety the trajectory Sustainability Report 2018 CEO statement 2 CSO statement 3 Eastman at a glance 4 Awards and recognitions 5 Challenge Partner Eastman Impact Strategy 6 Hospitals are working hard to prevent Clorox Healthcare, an industry leader By joining forces, Eastman and The brands you trust to keep your Stakeholders and value chain 7 healthcare-associated infections with disinfectants that healthcare Clorox are improving disinfectants, home safe and clean are now doing Governance 11 (HAIs). This requires the use of facilities trust, partnered with Eastman strengthening devices and protecting the same for healthcare. Code of conduct 12 stronger disinfectants and the need for to offer a solution that can withstand patient safety. As hospitals use more Goals and progress 13 tougher devices that can withstand rigorous use and disinfectants while aggressive disinfectants and take Priority goals 15 frequent cleaning. offering increased durability and other measures to reduce HAIs, Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 product failure reductions. medical equipment is increasingly “Making equipment properly so it Driving resource productivity 23 subject to repetitive failures. Eastman Focused good for good 31 Tritan™ copolyester is a revolutionary can be disinfected and therefore Inclusion and diversity 35 material able to withstand aggressive be safer for patients — any Eastman Foundation 37 “Eastman understands the needs of the medical device marketplace environmental rigors. Scope of report 38 company that chooses to go and creates materials to meet the demands of aggressive HAI cleaning Global Reporting down that path is a good partner Initiative (GRI) 39 protocols. Eastman’s testing shows that for hospitals, and those are GRI content index 40 the type of plastic used in these sensitive GRI appendix 60 the companies we want to do applications is critical to patient safety business with.” and device reliability.” — Alan Levine, Executive Chairman,  — Laurie Rabens, Clorox Healthcare President and Chief Executive Officer, Ballad Health 23 Changing the trajectory Sustainability Report 2018 CEO statement 2 CSO statement 3 Eastman at a glance 4 Awards and recognitions 5 Strategy 6 Stakeholders and value chain 7 Governance Code of conduct 11 12 Driving resource Goals and progress 13 Priority goals 15 Earning the right to operate is a Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 Driving resource productivity Focused good for good Inclusion and diversity 23 31 35 productivity responsibility Eastman takes very seriously. We understand that even the smallest action Eastman Foundation 37 can have a lasting effect. Therefore, managing Scope of report 38 resources and preserving the ecosystem Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 39 are top priorities. GRI content index 40 GRI appendix 60 24 Changing Goals and progress the trajectory Driving resource productivity Sustainability Report 2018 Goal Progress Progress details *Energy and emissions data CEO statement 2 Improve energy efficiency of operations by Needs Through 2017, energy intensity improved 11.3% compared to Energy intensity 20% by 2020 against the 2008 baseline Improvement the 2008 baseline; year-over-year improvement compared to CSO statement 3 (percent reduction) 2016 was 1.0%. In 2017, Eastman focused on project execution Eastman at a glance 4 and putting plans in place to make sure gains are maintained. Awards and recognitions 5 2015 2016 2017 Goal Strategy 6 Reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions per On track 2017 greenhouse gas intensity decreased 17% compared Total direct and indirect greenhouse Stakeholders and value chain 7 unit of production (GHG intensity) by 20% by to the baseline. gas emissions by weight Governance 11 2020 against the 2008 baseline (GHG = lb CO 2 per lb of product sold) Code of conduct 12 Goals and progress 13 2015 2016 2017 Goal Priority goals 15 Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 Increase water use efficiency and ensure New In 2016, Eastman established a goal to develop best practices Driving resource productivity 23 sustainable withdrawals and supply for water conservation and reuse and assess our manufacturing sites against these best practices. Eight North America sites Focused good for good 31 Replaces goal to develop best practices for completed assessments in 2016. Inclusion and diversity 35 water conservation and reuse and assess While water is a basic need for our manufacturing operations, Eastman Foundation 37 manufacturing sites against these best practices Eastman is committed to increasing water efficiency. Recycling water in manufacturing operations reduces water demand, Scope of report 38 raw water treatment costs, and enhances energy and water Global Reporting efficiency. Essential recycle operations include condensate recovery/reuse and recirculating cooling towers as well as reuse Initiative (GRI) 39 of water within some processes for heat recovery and reduced GRI content index 40 water usage. GRI appendix 60 Total withdrawals are monitored for all sites where Eastman has controlling ownership. Water withdrawals for 2017 decreased 4% compared to 2016. *See eastman.com/sustainability for detailed charts. continued on page 25 25 Changing Goals and progress (continued) the trajectory Driving resource productivity Sustainability Report 2018 0.64 0.80 0.71 0.54 Goal Progress Progress details *Safety data CEO statement 2 Maintain our strong commitment to a Needs While we continue to make progress, we recognize the OSHA injury and illness rate zero-incident culture improvement need to focus our efforts to develop a zero-incident culture that CSO statement 3 encompasses all aspects of operational excellence, including Eastman at a glance 4 personal safety and process safety. 2015 0.17 2016 0.24 2017 0.20 Goal 0.12 Over the last year, we have recommitted ourselves to pursuing Awards and recognitions 5 and achieving continual excellence in process safety. We Strategy 6 understand that any process safety event isn’t acceptable in a zero-incident culture, and serious events have the potential to Days Away from Work (DAW) rate Stakeholders and value chain 7 impact all of our stakeholders. We are tracking process safety Governance 11 incidents as defined by the American Chemistry Council. Code of conduct 12 Targets we continue to monitor and report: 2015 2016 2017 Goal .15 .13 Goals and progress 13 • 2017 OSHA Injury and Illness Rate — 0.71 against target Priority goals 15 of 0.54 Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 • 2017 Days Away from Work (DAW) Rate — 0.20 against Process safety incidents target of 0.12 Driving resource productivity 23 • 2017 Process Safety Incident Rate for Tier I events — 0.15 Focused good for good 31 New metric for 2018 with target of 0.13 (see GRI LA-6 for 2017 Goal Inclusion and diversity 35 more details) Eastman Foundation 37 *See eastman.com/sustainability for detailed charts. continued on page 26 Scope of report 38 Global Reporting “In today’s world, it’s not enough to simply comply with permits and regulations. We must operate in a Initiative (GRI) 39 way that our communities know we are going beyond compliance to protect our people and the environment. GRI content index 40 GRI appendix 60 Our communities grant us our license to operate, and we must remain committed to a zero-incident culture to continue earning the trust and support of our neighbors. In a zero-incident culture, we approach each job with that mentality — no injuries, no environmental releases, no adverse impact to our employees or community. That’s our responsibility, and we take it very seriously.”  — Hanneke Counts, Vice President, Global Health, Safety, Environment and Security 26 Changing Goals and progress (continued) the trajectory Driving resource productivity Sustainability Report 2018 Goal Progress Progress details *Energy and emissions data CEO statement 2 Reduce nitrogen oxide (NOx) by 20% and Complete 2017 NOx emissions decreased 24% compared to the baseline. NOx air emissions by weight sulfur dioxide (SO2) by 40% by 2020 against (tons) CSO statement 3 2017 SO2 emissions decreased 52% compared to the baseline. the 2010 baseline Eastman at a glance 4 2015 2016 2017 Goal Awards and recognitions 5 Strategy 6 SO2 air emissions by weight (tons) Stakeholders and value chain 7 Governance 11 Code of conduct 12 Goals and progress 13 2015 2016 2017 Goal Priority goals 15 Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 Reduce Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) by On track 2017 VOC emissions decreased 13% compared to the VOC air emissions by weight (tons) Driving resource productivity 23 15% by 2020 against the 2010 baseline baseline. Focused good for good 31 2015 2016 2017 Goal Inclusion and diversity 35 Eastman Foundation 37 Reduce total number of reportable releases by On track 2017 reportable releases decreased 21% compared to the Reportable releases 25% by 2020 against the 2010 baseline baseline. (incidents) Scope of report 38 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 39 2015 2016 2017 Goal GRI content index 40 GRI appendix 60 *See eastman.com/sustainability for detailed charts. continued on page 27 27 Changing Goals and progress (continued) the trajectory Driving resource productivity Sustainability Report 2018 Goal Progress Progress details *Energy and emissions data CEO statement 2 Reduce Toxic Release Inventory (TRI) emissions On track 2016 TRI air emissions decreased 20% compared to the TRI air emissions by weight CSO statement 3 to the air by 25% by 2020 against the 2010 baseline. (Mlb) baseline Eastman at a glance 4 Awards and recognitions 5 2014 2015 2016 Goal Strategy 6 Stakeholders and value chain 7 Reduce hazardous waste (indexed to Needs 2017 hazardous waste indexed to production increased Hazardous waste Governance 11 production) by 15% by 2020 against the 2010 improvement 4% compared to the baseline. baseline (kgs waste/kg production) Code of conduct 12 Goals and progress 13 2015 2016 2017 Goal Priority goals 15 Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 *See eastman.com/sustainability for detailed charts. Driving resource productivity 23 Focused good for good 31 Inclusion and diversity 35 “Eastman has a long history of implementing energy efficiency projects. As technical Eastman Foundation 37 gains have been achieved, the company has recognized that more innovative Scope of report 38 and often collaborative techniques are required to change the trajectory. We are Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 39 continually broadening our efforts to include collaborations that fully engage GRI content index 40 our employees and our partners to achieve greater results. We are proud of our GRI appendix 60 accomplishments to date and will continue to adapt as the world’s demands change.” — Sharon Nolen, Manager, Global Natural Resources Management 28 Changing Understanding the ocean’s role in climate change the trajectory Sustainability Report 2018 CEO statement 2 CSO statement 3 Eastman at a glance 4 Awards and recognitions 5 Challenge Partner Eastman Impact Strategy 6 According to the World Economic The Eastman Foundation has The ocean is the fundamental driver While the need for research on the Stakeholders and value chain 7 Forum, the biggest man-made threat partnered with the Woods Hole of our climate, atmospheric, weather, interaction between the air and sea Governance 11 to ocean health is carbon pollution. Oceanographic Institution (WHOI) food, energy and water systems, yet is high, global experts concentrating Code of conduct 12 In the last decade, the ocean has in the foundational development of we know so little about it. To close this on the subject are limited. CASIMM Goals and progress 13 absorbed about 30% of the carbon its Center for Air Sea Interaction and gap, Eastman is committed to better is dedicated to developing the next Priority goals 15 dioxide emitted by industry. While Marine Meteorology (CASIMM). understanding the blue economy by generation of leaders focused on Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 we know that climate change is funding research that produces longmodeling the effects of climate Driving resource productivity 23 dependent on the ocean’s health, term, high-quality, reproducible data. change. This research will inform Focused good for good 31 science examining the interaction strategies for our future business as Inclusion and diversity 35 between the air and sea is limited and well as our global environment. Eastman Foundation 37 current models do not address the Scope of report 38 uncertainties of climate change. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 39 GRI content index 40 “The fundamental problem is a lack of resources on all fronts. GRI appendix 60 To be successful in increasing our understanding and predictive capabilities of this complex system, we must work together.” — Dr. Carol Anne Clayson, Senior Scientist, Physical Oceanography, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution 29 Changing Saving energy, reducing carbon emissions the trajectory Sustainability Report 2018 CEO statement 2 CSO statement 3 Eastman at a glance 4 Awards and recognitions 5 Challenge Partner Eastman Impact Strategy 6 How do you increase the energy Eastman worked through Energia From conception to implementation, The installation of this Stakeholders and value chain 7 efficiency in operations while Group’s Power Systems Manufacturing Eastman experts were able to new burner technology was the first in Governance 11 improving the reliability of the steam to identify new burner technology determine the amount of steam the industry. The increased turndown Code of conduct 12 produced, maximizing turndown and that would fit the turndown, operating production that could be moved to has changed how the site generates Goals and progress 13 properly controlling steam pressure and environmental demands of its the cogeneration plant while keeping steam and how the cogeneration Priority goals 15 while maximizing steam generated? cogeneration plant in Longview, the olefin cracking plant boilers at or facility generates electricity. Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 Texas. After the new technology above minimum rates. Controls were 156,000 MMBtu were saved in Driving resource productivity 23 was identified (PSM/Ansaldo’s installed to maintain the steam header 2016, a 9% energy savings per Focused good for good 31 FlameSheet™ Combustion System) pressure and maximize cogeneration Klb of steam produced. In addition, Inclusion and diversity 35 and proven, a project was initiated to steam production leading to the project yielded an annualized net Eastman Foundation 37 install the new burners. maximum energy efficiencies and CO2 emissions reduction of 9,130 tons Scope of report 38 reductions in CO2. leading to accolades from both the American Chemistry Council and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 39 9% Energy savings per Klb steam Department of Energy in 2017. GRI content index 40 GRI appendix 60 9,130 tons, CO2 emissions reduction each year 156,000 MMBtu savings in 2016 30 Changing Navigating the nexus of academics, policy, and industry the trajectory Sustainability Report 2018 CEO statement 2 CSO statement 3 Eastman at a glance 4 Awards and recognitions 5 Challenge Partner Eastman Impact Strategy 6 In the environmental realm, Michael Vandenbergh is a leading Resident expert, Sharon Nolen, Vandenbergh’s research on the topic Stakeholders and value chain 7 people often worry about rebound scholar in environmental and energy Manager, Global Natural Resource of “Net Gains for Pro-Environmental Governance 11 effects, such as the adoption of one law. His work with Vanderbilt’s Climate Management, was asked by Behavior” suggests that industry is at Code of conduct 12 negative environmental behavior Change Research Network involves Vandenbergh to participate an important environmental tipping Goals and progress 13 undermining all future environmental interdisciplinary teams that focus on in a workshop to discuss propoint. While roughly 50% of the U.S. Priority goals 15 choices and actions. the reduction of carbon emissions environmental behavior, sharing population either doesn’t believe Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 from the individual and household Eastman’s approach to engaging in climate change or is waiting on Driving resource productivity 23 sector. His corporate work explores its employees in its award-winning the federal government to solve Focused good for good 31 private environmental governance and energy management program. This these complex problems with policy, Inclusion and diversity 35 the influence of social norms on firm was the culmination of ongoing Private Environmental Governance Eastman Foundation 37 behavior as well as the ways in which conversations to share research is putting private institutions at the private contracting can enhance or and industrial perspectives with forefront of environmental protection Scope of report 38 undermine public governance. Vandenbergh visiting Eastman’s — representing the interest of the Global Reporting largest facility to learn more about population through preferred options Initiative (GRI) 39 our environmental efforts and Nolen in the marketplace. GRI content index 40 serving as a guest presenter to GRI appendix 60 graduate students at Vanderbilt. Learn more from Michael Vandenbergh at TEDxNashville — “Can your company stop global warming?” 31 Changing the trajectory Sustainability Report 2018 CEO statement 2 Focused CSO statement Eastman at a glance 3 4 good Awards and recognitions Strategy Stakeholders and value chain 5 6 7 for good With the right combination of Governance 11 resources, expertise and influence, Code of conduct 12 Eastman is committed to being a leader Goals and progress 13 Priority goals 15 in social innovation and doing good Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 Driving resource productivity 23 for people and the planet. Focused good for good 31 Inclusion and diversity 35 Eastman Foundation 37 Scope of report 38 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 39 Learn more about Corporate GRI content index 40 Responsibility at Eastman. GRI appendix 60 32 Changing Goals and progress the trajectory Focused good for good Sustainability Report 2018 Goal Progress Progress details CEO statement 2 Support catalytic projects and On track Eastman leverages corporate and Foundation resources to invest in unique partnerships and initiatives focused on education, initiatives that drive transformational change through the lens of four priority areas — education, CSO statement 3 empowerment, economic development empowerment, economic development and environment. With the convergence of innovation, and the environment technology, and sound science, we prioritize opportunities that allow us to combine the unique Eastman at a glance 4 expertise of Eastman team members around the world with strategic partners to bring solutions to Awards and recognitions 5 significant, real-world problems. Eastman’s Chief Legal & Sustainability Officer and Corporate Secretary David Golden has Strategy 6 executive responsibility for the company’s corporate responsibility and community engagement Stakeholders and value chain 7 efforts. Golden reports progress to the Executive Team and the Board of Directors to ensure Governance 11 alignment of the company’s corporate responsibility strategy with the corporate strategy. Golden also serves as President of the Eastman Foundation, which serves as a private charitable Code of conduct 12 foundation whose mission coincides with Eastman’s corporate responsibility strategy. Goals and progress 13 Examples of initiatives and progress are included in this report and online at Priority goals 15 responsibility.eastman.com. Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 Driving resource productivity 23 Focused good for good 31 Inclusion and diversity 35 Eastman Foundation 37 “Eastman is elevating its partnership initiatives to create Scope of report 38 Photo: Kirti Rawat, Room to Read, India a lasting impact in global communities. By strategically Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 39 investing in the future, we ensure that innovation isn’t just GRI content index 40 limited to our products but impacts humanity for GRI appendix 60 the greater good.”  — CeeGee McCord, Director, Global Public and Community Affairs 33 Changing Developing the STEAM pipeline the trajectory Sustainability Report 2018 CEO statement 2 CSO statement 3 Eastman at a glance 4 Awards and recognitions 5 Challenge Partner Eastman Impact Strategy 6 There is a leak in the Science, STREAMWORKS supports local K–12 Eastman empowers strategic STREAMWORKS is a new educational Stakeholders and value chain 7 Technology, Engineering, Arts and science, engineering, technology initiatives with our partners in platform that delivers enhanced Governance 11 Math (STEAM) pipeline. Preparing the and mathematics education and education to help ensure we have a opportunities for K–12 students to Code of conduct 12 next generation of talented engineers helps get students excited about successful workforce in the future. participate in exciting mentor and Goals and progress 13 and scientists is an ongoing challenge. opportunities in higher Encouraging innovative and productive project-based programs that focus Priority goals 15 At current enrollment rates, the U.S. education and thinking in a real-world environment on these critical skills. Through the Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 will be short five million workers for technical fields. enables students to excel — especially partnership, STREAMWORKS is Driving resource productivity 23 these skilled careers by 2020. when they are grounded in science, introducing specialized curricula, Focused good for good 31 technology, engineering, arts, and such as coding and marine robotics, Inclusion and diversity 35 math education. to students. STREAMWORKS Eastman Foundation 37 introduced Marine Advanced Technology Education (MATE) Scope of report 38 “Each year, I am always amazed at the innovation and entrepreneurship of Initiatives to schools in Eastman’s Global Reporting global headquarters community. Initiative (GRI) 39 the student teams. They come up with some very creative and often very Students are now competing GRI content index 40 sophisticated solutions to the challenges that we present to them. It takes in underwater robotics at the GRI appendix 60 international level. partners in business and education to make these programs and opportunities possible for students. Thanks to partners like Eastman, I know that our future technical and engineering workforce is in good hands.” — Jill Zande, President & Executive Director at MATE Inspiration for Innovation (MATE II) 34 Changing Advocating for action in ocean science the trajectory Sustainability Report 2018 CEO statement 2 CSO statement 3 Eastman at a glance 4 Awards and recognitions 5 Challenge Partners Eastman Impact Strategy 6 The ocean contains 97% of the • Woods Hole Oceanographic Because we understand that the ocean Eastman has built a strong platform Stakeholders and value chain 7 Earth’s known water supply and Institution (WHOI) and ocean life are so fundamental of support for ocean research and Governance 11 is fundamental to our climate, • Consortium for Ocean Leadership to our weather and climate systems, education, including: Code of conduct 12 atmosphere, weather, food, energy • The World Ocean Summit food web and global ecosystem, • Promoting and enabling innovative Goals and progress 13 and water systems. There is no place • National Ocean Sciences Bowl Eastman is focusing resources and technologies to accelerate ocean Priority goals 15 on the globe where the ocean doesn’t • Marine Advanced Technology efforts on partnership projects and research Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 matter. And yet, the message is simple Education (MATE) Initiative initiatives to better understand • Development of a unique Driving resource productivity 23 — we need more data to better the complexities of ocean science educational curriculum for an ocean Focused good for good 31 understand the complexities of the and reflect our commitments to processes capstone course at the Inclusion and diversity 35 world’s most important waters. education, empowerment, economic high school level Eastman Foundation 37 development and the environment. • Providing opportunities for students to compete in ocean science Scope of report 38 challenges and competitions at a Global Reporting national level Initiative (GRI) 39 “Change begins with education and what better way to engage in a global Learn more at responsibility.eastman. GRI content index 40 com/environment. GRI appendix 60 need than to inspire the best and brightest young minds around the endless possibilities of applying educational skills to impact the issues of our changing world.” — Natalie Pickett, instructor of Ocean Sciences Capstone Course at Dobyns-Bennett High School in Kingsport, Tennessee 35 Changing Inclusion and diversity the trajectory Tapping into the full potential of Eastman people Sustainability Report 2018 Processes and systems don’t innovate. People Executive Team responsibility Collaborations for change innovate. That means every team we have on the Eastman’s Chief Human Resources Officer has CEO statement 2 ground at Eastman must be absolutely, fully engaged. responsibility to oversee all aspects of inclusion and • American Indian Science That’s why inclusion and diversity are core elements diversity efforts for the company and report progress to and Engineering Society CSO statement 3 of our governing principles and corporate strategy. our Board of Directors. Each of the five Eastman Resource • Catalyst Eastman at a glance 4 Groups (ERGs) is sponsored by an executive team member A diverse and inclusive environment for Eastman is • DigiGirlz Awards and recognitions 5 that actively champions, supports and participates with exceptionally important for how we’re going to exceed • Human Rights Campaign Strategy the group to achieve the ERG’s objectives (see page 36 6 in the marketplace. We’re growing a powerfully diverse (HRC) Stakeholders and value chain for more details). We expect our Senior Leadership Team 7 workforce with increasingly diverse talents, perspectives Governance to model Eastman’s cultural and leadership behaviors to • National Council for 11 and experiences that bring the best ideas to the table. Code of conduct develop the next generation of leaders within Eastman. Women & Information 12 We’re also fostering inclusion that inspires innovation, Our leaders are held accountable for building and inspiring Technology (NCWIT) Goals and progress 13 encourages respect, and enables the highest level of high-performing teams. • National Society of Black Priority goals 15 contributions. Inclusion ignites the creativity, passion, and Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 innovation that bring the best ideas to the table. Engineers (NSBE) Driving resource productivity 23 Leadership Learning Labs • Paradigm for Parity® Eastman’s inclusion and diversity strategy is about Focused good for good 31 We began hosting immersive Leadership Learning Labs growth and innovation. It’s about providing a future for • Society of Hispanic Inclusion and diversity 35 for senior leaders and leaders who have the ability to our company, which is extremely important because Professional Engineers Eastman Foundation 37 influence and drive change throughout the company. when the company wins, our people win, and all of (SHPE) Scope of report 38 our stakeholders win. The more than 150 graduates from the 3.5-day • Society of Women Global Reporting residential training are transforming themselves and Engineers (SWE) Initiative (GRI) 39 driving a more diverse and inclusive culture in our • Women Leaders in GRI content index 40 College Sports company and communities. GRI appendix 60 These labs have been transformative, with one leader • Women’s Basketball Hall stating, “The most powerful lesson I learned at the of Fame diversity workshop was that everybody’s an individual and everybody has their own story … and what that means is that a lot of presumptions and assumptions that continued on page 36 36 Changing Inclusion and diversity (continued) the trajectory I’ve made about people based on any number of facets Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) Sustainability Report 2018 that I can observe with my eyes have been wrong a In 2015, we formally launched our first ERG. Today nearly lot of times.” In addition, we’re transforming gender 900 Eastman team members are engaged and being CEO statement 2 diversity at the leadership level by making intentional inspired through Eastman’s five ERGs listed at right. investments and building our mentoring network to Attracting the right talent is a key component of our CSO statement 3 accelerate the readiness of women for leadership roles. The strategy and to achieving our bottom line. Our ERGs Eastman at a glance 4 rate of women being promoted within professional and are providing long-term value creation to the company Awards and recognitions 5 management roles continues to increase. by increasing our pipeline of diverse talent, supporting attraction, development and retention of talent. We are Strategy 6 leveraging ERGs to help expand our on-campus presence, Stakeholders and value chain 7 Special initiatives, recruitment and community events enhance our interviewing and onboarding experience, Governance 11 Eastman is proud of our collaboration with community and help us recruit new talent. ERGs have also created Code of conduct 12 partners, universities and organizations. From recruiting, new development opportunities such as skill-building and hiring and supporting veterans to our regional Black Goals and progress 13 career development forums, mentoring programs and History Month oratorical contest and a free community Priority goals 15 one-on-one career coaching. They foster engagement event at our headquarters site to celebrating International Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 and retention through networking events, forums and Women’s Day and PRIDE month, we’re making significant Driving resource productivity 23 community involvement. progress. On a national level, we joined Paradigm for Focused good for good 31 Parity along with other leading companies, signing the More than 120 team members have voluntarily Inclusion and diversity 35 pledge in early 2017 to bring gender parity to corporate Eastman Foundation 37 engaged in Equality Allies training and more than leadership by 2030. Eastman keeps moving forward Scope of report 38 with its initiative to bring more women into the field of 80 women are participating in the Catalysts’ Global Reporting information technology through the “Pacesetters” program mentoring program, all taking an active role in Initiative (GRI) 39 created by the National Center for Women & Information shaping our company’s future. GRI content index 40 Technology (NCWIT). Pacesetters is designed for member organizations that are committed to taking proactive We believe that empowerment facilitates success and GRI appendix 60 measures over a two-year period to increase the number that we can make a greater impact when we collaborate of women in IT. At the local level, Eastman supports and combine our talents, passions and expertise toward a and coordinates opportunities for female employees collective goal. to hold leadership roles in philanthropic and nonprofit Learn more about our progress and collaboration partners organizations and participate in community leadership at eastman.com/diversity. development programs. 37 Changing Eastman Foundation the trajectory Sustainability Report 2018 The Eastman Foundation serves as a private charitable Priority areas foundation that supports initiatives that serve and Education By leveraging our resources and strengthen communities around the world. Directed strategic initiatives we can maximize the collective CEO statement 2 by board members who represent all areas of the impact of educational initiatives focused on science, CSO statement company, Eastman’s Chief Legal & Sustainability 3 technology, engineering, arts and math. Officer serves as President of the Foundation, Eastman at a glance 4 driving alignment of the Foundation’s mission to Environment The Foundation’s initiatives help Awards and recognitions 5 Eastman’s Corporate Responsibility efforts and focus promote and drive environmental awareness, Strategy 6 areas: education, environment, empowerment, and environmental stewardship, and energy conservation. Stakeholders and value chain 7 economic development. Empowerment The Foundation is committed to Governance 11 While Eastman and the Eastman Foundation provided building an engaging and dynamic work environment Code of conduct 12 funding and in-kind donations totaling more than $5.2 with a mindset of equality and inclusion. Goals and progress 13 million to support public/private partnership initiatives in Priority goals 15 2017, the Foundation’s approach extends beyond financial Economic Development The Foundation Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 support and embraces opportunities that can truly impact supports innovative and impactful economic Driving resource productivity 23 our changing world — strategically investing in programs development initiatives that directly benefit Focused good for good 31 and partnerships that reflect its mission. residents and improve quality of life. eastmanfoundation.com Inclusion and diversity 35 Eastman Foundation 37 Conserving ecology Scope of report 38 Eastman advances large-scale ecological work through its partnership with Global Reporting The Nature Conservancy, one of the world’s leading environmental organizations. Initiative (GRI) 39 For nearly two decades, the Eastman Foundation has partnered with Nature Conservancy GRI content index 40 to preserve a beautiful stretch of land located in the Shady Valley area of Northeast GRI appendix 60 Tennessee. Increased support by the Foundation this year will help fund a seven-acre expansion of the Schoolyard Springs Preserve in Shady Valley. The expansion will include a stream restoration project, resulting in almost 2,000 linear feet of biologically and hydrologically repaired tributary reach. As the most visited property in Shady Valley, the Schoolyard Springs Preserve also lends itself to opportunities for education and outreach efforts. 38 Changing Scope of report the trajectory Eastman’s 2018 sustainability report focuses on our progress and challenges Other reports of interest Sustainability Report 2018 over the past year and includes quantitative data for the year ending December 31, 2017, unless otherwise noted. The report covers Eastman’s wholly owned operations. We are committed to including information on CEO statement 2 newly acquired sites within three years of acquisition. This report follows the CSO statement 3 Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 framework and meets requirements for Eastman at a glance 4 the United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress. Awards and recognitions 5 Based on the stakeholder mapping assessment we completed for our 2017 report, we identified the topics of significance and indicators that are most 2017 Annual Report: 2017 Databook: Strategy 6 Enhancing the quality of Enhancing the quality of Stakeholders and value chain 7 relevant to our internal and external stakeholders and their alignment to both life in a material way life in a material way Governance 11 our strategy and the SDGs. We also examined our business opportunities and Code of conduct 12 risks and evaluated external trends related to our business. This year, we are completing a comprehensive stakeholder assessment in preparation for the Goals and progress 13 2019 report. Leadership. Innovation. Priority goals 15 Impact. Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 The data used in this report was collected through several information Innovating with purpose Sustainability Report 2017 management processes, including instrumentation, monitoring, sample Covering January–December 2016 Driving resource productivity 23 collection and analysis, engineering estimates, material balances and other Sustainability Report 2016 Focused good for good 31 Covering the period January–December 2015  1 Inclusion and diversity 35 methods. Eastman has rigorous internal policies and practices to ensure the 2017 Sustainability Report: 2016 Sustainability 2015 Sustainability Eastman Foundation 37 content of this report is accurate. Additionally, Eastman’s internal auditors Innovating with Purpose Report: Leadership. Report: Gaining assess the information in conformance with standards set by the Institute of Innovation. Impact. momentum Scope of report 38 Internal Auditors (U.S.). Internal auditors assessed the information contained Global Reporting in the report to ensure appropriate supporting documentation exists. Many Initiative (GRI) 39 of the financial data included are taken from the consolidated financial Sustainability at Eastman Moving forward together GRI content index Sustainability Report, June 2014 40 statements contained in the Eastman 2017 Annual Report. Covering the period January–December 2013 GRI appendix 60 2014 Sustainability 2013 Sustainability 2011 Sustainability Report: Moving Report: Positive progress Report: Connecting forward together Science and Sustainability Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) GRI index Saflex® heads-up-display (HUD) Saflex® interlayer technology enables GRI appendix cost-effective implementation of HUD features, decreased cabin noise, reduced vehicle weight, improved gas mileage and reduced CO2 emissions. 40 Changing Global Reporting Initiative content index the trajectory This report aligns with the GRI G4 Guidelines. Eastman self-declares the 2018 report as “In Accordance-Core.” The information included also serves as Eastman’s Communication of Progress as a member of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Sustainability Report 2018 UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals (see legend on page 9) GRI CEO statement 2 Element Pages Title UNGC SDG 2018 Answer CSO statement 3 G4-1 2, 3 Statement from the most senior decisionCEO message maker of the organization about relevance CSO message Eastman at a glance 4 of sustainability to the organization and its strategy Awards and recognitions 5 G4-2 9 Description of key impacts, risks and Stakeholder engagement and priority matrix Strategy 6 opportunities 2017 10K report, part II, item 7 Stakeholders and value chain 7 Governance 11 Identified material aspects and boundaries Code of conduct 12 G4-3 4 Company name Eastman at a glance Goals and progress 13 Priority goals 15 G4-4 4 Principal brands, products, and services Eastman at a glance Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 Eastman brands Driving resource productivity 23 G4-5 Location of headquarters Kingsport, Tennessee, USA Focused good for good 31 Inclusion and diversity 35 G4-6 Countries where the company is established Locations Eastman Foundation 37 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 2017 10K Report Scope of report 38 G4-8 4 Markets served with geographic breakdown Eastman at a glance Global Reporting Markets Initiative (GRI) 39 G4-9 4 Scale of organization Eastman at a glance GRI content index 40 2017 10K Report GRI appendix 60 G4-10 60 Employment by contract type, work time 6 Appendix and gender G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by 6 As of June 1, 2018, collective bargaining agreements cover 6% of Eastman’s collective bargaining agreements U.S.-based workforce. 41 Changing Global Reporting Initiative content index (continued) the trajectory UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals Sustainability Report 2018 GRI Element Pages Title UNGC SDG 2018 Answer CEO statement 2 G4-12 7 Organization's supply chain Value chain CSO statement 3 G4-13 Significant changes in the reporting period 2017 10K Report, part II, item 8 Eastman at a glance 4 Note 2, acquisitions; Note 16, asset impairments and restructuring changes Awards and recognitions 5 G4-14 11 Position regarding the precautionary Sustainability Governance principle and its application Strategy 6 Stakeholders and value chain 7 G4-15 Adherence to charters, principles and other Responsible Care Governance 11 external initiatives Memberships Product safety Code of conduct 12 G4-16 Membership of associations, including Memberships Goals and progress 13 trade bodies Priority goals 15 Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 Identified material aspects and boundaries Driving resource productivity 23 Focused good for good 31 G4-17 38 All entities included in the organization's Scope of report Inclusion and diversity 35 consolidated statements Eastman Foundation 37 G4-18 38 Process for defining report content, aspect Scope of report boundaries and GRI principles Scope of report 38 Global Reporting G4-19 9 Material Aspects identified in the process Stakeholder priorities for defining report content Initiative (GRI) 39 GRI content index 40 G4-20 9 Boundaries of material aspect within the Stakeholder priorities GRI appendix 60 organization G4-21 9 Boundaries of material aspect outside the Stakeholder priorities organization 42 Changing Global Reporting Initiative content index (continued) the trajectory UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals Sustainability Report 2018 GRI Element Pages Title UNGC SDG 2018 Answer CEO statement 2 G4-22 9 Explanation of the consequences of any Stakeholder priorities changes in the boundaries of the report CSO statement 3 Eastman at a glance 4 G4-23 9 Consequences of the changes in the scope Stakeholder priorities and aspect in boundaries Awards and recognitions 5 Strategy 6 Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholders and value chain 7 G4-24 7 Stakeholders group considered Stakeholder value chain Governance 11 Code of conduct 12 G4-25 7 Basis for identification of stakeholders Stakeholder value chain Goals and progress 13 G4-26 7 Approaches to dialogue with the Stakeholder value chain Priority goals 15 stakeholders Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 G4-27 9 Stakeholders' concerns Stakeholder priorities Driving resource productivity 23 Focused good for good 31 Inclusion and diversity 35 Report Profile Eastman Foundation 37 G4-28 38 Reporting period for the information Scope of report provided Scope of report 38 G4-29 38 Date of most recent previous report Scope of report Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 39 G4-30 Reporting cycle Annually GRI content index 40 G4-31 Contact persons David A. Golden, Senior Vice President, Chief Legal & Sustainability Officer, and GRI appendix 60 Corporate Secretary | sustain@eastman.com 43 Changing Global Reporting Initiative content index (continued) the trajectory UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals Sustainability Report 2018 GRI Element Pages Title UNGC SDG 2018 Answer CEO statement 2 G4-32 40 Table identifying the location of the GRI Index Standard disclosures in the report and CSO statement 3 External Assurance report Eastman at a glance 4 G4-33 38 External validation Scope of report Awards and recognitions 5 Strategy 6 Governance Stakeholders and value chain 7 G4-34 Governance structure Corporate Governance Governance 11 Code of conduct 12 G4-35 Process for delegating authority for Corporate Governance economic, environmental and social topics Goals and progress 13 from the highest governance body to senior Priority goals 15 executives and other employees Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 G4-36 The positions with responsibility for Corporate Governance Driving resource productivity 23 economic, environmental, and social Focused good for good 31 topics report directly to the highest Inclusion and diversity 35 governance body Eastman Foundation 37 G4-37 Processes for consultation between Corporate Governance stakeholders and the highest governance Scope of report 38 body of economic, environmental and Global Reporting social topics Initiative (GRI) 39 G4-38 Composition of the highest governance Board of Directors GRI content index 40 body and its committees GRI appendix 60 G4-39 The Chair of the highest governance body is Board of Directors also an executive officer. G4-40 Nomination and selection processes for the Corporate Governance highest governance body and its committee 44 Changing Global Reporting Initiative content index (continued) the trajectory UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals Sustainability Report 2018 GRI Element Pages Title UNGC SDG 2018 Answer CEO statement 2 G4-41 Processes for the highest governance body Corporate Governance to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided CSO statement 3 and managed. Eastman at a glance 4 G4-42 The highest governance body's and senior Corporate Governance Awards and recognitions 5 executives' role in the development, approval, and updating of the organization's Strategy 6 purpose, value or mission statements, Stakeholders and value chain 7 strategies, policies, and goals related Governance 11 to economic, environmental and social impacts Code of conduct 12 Goals and progress 13 G4-43 The measure taken to develop and enhance Corporate Governance the highest governance body's collective Priority goals 15 knowledge of economic, environmental and Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 social topics Driving resource productivity 23 G4-44 Evaluation of the highest governance body's Corporate Governance Focused good for good 31 performance with respect to governance of Inclusion and diversity 35 economic, environmental and social topics Eastman Foundation 37 G4-45 The highest governance body's role in Corporate Governance Scope of report 38 the identification and management of economic, environmental and social Global Reporting impacts, risks, and opportunities Initiative (GRI) 39 G4-46 11 The highest governance body's role Sustainability Governance GRI content index 40 in reviewing the effectiveness of the GRI appendix 60 organization's risk management processes for economic, environmental and social topics 45 Changing Global Reporting Initiative content index (continued) the trajectory UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals Sustainability Report 2018 GRI Element Pages Title UNGC SDG 2018 Answer CEO statement 2 G4-47 11 The frequency of the highest governance Sustainability Governance CSO statement 3 body's review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities Eastman at a glance 4 G4-48 11 The highest committee or position Sustainability Governance Awards and recognitions 5 that formally reviews and approves the organization's sustainability report and Strategy 6 ensures that all material Aspects are Stakeholders and value chain 7 covered Governance 11 G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns Corporate Governance Guidelines Code of conduct 12 to the highest governance body Goals and progress 13 G4-51 The remuneration policies for the highest Corporate Governance Guidelines Priority goals 15 governance body and senior executives Proxy Statement Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 Driving resource productivity 23 G4-53 Report how stakeholders’ views are Corporate Governance Guidelines sought and taken into account regarding Proxy Statement Focused good for good 31 remuneration, including results of votes Inclusion and diversity 35 on remuneration policies and proposals, if Eastman Foundation 37 applicable Scope of report 38 G4-54 Report the ratio of the annual total Proxy Statement compensation for the organization's Global Reporting highest-paid individual in each country of Initiative (GRI) 39 significant operations to the median annual GRI content index 40 total compensation for all employees in the same country GRI appendix 60 46 Changing Global Reporting Initiative content index (continued) the trajectory UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals Sustainability Report 2018 GRI Element Pages Title UNGC SDG 2018 Answer CEO statement 2 G4-55 Report the ratio of percentage increase This is considered business confidential. CSO statement 3 in annual total compensation for the organization's highest-paid individual in Eastman at a glance 4 each country of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual Awards and recognitions 5 total compensation for all employees in the same country Strategy 6 Stakeholders and value chain 7 Governance 11 Ethics and Integrity Code of conduct 12 G4-56 12 Organization's values, principles, standards 10 Values and norms of behavior, such as codes of Code of Business Conduct Goals and progress 13 conduct and code of ethics Priority goals 15 Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 G4-57 12 Internal and external mechanisms for 10 Code of Business Conduct seeking advice on ethical and lawful Driving resource productivity 23 behavior, and matters related to Focused good for good 31 organizational integrity such as helplines or Inclusion and diversity 35 advice lines Eastman Foundation 37 G4-58 12 Internal and external mechanisms for 10 Code of Business Conduct Scope of report 38 reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to Global Reporting organizational integrity, such as escalation Initiative (GRI) 39 through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines GRI content index 40 GRI appendix 60 47 Changing Global Reporting Initiative content index (continued) the trajectory UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals Sustainability Report 2018 GRI Element Pages Title UNGC SDG 2018 Answer CEO statement 2 ECONOMIC CSO statement 3 Economic Performance Eastman at a glance 4 G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management 2017 10K Report, Corporate Overview, page 6 Approach About our business Awards and recognitions 5 G4-EC1 60 Direct economic value generated and 2017 10K Report, Part II, Item 8 Strategy 6 distributed Appendix Stakeholders and value chain 7 Governance 11 G4-EC2 60 Financial implications, risks and Appendix opportunities due to climate change Code of conduct 12 Goals and progress 13 G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined 2017 10K Report, Part II, Item 8, note 11 benefit plan obligations Benefits at Eastman Priority goals 15 Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 G4-DMA 4 Market presence 2017 10K Report Driving resource productivity 23 Eastman at a glance Focused good for good 31 G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from None Inclusion and diversity 35 government Eastman Foundation 37 G4-EC6 61 Proportion of management hired from the Appendix Scope of report 38 local community at significant locations of operations Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 39 G4-DMA 61 Indirect economic impact Eastman corporate responsibility GRI content index 40 Eastman Foundation Appendix GRI appendix 60 48 Changing Global Reporting Initiative content index (continued) the trajectory UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals Sustainability Report 2018 GRI Element Pages Title UNGC SDG 2018 Answer CEO statement 2 G4-EC7 61 Development and impacts of infrastructure Appendix investments and services supported CSO statement 3 Eastman at a glance 4 G4-EC8 61 Significant indirect economic impacts, Appendix including extent of impacts Awards and recognitions 5 G4-DMA Procurement Practice Suppliers Strategy 6 Stakeholders and value chain 7 G4-EC9 61 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Appendix Governance 11 Code of conduct 12 ENVIRONMENTAL Goals and progress 13 Materials Priority goals 15 G4-DMA 61 Materials Appendix Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 G4-EN1 61 Materials used by weight or volume Appendix Driving resource productivity 23 Focused good for good 31 G4-EN2 62 Percentage of materials used that are Appendix Inclusion and diversity 35 recycled input materials Eastman Foundation 37 G4-DMA Energy Energy Scope of report 38 ENERGY STAR® Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 39 GRI content index 40 GRI appendix 60 49 Changing Global Reporting Initiative content index (continued) the trajectory UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals Sustainability Report 2018 GRI Element Pages Title UNGC SDG 2018 Answer CEO statement 2 G4-EN3 62 Energy consumption within the 7, 8 Appendix CSO statement 3 organization Eastman at a glance 4 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside the 8 In 2017, Eastman used about 26 trillion Btus of indirect energy, in the form of organization purchased steam and electricity to produce our products. Awards and recognitions 5 G4-EN5 Energy Intensity 8 Energy Strategy 6 Stakeholders and value chain 7 Governance 11 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy Consumption 8, 9 Energy Code of conduct 12 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of Energy Goals and progress 13 products and services Priority goals 15 Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 G4-DMA Water Water Driving resource productivity 23 G4-EN8 62 Total water withdrawal by source 7, 8 Appendix Focused good for good 31 Inclusion and diversity 35 G4-EN9 62 Water sources significantly affected by 8 Appendix Eastman Foundation 37 withdrawal of water Scope of report 38 G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water 8 Eastman recycles/reuses approximately 400 thousand megaliters of water per year. recycled and reused Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 39 G4-DMA Biodiversity Biodiversity GRI content index 40 G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed Biodiversity GRI appendix 60 in or adjacent to protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 50 Changing Global Reporting Initiative content index (continued) the trajectory UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals Sustainability Report 2018 GRI Element Pages Title UNGC SDG 2018 Answer CEO statement 2 G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts of Biodiversity CSO statement 3 activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas or areas Eastman at a glance 4 of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Awards and recognitions 5 G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored 8 Biodiversity Strategy 6 Stakeholders and value chain 7 G4-EN14 Total number of IUCN Red List species and Biodiversity Governance 11 national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by Code of conduct 12 level of extinction risk Goals and progress 13 G4-DMA Emissions Emissions Priority goals 15 Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 G4-EN15 Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1) 7, 8 Our 2017 direct greenhouse gas emissions using the ACC methodology were Driving resource productivity 23 approximately 6.1 million metric tons. Focused good for good 31 G4-EN16 Energy indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions 7, 8 Our 2017 indirect greenhouse gas emissions using the ACC methodology were Inclusion and diversity 35 (Scope 2) approximately 1.4 million metric tons. Eastman Foundation 37 G4-EN17 Other indirect Greenhouse Gas (GHG) 7, 8 Emissions Scope of report 38 Emissions (Scope 3) Global Reporting G4-EN18 24 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity 8 Emissions Initiative (GRI) 39 Goals and progress GRI content index 40 Environmental performance GRI appendix 60 51 Changing Global Reporting Initiative content index (continued) the trajectory UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals Sustainability Report 2018 GRI Element Pages Title UNGC SDG 2018 Answer CEO statement 2 G4-EN19 Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions 8, 9 Emissions CSO statement 3 G4-EN20 62 Emissions of ozone-depleting Substance 7, 8 Appendix Eastman at a glance 4 (ODS) Awards and recognitions 5 G4-EN21 26, 27 NOx, SOx, and other significant air 7, 8 Goals and progress emissions Environmental performance Strategy 6 Stakeholders and value chain 7 G4-DMA Effluents and Waste Driving resource productivity Governance 11 G4-EN22 62 Total water discharge by quality and by Appendix Code of conduct 12 destination Goals and progress 13 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal 8 Waste Management Priority goals 15 method Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 G4-EN24 26 Total number and volume of significant 8 Goals and progress Driving resource productivity 23 spills Environmental performance Focused good for good 31 Inclusion and diversity 35 G4-EN25 27 Weight of transported, imported, exported, Goals and progress Eastman Foundation 37 or treated waste deemed hazardous under Environmental performance the terms of the Base 1 Convention 2 Scope of report 38 Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 39 G4-EN26 Identity, size, protected status, and Biodiversity biodiversity value of water bodies and GRI content index 40 related habitats significantly affected by GRI appendix 60 the organization’s discharges of water and runoff G4-DMA Products and Services Life cycle assessment 52 Changing Global Reporting Initiative content index (continued) the trajectory UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals Sustainability Report 2018 GRI Element Pages Title UNGC SDG 2018 Answer CEO statement 2 G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of 7, 8, 9 Driving resource productivity environmental impacts and services CSO statement 3 Eastman at a glance 4 G4-EN29 63 Fines for noncompliance with 8 Appendix environmental regulation Awards and recognitions 5 G4-DMA Transport Suppliers Strategy 6 Stakeholders and value chain 7 G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of 8 Life cycle assessment Governance 11 transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization's operations, Code of conduct 12 and transporting members of the workforce Goals and progress 13 G4-DMA Supplier Environmental Assessment Supplier Excellence Priority goals 15 Together for Sustainability Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 G4-EN31 Total environmental protection Environmental expenditures in 2017 including construction, operating, development Driving resource productivity 23 expenditures and investments by type and mandated remediation was approximately $257 million. Focused good for good 31 Inclusion and diversity 35 G4-DMA Environmental grievance mechanisms Code of Business Conduct Environmental policy Eastman Foundation 37 Scope of report 38 G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental The company and its facilities and businesses are subject to complex environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved laws and regulations. From time to time, Eastman and its operations are parties to, Global Reporting through formal grievance mechanisms or targets of environmental investigations and proceedings that are handled in the Initiative (GRI) 39 ordinary course of business. GRI content index 40 GRI appendix 60 53 Changing Global Reporting Initiative content index (continued) the trajectory UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals Sustainability Report 2018 GRI Element Pages Title UNGC SDG 2018 Answer CEO statement 2 CSO statement 3 Social Eastman at a glance 4 G4-DMA Employment Careers at Eastman Awards and recognitions 5 G4-LA1 63 Total number and rates of new employee 6 Appendix hires and employee turnover by age group, Strategy 6 gender and region Stakeholders and value chain 7 Governance 11 G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees Benefits at Eastman that are not provided to temporary or Code of conduct 12 part-time employees, by significant Goals and progress 13 locations of operation Priority goals 15 G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after 6 We do not report in detail on the return to work and retention rate after parental Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 parental leave, by gender leave by gender. Driving resource productivity 23 G4-DMA Labor and Management Relations Health and Safety Focused good for good 31 Benefits at Eastman Inclusion and diversity 35 Eastman Foundation 37 G4-LA4 63 Minimum notice periods regarding 3 Appendix operational changes, including whether Scope of report 38 these are specified in collective agreements Global Reporting G4-DMA Occupational Health and Safety Safety Initiative (GRI) 39 Benefits at Eastman GRI content index 40 GRI appendix 60 G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented Safety in formal joint management-worker health Process Safety and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs 54 Changing Global Reporting Initiative content index (continued) the trajectory UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals Sustainability Report 2018 GRI Element Pages Title UNGC SDG 2018 Answer CEO statement 2 G4-LA6 63 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, Appendix CSO statement 3 lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by Eastman at a glance 4 region and by gender Awards and recognitions 5 G4-DMA Training and Education Careers at Eastman Strategy 6 G4-LA9 64 Average hours of training per year 6 Appendix Stakeholders and value chain 7 per employee by gender, and by Governance 11 employee category Code of conduct 12 G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and Careers at Eastman Goals and progress 13 lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them Priority goals 15 in managing career endings Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 Driving resource productivity 23 G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular 6 We do not report on the percentage of employees receiving regular performance performance and career development and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category. Focused good for good 31 reviews, by gender and by employee Inclusion and diversity 35 category Eastman Foundation 37 G4-DMA 34 Diversity and Equal Opportunity Inclusion and diversity Scope of report 38 G4-LA12 64 Indicator of diversity 6 Appendix Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 39 G4-DMA 34 Equal Remuneration for Women and Men Inclusion and diversity GRI content index 40 G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of 6 Eastman establishes and administers compensation based on business needs and GRI appendix 60 women to men by employee category, by external market competitiveness without regard to gender. significant locations of operation G4-DMA Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices Supplier Code of Conduct 55 Changing Global Reporting Initiative content index (continued) the trajectory UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals Sustainability Report 2018 GRI Element Pages Title UNGC SDG 2018 Answer CEO statement 2 G4-LA14 64 Percentage of new suppliers that were Appendix screened using labor practices criteria CSO statement 3 Eastman at a glance 4 G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative We do not report in detail on the negative impact on labor practices determined impacts for labor practices in the supply during supplier assessment. We give details on the areas in which corrective Awards and recognitions 5 chain and actions taken measures were defined. Strategy 6 Stakeholders and value chain 7 Human Rights Governance 11 G4-DMA Investment Code of business conduct Code of conduct 12 G4-HR1 65 Total number and percentage of significant 2 Appendix Goals and progress 13 investment agreements and contracts Priority goals 15 that include human rights clauses or that Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 underwent human rights screening Driving resource productivity 23 G4-HR2 65 Total hours of employee training on human 1 Appendix Focused good for good 31 rights policies or procedures concerning Inclusion and diversity 35 aspects of human rights that are relevant Eastman Foundation 37 to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Scope of report 38 G4-DMA Nondiscrimination Code of Business Conduct Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 39 G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination Eastman does not publicly report the total number of such incidents or any of and corrective action taken their corrective actions. GRI content index 40 GRI appendix 60 G4-DMA Freedom of Association and Collective Code of Business Conduct Bargaining G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which 3 Eastman complies with all laws designed to preserve the right to exercise freedom the right to exercise freedom of association of association and collective bargaining. Eastman has not identified any operations and collective bargaining may be violated at which those rights are at significant risk. or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights 56 Changing Global Reporting Initiative content index (continued) the trajectory UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals Sustainability Report 2018 GRI Element Pages Title UNGC SDG 2018 Answer CEO statement 2 G4-DMA Child Labor Code of Business Conduct CSO statement 3 G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as 5 Code of Business Conduct Eastman at a glance 4 having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to Awards and recognitions 5 the effective abolition of child labor Strategy 6 G4-DMA Forced or Compulsory Labor Code of Business Conduct Stakeholders and value chain 7 G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as 4 Code of Business Conduct Governance 11 having significant risk for incidents of Code of conduct 12 forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms Goals and progress 13 of forced or compulsory labor Priority goals 15 Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 G4-DMA Indigenous Rights Security Driving resource productivity 23 G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in 1 Security Focused good for good 31 the organization's human rights policies Inclusion and diversity 35 G4-HR8 Total number and percentage of operations 1 As of December 2017, no incidents of violations involving the rights of indigenous Eastman Foundation 37 that have been subject to human rights people were known to the company. Scope of report 38 reviews or impact assessment Global Reporting G4-DMA Supplier Human Rights Assessment Code of Business Conduct Initiative (GRI) 39 G4-HR10 65 Percentage of new suppliers that were 2 Appendix GRI content index 40 screened using human rights criteria GRI appendix 60 G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative 2 Eastman is not aware of any significant impacts in our supply chain with respect to human rights impacts in the supply chain the environment, labor, human rights, or societal issues that occurred in 2017. and actions taken G4-DMA Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms Code of Business Conduct 57 Changing Global Reporting Initiative content index (continued) the trajectory UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals Sustainability Report 2018 GRI Element Pages Title UNGC SDG 2018 Answer CEO statement 2 G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights Eastman does not publicly report the total number of such incidents or any of their impacts filed, addressed, and resolved corrective actions. CSO statement 3 through formal grievance mechanisms Eastman at a glance 4 Awards and recognitions 5 Society Strategy 6 G4-DMA 31 Local Communities Corporate responsibility Stakeholders and value chain 7 Goals and progress Governance 11 G4-SO1 66 Percentage of operations with implemented 1 Appendix Code of conduct 12 local community engagement, impact Goals and progress 13 assessments, and development programs Priority goals 15 G4-DMA Anti-Corruption Code of Business Conduct Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations 10 Eastman conducts an annual risk assessment of 100% of our businesses, which Driving resource productivity 23 assessed for risks related to corruption and includes risks relating to corruption. Focused good for good 31 the significant risks identified Inclusion and diversity 35 G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti10 In addition to our Code of Business Conduct, Eastman has internal policies that Eastman Foundation 37 corruption policies and procedures include training on anti-corruption. Each year, 100% of regular full-time and Scope of report 38 part-time, limited term and Eastman-paid employees worldwide are required to complete online Code of Business Conduct training. Employees with more sensitive Global Reporting roles are required to take additional training. Initiative (GRI) 39 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and 10 Where any incident of corruption was identified, appropriate disciplinary action GRI content index 40 actions taken was taken in conformance with applicable laws. In addition, Eastman has internal GRI appendix 60 policies that include training on anti-corruption. G4-DMA Public Policy Corporate governance G4-SO6 66 Total value of political contributions by 10 Appendix country and recipient/beneficiary G4-DMA Anti-Competitive Behavior Code of Business Conduct 58 Changing Global Reporting Initiative content index (continued) the trajectory UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals Sustainability Report 2018 GRI Element Pages Title UNGC SDG 2018 Answer CEO statement 2 G4-SO7 66 Total number of legal actions for antiAppendix competitive behavior, antitrust, and CSO statement 3 monopoly practices an their outcomes Eastman at a glance 4 G4-DMA Compliance Corporate governance Awards and recognitions 5 G4-SO8 66 Monetary value of significant fines and Appendix Strategy 6 total number of nonmonetary sanctions for Stakeholders and value chain 7 noncompliance with laws and regulations Governance 11 G4-DMA Grievance mechanisms for impacts Third Party Code of Conduct Code of conduct 12 on society Together for Sustainability Goals and progress 13 G4-SO9 67 Percentage of new suppliers that were Appendix Priority goals 15 screened using environment, labor, human Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 rights, impacts on society criteria. Driving resource productivity 23 G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative Eastman does not report in detail on the negative impact on society Focused good for good 31 impacts on environment, labor, human determined during supplier evaluation. We give details on the areas in Inclusion and diversity 35 rights, or society in the supply chain and which corrective measures were defined. actions taken Eastman Foundation 37 Scope of report 38 Product Responsibility Global Reporting G4-DMA Customer health and safety Product stewardship Initiative (GRI) 39 GRI content index 40 G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and Life cycle assessment GRI appendix 60 service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement G4-DMA Product and service labeling Product stewardship 59 Changing Global Reporting Initiative content index (continued) the trajectory UNGC = United Nations Global Compact requirements • SDG = Sustainable Development Goals Sustainability Report 2018 GRI Element Pages Title UNGC SDG 2018 Answer CEO statement 2 G4-PR3 Type of product and service information Product stewardship required by the organization's procedures CSO statement 3 for product and service information and Eastman at a glance 4 labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to Awards and recognitions 5 such information requirements Strategy 6 G4-PR4 67 Total number of incidents of noncompliance Appendix Stakeholders and value chain 7 with regulations and voluntary codes Governance 11 concerning product and service information Code of conduct 12 and labeling, by type of outcomes Goals and progress 13 G4-PR5 67 Results of surveys measuring customer Appendix satisfaction Priority goals 15 Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of Eastman is unaware of any significant fines in 2017 concerning marketing Driving resource productivity 23 noncompliance with regulations and communications. voluntary codes concerning marketing Focused good for good 31 communications, including advertising, Inclusion and diversity 35 promotion, and sponsorship Eastman Foundation 37 G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints Eastman is unaware of any complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy or Scope of report 38 and breaches of customer privacy and loss of customer data in 2017. losses of customer data Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 39 G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for Eastman is unaware of any significant fines in 2017 concerning the provision and GRI content index 40 noncompliance with laws and regulations use of our products and services. concerning the provision and use of GRI appendix 60 products and services 60 Changing Global Reporting Initiative appendix the trajectory G4-10 • Employment by contract type, work time and gender potential to advantage Eastman products in some markets. In particular, performance Sustainability Report 2018 films and interlayers can be advantaged due to energy efficiency attributes. Innovations in Total Employment Employment coatings (such as TetraShield) are advantaged as they offer durability to withstand weather Workforce Type Contract Region extremes, and opportunities exist for tire additives that provide increased fuel efficiency. CEO statement 2 Full-time: Permanent North America: While Eastman’s operations are energy intense, its use of combined heat and power at CSO statement 3 97.3% Contract: 95.6% 73% its two largest sites uses up to 40% less fuel, produces significantly fewer emissions and Eastman at a glance 4 Part-time: 2.7% Temporary Europe, Middle therefore has less impact on air quality. Eastman’s use of cogeneration therefore helps 14,474 employees Contract: East and Africa: Awards and recognitions 5 as of December reduce the carbon emissions that would otherwise be required to operate these facilities. 4.4% 15% 31, 2017 Eastman is no more at risk from climate change regulation than other energy-intensive Strategy 6 Asia Pacific: 9% industries. Regulatory constraints on carbon emissions can impact the development of new Stakeholders and value chain 7 Latin America: processes and facilities for Eastman, as well as our customers and suppliers. Governance 11 3% Code of conduct 12 Emission standards or uncertainty about future standards may delay investments by our customers and, as a result, impact our future business opportunities. The direct impact of Goals and progress 13 G4-EC1 • Direct economic value generated and distributed controlling CO2 emissions from electric power generation may impact the cost of electric Priority goals 15 In 2017, Eastman’s direct economic impact was estimated to be $8 billion to $10 power supplied to Eastman manufacturing facilities, our customers and our suppliers. On Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 billion in the states where we have a presence. Data includes employee and contractor the other hand, climate change may represent opportunities for Eastman with regard to Driving resource productivity 23 compensation; sales and property taxes; and procurements from in-state vendors. These the development and use of materials that enable or enhance efforts to mitigate or adapt Focused good for good 31 figures are indicative of Eastman’s reputation of being a responsible economic steward to the effects of climate change. For example, use of window films to enhance energy Inclusion and diversity 35 through the creation of jobs and investment in the community. efficiency, use of interlayers in window glass to provide strength for storm resistance, and Eastman Foundation 37 development of coatings for extreme exposures represent potential opportunities. The Scope of report 38 company has diversified product offerings, serves broad markets and regions and attempts Global Reporting G4-EC2 • Financial implications, risks and opportunities due to to mitigate our exposure to swings in energy and raw material prices. These diversified Initiative (GRI) 39 climate change product offerings and diversified customer base mitigate potential commercial impact GRI content index 40 Chemical manufacturing by its very nature is energy intense and can result in substantial to Eastman. GRI appendix 60 carbon emissions. Risks posed by climate change may manifest themselves in physical Eastman complies with current regulations of GHG emissions in those countries where risks due to potential impacts of climate change and regulatory risks associated with they are regulated, with minimal financial impact. Proposed legislation and regulations actions to mitigate or respond to climate change. In particular, the company may be are evaluated and the impact on Eastman is estimated. We engage policymakers directly exposed to increased capital and operational costs associated with a move from fossiland through trade associations with the objective that any climate change legislation derived fuels and feedstocks to more renewable sources of energy and materials. Carbon or regulation enacted will not have an adverse impact on the economy or create a pricing has the potential to increase operational costs due to use of fossil fuels in power competitive disadvantage. generation. More stringent emission limits have the potential to increase both capital and operational costs. Physical impacts and a transition to a lower carbon economy have the 61 Changing Global Reporting Initiative appendix (continued) the trajectory G4-EC6 • Proportion of management hired from the local community Eastman continues its nationally recognized partnership with Northeast State College Sustainability Report 2018 at significant locations of operations through the Regional Center for Advanced Manufacturing (RCAM) in Kingsport, Tennessee, Eastman has a large geographic footprint within the U.S. and globally. Talent strategies are to develop and equip the 21st century manufacturing workforce. Our commitment to developed to align with business strategy to attract, acquire and retain talent. Talent is public/private partnerships in the areas of education, environment, economic development, CEO statement 2 sourced proactively and reactively at the local, regional, national and international levels. and empowerment all encourage innovative and productive thinking to create positive CSO statement 3 Although a majority of talent is acquired at the local level, we as a company do relocate change in our site communities and around the world. Job placement rates for RCAMEastman at a glance 4 well over 100 new hires globally each year to Eastman facilities to begin their employment related programs are consistently near 100%, and RCAM has been instrumental in meeting with the organization. Eastman uses a number of different approaches for identifying talent industry demand for customized and highly specialized skills. Awards and recognitions 5 for the organization. Some of the more effective methods are social media, employee Strategy 6 referrals, career fairs, visitors to Eastman.com, and job postings. The company then puts G4-EC9 • Proportion of spending on local suppliers Stakeholders and value chain 7 the candidates through a rigorous selection process to assess their level of capability, For the purposes of GRI reporting, Eastman defines local as spending originating within the Governance 11 competencies and alignment with the organizational vision and culture. country of operations. Eastman’s most significant areas of operation are located within Code of conduct 12 the United States, and 2017 raw material spending sourced from within the United States Goals and progress 13 G4-EC7 • Development and impacts of infrastructure investments and was 93.5%. It is Eastman’s policy to procure products and services based on the total value Priority goals 15 services supported proposition for the company. While not exhaustive, the factors that Eastman considers Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 Eastman and the Eastman Foundation provided funding and in-kind donations totaling when making purchasing decisions include competitive pricing, quality of work and Driving resource productivity 23 more than $5.2 million in 2017 to support public/private partnership initiatives related materials, timeliness, cost of delivery and trustworthy performance. Procurement strategies Focused good for good 31 to our corporate responsibility focus areas of education, environment, empowerment, and are continuously being developed and implemented to provide assurance of sources for Inclusion and diversity 35 economic development. Eastman employees are afforded opportunities and many are goods and services necessary to the company’s operations. Eastman Foundation 37 active in volunteer initiatives and involved with nonprofits and educational institutions in Scope of report 38 their respective communities. G4-EN1 • Materials used by weight or volume Global Reporting In 2017, Eastman employees contributed approximately 100,000 hours of volunteer service Eastman is an integrated manufacturing company, purchasing basic feedstocks to feed Initiative (GRI) 39 to a variety of community efforts. These service hours represent only a handful of Eastman three primary streams: olefins, polyesters and acetyls. Basic raw materials include ethane/ GRI content index 40 sites and the total number of hours not representative of all global sites. propane for the olefin stream, paraxylene for polyesters, and coal and wood pulp as major GRI appendix 60 building blocks for acetyls. These building block materials are processed through various downstream processes to yield products that are sold as finished goods. Associated G4-EC8 • Significant indirect economic impacts, including extent of impacts materials included in the total are dominated by fuels required to operate our facilities. Eastman’s educational and workforce development efforts create significant indirect Some of Eastman’s raw materials, such as wood pulp and gum rosin, are renewable. In economic impacts to our site communities. We partner with Patrick Henry Community 2017, these represent ~1% of the total materials. College to provide workforce training through the Center for Advanced Film Manufacturing in Martinsville, Virginia, to advance skills development in advanced film production. 62 Changing Global Reporting Initiative appendix (continued) the trajectory G4-EN2 • Percentage of materials used that are recycled G4-EN8 • Total water withdrawal by source Sustainability Report 2018 input materials For Eastman facilities, the majority of water for manufacturing use consists of withdrawals Eastman currently does not track this numerically. However, Eastman is committed to from adjacent surface waters. Purchases of water from utilities, third parties and value added recycling and has many examples of the use of recycled material including: groundwater withdrawal account for a less significant portion of total use. An estimated CEO statement 2 Recycled acid: Eastman purchases recycled acid for use as an internal feedstock or for 764 thousand megaliters (ML) of water was withdrawn, purchased or pumped in 2017, and CSO statement 3 resale as a feedstock to other manufacturers. greater than 90% of that water is returned to the source. The primary use of the water is Eastman at a glance 4 for noncontact cooling. Recycled Saflex®: Eastman assets associated with Saflex production recover waste Awards and recognitions 5 Saflex sheets in the U.S. and European regions through a toll agreement with Soca. Strategy 6 Catalyst recycling program: When possible, Eastman replaces spent catalysts with G4-EN9 • Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Stakeholders and value chain 7 fresh catalysts, both of which contain varying amounts of precious metals. As the spent Eastman’s withdrawals do not significantly affect any water source. Comprehensive river Governance 11 catalyst becomes available, the material is sent to catalyst refiners who extract the studies conducted by the Academy of Natural Sciences of Drexel University, formerly Code of conduct 12 precious metals from the spent material for reuse in the production of fresh catalysts. known as the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences at our largest manufacturing This recycling program helps reduce the amount of precious metals mined to satisfy facilities in Kingsport, Tennessee, and Longview, Texas, confirm that these rivers provide Goals and progress 13 global demand. thriving habitats for wildlife communities. Priority goals 15 Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 Other purchased materials made with recycled materials include drums (steel, plastic, Driving resource productivity 23 and fiber), bulk boxes, plastic liners and plastic and steel pails. In addition to purchasing G4-EN20 • Emissions of Ozone-Depleting Substances (ODS) Focused good for good 31 feedstocks with recycled content, our Special Materials Team oversees the sale of Eastman has a written policy that requires all Eastman facilities, subsidiaries and majorityInclusion and diversity 35 Eastman’s by-product and coproduct streams to manufacturers who recover and convert owned joint ventures that operate equipment containing ozone-depleting substances to Eastman Foundation 37 these materials into useful products. develop and maintain an inventory of all ODS equipment including an identification of the Scope of report 38 equipment and type and quantity of refrigerant. G4-EN3 • Energy consumption within the organization Global Reporting Eastman used about 95 trillion Btus in 2017 to produce products. About 61% of this direct Initiative (GRI) 39 G4-EN22 • Total water discharge by quality and destination energy was produced from purchased natural gas and coal, and about 23% was recovered GRI content index 40 Eastman discharges process wastewater in accordance with applicable permits, licenses fuel from feedstock. Eastman currently meets essentially all steam and more than 85% of GRI appendix 60 and agreements. The wastewater is either treated in Eastman-owned treatment facilities our global electricity needs with cogeneration, which uses up to 40% less fuel, produces and discharged directly to surface waters, or it is treated in Eastman-owned pretreatment significantly fewer emissions and therefore has less impact on air quality. As a result, our facilities and conveyed to third-party providers (utilities, municipalities, etc.) for additional direct energy consumption is 61% of our total energy consumption. treatment and/or discharge, or it is conveyed directly to third-party providers (utilities, municipalities, etc.) for treatment and/or discharge. An estimated 758 thousand megaliters (ML) of water was discharged in 2017. 63 Changing Global Reporting Initiative appendix (continued) the trajectory G4-EN29 • Fines for noncompliance with environmental regulations Sustainability Report 2018 Hires by Gender Hires by Age Hires by Region Eastman uses an internal reporting mechanism to ensure that all fines and penalties associated with noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations are captured in Male employees: 7.1% Less than 30 years: 26.3% North America: 7.2% CEO statement 2 one place. This system applies globally and includes all fines and penalties of any size. For Female employees: 30 to 50 years: Europe, Middle East and 2017, the company is not aware of any nonmonetary sanctions that should be reported. 8.4% 6.8% Africa: 7.1% CSO statement 3 The company paid $65,535 in 2017 for fines and penalties, which does not include Greater than 50 years: Asia Pacific: Eastman at a glance 4 amounts paid for supplemental environmental projects. The company spent $66,779 in 1.5% 10.7% Awards and recognitions 5 supplemental environmental projects in 2017. These expenditures may have included Latin America: 4.1% projects for pollution prevention, support of local emergency response providers, education Strategy 6 activities and similar projects that could benefit public welfare and the environment. Stakeholders and value chain 7 Governance 11 G4-LA4 • Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, Code of conduct 12 G4-LA1 • Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee including whether these are specified in collective agreements turnover by age group, gender, and region In the event of operational changes that involve a change in staffing levels or otherwise affect Goals and progress 13 Eastman’s total global voluntary turnover rate was under 3%. We calculate voluntary employment, the company engages in significant planning to ensure affected employees Priority goals 15 turnover separately from retirements, company initiated turnover, and reductions in force. are treated with the utmost respect and dignity. Labor and employment law requirements, Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 including but not limited to reasonable employee notice of job loss, and requirements under Driving resource productivity 23 Attrition by Gender Attrition by Age Attrition by Region collective bargaining agreements, are carefully assessed in every global location. Focused good for good 31 Inclusion and diversity 35 Male employees: 7% Less than 30 years: 8.9% North America: 7.2% Eastman Foundation 37 Female employees: 30 to 50 years: Europe, Middle East and G4-LA6 • Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 8.5% 4.8% Africa: 7.5% absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region Scope of report 38 Greater than 50 years: Asia Pacific: and by gender Global Reporting 10.6% 9.0% In 2017, we adopted the American Petroleum Institute Recommended Practice 754 to Initiative (GRI) 39 Latin America: 4.1% track process safety events because this metric is more widely used around the globe and GRI content index 40 provides both lagging and leading performance indicators. The new metric categorizes GRI appendix 60 losses of primary containment by various severity factors, including personal injury, quantity of material released, monetary cost of damage to equipment, effect on the offsite environment and impact to neighboring communities. Using these factors, events can be categorized as Tier I (greater consequence) or Tier II (lesser consequence). Our Process Safety Incident Rate (PSTIR) for Tier I events in 2017 was 0.15. We’ve established a target for 2018 of 0.13. 64 Changing Global Reporting Initiative appendix (continued) the trajectory G4-LA9 • Average hours of training per year per employee by gender G4-LA14 • Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor Sustainability Report 2018 and by employee category practices criteria Eastman currently does not track the percentage of new suppliers screened since Employee category Hours our entire supplier base is periodically risk assessed for labor practice risk exposure. CEO statement 2 Professional/Management 23 In addition, we send our suppliers our third-party Code of Business Conduct which CSO statement 3 includes our expectations regarding labor practices. Suppliers are expected to comply Eastman at a glance 4 Nonexempt (nonoperations) 9 with requirements through contract and purchase order provisions or by way of direct Awards and recognitions 5 Nonexempt (operations) 67 certification. See the Eastman policy statement. Strategy 6 Technicians/technologists 16 Eastman is also a member of Together for Sustainability (TfS), the Chemical Initiative for Stakeholders and value chain 7 Sustainable Supply Chains. As part of this initiative, Eastman has begun assessing our Average 42 supply base using the TfS assessment supplied by EcoVadis. Governance 11 Code of conduct 12 Together for Sustainability is a chemical industry member-driven initiative founded in 2011 Goals and progress 13 by major chemical companies. Since that time, membership has grown to 20 members, GA-LA12 • Indicator of diversity Priority goals 15 including Eastman Chemical Company as the first U.S. chemical industry member. Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 TfS develops and implements a global supplier engagement program to assess, Gender Age Ethnicity* audit and improve sustainability practices within the supply chains of the chemical Driving resource productivity 23 Male: 75.5% Less than 30 years: 12.9% Minority: 12% industry. TfS members have two tools at their disposal to evaluate their suppliers’ Focused good for good 31 Inclusion and diversity 35 sustainability management: TfS Assessments conducted via EcoVadis and TfS Female: 24.5% 30 to 50 years: 51.1% White: 88% Eastman Foundation 37 audits and on-site inspections conducted by preapproved audit companies. Greater than 50 years: The program focuses on the environment, labor practices, fair business practices and Scope of report 38 36.0% sustainable procurement. Global Reporting *U.S. population only – self reported The results are then shared among TfS members, with the supplier’s consent. This Initiative (GRI) 39 collaborative approach, central to TfS, increases efficiency for both suppliers and members. GRI content index 40 Since the start of the TfS initiative, the sustainability performance of approximately 8,000 GRI appendix 60 suppliers has been rated by the TfS initiative based on EcoVadis assessments. To date, Eastman has invited 435 suppliers to participate in TfS assessments and 174 of them completed the assessment and obtained an EcoVadis score. 65 Changing Global Reporting Initiative appendix (continued) the trajectory G4-HR1 • Total number and percentage of significant investment G4-HR10 • Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using Sustainability Report 2018 agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that human rights criteria underwent human rights screening Eastman currently does not track the percentage of new suppliers screened since our Eastman has an established process within our Corporate Development organization entire supplier base is periodically risk assessed for labor practice risk exposure. In CEO statement 2 that prescreens potential mergers and acquisitions against criteria with respect to all addition, we send our suppliers our third-party Code of Business Conduct, which CSO statement 3 three dimensions of sustainability — economic, environmental and societal. Eastman is includes our expectations regarding labor practices. Suppliers are expected to comply Eastman at a glance 4 committed to conducting business activities in accordance with the highest legal and with requirements through contract and purchase order provisions or by way of direct ethical standards. To that end, Eastman’s Code of Business Conduct includes provisions certification. See the Eastman policy statement. Awards and recognitions 5 against child labor, forced labor, fraud, and discrimination, among others. These same Strategy 6 Eastman is also a member of Together for Sustainability (TfS), the Chemical Initiative for expectations are assessed as part of Eastman’s due diligence process on any potential Stakeholders and value chain 7 Sustainable Supply Chains. As part of this initiative, Eastman has begun assessing our investment. Governance 11 supply base using the TfS assessment supplied by EcoVadis. Code of conduct 12 Together for Sustainability is a chemical industry member-driven initiative founded in 2011 G4-HR2 • Total hours of employee training on human rights policies by major chemical companies. Since that time, membership has grown to 20 members, Goals and progress 13 or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to including Eastman Chemical Company as the first U.S. chemical industry member. Priority goals 15 operations, including the percentage of employees trained TfS develops and implements a global supplier engagement program to assess, Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 Each year, 100% of regular full-time and part-time, limited term and Eastman-paid audit and improve sustainability practices within the supply chains of the chemical Driving resource productivity 23 employees worldwide are required to complete online training, which is comprised of a industry. TfS members have two tools at their disposal to evaluate their suppliers’ Focused good for good 31 single course on the Eastman Code of Business Conduct as well as additional courses that sustainability management: TfS Assessments conducted via EcoVadis and TfS Inclusion and diversity 35 focus on specific topics within the Code. These additional courses may be assigned by audits and on-site inspections conducted by preapproved audit companies. Eastman Foundation 37 managers to their employees based on job relevancy, development, or for other reasons. The program focuses on the environment, labor practices, fair business practices and Scope of report 38 On average, employees receive between five and eight hours of training through this sustainable procurement. Global Reporting system. New employees receive training on the Eastman Code of Business Conduct, which The results are then shared among TfS members, with the supplier’s consent. This Initiative (GRI) 39 governs our human rights policy. collaborative approach, central to TfS, increases efficiency for both suppliers and members. GRI content index 40 Since the start of the TfS initiative, the sustainability performance of approximately 8,000 GRI appendix 60 suppliers has been rated by the TfS initiative based on EcoVadis assessments. To date, Eastman has invited 435 suppliers to participate in TfS assessments and 174 of them completed the assessment and obtained an EcoVadis score. 66 Changing Global Reporting Initiative appendix (continued) the trajectory G4-SO1 • Percentage of operations with implemented local • Are active and responsible members of key committees Sustainability Report 2018 community engagement, impact assessments, and development • Hold a leadership position within Congress or a state legislature programs In 2017, EastmanPAC contributed $181,000 to state and federal candidates in the U.S. No Eastman facilitates engagement efforts at all its global sites with support from employees CEO statement 2 political contributions are made to entities outside the U.S. Eastman works with outside with diverse skills and talents and a common commitment to the communities in which vendors to file all reports and to make sure all contributions comply with state and federal CSO statement 3 they live and work. campaign finance regulations. All of EastmanPAC’s Federal Election Commission (FEC) Eastman at a glance 4 With 14 community advisory panels (CAPs) at our largest global operating sites, Eastman filings are available online at www.fec.gov. State disclosure reports are also available Awards and recognitions 5 provides regular opportunities for open dialogue between community members and by visiting the state campaign finance websites in Alabama, California, Massachusetts, company leaders. Tennessee and Texas. In states where the law allows corporate contributions, Eastman Strategy 6 supports state candidates. Corporate contributions to state candidates in Tennessee Stakeholders and value chain 7 To encourage an inclusive culture, Eastman provides opportunities for employees to totaled $2,500 in 2017. The federal government requires all registered lobbyists to report Governance 11 participate in resource groups for members and allies of the following communities: personal campaign contributions semiannually. Each year, Eastman employees who meet Code of conduct 12 veterans and active duty military employees, Hispanics, Black and African Americans, women, LGBT, and young professionals. More than 900 employees participate in the requirements file the necessary reports. These reports are available online at http:// Goals and progress 13 these programs. lobbyingdisclosure.house.gov/. Eastman’s political activity policies and guidelines are Priority goals 15 located on its website: Eastman Political Activity. Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 As a Responsible Care® company, we also operate a 24/7 Care Line at company Driving resource productivity 23 headquarters that community members can call for inquiries. Focused good for good 31 We have a global compliance line that provides a confidential way for employees and G4-SO7 • Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, Inclusion and diversity 35 antitrust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes others to ask questions about Eastman policies as well as seek guidance or report concerns Eastman Foundation 37 that may involve illegal activity or any other violations of the Company’s Code of Any legal actions that are material for anticompetitive behavior, antitrust or monopoly Scope of report 38 Business Conduct. practices would be disclosed in Eastman’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and all such actions would generally be a matter of public record. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 39 G4-SO6 • Total value of political contributions by country and GRI content index 40 recipient/beneficiary G4-SO8 • Monetary value of significant fines and total number of GRI appendix 60 Eligible U.S. employees may contribute voluntarily to EastmanPAC, the Political Action nonmonetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations Committee of Eastman. The Advisory Council of EastmanPAC approves an annual budget Any fines or nonmonetary sanctions that are material for noncompliance with laws and proposed by the company’s director of government relations. The Advisory Council regulations would be disclosed in Eastman’s filings with the Securities and Exchange meets annually and is made up of employees from U.S. sites, as well as at-large company Commission and all such fines and sanctions would generally be a matter of public record. representatives. EastmanPAC is bipartisan and supports candidates who: • Support business friendly laws and regulations • Represent a state/district where an Eastman facility is located 67 Changing Global Reporting Initiative appendix (continued) the trajectory G4-SO9 • Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using G4-PR4 • Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations Sustainability Report 2018 environmental, labor, human rights, and impacts on society criteria and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and Eastman currently does not track the percentage of new suppliers screened since our labeling, by type of outcomes entire supplier base is periodically risk assessed for labor practice risk exposure. In addition, All of our product safety data sheets and labeling comply with regulatory requirements for CEO statement 2 we send our suppliers our third-party Code of Business Conduct, which includes our hazard communication in all countries and regions. In 2016, we implemented the Globally CSO statement 3 expectations regarding labor practices. Suppliers are expected to comply with requirements Harmonized System for Classification and Labeling (GHS) process to define, classify and Eastman at a glance 4 through contract and purchase order provisions or by way of direct certification. See the communicate chemical hazard and safety information for all of our products. Awards and recognitions 5 Eastman policy statement. Strategy 6 Eastman is also a member of Together for Sustainability (TfS), the Chemical Initiative for G4-PR5 • Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Stakeholders and value chain 7 Sustainable Supply Chains. As part of this initiative, Eastman has begun assessing our At Eastman, quality is at the core of our success. It is an important part of our legacy, Governance 11 supply base using the TfS assessment supplied by EcoVadis. culture, and brand. We strive to run all processes reliably and to the desired targets while Code of conduct 12 Together for Sustainability is a chemical industry member-driven initiative founded in 2011 avoiding the costs of poor quality. Eastman team members are committed to doing it right by major chemical companies. Since that time, membership has grown to 20 members, the first time, every time. Customer satisfaction is a core principle to our quality processes. Goals and progress 13 including Eastman Chemical Company as the first U.S. chemical industry member. We strive to meet all customer requirements with Eastman’s products and services. We Priority goals 15 TfS develops and implements a global supplier engagement program to assess, get feedback from customers through a variety of sources, including customer service Steering a sustainable portfolio 16 audit and improve sustainability practices within the supply chains of the chemical representatives located within the customer’s respective region, customer visits and Driving resource productivity 23 industry. TfS members have two tools at their disposal to evaluate their suppliers’ audits, customer complaints, etc. Eastman has a customer complaint handling system that Focused good for good 31 sustainability management: TfS Assessments conducted via EcoVadis and TfS ensures proper investigation of all complaints using skilled investigators. Where required Inclusion and diversity 35 audits and on-site inspections conducted by preapproved audit companies. by customers, Eastman processes meet or exceed certification requirements from external Eastman Foundation 37 The program focuses on the environment, labor practices, fair business practices and registrars, including ISO 9001. For more information on Eastman’s quality program, visit Scope of report 38 www.eastman.com. sustainable procurement. Global Reporting The results are then shared among TfS members, with the supplier’s consent. This Initiative (GRI) 39 collaborative approach, central to TfS, increases efficiency for both suppliers and members. GRI content index 40 Since the start of the TfS initiative, the sustainability performance of approximately 8,000 GRI appendix 60 suppliers has been rated by the TfS initiative based on EcoVadis assessments. To date, Eastman has invited 435 suppliers to participate in TfS assessments and 174 of them completed the assessment and obtained an EcoVadis score. Eastman Corporate Headquarters P.O. Box 431 Kingsport, TN 37662-5280 U.S.A. U.S.A. and Canada, 800-EASTMAN (800-327-8626) Other Locations, +(1) 423-229-2000 www.eastman.com/locations © 2018 Eastman. Eastman brands referenced herein are trademarks of Eastman or one of its subsidiaries or are being used under license. The ® symbol denotes registered trademark status in the U.S.; marks may also be registered internationally. Non-Eastman brands referenced herein are trademarks of their respective owners. EMN-CC-7222 7/18
