Lenovo Group Limited | 2017/18 Sustainability Report Stock Code 992 Making a Difference 4 1.0 EXECUTIVE LETTERS 6 A Message from Yang Yuanqing, Our Chairman and CEO 8 A Message from John Cerretani, Our Chief Sustainability Executive 10 2.0 INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY 12 Report Parameters 13 Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement 16 Lenovo and the U.N. Sustainable Development Goals 18 3.0 PRACTICING ETHICAL BUSINESS 20 Corporate Governance 23 Business Conduct 28 4.0 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 30 Sustainable Quality 32 Safety and Ergonomics 33 Accessibility 34 Compliance 34 Lenovo Innovation Making a Difference 38 5.0 MANUFACTURING AND SUPPLY CHAIN OPERATIONS 40 In-house Manufacturing Operations 44 Supply Chain Operations 54 6.0 PEOPLE 56 Lenovo Employees 63 Social Investments 68 7.0 PLANET 70 Lenovo’s Environmental Commitment 73 Environmental Impact of Lenovo Operations 87 Environmentally Conscious Products 96 Product End-of-Life Management (PELM) 100 8.0 CONSOLIDATED METRICS, OBJECTIVES AND TARGETS 102 FY 2017/18 Consolidated Metrics 109 FY 2017/18 Performance 113 FY 2018/19 Objectives and Targets 118 9.0 APPENDIX 120 Lenovo Reference Documentation 121 Material Topic Boundaries 122 GRI Content Index 134 The U.N. Global Compact 135 Hong Kong Stock Exchange Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Reporting Guide Content Index EXECUTIVE LETTERS 6 Message from Yang Yuanqing, Our Chairman and CEO 8 Message from John Cerretani, Our Chief Sustainability Executive EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS This is our 12th annual sustainability report at • We’ve expanded our activities to support Lenovo. This year more than ever, it’s clear to governmental and non-governmental bodies me how deeply we’re committed to sustainability in managing the complex issues around and how integrated this commitment is within our conflict minerals, beginning a formal Cobalt business. It informs everything we do at Lenovo, due diligence effort within our supply chain. from sourcing our materials, to manufacturing and Our overall conflict-free status, as measured distribution, to maintaining the safest and most by supplier spending, improved from 80 diverse workplaces around the world. percent to 82 percent. When we report on sustainability, we’re not only • We’ve continued to innovate across every reporting on Lenovo itself but also on the critical part of our sustainability efforts — from new issues we know to be important to our customers bio-based product packaging to introducing around the world. In pursuing our social and closed-loop post-consumer recycled content environmental goals, we’re guided by the same plastic into our products level of commitment and accountability as we are in achieving our business goals. At Lenovo, • Our company was recognized on three excellence in sustainability and excellence in continents for excellence in employee business go hand in hand. wellness: Lenovo Brazil received the “Safety Protection Magazine Award” in Our company has key advantages in the July 2017; Lenovo offices in four Chinese marketplace that separate us from our cities (Chengdu, Shanghai, Shenzhen and competitors, and that super charge our ability to Wuhan) received occupational health and be a leader in sustainability. Most importantly, we safety awards from their respective local directly control the majority of our manufacturing. governments; and Lenovo offices in two U.S. Unlike other companies that outsource their cities (Morrisville, N.C. and Whitsett, N.C.) materials supply and assembly, over 60% of our were honored by the State of North Carolina manufacturing is being conducted in Lenovofor low safety incident rates. owned and run factories. Looking ahead we’re preparing a new supplier We’re a fully-integrated service and product initiative for launch in 2018/2019, expanding provider too. All the building blocks of Intelligent our supplier diversity efforts to now include our Transformation — beginning with data storage in large Tier 1/prime suppliers. Additionally, we will the cloud, through networking and infrastructure, be building on the recently launched Lenovo to manufacturing a wide portfolio of consumer Foundation — our charitable and philanthropic arm devices — reside fully within our company, and are with a mission to empower minority populations unified under a single roof. Because of this, our with access to science, technology, engineering sustainability goals are truly organic to the firm, and math education by engaging employees to built into every aspect of all of our products and make a difference in their communities. business solutions. Our dedication to performance, our fostering of And then there are Lenovo’s people, 54,000 of innovation, our celebration of diversity, and our us working in 60+ countries. Our company is a commitment to citizenship are shared values true global citizen, with dual headquarters in Asia across the enterprise. Through the strength of and North America, and R&D and manufacturing these shared foundational values, we’re able to facilities located around the world. The diversity approach sustainability as a unifying principle of our people, and our depth of cross-cultural throughout the company and continually advance awareness, enable us to be closely attuned what we do. In these pages you’ll find powerful to sustainability in all its forms, sensitive and evidence that this is so. receptive to social and environmental needs wherever we operate. This year, Lenovo advanced sustainability in many ways. Yang Yuanqing • We’ve increased our supply chain metrics Chairman and Chief Executive Officer across the board by approximately five percent, committing to continuous improvement in the caliber of our suppliers’ performance on issues such as social and environmental responsibility, anti-corruption and business integrity. EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS At Lenovo, we believe in doing what we say and sugar cane — are driving down packaging weight owning what we do. Our annual Sustainability to reduce waste, carbon emissions and shipping Report offers our stakeholders transparency into costs. our business and tracks our progress year-overyear by publicly reporting on both our successes Living the Lenovo Way. Our people are our and areas for improvement. It is an important part greatest asset in bringing our sustainability of achieving our goals to operate with integrity, commitments to life. In FY 2017/2018, we launched meet compliance standards and exceed the our inaugural Global Week of Service and created expectations of our stakeholders. the Lenovo Foundation, both of which will amplify our social investment and volunteer initiatives Our sustainability strategy reflects our business going forward. We look forward to the Lenovo priorities, impacts and challenges, and importantly, Foundation expanding the impacts of science, it supports the United Nations Sustainable technology, engineering and math education and Development Goals. We organize our approach access to technology programs. and sustainability initiatives around four key areas: supply chain, environmental footprint, sustainable Lenovo continues to be recognized as a products and manufacturing, and community sustainability leader around the world. In addition investments. In FY2017/2018, we made progress to receiving the Hong Kong Institute of Certified across all of these areas. Public Accountants “Best Corporate Governance” award in the H-Share Companies and Other Enhancing Supply Chain Transparency. We take Mainland Enterprises Category multiple years in a our responsibility as a global corporate citizen row, in FY 2017/2018, Lenovo: seriously. We balance priorities on both the global and local levels and diligently work to ensure we • Earned an A2017 Climate Score from CDP are compliant with the laws and regulations in (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) and every country where we ship our products and/ the CDP Award of Entrepreneurship on or operate our business. We demand the same Responding to Climate Change; level of commitment from our supply chain partners. Lenovo supports the United Nations • Achieved an AA rating on the 2017 Hang Declaration on Human Rights and through our Seng Corporate Sustainability Index; contracts we require suppliers to comply with our own Supplier Code of Conduct. We also use and • Was the highest ranked company in our comply with the Responsible Business Alliance’s industry class on the Corporate Knights Code of Conduct. Lenovo has formally joined the Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in Responsible Minerals Initiative and supports the the World Index; and Responsible Minerals Assurance Process, through which we have increased our overall conflict• Received a 70/100 CSR Gold rating from mineral free status to 82 percent. EcoVadis, a leader in business sustainability ratings for global supply chains, and ranking Reducing Our Footprint. As part of our in the top one percent of all suppliers in all commitment to a healthier planet, Lenovo has categories assessed by EcoVadis. placed a significant emphasis on combating climate change. We are working to mitigate our We are encouraged by our successes and progress impact and reduce our global carbon footprint, as but recognize we can do more. As we look ahead well as holding our suppliers accountable for their to FY 2018/2019 and beyond, we are intent contributions. We have reduced our global Scope on driving improvements in our environmental 1 and 2 Greenhouse Gas emissions by 32 percent sustainability and corporate social responsibility since 2010. Following our achieving ISO 50001 performance both within our operations and our Energy Management System (EnMS) certification supply chain. at all 36 Lenovo locations in the European Union, we recently expanded our EnMS to our Beijing Our commitment to sustainability is unwavering — headquarters. the following report details how we are making a difference. Leading Sustainable Manufacturing. By continuing to innovate on the sustainable use of materials, we remain a leader in using recycled content plastic in our products. During the last fiscal year, we launched a closed-loop recycled plastic program that incorporated recycled plastic from end-of-life IT and electronics products in our V410z All-inJohn Cerretani One desktop and ThinkVision T22v-10 monitor. Chief Sustainability Executive We are also incorporating approximately 10 to 17 Executive Director, Legal Department percent post-consumer recycled content plastic in Lenovo high-end server products. Innovative, bio-based packaging materials — like bamboo and INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY 12 Report Parameters 13 Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement 16 Lenovo and the U.N. Sustainable Development Goals EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PARAMETERS ABOUT THIS REPORT REPORT CONTENT This is Lenovo’s 12th annual sustainability report. The content of this report is informed by the It covers the Fiscal Year 2017/18 (April 1, 2017 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) through March 31, 2018). The most recent report Reporting Guide set out in the rules governing prior to this was published in September 2017 for the listing of securities on The Stock Exchange the Fiscal Year 2016/17. This and previous reports of Hong Kong Limited (the “Hong Kong Stock are available at: www.lenovo.com/sustainability. Exchange”), the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards and the needs of Lenovo’s stakeholders. This report is considered a companion document Lenovo has complied with all “comply or explain” to Lenovo’s annual and interim reports. Those can provisions as set out in the Hong Kong Stock be viewed at: http://static.lenovo.com/ww/lenovo/ Exchange’s ESG Guide. This report has been annual_interim_report.html. The FY 2017/18 Annual prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Report contains a CSR/sustainability overview on Core option. More information about Lenovo’s pages 123-136. material topics can be found on pages 13-14 and 121. SCOPE OF THE REPORT • All references, unless otherwise noted, are to NOTES Lenovo’s fiscal year, which ends March 31st. Notes in the Consolidated Metrics, FY 2017/18 Performance and FY 2018/19 Objectives and • This report covers Lenovo’s global operations, Targets sections apply to all places throughout the including previously reported joint ventures document where that data is used. and acquisitions, except where noted. EXTERNAL ASSURANCE • Our operations: Accredited third parties have provided verification services for certain energy, greenhouse gas (GHG) Corporate headquarters in Hong Kong emissions, waste and water data in this report. Please see the Planet chapter for more details. Primary operational hubs in Beijing, China; Singapore, Republic of Singapore; and Morrisville, N.C., USA Major development and manufacturing facilities are described on page 71 Call centers in North America, South America, Europe, Asia and Australia 12 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS BASIS OF CALCULATIONS trending information. Therefore, we may not • All financial data is denoted in U.S. dollars. always provide information publicly until we are certain that this data can be delivered in • Lenovo may in some instances face various a high-quality and consistent manner. challenges when measuring its performance. If there are contingencies associated with the CONTACT INFORMATION FOR THIS REPORT data provided, those contingencies will be AND FEEDBACK noted in the documentation. For questions or other information about this report or to offer feedback, please contact: • Lenovo continues to strive for excellence in measuring and improving its performance by Mark Thomsen, Sustainability Project Manager, adding new indicators. When new indicators 7001 Development Drive Morrisville, N.C. 27560 are added, it may take time to deliver Email: environment@lenovo.com MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT MATERIALITY previously identified material concerns and more Lenovo’s integration of sustainability impact quickly spotting emerging issues. In addition to concerns into its strategy, planning, implementation these corporate level risk management programs, and reporting activities begins with an assessment individual business units such as the Global of materiality. We believe identification of material Supply Chain organization manage their own concerns related to sustainability is integral to risk management processes that feed into the achieving our business goals of minimizing risk and corporate level programs and disclosure. maximizing growth and returns on capital while fulfilling our commitment to outstanding corporate The scope of this Sustainability Report was citizenship. determined by our Sustainability Materiality Assessment, a process where we evaluate and Lenovo regularly conducts assessments to identify determine Lenovo’s significant, or material, and categorize all material concerns through its environmental and social responsibility aspects. We Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework, carried out this assessment in late 2017 and early including sustainability related issues. Material 2018. concerns are further clarified and addressed through company management systems. Lenovo’s Lenovo acknowledges that a variety of external environmental management system (EMS), for perspectives are relevant to identifying material example, provides a framework for assessment of issues. We regularly engage with a variety of significant environmental aspects (SEA), regularly stakeholders and consider their feedback as we scheduled audits, measurement of key performance affirm what is material to our business, develop indicators and continuous improvement. This SEA our sustainability strategy, set our goals and report evaluation process and the ERM process provide on our progress. valuable input into Lenovo’s overall sustainability materiality assessment process. Other benefits of the EMS include monitoring our progress on 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 13 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS SUSTAINABILITY MATERIALITY • Employee surveys such as the “Lenovo ASSESSMENT: MATERIAL TOPICS Listens” survey, commuting surveys and • Business Ethics others • Climate Change (emissions) • Community Outreach • General meetings with investors • Corporate Governance • Digital Inclusion • Supplier conferences and quarterly business • Diversity and Equal Opportunity reviews • Economic Performance • Energy Use • Ongoing interactions and initiatives with local • Environmental Management System communities • Human Rights • Labor Standards and Practices • Responding to investor analyst and NGO • Packaging surveys and inquiries • Philanthropy/Disaster Relief • Privacy • Meetings and communications with industry • Procurement Practices peers, regulators and standards organizations • Product End-of-Life Management to address issues of industry importance • Product Energy Use • Product Materials • Opportunities for comment and feedback • Product Responsibility from employees, customers, investors and • Supply Chain Environmental Performance other stakeholders based on sustainability • Supply Chain Labor Practices communications issued by Lenovo, such as • Talent Management this report • Transportation • Waste Each section of this report contains numerous • Water Use other examples of Lenovo’s engagement with stakeholders. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT The results of the Sustainability Materiality Lenovo actively manages its relationships with Assessment also guide us in evaluating and employees, customers, suppliers, shareholders prioritizing stakeholder inputs. Our environmental, and investors, regulators, members of the quality and other management systems have communities in which we operate, industry defined processes for obtaining and analyzing groups, nongovernmental organizations (NGO) stakeholder input to help improve our performance and other stakeholders whose actions can affect as well as manage risk. Lenovo’s network of the company’s performance and value. Examples geographic, environmental and sustainability of mechanisms for engaging with stakeholders on focal points engage with local sales teams and sustainability issues include: customers on a regular basis. This is done through detailed responses to customer questions and • Direct customer interaction via in-person meetings at customer locations or at Lenovo’s briefings, calls, customer surveys, social briefing centers. These meetings allow Lenovo media engagement and other means to get direct feedback on our environmental programs. Examples of feedback include • Employee/management meetings and information on ecolabel preferences, requests for communications for employee performance packaging optimization and requests for further management information for internal customer education. 14 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS We are also heavily engaged with our suppliers chain, climate change mitigation and impact, to drive enhanced transparency and compliance, recycling, and product certifications. Lenovo’s and we promote the use of reporting tools such responses to these concerns included: as Lenovo’s full materials disclosure declarations and Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) reporting • Implementing a Cobalt Policy (see the Supply requirements. This is done via regular interactions Chain Operations section) with our suppliers, including communications, regular reviews and report cards. • Publishing a list of our suppliers Local stakeholder engagement at the site level • Reporting carbon emissions data and is primarily done through Lenovo’s community strategies to CDP (formerly Carbon relations (see the Social Investments section) and Disclosure Project) (see the Environmental communications teams, who work with Lenovo’s Impact of Lenovo Operations section). In global organization on sustainability issues. 2017, Lenovo scored an Aand Leadership Level on its CDP carbon emissions-related Key sustainability issues addressed through reporting Lenovo’s engagement with stakeholders in the past fiscal year include concerns about conflict • Providing free consumer recycling options minerals, protecting human rights in the supply in many geographies (see the Recovery and Recycling Trends section) • Expanding our use of innovative forms of post-consumer recycled content by using closed-loop materials sourced from end-oflife electronics (see the Product Materials section) 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 15 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS LENOVO AND THE U.N. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Lenovo supports the United Nations Sustainable • Goal 5 — Lenovo is seeing results from its Development Goals (SDGs), which were officially programs to increase the hiring of women adopted by the U.N. in September 2015 and came and develop female senior executive into force in January 2016. The SDGs include 169 talent. See the Diversity section for more targets and are to be carried out between 2016 information. and 2030. • Goal 8 — Lenovo has been recognized for its Lenovo has well-established programs to ensure commitment to providing safe and healthy we operate sustainably and responsibly, following workspaces, and our contracts with suppliers our long-standing commitment to ethical corporate flow down safe and healthy workspace citizenship and promoting sustainability in all our requirements through our supply chain tiers. activities. We became a Global Compact signatory See the Manufacturing and Supply Chain in 2009. There are aspects of our business, Operations chapter for more information. projects, programs and activities that we can readily identify as contributing toward achieving • Goal 9 — Lenovo relentlessly pursues SDGs. Examples include: innovation that reaps sustainability benefits. Read about our warm-water cooled servers on pages 34-35. • Goal 12 — Lenovo’s Environmentally Conscious Products program is continually raising the bar on reducing the resources required to manufacture and use our products. For example, see page 87 for information about Lenovo’s use of closedloop materials. • Goal 13 — Lenovo has pledged to achieve a 40 percent reduction in greenhouse emissions by FY 2020/21, relative to FY 2009/10. See the Environmental Impact of Lenovo Operations section for more information about our FY 2017/18 achievements. • Goal 4 — Education and digital inclusion are key components to Lenovo’s social investment strategy. See the Social Investments section to read about our global activities in these areas in FY 2017/18. 16 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 17 PRACTICING ETHICAL BUSINESS 20 Corporate Governance 23 Business Conduct EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS PRACTICING ETHICAL BUSINESS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Responsible and ethical governance is the BOARD STRUCTURE foundation of a sustainable company. The core The Board is the highest governing body in the governance structure of Lenovo is an effective organization and is responsible for overseeing the board of directors (the “Board”), led by the overall strategy of the Company and directing Chairman with the support of senior management and supervising its affairs in a responsible and with the goal to attain and uphold a high standard effective manner. As of March 31, 2018, there were of corporate governance and to maintain sound eleven Board members consisting of one executive and well-established corporate governance director, namely Mr. Yang Yuanqing; two nonpractices in the interest of shareholders and other executive directors, namely Mr. Zhu Linan and stakeholders. The Company also regularly reviews Mr. Zhao John Huan; and eight independent nonits corporate governance structure to ensure it is executive directors, namely Dr. Tian Suning, Mr. in line with international and local best practices. Nicholas C. Allen, Mr. Nobuyuki Idei, Mr. William O. Grabe, Mr. William Tudor Brown, Ms. Ma Xuezheng, Throughout the year ending March 31, 2018, the Mr. Yang Chih-Yuan Jerry and Mr. Gordon Robert Company has complied with the code provisions Halyburton Orr. The Board diversity mix is set of the Corporate Governance Code and the out on page 52 of the Annual Report, while the Corporate Governance Report (the “CG Code”) detailed biographies and a snapshot of the Board’s set out in Appendix 14 to the Rules Governing the experience are set out on pages 142-145 of the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Annual Report. Hong Kong Limited and, where appropriate, met the recommended best practices in the CG Code The Company has adopted a Board Diversity except for the deviation as explained on page 49 Policy which ensures Board members have of the Annual Report. an appropriate balance of skill, experience, knowledge and independence. Currently, the More details on Lenovo’s corporate governance Board, comprising a vast majority of independent structure and practices, as well as risk non-executive directors, brings varied experience management and internal control, can be found and expertise to the Company and also enhances on pages 48-101 of the Annual Report. For quick the independence, diversity and perspective of reference, in particular on our sustainability the Board. In line with international corporate governance structure and management approach, governance practices, a Lead Independent Director the following overview is provided. has been appointed. Details of the nomination and appointment process of directors and the Board Diversity Policy can be found in the Corporate Governance Report section of the Annual Report. 20 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS The Company has preserved three Board websites of the Company (www.lenovo.com/ Committees—the Audit Committee, the hk/publication) and Hong Kong Exchanges and Compensation Committee and the Nomination Clearing Limited (http://www.hkex.com.hk/?sc_ and Governance Committee—to enhance the lang=en). Further details on the composition, effectiveness of Board functioning and operation. responsibilities and main activities in FY 2017/18 Each Board Committee has defined terms of of these Board Committees are included in the reference, which are available on both the Annual Report on pages 72-76. Shareholders and Other Stakeholders Nomination and Compensation Governance Committee Committee The Board Senior Management Chief Executive Audit Committee Officer Lenovo Internal Executive Audit Committee* * A management committee comprising the CEO and certain members of the senior management 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 21 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT The Board has a coherent framework with clearly The Board has overall responsibility for the defined responsibilities and accountabilities Company’s sustainability strategy, and evaluates designed to safeguard and enhance long-term and determines Lenovo’s sustainability related shareholder value and provide a robust platform risks to ensure that appropriate and effective risk to realize the Company’s strategy. A summary of management and internal control systems are in leadership responsibilities of the Company and place. To achieve our goals and commitments those of the Lead Independent Director is set out in sustainability, Lenovo has developed a in the Annual Report on page 51. sustainability governance structure both at the Board and executive level to ensure that Lenovo’s The Company has a formal schedule of matters values and commitment to sustainability are specifically reserved to the Board and those embedded in the organization and throughout the delegated to management. The Board has given business. clear directions to management regarding matters that must be approved by the Board before At the executive level, sustainability is led by the management makes decisions or enters into any Chief Sustainability Executive, who reports directly commitments on behalf of the Company. Further to the Chief Legal Officer. The Board meets with details on the responsibilities and delegation of the the Chief Sustainability Executive at least twice Board are set out in the Annual Report on page a year to review and discuss global ESG risk 65. and compliance, sustainability highlights, plans for achieving key performance objectives and Finally, to address potential conflicts of interest targets, and sustainability policies and initiatives at the Board level, it is expressly provided in the requiring Board review and approval. The Chief Company’s articles of association that, unless Sustainability Executive also submits Lenovo’s otherwise permissible in the articles of association, annual Sustainability Report to the Board for a director shall not vote on any resolution of the review and approval. Board approving any transaction, arrangement or contract or other proposal in which he or any COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS of his associates is to his knowledge materially AND OTHER STAKEHOLDERS interested, and if he shall do so his vote shall The Company is committed to safeguarding not be counted (nor shall he be counted in the our shareholders’ interests and believes that quorum for that resolution). effective communication with shareholders and stakeholders is essential for enhancing investor relations and investor understanding of our business performance and strategies. To achieve this, the Company has established the Shareholders’ Communication Policy, which sets out various formal channels of communication 22 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS Lenovo has also established an investor relations team to promote open, transparent, efficient and consistent communications with shareholders, investors and equity analysts. The team commits to proactively providing the investment community all necessary information, data and services in a timely manner in order to promote a solid understanding of the Company’s strategy, operations and new developments. During the FY 2017/18, the Company’s senior management team presented its annual and quarterly earnings results through webcasts and physical meetings to communicate with shareholders, investors and analysts. Through various investor relations with shareholders and other stakeholders to activities such as analyst briefings, conference ensure fair disclosure and comprehensive calls and global investor roadshows, the senior and transparent reporting of the Company’s management team presented and communicated performance and activities. Shareholders are with investors and analysts on the Company’s provided with sufficient notices of the Company’s strategies and developments. general meetings and are encouraged to attend and to actively participate in such meetings. Further information about Lenovo’s 2017 general All resolutions at the general meetings are meetings and investor relations activities is conducted by way of poll voting. Results of the available in the Annual Report on pages 89-96. polls are published on the Company’s website (www.lenovo.com/hk/publication) and Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited’s website (www.hkex.com.hk). BUSINESS CONDUCT Lenovo has a global ethics and compliance The Ethics and Compliance Office is committed program, which is guided by our Code of to raising awareness about the importance of Conduct. The Company’s Ethics and Compliance ethics and compliance in the workplace and Office oversees ethics and compliance across plays a critical role in providing employees with the organization, working in partnership with the guidance, resources and information they our business units to see that we achieve our need to make informed and appropriate choices business goals while meeting the letter and and decisions. With these systems in place, we spirit of the legal and regulatory framework in describe clear expectations for employees and which we operate. Our ethics and compliance hold them accountable for their behavior. program promotes an organizational culture that encourages the highest ethical standards of business conduct and a commitment to compliance with the law. 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 23 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS Our Code of Conduct helps to ensure that BUSINESS PRACTICES employees understand the Company’s Lenovo’s Code of Conduct and policies strongly expectations. The Code applies to all employees support ethical and responsible business practices: worldwide and is an integral part of our ethics and compliance program. The Code also Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption demonstrates Lenovo’s commitment to a culture In keeping with best practices, Lenovo has of uncompromising integrity and assists employees developed and implemented an Anti-Bribery and in making well-informed decisions. In addition, the Anti-Corruption Policy, which reinforces provisions Code helps employees determine when to seek in the Code of Conduct and provides additional advice and where to obtain it. Each newly hired specific guidance regarding compliance with rules Lenovo employee receives training and information and laws related to bribery and corruption. about our ethics and compliance program, and all employees are required to participate in Anti-Competitive Practices and Fair subsequent mandatory training sessions held Competition on a regular basis to reinforce the Company’s commitment to compliance and to conducting Lenovo competes fiercely for business, but always business with integrity. Additional information fairly. Its Code of Conduct forbids employees about ethics and compliance is provided through from entering into an agreement or discussion the Company’s intranet and other periodic that would result in setting prices, limiting the communications. availability of goods or services on the market or agreeing to boycott a customer or supplier. Intellectual Property Lenovo respects the intellectual property rights of others. It is the Company’s policy to avoid any infringement of copyright or other intellectual property rights of other companies and individuals in the conduct of its business. Employees are expected to obtain and abide by licenses or other permissions as appropriate and as required. AUDITS Lenovo conducts internal audits and advisory projects each year to ensure that its ethical All new hires at Lenovo undergo training on Lenovo’s Code of business policies and practices are being followed. Conduct On average, Lenovo’s internal audit team conducts about 40-45 advisory projects annually. 24 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS RAISING QUESTIONS OR CONCERNS Lenovo has a clear nonretaliation policy, Lenovo provides guidance to its employees which is part of our Code of Conduct, and the regarding how to raise questions or concerns company will not tolerate harassment, retaliation, about any aspect of their work at Lenovo and discrimination or other adverse action against an has established clear processes and reporting employee who: channels. Employees are directed to report to their managers or other resources, including • Makes an internal report in good faith but not limited to human resources, the Ethics and Compliance Office, internal audit, corporate • Provides information or assists in an security or the Lenovo legal department, any investigation regarding such a report information pertaining to: Managers are required to report and help resolve • Fraud by or against Lenovo any suspected violation of the nonretaliation policy. Complaints of alleged retaliation will be • Unethical business conduct promptly addressed and investigated. • Violation of legal or regulatory requirements Questions about anything relating to ethics and compliance may be sent by email to Lenovo’s • Substantial and specific danger to health and Ethics and Compliance Office at ethics@lenovo.com. safety Lenovo also provides detailed information about its internal controls framework and enterprise risk • Violation of Lenovo’s corporate policies and management, including ethics and compliance, on guidelines, particularly our Code of Conduct pages 81-87 of its Corporate Governance Report in the Annual Report. In addition, Lenovo provides formal, confidential ways to report when potential violations of PUBLIC POLICY law, company policy or the Code of Conduct Lenovo maintains good relationships with local occur. These include postal mail, email and our governments around the world and seeks to be LenovoLine, which is a confidential reporting a responsible corporate citizen in the countries in system that is accessible 24 hours a day, seven which it operates. Lenovo requires its employees days a week by secure website or toll-free to be truthful and accurate in all communication telephone with translators available. Where allowed with all government authorities. The Company by law, employees may report concerns about strives to adhere to the highest standards of business practices anonymously if they choose. integrity and accountability when dealing with The LenovoLine and other resources are also government rules and regulations. From time to available to help counsel employees who may time, Lenovo engages in lobbying, as appropriate have questions or concerns. and usually through industry trade association groups, to ensure that its voice is heard on Reports of inappropriate behavior, policy matters of importance to the Company and its violations or alleged retaliation will, to the extent stakeholders. permitted by law and consistent with an effective investigation, be kept anonymous and confidential. Lenovo regards any suspected violation of law, policy or the Code as a serious matter and is committed to following up on all reported concerns, which are addressed and tracked to resolution. 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 25 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS TAX APPROACH • Prelaunch privacy review processes for Lenovo is committed to conducting business products, software, websites, marketing legally, ethically and with integrity, and this programs, internal applications and vendor commitment extends to our approach on tax relationships strategy, operations and compliance. • Privacy awareness and training initiatives, Information about Lenovo’s FY 2017/18 tax including the Lenovo Privacy Basics course, position can be found in our Annual Report in the which is required training for Lenovo’s global “Notes to the Financial Statements” on pages nonmanufacturing workforce 215-217. • Contractual support PRIVACY • Tracking and application of legal Lenovo recognizes that privacy is of great requirements and industry best practices importance to individuals everywhere: our customers, website visitors, product users, — Specialized compliance projects employees—everyone. This is why we have targeting new requirements such as the established the responsible use and protection of European Union’s (EU) General Data personal and other information under our care as Protection Regulation (GDPR) core Lenovo values. • Privacy audit and assessment To give effect to our privacy policies, principles and processes, Lenovo maintains a global Privacy • Incident response planning and processes Program, led by the Legal Department, and a cross-functional Privacy Working Group comprised If you have any further questions or of key partners of the Privacy Program, including concerns, please feel free to reach us at Information Security, Product Security, Product privacy@lenovo.com. Development, Marketing, E-Commerce, Service and Repair, Human Resources and other groups. Lenovo’s website and product privacy statements are located at Key projects of the Privacy Program include: https://www.lenovo.com/us/en/privacy/. • Frontline engagement with Lenovo’s business teams on privacy due diligence and application of key privacy principles • Development and governance of internal and external privacy policies 26 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 27 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 30 Sustainable Quality 32 Safety and Ergonomics 33 Accessibility 34 Compliance 34 Lenovo Innovation Making a Difference EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY SUSTAINABLE QUALITY QUALITY MANAGEMENT Lenovo’s global Quality Management System, Lenovo delivers superior quality products and which has earned ISO 9001 (International is committed to ensuring that its products are Organization for Standardization) certification, safe throughout their life cycle. Product Life ensures the continual delivery of design Cycle Assessment principles guide Lenovo in improvements into current and future products. ensuring that every stage of the product’s life is Lenovo strongly embraces the ISO 9001 taken into consideration, including manufacturing, commitment to an effective quality management transportation, installation, use, service and system and is dedicated to exceeding industry recycling. This enables Lenovo to gain deep insight standards for product quality and reliability. into opportunities for risk and cost minimization as well as uncover new opportunities for enhancing and increasing product marketability to meet the preferences of an informed public. Corporate strategies, policies and guidelines have been designed to support Lenovo’s commitment to product safety. Lenovo strives to ensure that our products meet all applicable legal requirements as well as voluntary safety and ergonomics practices to which Lenovo subscribes, wherever our products are sold. 30 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS CROSS-ORGANIZATIONAL QUALITY ASSURANCE Product Quality Business Units Metrics Metrics • Year-on-Year Improvement • Product Quality Failure • WW RAs and DOAs Rates • Critical Situation • Product Life Cycle Management Management • Customer Sentiment • Time to Market, Time to Volume Quality BMS Overall Quality KPIs Policy 1. Daily Roll Calls • Repair Actions (RAs) 2. Weekly Quality Reviews • Defect on Arrival (DOA) ISO 9001 3. Monthly Business Unit Reviews ISO 14001 • Year-on-Year Improvement 4. Geo/Service Interlocks Standards & • Critical Situations 5. Senior Leadership Team Reviews Compliance Service and Support Global Supply Chain Metrics Metrics • RAs by Region and • First Pass Yield Platform • Out of Box Metrics • Call Volume • RAs • Customer Satisfaction • On-time Delivery To maintain this quality level, Lenovo employs an they meet stringent standards specific to their active closed-loop process with various feedback application and use before they are cleared for mechanisms. These feedback mechanisms provide shipment. quick resolution of customer issues. When product issues are discovered, we perform root Lenovo’s Technical Evaluation Center provides cause analysis and feed the results back into information and recommendations to Lenovo manufacturing, development and test organizations engineering, and Lenovo’s Lessons Learned ensuring that similar issues do not arise with feedback loop contributes to the refinement and current or future products. maturation of our processes and elimination of recurring problems. As a result, Lenovo’s product Because Lenovo products fail less often and have repair action rates are among the lowest in the a longer lifespan, fewer resources are required industry. for their upkeep and end-of-life management. Lenovo’s comprehensive product development Lenovo leaders are responsible for establishing process includes prototype development, product objectives and measuring results to drive continual testing and focus groups to ensure the Company improvement in quality and customer satisfaction. meets the diverse needs of global customers. All Lenovo employees are expected to contribute For example, Lenovo proactively elicits input on to this continual improvement as an integral part design and product features from customers and of our quality management system. partners. Prototypes are extensively evaluated, and final products undergo rigorous testing to ensure Lenovo’s corporate Quality Policy is available at: www.lenovo.com/us/en/lenovo/about/quality. 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 31 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS CUSTOMER-FOCUSED TESTING Lenovo has continued to enhance our customerOnce the product development phase is focused program by sending technical teams to completed, Lenovo products undergo a series of support on-site installations for customers. customer-driven tests prior to production. Testing includes ongoing customer simulation evaluations During and after the installation, there is ongoing and customer simulation audits to evaluate dialogue between the customer and Lenovo to product quality by removing systems from the ensure timely feedback on installation progress. box and setting them up in typical customer This allows corrections to be quickly put in place, configurations. Additionally, extended customer and for the team to preempt potential issues. simulation tests are conducted on a sample basis This has proven to be highly advantageous during with various configurations of product options new product releases, as potential issues can be and software. The last evaluation simulates the promptly addressed to minimize the impact on all performance of the product through various customers. standard customer applications. SAFETY AND ERGONOMICS Lenovo is committed to ensuring that our products • Foster employee involvement and provide are safe throughout their life cycle, including appropriate resources to develop and manufacturing, transportation, installation, use, implement successful product safety service and disposal. Corporate strategies, policies initiatives. and guidelines have been designed to support this commitment to product safety. Each employee • Continually improve product safety initiatives. bears a personal responsibility to advance the following objectives: • Investigate product safety incidents and take prompt remedial actions to protect Lenovo’s • Meet all applicable legal requirements, as well customers and employees. as voluntary safety and ergonomics practices to which Lenovo subscribes, wherever we sell • Report safety initiatives and incidents to products. senior executive management. • Select suppliers that demonstrate a similar The following table shows the product life cycle commitment to safety. stages in which the health and safety impacts of products are assessed for improvement. All • Provide customers with adequate information to significant Lenovo products are subject to these enable them to safely use Lenovo’s products. assessments. HARDWARE SAFETY ASSESSMENT REQUIREMENTS AT LIFE CYCLE POINTS Hardware Safety Point in Product Life Cycle Assessed? Development of product concept No1 R&D Yes Certification Yes Manufacturing and production Yes Marketing and promotion No2 Storage distribution and supply Yes Use and service Yes Disposal, reuse or recycling Yes 1 Too early at this stage 2 Not relevant at this stage 32 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS With a focused emphasis on product safety no reports of injury and no reports of property and quality, Lenovo is achieving high customer damage outside the affected unit itself. satisfaction and delivering quality products, solutions and services. After investigating the root cause, Lenovo—out of an abundance of caution—voluntarily contacted Lenovo promptly investigates and responds to any the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission potential safety or quality issue associated with (CPSC) and initiated a “Fast Track” recall to our products. In FY 2017/18, Lenovo issued one quickly communicate and remedy the potential recall for a limited number of ThinkPad X1 Carbon issue. Lenovo took similar action with other 5th Generation laptop computers due to a limited consumer safety authorities across the globe. number of unfastened screws that may have been Affected laptops were either repaired or replaced left inside certain ThinkPad X1 Carbon (5th Gen) at no cost to the customer. Lenovo implemented systems. Specifically, if an unfastened screw is numerous corrective actions to address the root positioned in or near the battery compartment, the cause of this issue in both the manufacture of this screw could lead to systems or battery damage. product and in future design. When these system or batteries fail, they may overheat and could result in localized smoking and More information about past Lenovo product melting. recalls can be found here. Prior to issuing the recall, three customers Click here to view Lenovo’s Product Safety and reported overheating and smoke with a ThinkPad Ergonomics Policy. X1 Carbon (5th Gen) system. Lenovo received ACCESSIBILITY Lenovo is committed to providing people with Lenovo has established and maintains an disabilities greater access to information and accessibility policy for our products and services technology. We are widely recognized for our that includes a closed-loop process to ensure focus on human factors and ergonomics and have compliance. Lenovo considers accessibility a long-standing commitment to deliver worldthroughout the design cycle and consults with class products and services that can be used by persons with disabilities for further input on our everyone. Smart design and intuitive functionality products. benefit everyone who uses technology, including those with disabilities. Lenovo products are For more detailed information on how Lenovo developed to ensure compliance with best provides assistance to users who have hearing, practices and are tested with a variety of Assistive vision and mobility limitations and helps them get Technologies (AT), including screen readers, the most out of their computer experience, please screen magnifiers and speech recognition software visit www.lenovo.com/accessibility. spanning different price ranges. 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 33 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS COMPLIANCE Lenovo has established compliance systems to ensure our products comply with the laws and regulations in each country to which we ship. Lenovo products are designed, tested and approved to meet worldwide standards for product safety, electromagnetic compatibility, ergonomics and other regulatory requirements when used for their intended purpose. More information on compliance as well as product compliance documents can be found at www.lenovo.com/compliance. LENOVO INNOVATION MAKING A DIFFERENCE SAVING ELECTRICITY WITH WARM-WATER Europe when it entered operation, which featured COOLING a new form of cooling: warm (unchilled) water Growth in supercomputer computing performance piped directly to the CPU, memory and other generally has meant performing more high-power consuming components. A warm-water computations in less space. As you know from cooled supercomputer was born. using your own laptop computer, computation converts electrical energy into heat. Your laptop uses a fan to remove heat — the fan uses electricity, and electricity use costs money and can result in greenhouse gas emissions. For supercomputers to meet performance and cost expectations, heat needs to be removed quickly and cost effectively. Over the past decade this enormous technical conundrum has spawned an innovation that continues to develop. In 2012, the Leibniz Supercomputing Centre (Leibniz-Rechenzentrum, or LRZ) in Munich, Germany presented high-performance computing (HPC) manufacturers a difficult challenge: build a supercomputer that consumes a dramatically lower amount of electricity without sacrificing computing power. The System x team delivered the 9,200 node “SuperMUC,” the fastest supercomputer in The LRZ SuperMUC Supercomputer 34 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS In addition to realizing lower electricity consumption, LRZ found additional benefits to SuperMUC’s ultra-efficient direct water cooling. Since the CPUs were kept much cooler there was less energy loss within the processor, saving as much as five percent more than a comparable air-cooled processor. The CPUs could run in “turbo mode” constantly if needed, which boosted computing performance up to an additional 10-15 percent. Operations were close to silent because the systems had no fans except small ones on the power supplies, and hot water produced from the Lenovo’s ThinkSystem SD650 data center was piped into the building for use as a heat source. According to LRZ, SuperMUC In the summer of 2018 Lenovo will introduce achieved overall energy savings of nearly 40 “Neptune,” a holistic view of liquid cooling for percent. all data centers, not just the SuperMUC’s of the world. Neptune incorporates three different Lenovo acquired System x in 2014 and the Lenovo technologies in its “trident.” First is direct-to-node ThinkSystem team is continuing to innovate and (DTN) cooling such as the ThinkSystem SD650. evolve liquid-cooled servers. In February 2018 Next is rear-door heat exchangers (RDHX) which Lenovo introduced the ThinkSystem SD650 highact like a car radiator absorbing the heat expelled density server, developed in partnership with Intel from traditional air-cooled systems. Finally, hybrid and LRZ. Nearly 6,500 ThinkSystem SD650s will cooling, which blends air and liquid cooling, will be deployed at LRZ to become the SuperMUC-NG be used in our new thermal transfer module supercomputer. The direct-water cooled design (TTM) for the air-cooled ThinkSystem SD530. The enables 85-90 percent heat recovery. Because TTM is a heat sink that uses liquid to move heat liquid cannot be used to cool everything in a data from one part of the system to another where air center, LRZ and Lenovo are in the process of cooling is more efficient, saving power, money and expanding alternative cooling by converting the potentially greenhouse gas emissions, and allowing hot water “waste” into cold water that can be the customer to run processors with greater reused to cool the rest of the data center. This computational power. process utilizes “adsorption chillers,” which take the hot water from 100 compute racks and passes Despite additional required infrastructure, liquid it over sheets of a special silica gel that evaporate cooled systems are competitive economically, and the water, cooling it. From there, the evaporated not just where there are high density requirements water is condensed back into a liquid, which is due to space constraints or where electricity is then either piped back into the compute racks, particularly expensive. Lenovo estimates that a or into a rear-door heat exchanger for racks of rack of ThinkSystem SD650’s is approximately storage and networking gear, which are not water seven percent more expensive than a rack of cooled. This approach to data center design is comparable air-cooled systems. But, that expense made possible because the water delivered to the is recovered in approximately one year through chillers is hot enough to make the process run lower power consumption, depending on electricity efficiently. costs. An important potential added benefit is the environmental win of lower greenhouse gas emissions. 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 35 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS Low-temperature Solder Update A breakthrough for sustainability in electronics manufacturing was described in Lenovo’s 2016/17 Sustainability Report: the invention of low-temperature solder (LTS). To recap, when lead-based solder was phased out in the early 2000s, the electronics industry had to switch to a tin-based solder that required high heat during manufacturing. In February 2017, Lenovo announced it had invented a solder that could be used at 180 degrees Celsius, much lower than the conventional solder temperature of 250 degrees Celsius. Lenovo spent much of FY 2017/18 testing LTS in different facilities and process lines, and modifying quality management to fit LTS requirements. Total CO2 emissions saved by LTS at the end of FY 2017/18 was approximately 59 metric tons. As LTS is more widely rolled out in Lenovo during 2018, the CO2 emissions reduction potential rises as well. As part of the process for sharing the invention across the industry, Lenovo plans to release a technical paper on LTS in the fall of 2018. Lenovo is working with the International Electronics Manufacturing Initiative, or iNEMI, on dissemination. According to iNEMI’s current roadmap, LTS will be validated in 2018 and deployment in the industry will begin in 2019. 36 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 37 MANUFACTURING AND SUPPLY CHAIN OPERATIONS 40 In-house Manufacturing Operations 44 Supply Chain Operations EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS MANUFACTURING AND SUPPLY CHAIN OPERATIONS Unique among major technology companies, and efficient products, corporate greenhouse gas Lenovo’s end-to-end business model for vertical emissions reductions, avoidance of hazardous integration equally balances owned manufacturing substances, reporting transparency, post-consumer capabilities and outsourced manufacturing content use and policy development. Since suppliers. This model enables us to bring 2006, Lenovo has been an active and ongoing innovation to market more efficiently while directly member of the Responsible Business Alliance (or controlling our sustainability footprint. RBA, which was formerly the Electronic Industry The in-house manufacturing and supply chain Citizenship Coalition (EICC)). teams fully support all corporate environmental and sustainability program efforts, including green IN-HOUSE MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS All Lenovo global manufacturing locations are OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY ISO 9001 (quality), ISO 14001 (environmental) and At Lenovo, the safety and wellbeing of our OHSAS 18001 (health and safety) certified. See workforce is an integral part of our long-term Lenovo’s Environmental Commitment for more success. We believe everyone has the fundamental information about our ISO 14001 certification, right to a healthy and safe work environment, and the Occupational Health and Safety section and we strive to provide and continually improve below for information about our OHSAS 18001 company health and safety programs and certification. processes throughout our global manufacturing locations. As required by these globally accepted standards, aggressive objectives and targets are being Keeping our employees safe is everyone’s job. Our implemented at each Lenovo manufacturing facility corporate policy — Responsibility for Employee to ensure continual improvement and a safe and Health and Safety — is the foundation for ensuring healthy work environment for our employees. a safe and healthy work environment for all of our people worldwide. Each employee and contractor Over half of Lenovo’s production is manufactured is expected to do their part by following the in-house where we have direct control over all policy and reporting any health or safety concerns sustainability efforts. to management. 40 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS System and all other applicable requirements. After each audit, our leadership is engaged at each site to develop and implement action plans to address audit findings. In addition, the RBA “Code of Conduct” has been implemented across our global manufacturing locations. In FY 2017/18 we continued to perform rigorous occupational, health and safety self-assessments at all global manufacturing locations to validate and maintain a high level of compliance with regulatory and external management system requirements and began annual external verification of our RBA Material Handling Training — Huiyang, China compliance status. We understand the challenges our industry faces with implementing RBA and other corporate social responsibility programs, and Lenovo’s proven Occupational Safety and Health through RBA join hands with our peers to effect Management System ensures detailed planning, change. hazard prevention, established controls, monitoring and a commitment to continual improvement. As Communication and Employee Engagement we expand our global footprint, new facilities are Lenovo’s OHS success begins with training. fully integrated and measured to meet this high We ensure our employees receive health and standard of expectation. All global manufacturing safety training and detailed, site-specific safety locations are OHSAS 18001 certified by Bureau information. All manufacturing personnel engage Veritas, a leading independent certification body. in an annual safety awareness training that is In addition, all China manufacturing locations compliant with local governmental regulations. have been certified to the nation’s Work Safety At our field locations, employees receive health Standardization regulation. and safety tips as well as information that covers emergency response, detailed work safety Health and Safety Performance requirements, hazards/risks and corresponding Each year, Lenovo’s incident rates are amongst precautionary measures. We welcome our the lowest in the industry. Our health and safety contractors and partners to participate in field programs meet or exceed regulatory requirements location training programs. and provide the framework for ensuring continued excellence. Employee engagement campaigns promote safety both in the work environment and at A key to our success has been standardizing the home. We routinely conduct health, safety and company’s occupational health and safety (OHS) wellbeing events. One example is our annual organization and ongoing training. This action has Safety Awareness Month, during which numerous effectively resulted in a significant improvement of activities are scheduled around fire safety, safety OHS performance and manufacturing operational at work and useful tips for household safety. excellence. OHS internal audits were also Safety is an all-hands-on-deck effort and we effectively implemented to identify opportunities encourage all employees to participate in our and risks that could impact business activities from Safety Suggestions Program. a safety, environmental and social responsibility perspective. These audits certified our overall compliance with ISO 14001:2015 Environmental Management System, OHSAS 18001:2015 Occupational Health and Safety Management 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 41 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS Employee Wellness Lenovo’s most important asset is our employees. To promote disease prevention and wellness matters, Lenovo makes information and health resources easily available to employees. A few examples include medical screenings, immunization clinics, eye, ear and dental examinations, healthy diet and nutrition recommendations, and exercise and smoking cessation programs. Breast Cancer Awareness Event At each field location, Lenovo’s Business Continuity Plans support comprehensive procedures to limit the potential impact of emerging health or safetyrelated epidemics. Work at Height Training — Monterrey, Mexico Safety Committees are another level of employee involvement to ensure a healthy and safe work environment for our employees. Manufacturing and select field locations maintain Safety Committees where members meet regularly and cover a range of health and safety topics with the opportunity for employees to engage and be part of the corrective action solutions. 42 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS OHS Recognition and Awards • Lenovo Morrisville Headquarters, N.C., Our performance and commitment to OHS is received for the 13th consecutive year the widely recognized at our field locations. In FY “Gold Award” from the North Carolina 2017/18 some of the accolades we received Department of Labor in June 2018 for low included: incident rates reported in 2017. • Lenovo Brazil, received the “Safety Protection • Lenovo United States Fulfillment Center Magazine Award” in July 2017 and was a (USFC) in Whitsett, N.C., received in April feature story in the publication. 2018 the “Outstanding Health and Safety Gold Award” from the North Carolina • Lenovo Chengdu, China received the Department of Labor for completing ten “Occupational Health Demonstration consecutive years of low incident rates Enterprise Award” in December 2017 from reported. the local government. • Lenovo Morrisville Development Drive, N.C., • Lenovo Shanghai, China received the “Pudong received for the fourth consecutive year District Safety and Health Cup Excellence the “Gold Award” from the North Carolina Award” in December 2017 from the local Department of Labor in June 2018 for low government. incident rates reported in 2017. • Lenovo Shenzhen, China received the ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE “Occupational Health Demonstration Please see the Environmental Impact of Lenovo Enterprise Award” in December 2017 from Operations section for information about the local government. environmental performance at Lenovo operations. • Lenovo Wuhan, China received the “Top Ten Safety Enterprise Award” in December 2017 from the local government. 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 43 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS AUDIT COMPLIANCE Lenovo also conducted several new audits In FY 2017/18 Lenovo conducted regular site according to RBA’s Validated Audit Program and corporate self-assessment questionnaires (VAP) and used RBA-approved independent third(SAQs) using RBA formal templates and online party auditors. reporting. Based on RBA SAQ risk criteria and the assessment results, Lenovo’s manufacturing facilities were categorized as having a low-risk profile. Facility Name Score (%) Risk Rating Lenovo Corporate 94.4 Low LCFC（Hefei, China) 86.8 Low Wuhan Plant 90.4 Low Beijing Plant 93.6 Low Chengdu Plant 95 Low Huiyang Plant 94.1 Low Shanghai Plant 93.7 Low LIPC (Shenzhen, China) 94.1 Low LSTC (Shenzhen, China) 94 Low USFC (Whitsett, N.C., U.S.A.) 85.1 Low Monterrey, Mexico 88.2 Low Pondicherry, India 91.4 Low Indaiatuba, Brazil 89.2 Low NEC (Yonezawa, Japan) 90.8 Low SUPPLY CHAIN OPERATIONS Lenovo is committed to corporate social In support of these goals, Lenovo has strong responsibility and sustainability across the endsupplier contractual requirements, a comprehensive to-end supply chain process. We have systems supplier code of conduct and extensive supplier in place to help ensure compliance with all validation programs. This includes rigorous applicable labor, environmental, health and safety, implementation of the RBA Code of Conduct, and ethics standards. It is our policy and practice respect for human rights and maintaining robust to continually improve our efforts to meet and environmental and conflict minerals programs. On exceed marketplace expectations. We recognize several aspects we require direct and independent there is no end to this journey and there are many validation of supplier compliance. Overall supplier opportunities for improvement. sustainability performance is tracked and reported via an extensive report card program. Finally, education and capability building practices are in place. 44 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS We take great effort to eliminate sustainability risk CONTRACTUAL STIPULATIONS in our supply chain through responsible partners Lenovo’s standard purchase order (PO) terms and program coverage. Following are some key and conditions stipulate supplier compliance metrics: with environmental specifications, hazardous material avoidance, ozone-depleting substance • 98 percent of our procurement spend is with elimination, product safety, liability insurance and fewer than 100 large suppliers who typically full compliance with all applicable laws, including have robust sustainability programs. export and import and product safety. Suppliers must also implement and maintain documented • 75 percent of our suppliers issue formal quality and environmental management systems. public sustainability reports. Finally, the PO requires compliance to our comprehensive Lenovo Supplier Code of Conduct. • Lenovo has long-term relationships with suppliers, many measured in decades, Our standard legal contract executed for suppliers engendering stability in the communities in also stipulates the Lenovo Supplier Code of which we operate. About 30 percent of our Conduct and further expands the standard PO procurement spend is with suppliers who terms, including all standard legal protections have been working with Lenovo for more and responsibility assignments for Lenovo and than 20 years. the supplier. It stipulates that the supplier cannot discriminate against employees based on race, • 65 percent of our suppliers are formal RBA color, gender, religion, age, nationality, social or members. ethnic origin or any other legally protected class. Any deviation to the terms requires approval • 80 percent of our suppliers have ISO 9001 from our legal department and in high-risk cases and 14001 certifications. requires senior procurement and business unit management approvals. • 44 percent of our suppliers are in countries with mature regulatory requirements In FY 2017/18, we refined the Lenovo Supplier regarding social and environmental Code of Conduct with updated conflicts of interest responsibility, specifically the U.S. and Europe and business integrity provisions. It is available at (based on supplier headquarters location). www.lenovo.com/supplier_code_of_conduct. • Our program efforts touch deeply into Tier 2 RBA COMPLIANCE and Tier 3 suppliers. We contractually require a full RBA program with our suppliers and directly validate compliance • Lenovo’s Supplier Code of Conduct, contracts with formal assessment reporting and independent and semi-annual supplier communications audits. In addition, as a formal member of explicitly address anti-corruption, anti-bribery the RBA, Lenovo exceeds the membership concerns and business integrity. requirements in this regard. Following are key contract requirements and our implementation • All key procurement personnel are trained scope. semi-annually on sustainability concerns. Note: Above percentages are the percent of our total production Supplier Contract Requirements to Comply procurement spend with the RBA Code of Conduct • Self-assess annually and report formally using the RBA questionnaire and on-line reporting tools. 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 45 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS • Receive in-depth audits biennially with • Suppliers acting in Tier 2 and Tier 3 roles independent, third-party RBA-approved are also covered in our programs. About 60 auditors. percent of suppliers by spending may act in a Tier 2 role and are in our program. About • Provide audit reports, corrective action plans 30 percent of our suppliers may act in a Tier in all cases and hard evidence of closure 3 role and are in our program. whenever possible. • Program status (open assessments, • Require their own suppliers to comply with audits, action plans, and action items) is the RBA Code of Conduct. comprehensively reported monthly as formal key performance indicators. Lenovo Implementation and RBA Membership Requirements • Overall compliance performance of audit Lenovo exceeds membership requirements scores and supplier details is reported in breadth of implementation and depth of quarterly. compliance. RBA membership requires annual self-assessments of 80 percent of Tier 1 suppliers • Outsourced development and contract by spending and annual audits covering only 25 manufacturers were OHSAS 18001 certified percent of any identified high-risk facilities. Three and 70 percent of the overall suppliers were types of audits are allowed: customer driven, similarly certified. auditee driven and RBA driven, also known as Validated Audit Program (VAP) audits. Thus, only Working Hours/Time Off Tier 1 suppliers identified as high-risk receive Like many companies doing business in China, audits, are covered only on a four-year cycle, and we recognize that excessive working hours and there is flexibility on the rigor of the audit type. insufficient time off are critical workplace issues. Lenovo practice and key statistics are as follows: When there are audit findings, we ensure closure of supplier action plans and we track suppliers • 95 percent coverage of suppliers by spending for two subsequent quarters to verify sustained are in the program. improvement and compliance. We request that suppliers use the formal RBA working hours • All must conduct self-assessments annually. template to demonstrate their compliance. Furthermore, we conduct quarterly deep-dives and • All must conduct audits every 24 months internal reporting on these issues. regardless of whether their self-assessment was rated low risk or high risk. • We drive for the most rigorous VAP audits — about 55 percent of our supplier audits are VAP audits. 46 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS Some of the key challenges regarding full number of part-time employees. The challenges compliance are demand planning and excessive are great, but Lenovo recognizes that continual inventory liability impacts. Forecast accuracy improvement is the path to a sustained solution. is a very difficult and complex issue. Moreover, in a low profit margin business with high-value Audit Compliance Results technology components and an always-present risk Our overall performance is noted below (audit of obsolescence, excess inventory is damaging to scores are based on a weighted 200-point system business viability. Lenovo mitigates these impacts where priority and major findings have significant with strategic and tactical demand and supply weighting). In one key statistic from 2014, about planning with suppliers. The 12-month demand eight percent of tested items received some sort horizon is assessed monthly, and the 13-week of audit finding (priority, major, minor) and in 2017 horizon is assessed weekly. about five percent of the items received a finding (out of up to 128 tested items per audit). Our goal The solution with the greatest impact is a dynamic is to achieve audit scores greater than 180 and part-time workforce, but this is constrained by an zero priority findings in every audit. RBA requirement that companies minimize the Section CY2014 CY2015 CY2016 CY2017* Labor 141 144 157 162 Ethics 178 183 190 194 Health & Safety 143 150 168 166 Environment 168 175 182 182 Mgmt. System 168 175 184 188 Overall Performance 112 129 153 152 Avg. Priority Items/Audit 1.4 0.8 0.6 0.5 Avg. Major Items/Audit 9.8 8.6 5.1 4.6 * Some new supplier 1st-time audit scores were excluded HUMAN RIGHTS IN LENOVO’S SUPPLY We strive to uphold these standards and to CHAIN demonstrate our commitment to them with our Lenovo respects human rights in all its activities, supply chain social responsibility programs. As including those involving its supply chain. We previously noted, we conduct a full RBA Code manage all operations consistent with the spirit of Conduct implementation within our supply and intent of the U.N. Universal Declaration chain where the code covers extensive human of Human Rights and the International Labor rights and labor concerns. Furthermore, our Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental comprehensive Lenovo Supplier Code of Conduct Principles and Rights at Work. We also have been upholds our values and includes provisions a signatory to the U.N. Global Compact since prohibiting corruption, bribery, human trafficking, 2009. As a signatory, we support and respect the discrimination and retaliation to worker complaints. protection of internationally proclaimed human Lenovo requires its suppliers to have formal rights and ensure that our business practices are grievance mechanisms. We actively support not complicit in human rights abuses. procurement diversity (see the Supplier Diversity section). 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 47 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS CONFLICT MINERALS • Holding regular education sessions for Lenovo recognizes the importance regarding internal employees, publishing monthly the sourcing of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold newsletters and providing supplier training as (3T/G) and other minerals. When sourced from needed. regions experiencing political and social conflict, which may include the Democratic Republic of • Utilizing the RBA Conflict Minerals Reporting the Congo (DRC) or surrounding countries, these Template (CMRT) for Reasonable Country materials are generally referred to as “conflict of Origin Inquiry (RCOI) efforts across 95 minerals.” We fully support the efforts of the RBA, percent of our procurement spend and governmental and non-governmental bodies to supply chain. solve this complex issue. We have demonstrated our support with our direct participation in RBA • Participating in the RMI Smelter Engagement Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI) programs Team (SET) to identify smelters and their since 2012. status. This year we commenced a formal Cobalt due • Auditing smelters using the RBA Responsible diligence effort with the use of the RMI Cobalt Minerals Assurance Process (RMAP). Reporting Template (CRT) within our supply chain to enhance our understanding of the chain of • Reporting the program status to Lenovo’s cobalt custody and to identify smelters. As part Chief Sustainability Officer. of this effort we introduced Lenovo’s new Cobalt mineral policy. • Publicly reporting both a formal Conflict Minerals Report (CMR) and a list of the Lenovo believes in responsible sourcing and not smelters in our supply chain. participating in boycotts in the DRC or other areas as the RMI and other entities drive new efforts. FY 2017/18 Program Status Some companies have engaged in boycotts, but • Overall conflict-free status improved from boycotts do not improve the situation on the 80 percent to 82 percent of suppliers by ground. spending. In FY 2017/18, we continued our due diligence • Tantalum achieved 100 percent conflict-free program to understand conflict minerals in our status. supply chain. This program included compliance with the requirements of the U.S. Securities and • Tin and tungsten each achieved slightly under Exchange Commission’s Dodd-Frank ruling and the 90 percent conflict-free status. OECD guidance. • Gold achieved about 72 percent conflict–free Program Components status. • Having a comprehensive public conflict minerals policy. • Overall, about 85 percent of Lenovo’s supply chain is conflict-free compliant or formally • Engaging suppliers through formal contracts active to become conflict-free. and directly validating their due diligence efforts via independent third-party RBA • New suppliers and compliant smelters who audits where conflict minerals are part of the become non-compliant were key challenges code. during the year. 48 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS While Lenovo is a non-U.S. company with many Key Program Statistics non-U.S. suppliers and is not legally required to • 31 percent reduction in supplier emissions file reports to the U.S. Securities and Exchange intensity since 2010 Commission or covered by the Dodd-Frank law, we achieved the following: • 88 percent have public GHG reduction goals • Supplier CMRT response rates were 100 • 83 percent have formal third-party percent. verification of their emissions reporting • The vast majority of our suppliers have • Suppliers must have greater than 3 percent public policies, require their suppliers to be annual GHG reduction goals to be rated conflict-free, use the CMRT reporting and use “green” in our supplier report cards and is the RBA Responsible Minerals Assessment the key improvement target. Program (RMAP) for audits. • 80 percent have public water and waste • About 67 percent of our procurement spend reduction goals was with RMI members. • 80 percent are ISO 14001 certified Full details and statistics on our reasonable country of origin inquiry, due diligences and • 80 percent formally report to CDP (by smelters can be found in our most recent Conflict spending) Minerals Update report. • 37 percent are ISO 50001 certified (by GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS, WATER spending) USAGE AND WASTE GENERATION Lenovo continues to drive for accurate reporting • Lenovo’s supplier GHG emissions data has and reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, water been verified by the independent verification usage and waste generation across our supply body Bureau Veritas to a limited level of chain. We ask our suppliers every year to formally assurance. report their environmental impact data via the RBA or the CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure With respect to water usage and waste generation Project) reporting methodologies and platforms. reporting, while this marks our third year of CDP is a global organization with a much more reporting, many suppliers are still improving their comprehensive framework and reporting regimen ability to fully measure usage and amounts. We for GHG emissions. Typically, suppliers representing know from the early reporting years of GHG 95 percent of our procurement spend report total emissions that capturing 100 percent of supplier Scope 1 and 2 emissions, water and waste. operational activity across multiple facilities and measuring it precisely is a challenge. However, we Our greatest challenge regarding reducing absolute are confident that we now have a much better supplier emissions and environmental impact is not baseline upon which to track overall environmental individual supplier performance, but the growth in impact of water usage and waste generation and our business and procurement spend which has drive reductions of the footprint. increased 180 percent since 2010. This is due to two factors — procurement increased spending Our key goals going forward are to further reduce with our current suppliers, and major acquisitions supplier emissions intensity 25 percent by 2025 and new suppliers where GHG focus has been less relative to 2015, and to better drive suppliers to than robust. achieve decreases in absolute emissions. 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 49 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS ENVIRONMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT In FY 2017/18, all required environmental audits As required by the Lenovo Corporate for Category 1 and 2 suppliers were conducted Environmental Standards policy governing supplier on time and as required, and no events of relationships, the procurement team identifies noncompliance were noted. For Category 3 areas of overall environmental risk based on suppliers, there were seven suppliers whose specific criteria and then conducts prescribed audits were postponed from the fourth quarter actions to ensure risk is mitigated. Specifically, of the fiscal year to the following fiscal year due suppliers are classified by a risk category that to staffing changes and delays onboarding new drives the needed actions below. auditors. No events of noncompliance were noted. • Category 1 suppliers are those from whom Lenovo purchases off-the-shelf goods, or uses processes or services produced or offered commercially that are consistent with the supplier’s normal business activities. In other words, Lenovo does not increase environmental impact due to special requirements. Most Lenovo suppliers are in this category. • Category 2 suppliers are those contracted by Lenovo to handle materials or processes that are outside of their usual business RBA Training activities. In these cases, a comprehensive and focused environmental audit may be required. Category 2 suppliers typically are SUPPLIER PERFORMANCE EVALUATION few and receive environmental audits via AND BUSINESS REVIEWS RBA program audits. Lenovo’s goals regarding supplier evaluation • Category 3 suppliers are those who are to measure performance to specific criteria, handle hazardous waste, special waste and provide regular scorecard feedback and engage product end-of-life management services. suppliers in business reviews and conferences. In these cases, approval of the Corporate These activities serve as the foundation for mutual Environmental Compliance organization and discussions on improving business relationships, environmental on-site audits are required. standards compliance and future business volume These suppliers are subject to additional increases or decreases. contractual terms and conditions and semiannual activity reporting. 50 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS • Supplier performance is assessed against over TRAINING AND CAPABILITY BUILDING 25 metrics across the following categories: We conduct several education and communication quality, delivery, technology, cost and service. activities throughout the year with all global We report our program status to senior supply chain personnel and suppliers as noted management regularly and generally conduct below. Education packages and subject matter 175 report cards quarterly. These report experts are available on-demand. cards cover over 95 percent of our suppliers by spending. The key goals are to increase Internal Training and Awareness our business with suppliers who perform • Monthly newsletters the best and improve areas of weakness with underperforming suppliers. In the event • Semi-annual sustainability training a supplier does not adequately meet our expectations, business activity is discontinued. • Semi-annual training on supplier report card penalties and credits • Then, supplier performance in our sustainability programs is applied as an • Annual environmental impact training overall penalty/credit multiplier in the calculations. For our top 100 suppliers, we • Annual conflict minerals training measure up to 24 key indicators across RBA, environmental impact, conflict minerals and • Annual employee communications on ethical, sustainability reporting factors. anti-bribery, anti-corruption expectations • We also engage suppliers at several events External Capability Training and meetings. First is a significant annual supplier conference where top executives As noted above, a substantial portion of our from suppliers and Lenovo meet to build suppliers are large national and international relationships and discuss overall performance suppliers with existing and substantial corporate and key initiatives for the next year. social responsibility programs, so the need for Second is a semiannual Lenovo Supplier direct capability training is minimal. Our efforts Advisory Council meeting where Lenovo are aligned with capability attainment via brings together executives from the top 20 communication of objectives and tracking the suppliers. Lenovo executive participation attainment. Furthermore, the RBA has a readily in both events includes our CEO, business available and comprehensive Learning Academy unit executives and senior vice presidents with modules on all programs, guidance and tools. from supply chain, research and technology, We do however provide: and development organizations. Finally, top strategic and key suppliers participate in • Ad-hoc education as necessary quarterly in-person meetings. • Semi-annual communications on the RBA, Lenovo recognizes that stable supplier environmental impact, conflict minerals, and relationships support stable communities in which Supplier Code of Conduct expectations our supply chain operates and provides the foundation for compliance to social, ethical and environmental requirements. We work tirelessly to develop and maintain these relationships. 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 51 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS SUPPLIER DIVERSITY Lenovo recognizes the importance of supplier Lenovo is dedicated to diversity and inclusion diversity and is committed to ensuring that it and believes in providing equal opportunity for is an integral part of our strategic sourcing and all suppliers while developing and advocating a procurement processes. We believe the success diversified supplier base. We seek to provide each of the organization and society depends on diverse supplier with practical opportunities to enabling Diverse Business Enterprises to share in provide goods and services while also creating the nation’s economic growth. Our commitment a sustainable, mutually beneficial relationship. To is to maximize Diverse Business Enterprises’ that end, Lenovo is committed to maximizing participation through the development of mutually the inclusion of Minority-, Women-, Veteran-, beneficial business relationships with these firms. Service Disabled Veteran-, Disabledand Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender (LGBT)In FY 2018/19, Lenovo’s Supplier Diversity team owned businesses as well as businesses located will launch a Tier 2 program which will expand in Historically Underutilized Business Zones our supplier diversity efforts to our large Tier 1/ (HUBZones) and Small Businesses within our prime suppliers. Through the creation of the Tier procurement activities. 2 program, we will be requesting our large, prime suppliers to report their diversity spend to us. In To facilitate supplier identification and program doing so, the Tier 2 program provide additional development, Lenovo partners with a variety of opportunities to diverse suppliers, strengthen our national and regional organizations such as the supply chain and capture millions of dollars of National Minority Supplier Development Council diverse purchases each year. (NMSDC) and the Women’s Business Enterprise National Council (WBENC). Lenovo is also active in For more information, please visit our Supplier local and regional events aimed at promoting and Diversity webpage. creating opportunities for and celebrating diverse suppliers. Lenovo currently conducts more than $120 million USD in business annually with small and/or certified diverse suppliers. This represents all Lenovo operations in the U.S. (including ThinkSystem and Motorola). 52 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 53 PEOPLE 56 Lenovo Employees 63 Social Investments EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS PEOPLE LENOVO EMPLOYEES Lenovo redefines what it is to be a global We have built our diverse and inclusive culture company, beginning with our leadership team. The around people first, with fair labor practices, top 12 leaders include three women and represent pay for performance, wellness programs and six different countries, and we have 17 nationalities other benefits that support every employee. The represented in the top 100 executives. Our more combination of our unique culture and our support than 50,000 employees and contractors speak systems helps us continue delivering breakthrough more than 40 languages and live in more than innovations and designs to our growing customer 60 countries around the world. That diversity of base. background, language and perspective adds up to a competitive advantage. LABOR PRACTICES AND HUMAN RIGHTS Lenovo’s Human Rights policy communicates our Diversity allows us to seize emerging global trends respect for human rights in all that we do and early and focus on the right things to win in local how we extend those rights to our employees and markets. Our We Are Lenovo culture unites us in business partners. Lenovo operates in accordance a shared sense of commitment, ownership and with the universal human rights identified in the pioneer initiative. Our cohesive global culture and U.N. Declaration on Human Rights and the U.N. shared values help drive the speed, efficiency, Global Compact. Lenovo does not permit the use innovation and execution that separate us from of child labor, forced labor or coercion, including the competition. physical punishment, in any Lenovo operation. OUR CULTURE AND PEOPLE Since 2009, Lenovo has been a signatory and Our culture plays a critical part as we execute active participant in the U.N. Global Compact, our vision of ‘Device + Cloud,’ with teamwork and a public-private strategic policy initiative for entrepreneurship helping us keep the customer businesses committed to aligning operations and at the center of everything we do. We are so strategies with 10 universally accepted principles committed to serving customers that every of human rights, labor, the environment and employee’s performance assessment includes a anticorruption. As a signatory, we support and customer experience component. respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, including the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining, and ensure that our business practices are not complicit in human rights abuses. 56 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS Lenovo manages all operations consistent with the emotional and intellectual abilities to thrive, spirit and intent of the U.N. Universal Declaration equipping them to best meet the needs of our of Human Rights and the International Labor customers. Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. We perform due Lenovo’s Code of Conduct states we believe in diligence across the value chain to identify risks treating each other with respect and dignity — and avoid complicity in human rights violations. that is the core of our commitment. We judge all We provide access to grievance mechanisms, applicants and employees by their qualifications, investigate allegations and escalate known cases demonstrated skills and achievements without of human rights abuse to senior leadership. We regard to race, color, religion, gender, gender also incorporate training and accountability for identity or expression, national origin, ethnicity, respecting human rights across the business sexual orientation, sex, age, disability, veteran and the supply chain. Lenovo’s continuous status, marital status or any other characteristic improvement process engages internal and protected by local law. When necessary, Lenovo external stakeholders to address common provides reasonable accommodations for challenges and advance human rights practices. employees with disabilities or those with special For more information on how Lenovo protects religious requirements. human rights in its supply chain, please see the section Human Rights in Lenovo’s Supply Chain. Each year the Office of Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) reports progress on its D&I Roadmap. The Office DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION of D&I implements a variety of programs and Lenovo believes that when our employees bring initiatives intended to support building a more their whole self to the workplace, it allows their diverse and inclusive Lenovo. *Ethnicity/ * Sexual Parental Program *Women Race Immigrants Orientation *Disability Veteran Status Targeted Recruiting efforts √ √ √ √ √ √ Executive Goals √ √ √ Executive Development Programs √ √ √ √ √ √ Employee Resource Groups √ √ √ √ √ √ Sponsorship Program √ √ √ Training & Development √ √ √ √ √ √ √ * indicates global programs on leading diverse teams, managing diversity and inclusion, emotional intelligence and managing In addition to these initiatives, Lenovo leverages different generations. Beginning in late FY 2017/18 several different global learning mechanisms to Lenovo began testing a program that includes an advance inclusive leadership behaviors. Our onexperiential learning case study on unconscious line platform provides various tools and courses in bias and its impact on the employee lifecycle. eight different languages. Solutions include topics 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 57 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS The Office of D&I drives accountability by meeting critical to attract, motivate and retain our most annually with Lenovo’s top 18 executives and valuable strategic resource: our people. providing a status of diversity and inclusion in their respective organizations. The conversation includes Lenovo’s culture guides us to pay for performance. gap identification, recommended solutions and We believe that exceptional performance quarterly monitoring results. These conversations, will support and drive exceptional business along with support for D&I initiatives, have led to performance which results in exceptional pay significant movement in executive representation. for individuals. All “Key Performance Indicators” Based on promotions announced at the fiscal year throughout the organization are linked to the end, our global female executive representation business strategy. increased by 1.8 percent from the previous fiscal year and U.S. Black and Hispanic executive We carefully monitor and evaluate market trends representation increased by 2.1 percent. and industry practices in each of our geographic locations to ensure that we remain competitive and we react quickly when we see trends changing. In addition to maintaining competitive wages, our global 3X3 performance management program comprises three defined business stages and three core business synergy levels. This gives us a more flexible incentive framework that supports our business at different stages of the life cycle. Women’s Leadership Development Program Event in China It accounts for competitive pressures, empowers business units to adapt their plans to meet Lenovo’s efforts are being recognized. In FY business objectives and is closely aligned with 2017/18 we were included in the 100 Best We are Lenovo, the touchstone of our company Companies for Working Mothers list and received culture that focuses us on delivering on our a second perfect score from the Human Rights commitments and taking ownership in everything Campaign Foundation’s Corporate Equality Index, we do. which measures inclusive policies, practices, and procedures for LGBTQ employees. Lenovo’s The 3x3 performance management program Diversitas ERG based in Bratislava, Slovakia won allows all Lenovo employees worldwide to set Europe’s 2017 Employee Network of the Year. their goals for the year, receive feedback on their performance and development needs, be evaluated COMPENSATION, PERFORMANCE AND on their performance and, if eligible, receive a RECOGNITION performance bonus. Sales employees are assessed Our employees are our most valuable strategic annually and non-sales employees are assessed resource, and we focus on recognizing their talents semiannually. In addition to the annual assessment, and contributions frequently and rewarding them sales employees receive quarterly reviews. While fairly. Engaging our workforce in an inclusive formal assessments occur once or twice a year for environment allows employees to contribute all employees, managers are expected to provide fully to the business. We measure employment ongoing feedback to their employees throughout success across five key elements: compensation the year. and benefits; work-life balance; performance and recognition; development and career opportunities; We track completion of employee performance and retention. Collectively, these five elements are reviews at the end of the performance review cycle to make sure every employee receives feedback. 58 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS We recognize the value of reward and recognition, • Short-term incentive plans (including sales and encourage every business unit leader to compensation)—rewards employees on develop supplemental programs based on overall corporate, business group or team broad global guidelines and recognize team and performance, while recognizing individual individual contributions. We design competitive performance as well compensation programs to attract, motivate and retain talent. Our programs include a mix of: • Long-term incentive plans—targets executives, critical non-executives, top performers and • Base pay—reflects the value of the job in the high-potential employees marketplace, performance and the value of an individual’s contribution to the Company Recognizing Amazing Work At Lenovo, “we do what we say, we own what we do and we wow our customers” because of our talented employees. We work hard to celebrate employee contributions, whether they are big or small. We recently realized the need to establish a consistently powerful message to our employees across the globe that connects the various reward and recognition programs run by our different business units. Our solution is Lenovo Rewards — a platform that celebrates, affirms, and inspires amazing work. Employees across teams, regions and functions can easily send recognition to peers anywhere in the world and receive recognition in return. This enables our employees to recognize behaviors that are integral to building our We are Lenovo culture and provides a single location for everyone to celebrate service milestones and other life events. The Lenovo Rewards platform enables our businesses to run their programs and share best practices, helping all of Lenovo build a culture of recognition. Retention • Ensures pay (base and incentive) is Lenovo employs a number of strategies to retain differentiated so top performers are paid on employees. For example, Lenovo: par with peers in the marketplace • Conducts a global employee engagement • Takes specific “critical save” actions to retain survey (Lenovo Listens) to help identify certain key, critical employees when they find retention opportunities opportunities outside Lenovo • Leverages compensation programs such as long-term incentive stock-based awards and recognition 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 59 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Lenovo currently offers a variety of wellness To ensure we can attract and retain high-quality programs around the world, including fitness talent in the competitive technology marketplace, facility discounts, employee assistance programs, we offer a variety of benefits for employees and health coaching, stress and lifestyle management their families. Benefits packages follow these programs, medical consulting and screening strategic guidelines: services and access to health educational material. Globally, we assist employees with wellness • Position Lenovo competitively within the local matters and disease prevention. To ensure marketplace our business operations can continue during a pandemic, we have plans and procedures to limit • Align with and support Lenovo business and the potential impact of health-related concerns. As cultural strategy dictated by these procedures, we share health and safety information/requirements with employees • Emphasize Lenovo’s commitment to wellness and nonemployees as needed. To achieve these goals, Lenovo must be flexible Income Protection and consider varying customs, practices, legal In the event an employee cannot work due requirements and employee expectations around to illness or injury, Lenovo provides income the world to design impactful benefits programs. protection in many countries. These benefits may take the form of salary continuation for a period Health and Wellness Benefits of time and generally supplement governmentIn many countries, we offer private health provided benefits. For longer periods of illness benefits such as medical, dental and vision care or injury, Lenovo commonly provides additional to supplement government-provided healthcare. disability benefits. These arrangements often permit employees to provide coverage for dependents, including Retirement or Post-Employment Savings spouses, domestic partners, children or other To supplement the income of employees family members. Employees may share in the cost and survivors after retirement or separation of these benefits, especially when coverage for from Lenovo, we offer a variety of savings dependents is available. However, Lenovo covers programs. These programs may be mandatory or most of these costs as a wellness investment in voluntary depending on legal and marketplace the well-being of employees. Lenovo believes a considerations. Often there is an employee and successful wellness program can result in longemployer contribution component, with the term benefits beyond the financial measure of latter signifying Lenovo’s willingness to make a reduced medical costs, including more productive current investment to provide future security for and engaged employees. employees and their families. Lenovo continually reviews and improves its benefits to ensure that they are competitive and meet the needs of our employees. Lenovo Wellness Wednesday 60 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT Grow@Lenovo is the learning management Lenovo is committed to investing in talent system for the organization. It currently hosts development and has a robust and systematic almost 3,000 different online and instructor-led approach to employee, manager and executive training courses. The content is a combination development. Lenovo’s development agenda is of internally developed training and off-the-shelf targeted at building the capabilities of our people eLearning that varies in topics from business and our organization through three primary ways: skills, professional skills, leadership videos and IT desktop courses. The primary focus of internally 1) Experiences on the job — learning while developed Lenovo content is sales, product doing. This is how 70 percent of all learning or process training. Training content has been occurs. curated to help employees find what they need faster. For example, individual contributors can 2) Colleague relationships at Lenovo — mentors, find professional development content sorted by guides, coaches, managers. Employees learn topic or career stage. Managers can find eLearning through their successes, failures, guidance content to support their progressive instructor-led and advice. This is how 20 percent of leadership development track. The self-service and learning occurs. automation of the system has enabled Lenovo to deploy training to 30,000 system users with a 3) Education — formal training in the classroom small oversight team. or online that teaches key principles and skills. This is how 10 percent of learning Succession Planning occurs. Through Lenovo’s annual Organization for Human Resources Planning process, we ensure ensures Our systematic approach combines all three that we have the right structure in place to deliver methods to maximize learning. It includes formal on our strategy; identify the talent needed now employee and leadership education programs, and in the future; invest in attracting, retaining and targeted people planning and international developing top talent; and continue raising the bar rotations, Women in Lenovo Leadership Forums, on internal and external talent. mentoring circles, executive coaching, structured feedback and a variety of additional assessment and development tools. Lenovo’s training includes regular mandatory online training courses for all global employees on Code of Conduct, Information Security, and Privacy Basics. All Lenovo employees receive ongoing training in areas such as culture, compliance and performance management. All employees have career discussions at least annually. Employees received on average 4.5 hours of training in FY 2017/18. Lenovo’s Ready to Manage Program 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 61 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS EMPLOYEE COMMUNICATIONS Lenovo analyzes the data from the survey Lenovo actively fosters open communication and encourages meaningful action planning to among employees, as well as communication address any areas of concern. Post-survey focus between employees and the company. groups are also conducted to better understand employee input and drive action planning at the Meetings management and corporate level for continuous improvement. To ensure our employees are effective and informed “brand ambassadors,” Lenovo holds Starting in July 2018, Lenovo Listens will be regular employee (All Hands) meetings in each conducted annually to enable an agile, continual of its business units and functions, typically on listen-respond mechanism. a quarterly basis. Employees attend in person when possible, with remote participation enabled OPERATIONAL CHANGES through a combination of web stream and conference calls. These meetings feature ample Lenovo provides advance notice of significant opportunities for employees to ask questions, operational changes in accordance with local interact with each other and their senior leaders requirements and collective bargaining agreements and hear the latest on Lenovo’s strategy and in the locations in which we operate. We meet mission. Guest speakers help employees deepen regularly with employees and provide information their knowledge about other areas of the on business changes. In cases where operational company. Meetings may be recorded for later changes are required, we take steps to mitigate playback to ensure employees can review anything negative impacts. they may have missed. Lenovo’s goal is to ensure that our employees are fully informed on the Lenovo has regular employees, supplemental strategic direction of the company and that they employees and contract workers. From time to have firsthand access to our senior leaders. time, the company decides to move work from one country or region to another in support of “Lenovo Listens” Employee Engagement the business strategy and objectives. We take Survey great care when these decisions are made to notify affected employees and non-employees as Lenovo seeks the insights of its employees required by local and/or country laws and provide worldwide through its Lenovo Listens employee severance and career and training assistance engagement survey. This survey is designed to where possible and as required by local/country gain insight on how Lenovo employees view their laws. jobs, their management, their teams, their rewards and the company as a whole. Lenovo Listens is an important measure of employees’ pride, motivation and commitment to staying at Lenovo. Research shows that measures of employee engagement can be used to predict the amount of effort that employees are willing to invest in their jobs as well as employee retention. In addition, employee engagement can be tied to important measures of organizational performance, including financial results, customer satisfaction and operational efficiency. 62 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS SOCIAL INVESTMENTS COMMITMENT GLOBAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE Lenovo’s philanthropic and social investments The fall of 2017 was met with an unprecedented are focused on STEM (science, technology, series of disasters in North America. Hurricanes engineering, math) education and empowering Harvey, Irma and Maria ravaged the U.S. diverse and under-resourced populations, themes and Caribbean, followed by two devastating that are integral to the success of our business. earthquakes in Mexico. Like so many of our In FY 2017/18, the Motorola Mobility Foundation corporate peers, Lenovo was compelled to was transitioned to Lenovo Foundation to better respond. Through a $2 million USD commitment represent the charitable non-profit arm’s global ($1 million each to hurricanes and earthquakes), reach and employee engagement. Lenovo provided immediate funding and recoveryphase product donations. We are deeply grateful The Lenovo philanthropy team is focused for our partners at the American Red Cross, on collaborating across business units and Americares, Boys & Girls Clubs of Puerto Rico, geographies to maximize the impact of Lenovo’s Cruz Roja Mexico, Save the Children, Techo Para giving, exemplified through our first Global Week Amis and Yecolti for helping Lenovo fulfill our of Service in 2017. Teams amplified each other’s obligation as a corporate citizen during natural partnerships in different geographies, combined disasters. employee volunteer talent across business units and scaled our focus on STEM education and empowering diverse populations to offices around the world. By focusing on the social investment objectives below, Lenovo meets the diverse needs of the communities where Lenovo employees and consumers live and work. LENOVO’S SOCIAL INVESTMENT OBJECTIVES • Partner with charitable organizations, educational institutions and civic organizations to amplify the impact of Lenovo’s disaster relief support in Puerto Rico included donated Lenovo’s social investments around STEM laptops education and empowering diverse and under-resourced populations. • Connect employee expertise and talent with students and community members who will benefit from exposure to tech talent. • Provide resources to increase digital inclusion while enhancing STEM education for diverse and under-resourced populations. 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 63 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS SOCIAL INVESTMENT PROGRAMS AND In 2017, Lenovo’s Mobile Business Group leaders VOLUNTEERING provided 50,000 devices (fair market value North America of $7 million USD) to under-resourced high school students across the U.S. as part of their Lenovo aims to increase access to technology business partnership with Sprint, a U.S.-based for diverse populations through partnerships with telecommunications company. Devices empowered organizations such as the Boys & Girls Clubs of the Sprint 1Million project, an initiative to increase America, the Smithsonian Center for Learning students’ academic performance by providing and Digital Access and NAF (National Academy home internet access through the Sprint network Foundation), the nonprofit that leads the Lenovo and device hotspots. Scholar Network. Now in its fourth year, the Lenovo Scholar Network offers more than 5,000 Asia Pacific students at 118 public high schools across the U.S. the opportunity to learn to develop mobile Lenovo invested over $300,000 USD in the Asia applications. Lenovo and NAF created the annual Pacific region through ongoing partnerships, Mobile App Development Competition in 2014 compliance with the Companies Act in India to engage underserved high school students in and Global Week of Service efforts. Notable STEM, while also providing entrepreneurial and partnerships included an initiative to provide family technology skills needed to pursue careers in coding classes in Japan, as well as numerous computer science, programming and engineering. digital inclusion and education partnerships in In the 2017–18 school year, more than 80 percent India. Lenovo’s philanthropy supports programs to of schools that joined the competition are offering educate India’s poorest communities and provide mobile app development to students for the very better income generation through skills training. first time. Projects such as the X Billion Skill Lab, the Medha Project and the Vimukti Project in India have provided access to hardware technology and job skill training to over 1,000 individuals. In addition to its philanthropic initiatives, Lenovo empowers employees to give back to their communities through volunteerism. The company grants employees in North America 32 hours of Lenovo’s Asia Pacific offices participated in the annual paid time off for volunteerism, and offers first Global Week of Service, engaging employees a 50 percent match for their charitable donations. in projects to create audio libraries to promote Since 2005, North America employees have child literacy (India), provide assistance and volunteered over 100,000 hours and Lenovo and supplies for the homeless (Australia), support its employees have contributed almost $20 million people with vision loss (Singapore) and create USD to charitable causes. greater access to cutting edge technology and education (Japan). 64 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) Latin America Lenovo’s annual support for the Women’s Forum, In FY 2017/18, Lenovo invested over $1 million USD United Way Europe and Global Week of Service in the Latin America region for disaster response strengthened social investments in EMEA in efforts, ongoing partnerships, and Global Week of FY 2017/18. Since 2006, Lenovo has been the Service projects. After the devastating September technology sponsor for the Women’s Forum for 2017 earthquakes in the state of Chiapas and the Economy and Society, an annual event to Mexico City, Lenovo assisted with recovery efforts elevate the voices and perspectives of women. by providing donations of hardware to Cruz Roja Lenovo’s support for United Way Europe provided Mexico, Save the Children, Yecolti, and Techo formal partnerships in France, Israel, Poland, para mi pais. Lenovo maintained community Romania, Spain and the United Kingdom, including partnerships in the region, providing access to facilitation of Global Week of Service projects in education to individuals across Argentina, Brazil, the region. Chile, Colombia, and Peru. Most notably, Lenovo provided hardware for Laboratoria, an organization that trains women as information technologists. Global Week of Service projects in Scotland, Global Week of Service projects in Latin America England and South Africa enriched education helped provide housing for the homeless through through much needed facility improvements at a partnership with Techo para mi pais in Colombia, schools. Lenovo employees in Slovakia, France Argentina, Peru and Chile. Projects in Brazil and and Spain provided direct access to technology Mexico focused on providing access to education and career education through service projects for under-resourced populations and those with benefitting senior citizens and youth in their disabilities. communities, while additional projects in Slovakia, United Arab Emirates and Germany provided education and enrichment activities for those with mental and physical disabilities. 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 65 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS China Lenovo’s “Sunshine Running” campaign launch ceremony was held in September 2017 in the Olympic Forest Park of Beijing, marking the beginning of a three-year program to support of visually impaired runners. Co-sponsored by Lenovo Image (a printer and printing service subsidiary) and the He Yajun runner’s club for the visually impaired, “Sunshine Running” brings volunteers to the side of visually impaired runners to encourage them to walk outdoors for their physical and mental health. A disturbing child abuse incident occurred in In addition to Global Week of Service activities, a kindergarten in Shenzhen in the fall of 2017. employees from Lenovo China gave back to their In response to the incident, Lenovo launched a communities through ongoing volunteerism. In charity donation campaign entitled “Let Me Take September and December 2017, Lenovo volunteers Care of Your Kids,” pledging to provide Lenovo’s traveled to Ulanqab City twice to teach in local intelligent video-camera product, Snowman, free primary schools and middle schools. Under the of charge to kindergartens and nurseries across Firefly Classroom Teaching Program, they taught the country. Over 540 institutions were impacted local children computer skills, helped them identify by the donation, covering over 230 cities in 28 different kinds of animals and plants, practice provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities street dance and acquire basketball and football and reaching as far as Shawan County in Xinjiang. skills. The aim of these activities is to help children In addition to free equipment, Lenovo provided a discover and explore their interests and hobbies range of supporting services, including installation, and develop their potential. adjustment and maintenance. Lenovo Foundation Global Week of Service projects were held The Lenovo Foundation is committed to uniting simultaneously in four Chinese cities: Beijing, Lenovo’s global workforce around the focus areas Shanghai, Chengdu and Shenzhen. With a focus on of access to STEM education and empowering migrant children and disadvantaged groups, the diverse and under-resourced populations. By projects were designed to enhance child learning uniting teams around the world through these and raise environmental awareness. common themes, Lenovo Foundation provides tangible evidence of Lenovo’s commitment to the “different is better” culture. Lenovo Foundation is based in Chicago, Illinois, USA and is governed by a board of directors comprised of global Lenovo executives. For more information about the Lenovo Foundation, visit www.lenovofoundation.com. 66 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 67 PLANET 70 Lenovo’s Environmental Commitment 73 Environmental Impact of Lenovo Operations 87 Environmentally Conscious Products 96 Product End-of-Life Management (PELM) EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS PLANET LENOVO’S ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT LENOVO’S ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Click here to view Lenovo’s Global ISO 14001 SYSTEM registration certificates. Lenovo manages the environmental elements of its operations through a global environmental management system (EMS) that covers Lenovo’s worldwide product development and manufacturing operations for personal computer, workstation, server, storage, monitor, accessory and mobile device hardware. All Lenovo sites in the EMS scope are ISO In 2017 Lenovo India received the ELCINA-EFY 2nd Prize award 14001:2015 certified. for Excellence in Environmental Management Location ISO 14001 Registrar China, Taiwan R&D China Electronics sites Standardization Institute (CESI) Chicago, U.S.A product DEKRA development site Hefei, China Lenovo China Quality LCFC manufacturing Certification Center site (CQC) Other non-China Bureau Veritas (BV) manufacturing and product development sites 70 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS ISO 14001 Registered Manufacturing & Development Facilities The below sites might have multiple functions but are listed by the primary function. Development Manufacturing • No. 6 Shangdi West Road, Beijing, China • Restrada Municipal IDT 334 Estrada Dos • 696 Songtao Road, Shanghai, China Leites, Sapezal, Nº 200, Modulos 5 A 10, • 7A, 9A, 10A, 11A, Zhangjiang Building, No. 289 Indaiatuba, Brazil Chunxiao Road, Zhangjiang Technology Zone, • No. 6 Chuangye Road, Beijing, China Shanghai, China • No. 2 Building, No. 8 Chuangye Road, Beijing, • 16 Nanyi Road, Shenzhen, China China1 • No. 999 Qishan North 2nd Road, Xiamen, • No. 88 Tianjian Road, Chengdu, China China • No. 3188–1 Yungu Road, Hefei, Anhui • 3–6–1 Minatomirai, Nishi-ku, Yokohama, Japan Province, China • Am Zehnthof 77, Essen, Germany, 45307 • Lenovo Science & Technology Park, Huiyang, • 4F, 5F, 8F, No. 66, San Chong Road, Nan China Gang District, Taipei City, Taiwan • No. 68 Building, 199 Fenju Road, Shanghai, • 222 W Merchandise Mart Plaza, Chicago, IL, China U.S. • No. 2 Building, 955 Shangfeng Road, • 7001 Development Drive, Morrisville, N.C., U.S. Shanghai, China • No. 30 Tao Hua Road, Shenzhen, China Manufacturing and Fulfillment Center • No. 19 Gaoxin 4th Road, Wuhan, Hubei, China • 6540 Franz Warner Parkway, Whitsett, N.C., • No. 316 Boulevard Escobedo, Apodaca, NL, U.S. Mexico • RS No. 19/1A & 2A Cuddalore Main Rd., Edayar Palayam Village, Pondicherry, India • 32 Nishiyajima-cho, Ohta-shi, Gunma, Japan • 6–80, Shimohanazawa 2-Chome, Yonezawa, Japan 1 Manufacturing — Administration 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 71 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS Lenovo remains a leading PC company and in support of managing and minimizing the continues its push into the server, mobile device environmental impact of our operations and and cloud service markets. With our customers’ products. We verify our compliance through interest as a significant driver, Lenovo is regular, periodic internal and third-party audits of maintaining its focus on our key commitments to our facilities and operations. ensure compliance, prevent pollution and reduce our environmental impact, develop products with Lenovo actively engages with a wide variety of industry-leading environmental attributes and stakeholders as part of its processes for managing continually improve our global environmental environmental risk, ensuring compliance and performance. meeting customer expectations. Examples include: Within the framework of our EMS, Lenovo annually Associations identifies and evaluates the aspects of our • DIGITALEUROPE operations that have actual or potential significant impacts on the environment. Metrics and controls • Responsible Business Alliance (RBA, formerly are established for these significant environmental Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition aspects. Performance relative to these metrics (EICC)) is tracked and reported on an ongoing basis. Performance improvement targets are established • Information Technology Industry Council (ITI) for select environmental aspects annually, taking into consideration performance relative to the • Consumer Technology Association (CTA) environmental metrics, the Environmental Policy, regulatory requirements, customer requirements, Green Programs (Eco-Labels) stakeholder input, environmental and financial • IEEE 1680.1 Standard for Environmental impact, and management directives. Assessment of Personal Computer Products During FY 2017/18 our significant global • ENERGY STAR ® environmental aspects included: • GreenGuard • Product materials — including use of recycled plastics and environmentally preferable • TCO Certified materials • Product packaging • TCO Certified Edge • Product energy use • Product end-of-life management • TÜV Rheinland Green Product Mark • Site air emissions • Site energy consumption • UL Environment’s Sustainable Products • Supplier environmental performance Certification • Product transportation • Waste management Programs, Workgroups and Initiatives • Water management • Call2Recycle See the FY 2017/18 Performance section to see Lenovo’s FY 2017/18 global environmental • CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) performance against its objectives and targets. • ECMA-370 — The Eco Declaration Standard ENGAGING WITH STAKEHOLDERS ON COMPLIANCE • EcoVadis Lenovo’s commitment to environmental • Electronic Product Stewardship Canada stewardship begins with a commitment to compliance. This includes compliance with • Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) both regulatory requirements and voluntary standards set forth by associations and standards organizations to which Lenovo subscribes • Green Freight Asia (GFA) 72 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS International Standards participated in numerous environmental initiatives • ISO 14001, Environmental Management in the country, including: Systems • China Energy Conservation Program (CECP) • ISO 50001, Energy Management Systems • China Environmental Labeling Product (CELP) • Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) • PC+ China Energy Label (CEL) • Product Attribute to Impact Algorithm (PAIA) • Energy Saving Work Association of the Project Chinese Institute of Electronics • R2 • China RoHS Standard Working Group • United Nations Global Compact • China WEEE Working Group • World Resources Institute (WRI) • China MIIT EPR (extended producer responsibility) Recycling Pilot Project • World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) • China ePCF Project Lenovo recognizes the importance of • China MIIT Eco-Design Pilot Enterprises environmental leadership in China and has Program ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF LENOVO OPERATIONS ENERGY AND CLIMATE CHANGE • Aligning with the global scientific Lenovo recognizes that human activities are community’s generally accepted contributing to climate change and concurs with recommendations for maintaining global the findings of the Fifth Assessment Report (AR5) warming below two degrees Celsius over the of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 21st century, relative to pre-industrial levels (IPCC) — “Climate Change 2014.” Lenovo also recognizes that if left unchecked, current trends We are working both internally and externally in climate change present serious economic and to minimize and mitigate climate risks. Lenovo societal risks and agrees that specific actions are is committed to continually reducing the global needed to stabilize atmospheric greenhouse gas carbon footprint of all of its business activities. levels and hold global average temperatures to Lenovo has demonstrated its commitment by: acceptable increases. Lenovo supports proposed actions, including: • Developing a corporate Climate and Energy Policy • Reducing global emissions from 40 to 70 percent between 2010 and 2050 • Implementing a long-term comprehensive Climate Change Strategy 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 73 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS • Setting aggressive corporatewide objectives Visit www.lenovo.com/climate for more information and targets which support the Policy and on Lenovo’s Climate and Energy Policy, strategy, Strategy objectives and targets. • Showing continual year-to-year progress in OPERATIONAL ENERGY EFFICIENCY achieving those objectives and targets Given that one of Lenovo’s most significant environmental aspects is emissions associated To drive climate actions external to Lenovo’s with energy consumption, Lenovo’s goal is to operations, we monitor, support and in some cases continually improve the energy efficiency of participate in the development of voluntary carbon its operations. Lenovo initiatives for energy reduction programs, climate change regulations, reduction include activities such as installation renewable energy portfolio standards and product of low-energy lighting and related electrical carbon footprint and labeling requirements both equipment, energy-efficiency improvements to globally and regionally. HVAC systems, eliminating or improving usage of transformers and air compressors, manufacturing Reducing energy consumption and associated area optimization, manufacturing-line optimization, carbon emissions is the primary focus of improving computer server room energy efficiency, our climate change programs and strategy. consolidation of operations and employee Management of energy and carbon emissions education. reduction activities and programs is carried out within the scope of Lenovo’s global EMS. Lenovo For more information on our performance relative is achieving its energy and carbon management to energy efficiency, please see the Energy goals through improvements in operational and Reductions in Operations section. logistical energy efficiency, reductions in energy consumption, switching to renewable energy RENEWABLE ENERGY sources where practicable, supporting an increase Photovoltaic Solar Panels in renewable energy available via the grid and purchasing renewable energy credits and carbon Lenovo is committed to installing local renewable offsets. energy generation sources where feasible. In support of this commitment, we continue to Over the past several years, Lenovo has expand our use of on-site solar energy. experienced organic growth in conjunction with operational consolidation. In addition, significant Lenovo’s renewable energy installations include structural changes and external market factors solar hot water generation facilities in Beijing and have presented unique challenges for staying Huiyang and solar electric generation plants in on course to achieve our climate change goals. Shanghai and Hefei. The current solar capacity of We overcame these challenges by engaging all these projects is over five MW with emission internal teams and external partners to identify reduction potential of over 5,000 metric tons of opportunities to reduce energy consumption and carbon emissions annually. carbon emissions. The identified opportunities were then subjected to a project approval hierarchy that favors energy efficiency first, use of renewable energy second, and finally the purchase of renewable energy credits or carbon offsets. This process continues the identification and implementation of projects that support Lenovo’s goal of maintaining a sustainable balance among social, economic and environmental impacts. Solar panels in Hefei, China 74 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS Our next project is a solar electricity installation at CLIMATE CHANGE RISK/OPPORTUNITIES the Development Drive R&D center in Morrisville, MANAGEMENT N.C., U.S., a solar electricity installation in Hefei, Climate change risks and opportunities are China (Phase 2) and a proposed project for identified and evaluated as part of two processes Lenovo’s site in Wuhan, China. These three within Lenovo’s business management systems: projects, all in various phases of development, our global annual risk registration process and our represent almost 15 MW of potential solar electric annual environmental significant aspect evaluation. generation capacity. These two processes are connected, meaning that if climate change risks are identified in the Lenovo has a target of achieving 30 MW of global risk registration, they are considered in the owned or leased renewable energy generation environmental aspects analysis — and vice versa. capacity globally by 2020. 1. Among other sustainability factors, Lenovo’s In 2017, Lenovo was again recognized by the formal risk management process includes: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) as environmental risk categories such as a Top 30 Tech & Telecom Green Power Partner environmental incidents, catastrophic weather for its purchase of renewable energy. Please click conditions, supply chain disruptions and other here for more information: https://www.epa.gov/ elements. Each business unit is required to greenpower/green-power-partnership-top-30-techidentify risks and assess their impacts on telecom. Lenovo’s strategy execution, then develop mitigation plans for select identified risks. RENEWABLE ENERGY CREDITS AND This process is managed by Lenovo’s CARBON OFFSETS Enterprise Risk Management team. Where actual direct energy reductions or use of renewable energy sources are not technically or 2. We also evaluate climate change risks; the economically feasible, Lenovo chooses to purchase results of this evaluation are considered in Renewable Energy Credits (REC), International the annual risk registration process described Renewable Energy Credits (I-REC), Guarantees of above. Energy consumption, the associated Origin (GO) and carbon offsets. greenhouse gas emissions and climate change are identified as significant environmental In FY 2017/18, Lenovo partnered with ClimeCo aspects and impacts for Lenovo. As such, and purchased 10,000 MT CO2e of carbon offsets, associated risks and opportunities are 35,000 MWh of Green-e Energy certified RECs, evaluated and prioritized annually based on 45,000 MWh of I-RECs and 6,500 MWh of GOs, Lenovo’s significant aspect methodology in which supported 100 percent renewable energy accordance with the requirements of our projects in China (wind), Europe (wind) and the environmental management system. Per these U.S. (wind). These renewable commodities were in requirements, climate change is evaluated addition to local purchases by Lenovo’s sites. relative to its actual and potential influence on the environment and the business. This To view the certificate for RECs, I-RECs, GOs and process is managed by Lenovo’s Global carbon offsets retired by Lenovo in 2018, visit Environmental Affairs team. www.lenovo.com/climate and follow the links from there. 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 75 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS CH4 PFCs CO2 N 2O Lenovo GHG HFCs SF6 Emissions NF3 Scope 1 + Scope 2 Emissions from on-site fuel Scope 3 Upstream combustion, fuel in owned/ • Purchased goods and services controlled vehicles, use of Scope 3 Downstream • Capital goods purchased electricity & steam & • Transportation and distribution • Fuel and energy related activities cooling and fugitive emissions. • Processing of sold products not included in Scope 1 and 2 • Use of sold products • Transportation and distribution • End-of-life treatment of sold • Waste generated in operations FY 2009/10 Reduction by 40% FY 2019/20 products • Business travel • Leased assets • Employee commuting • Franchises • Leased assets Via energy efficiency, renewable • Investments energy, renewable energy commodities and carbon offsets Notes: Scope 3 categories in orange are tracked and evaluated and in some cases actions are being taken to drive emissions reductions Scope 3 categories in black are not relevant to Lenovo As a demonstration of Lenovo’s long-term MINIMIZING THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT approach to risk management in this area, in May OF LENOVO’S LOGISTICS 2014, Lenovo’s Board of Directors (BOD) and Lenovo strives to optimize our logistics programs Executive Committee (LEC) acted to increase and ship products in the most environmentally Lenovo’s GHG emissions reduction commitment responsible manner possible. Our accomplishments from 20 percent to 40 percent by FY 2019/20, in FY 2017/18 include: relative to FY 2009/10 (see graphic above). We will meet this commitment through investment in • Collecting and submitting calculated CO2 on-site renewable generation, energy efficiency emission numbers for transportation volumes and renewable energy credits or offsets. and data. The scope included all international air, ocean and rail transportation globally, as We are preparing to identify and develop our well as domestic transportation in China. third-generation targets after 2020. We are reviewing and evaluating Science Based Targets • Engaging with key carriers to ensure they Initiative’s methodology to determine the best have effective sustainability programs in approach for Lenovo that will align with the place. science based reduction pathways for limiting global temperature rise. • Promoting environmentally friendly modes of transportation as a key decision driver across Lenovo’s commitment to addressing climate global logistics. change extends to supporting global initiatives such as We Mean Business, a coalition of i. The Global Logistics team proactively businesses and investors supporting a transition to favored rail transportation for shipments a low carbon economy. from China to Europe, and shipped over 400 containers per quarter in FY 2017/18 to Europe by rail, which is about a 91 percent increase compared to the previous year. 76 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS ii. For domestic shipping in China, the During FY 2017/18, Lenovo approved team shifted more volumes from approximately 10 new energy-efficiency projects. truck and air to rail, resulting in a 32 Some of the projects implemented during the year percent increase year on year. In total, include: approximately 88,000 cubic meters were shipped by rail, which is eight • Solar photovoltaic power generation percent of the total China transportation installation in Hefei, China (Phase 2) volume. • Optimization of server system in Shanghai, With the goal of reducing carbon emissions, the China Global Logistics team continues to explore ocean transport consolidation opportunities to reduce • Installation of energy efficient light systems in the number of containers shipped out of China Shanghai, Huiyang, Shenzhen and Hefei, China manufacturing sites. and Bangalore Ferns, India Lenovo also participates in regional initiatives • Improvements in HVAC efficiency in Huiyang that seek to disseminate best practices in and Beijing, China transportation. In Asia Pacific, Lenovo is a founding member of Green Freight Asia (GFA). In FY 2017/18, we also expanded our Energy GFA’s goal is to promote and improve fuelManagement System (EnMS) to our headquarters efficient freight transport and decrease air in Beijing, China and gained ISO 50001 pollution in Asia for both shippers and carriers. certification. Lenovo is also an approved U.S. EPA SmartWay partner. FY 2017/18 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ENERGY REDUCTIONS IN OPERATIONS Improving operational energy efficiency is a fundamental element of Lenovo’s strategy to meet its GHG reduction targets. Since establishing climate change objectives and targets, Lenovo has implemented more than 160 operational energy-efficiency projects worldwide. All sites strive to identify and implement energy-efficiency projects and evaluate the opportunity to employ the use of renewable energy. Throughout the organization, these activities are driven by site energy champions who lead energy teams that help implement energy reduction projects. 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 77 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS ENERGY CONSUMPTION Lenovo’s direct and indirect energy consumption by primary energy source for FY 2017/18 is detailed below. Energy Consumption by Primary Energy Source Energy Type GJ Fuel 125,041 Electricity 955,624 Steam 108,649 Cooling 8,599 TOTAL 1,197,913 Direct Energy Consumption by Source (Fuel Detail) Fuel GJ Gas/diesel oil (stationary combustion) 5,461 Natural gas (stationary combustion) 113,470 Liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) (stationary combustion) 3,087 On road diesel fuel (mobile combustion) 948 Gasoline/petrol (mobile combustion) 1,835 Liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) (mobile combustion) 240 TOTAL 125,041 GHG EMISSIONS PERFORMANCE Lenovo reports GHG emissions and tracks performance relative to our fiscal year, which runs from April 1 through March 31. Lenovo’s GHG objectives and targets are set and tracked relative to a base year of FY 2009/10. 78 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS A. Lenovo’s Global Scope 1, 2, 3 GHG Emissions Lenovo’s Scope 1 and 2 (location-based) CO2e Emissions Inventory from our base year is detailed below, along with Lenovo’s Scope 3 CO2e Emissions Inventory from our last nine fiscal years. The table in the Consolidated Metrics section of this report includes Scope 1, 2 (locationand market-based) and 3 emissions for Lenovo’s global operations. Note: Lenovo started to report locationand market-based Scope 2 from FY 2015/16 to comply with the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance. 1 Lenovo’s GHG Emissions Scope 1 & 2 (location-based) 350,000 300,000 250,000 (in Metric Ton CO2e) 200,000 150,000 100,000 50,000 0 Scope 1 Scope 2 Total Scope 1 & Scope 2 (location-based) (location-based) FY 2009/10* FY 2010/11* FY 2011/12* FY 2012/13* FY 2013/14* FY 2014/15* FY 2015/16* FY 2016/17* FY 2017/18* 1 Scope 1 GHG emissions are calculated based on the purchased quantity of commercial fuel and added refrigerants and using published emission factors from DEFRA, U.S. EIA, EPA and 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories. The guidance from worksheets of World Resources Institute’s GHG Protocol Tool for Mobile Combustion and the GHG Protocol Tool for Stationary Combustion were used for making the calculations. The tools and guidance were developed by World Resources Institute (WRI) and copyrighted. They are available at www.ghgprotocol.org. Scope 2 GHG emissions are associated with the purchase of electricity from the grid, steam and cooling. Information on emissions from all Lenovo facilities worldwide is included in this report. For facilities solely owned or operated by Lenovo, emissions were calculated using actual quantities of purchased electricity, steam and cooling and the international emission factors for the relevant country or region (provinces in China, states in the U.S.). Lenovo emissions from shared facilities were calculated using the floor area occupied by Lenovo and international electricity emission factors for the relevant country. World Resources Institute’s GHG Protocol Tool for Stationary Combustion was used as guidance for calculating emissions associated with purchased electricity. The Similar Building/Facility Estimation Method was used for facilities that are partially occupied by Lenovo operations. * At the end of FY 2012/13, Lenovo adjusted its historical CO2e emissions data to account for the acquisition of Medion in Germany and our joint venture with NEC in Japan. At the end of FY 2015/16, Lenovo adjusted historical CO2e emissions data to account for acquiring System x and Motorola Mobility. 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 79 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS 2 Lenovo’s GHG Emissions – Scope 3 100,000,000 10,000,000 1,000,000 100,000 10,000 (in Metric Ton CO2e) 1,000 100 10 0 Business Emissions Purchased Use of Sold Capital Travel from Wasteb Goods and Productse Goodsf Servicesc Product Employee Fueland End of Life Transportationa Commuting Energy-related Treatment of Activities (not included Sold Productse in Scope 1 or 2)d FY 2009/10 FY 2010/11 FY 2011/12 FY 2012/13 FY 2013/14 FY 2014/15 FY 2015/16 FY 2016/17 FY 2017/18 2 Scope 3 GHG emissions are estimated based on the guidance of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol’s Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard and its supplement named the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: Technical Guidance for Calculating Scope 3 Emissions (version 1.0). a Product transportation emissions include key upstream suppliers representing a majority of global logistics spend. Note: Upon examining the GHG Protocol standard, we decided to recategorize this to upstream from downstream transportation (from FY 2016/17, previous years were adjusted accordingly). b Emissions from waste include nonhazardous waste, hazardous waste and wastewater from all manufacturing, R&D locations and some large/small offices. No product waste is included. c Emissions from purchased goods and services include suppliers covering 90 percent of direct global suppliers spend. d Emissions from fuel-and-energy related activities include transmission and distribution losses from worldwide used electricity and natural gas. e Lenovo used the current Product Attribute to Impact Algorithm (PAIA) notebook, desktop, monitor, tablet, all-in-one, thin client and server tool for calculating emissions of Lenovo’s typical notebook, desktop, monitor, tablet, all-in-one, thin client and server. The calculated results show emissions distribution by different parts and also for use, packaging, transportation and end-oflife treatment categories. The emissions associated with use and end-of-life treatment of sold products were estimated on a “narrow” baseline for the typical notebook, desktop, monitor, tablet, all-in-one, thin client and server multiplied by sold/shipped product volumes. f Emissions from capital goods were estimated based on capital goods purchased in a given year. All capital goods were converted to the common currency unit and categorized to align with industry codes. Emission factors for different types of capital goods were taken from 2012 Guidelines to Defra GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, Annex 13, adjusted for inflation rate and exchange rate. 80 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS Lenovo’s GHG Emissions Inventory Specifics Base Year FY 2009/10 April 1, 2009 — March 31, 2010 Boundary Organizational Operational control approach Operational Scope 1, 2 and 3 in worldwide manufacturing, research and development sites and office locations Scope Scope 1 (direct GHG On-site fuel combusted, operation of controlled vehicles and emissions) fugitive emissions Scope 2 (indirect GHG Purchased electricity, steam and cooling emissions) Scope 3 (other Business travel, product transportation, employee commuting, indirect GHG emissions from waste, purchased goods and services, fuelemissions) and energy-related activities, use of sold products, end-of-life treatment of sold products and emissions from capital goods Greenhouse All GHG covered by CO2, SF6, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs and NF3 Gases the Kyoto Protocol Click here to see more of Lenovo’s global travel, emissions associated with product environmental data. transportation, site waste, employee commuting, purchased goods and services, fueland energyLenovo’s Scope 1 and 2 absolute emissions during related activities not included in Scope 1 or 2, FY 2017/18 decreased. Lenovo emissions inventory, emissions from use of products, emissions from normalized by total revenue, employee population, end-of-life of products and emissions from capital floor area and unit of production, decreased in goods. Please see section E. Additional GHG comparison with the previous year. Emissions Performance and Related Initiatives for information on Lenovo’s actions to drive down Overall, Scope 3 emissions increased slightly. supplier and transportation emissions. Lenovo’s reporting categories included: business B. Lenovo’s Global Scope 1 and 2 (location-based) GHG Emissions3 Total Scope 2 Total Scope 1 (location-based) Brazil 13.14 2,089.96 China 3,765.29 153,233.45 Germany 667.35 1,684.90 India 54.06 3,435.42 Japan 322.30 5,298.89 Mexico 73.39 3,273.10 Taiwan 0.00 2,167.49 United States 1,129.80 18,297.63 Rest of World 345.54 4,279.26 3 Brazil, China, Germany, India, Japan, Mexico, Taiwan and United States represent manufacturing and R&D sites. “Rest of World” represents all sites managed by Lenovo’s Real Estate organization (nonmanufacturing) across the world (small and large — except those in regions listed above). 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 81 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS C. Lenovo’s GHG Emissions Objectives and D. Emission Trading System Targets Lenovo was selected for a pilot emission trading During FY 2017/18, Lenovo achieved a 32 percent system in China. It was determined by the Beijing emissions reduction relative to FY 2009/10. Municipal authority in 2013 that Lenovo Beijing The Scope 1 and Scope 2 reductions were is a significant energy consumption enterprise accomplished by implementing energy efficiency since we consumed more than 5,000 MT coalprojects (approximately 10 new projects such equivalent electricity (CO2 emissions over 10,000 as installing low energy lighting, improving MT/year) and as such must meet an emissions the efficiency of air conditioning systems trading requirement and emissions reduction of and optimizing server systems); consolidating two percent year over year for our Beijing sites. operations between existing and newly acquired Our server plant in Shenzhen is also listed as a sites; using solar sources at sites (solar panels significant carbon emission enterprise, but released in Shanghai and Hefei, China); and purchasing emissions do not exceed allocated allowance so renewable energy certificates from renewable reductions are not required. Lenovo is closely projects in the U.S., international renewable energy monitoring other provinces where this pilot certificates from renewable projects in China and program has been imposed since our sites in Guarantees of Origin in Europe. Shanghai, Huiyang, Xiamen, Chengdu and Wuhan could be impacted in the future. Energy and GHG emissions data for all nine years included in our reporting (beginning with The newly implemented China national ETS the baseline year FY 2009/10) was third-party covers high energy consumption industries such verified. Visit www.lenovo.com/climate and follow as power, cement and steel. Because Lenovo is the link to see the FY 2017/218 GHG and Energy classified as an IT industry, the China national ETS Verification Statements. requirements have not been imposed on our sites in China at this time. Lenovo began disclosing GHG emissions, climate change strategies and climate change risks Lenovo has a climate and energy policy and and opportunities assessments through the strategy in place and works on meeting the voluntary public reporting system CDP (formerly regulatory requirements of reducing emissions Carbon Disclosure Project) in 2009. According two percent year over year for our Beijing to the results of the 2017 CDP Climate Change sites. The main activities include: establishing a questionnaire, Lenovo was rated as Leadership comprehensive energy/carbon system for Beijing Level with a score of Aand was honored with sites including energy efficiency and renewable the 2017 CDP Award of Entrepreneurship on project identification and implementation (e.g., Responding to Climate Change at the October optimizing equipment controls on our production 2017 CDP China report launch event. Additionally, lines, installing energy-efficient lighting systems, we received a score of Aon the 2017 CDP Supply installing solar hot water systems), implementing Chain survey along with recognition of being a energy verification and energy management audit 2017 Leading Supplier for Corporate Action on and purchasing carbon offsets. This is the fourth Climate Change in China. Lenovo’s annual GHG year Lenovo has been a part of this scheme. disclosures are publicly available at www.cdp.net/ Since our business is developing constantly, we reports. are expecting a need to purchase allowances. The above-implemented energy efficiency projects will help us meet the emissions reductions requirements. Additionally, Lenovo partnered with China Reach Academy of Environmental Sciences on the “Cleaning Production Program” that took place in all locations in Beijing during 82 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS 2016 and focused on identifying energy savings Fueland Energy-Related Activities: opportunities and eliminating waste generated in Lenovo included transmission and distribution our manufacturing/assembling operations. (T&D) losses from electricity and natural gas used worldwide in the category “Fueland energyE. Additional GHG Emissions Performance related activities (not included in Scope 1 or 2).” and Related Initiatives T&D loss rates for electricity by country listed in End-of-Life: the World Bank database and natural gas loss We estimated4 that Lenovo avoided more than mentioned in the ENERGY STAR® Performance 62,000 MT CO2e thanks to recycling end-of-life Rating document were used for final emissions electronic products in FY 2017/18. calculations. Suppliers: Lenovo continues to fully implement the Responsible Business Alliance’s (RBA) Environmental Reporting Initiative or the CDP reporting tool for top Tier 1 suppliers. Based on our suppliers’ Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions reported for 2016, we estimated that the emissions allocated to Lenovo from 90 percent of our direct spend (59 key suppliers) was approximately 1,855,000 MT CO2e. During the current reporting period, 88 percent of our procurement spend had specific GHG reduction targets/goals, which were achieved via implementing energy efficiency projects and/or renewable projects. Lenovo’s overall supplier emissions decreased due to strengthening suppliers’ emissions and environmental controls. Transportation: During FY 2017/18, Lenovo continued collecting and calculating product transportation emissions data via DHL’s carbon data dashboard. Emissions from air, ocean, road and rail from international transport and multiple local carriers in China were estimated based on the shipment data received from key Lenovo carriers, which represent the majority of worldwide global logistics spend. Plans for future work in this area include: expanding emissions data collection to additional key suppliers, assessing the correlation of costs and emissions and setting up quantitative emission reduction targets. 4 The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Waste Reduction Model (WARM, March 2016) emission factor of 2.50 MT CO2e per short ton was used for the estimate — https://www.epa.gov/warm/versions-waste-reductionmodel-warm#WARM Tool V14 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 83 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS OPERATIONAL WASTE MANAGEMENT MANAGING NONHAZARDOUS SOLID WASTE One of Lenovo’s primary environmental objectives for operational facilities involves minimizing solid waste and maximizing recycling and reuse. Lenovo manufacturing and R&D facilities as well as some large office locations worldwide achieved a reuse/recycling rate of 91.4 percent during FY 2017/18. Detailed below is the generation of solid waste during the last nine fiscal years and disposition of solid waste in FY 2017/18 from these facilities. Nonhazardous Waste Disposition Nonhazardous Waste (Metric Tons) 312 3,517 45,000 1,455 (1%) (8%) 40,000 (3%) 35,000 30,000 (in Metric Tons) 25,000 20,000 15,000 10,000 5,000 39,093 0 (88%) Nonhazardous Waste FY 2009/10 FY 2010/11 FY 2011/12 Incineration Energy recovery FY 2012/13 FY 2013/14 FY 2014/15 Landfill Recycled/Reused/Resold FY 2015/16 FY 2016/17 FY 2017/18 84 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS MANAGING HAZARDOUS WASTE Hazardous Waste Lenovo operations generate minimal quantities of hazardous waste. Hazardous waste generated at operational facilities includes oils, coolants, organic 250 solvents, batteries, fluorescent light bulbs and ballasts. All are disposed of in accordance with 200 local environmental regulations with reputable (in Metric Tons) vendors that are approved through a stringent 150 Lenovo audit process. During FY 2017/18, Lenovo neither imported nor exported any hazardous 100 waste. During this reporting year, there were no significant spills. The spike in hazardous waste 50 volume in FY 2014/15 was due to a one-time disposal event associated with the closure of 0 facilities in Brazil. Hazardous Waste Visit www.lenovo.com/waterandwaste and follow the link to see the FY 2017/18 Waste Verification FY 2009/10 FY 2010/11 FY 2011/12 Statement. FY 2012/13 FY 2013/14 FY 2014/15 FY 2015/16 FY 2016/17 FY 2017/18 OTHER ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS to reduce and recycle the amount of water we WATER RESOURCES consume. Detailed in the chart below is water withdrawal at Lenovo’s manufacturing and R&D Lenovo’s manufacturing and product development facilities and select large office locations over the operations do not have any wet processes. Since past nine years. Lenovo withdraws water only from municipal sources and only for human support, we have Lenovo does not engage in any intentional minimal impact on local water resources. As a discharge of wastewater other than into municipal result, there are minimal opportunities to reuse wastewater disposal systems. There were no and recycle water, but this metric is tracked. We significant accidental releases of wastewater, fuel, do, however, identify and implement opportunities chemicals or other potentially harmful substances at Lenovo facilities during the fiscal year. Water Withdrawal and Discharge 1,600,000 1,400,000 1,200,000 (in Cubic Meters) 1,000,000 800,000 600,000 400,000 200,000 0 Water Withdrawal Waste Water Discharge Values FY 2009/10 FY 2010/11 FY 2011/12 FY 2012/13 FY 2013/14 FY 2014/15 FY 2015/16 FY 2016/17 FY 2017/18 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 85 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS During FY 2017/18, there were two incidents chemical substances as an environmental incident, of water leakage (Dubai, UAE and Singapore, including unintentional releases. During FY 2017/18, (Singapore), both due to damaged water pipe there was one incident of refrigerant release lines. Both incidents were found and repaired. in Whitsett, N.C., which involved the release of approximately 10 pounds of R-22. This incident Visit www.lenovo.com/waterandwaste and follow was due to a leaking HVAC unit. The leak was the link to see the FY 2017/18 Water Verification found and repaired. In other locations, we added Statement. refrigerants to equipment only during maintenance services. Lenovo does not have significant direct OTHER AIR EMISSIONS air emissions such as NOx and SOx. In addition, Lenovo prohibits the use of ozone-depleting Lenovo has no wet chemical or industrial substances in our products and manufacturing processes that use volatile organic compounds processes except in HVAC and fire-suppression (VOC) and thus has no point sources of VOC. equipment as permitted by law. Ozone-depleting Household and cleaning products that contain substances used in HVAC and fire-suppression small quantities of VOC are used at some of our equipment are managed in accordance with local facilities but associated fugitive emissions are regulations, and intentional releases are prohibited. minimal and are not quantified. Lenovo requires the reporting of releases of 86 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS ENVIRONMENTALLY CONSCIOUS PRODUCTS Lenovo has long been committed to designing and continues to be instrumental to our development building durable, energy-efficient products that strategy. are environmentally benign. Our comprehensive Environmentally Conscious Products Program, Use of Recycled Plastics launched in 2005, ensures Lenovo remains a Starting in 2007, as new grades of recycled green product leader year after year. Supported plastics with PCC became available, Lenovo’s by Lenovo’s Global Environmental Affairs team, product development teams began to use these the program is implemented by a network of environmentally preferred materials to satisfy Environmentally Conscious Product engineers and corporate environmental objectives and targets green product teams within each business unit. and meet new customer requirements. Using these engineered plastics not only saves the natural PRODUCT MATERIALS resources and energy that would have gone into Lenovo’s product development process is focused manufacturing new plastics, but also diverts both on integrating environmentally preferred materials PCC and PIC from landfills. We achieve these into our products. Incorporating post-industrial environmental benefits while still creating a product recycled content (PIC) plastics, post-consumer that meets Lenovo’s high-performance standards. recycled content (PCC) plastics and closed loop post-consumer recycled plastics (CL PCR) Usage of PCC in Products Released in FY 2017/18 1~10% PCC >10% PCC > 25% PCC > 50% PCC Select Notebooks, ThinkPad S5 2nd ThinkCentre M910z TIO22Gen3 Desktops, Generation TIO24Gen3 AIO, Accessories Incorporating Closed Loop Recycled Plastic In early 2017, Lenovo investigated the feasibility of using closed loop post-consumer recycled (CL PCR) content plastic in its products. For an electronics manufacturer such as Lenovo, “closedloop” recycled content plastic means plastic derived from recycled electronics. We worked with vendors to identify supply sources and the Lenovo R&D team provided testing support. The team demonstrated that CL PCR content plastic could pass the same stringent performance tests that are applied to other plastics used in our products. In the summer of 2017 we launched the V410Z All-in-One desktop, which contained 12 percent net (by weight) CL PCR. In October, we launched the ThinkVision T22v-10 monitor comprised of 45 percent net (by weight) CL PCR. Based on these successes, Lenovo plans to expand CL PCR use. 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 87 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS Lenovo continues to expand its emphasis on also containing up to 20 percent PIC. These green design with the ThinkPad L Series. The LCD materials receive environmental and performance cover, palm rests and top and bottom cases of qualifications prior to their approval and use in ThinkPad L notebooks use up to 30 percent PCC Lenovo product applications. from sources such as used office water jugs and IT equipment. ThinkPad has also succeeded in Recycled Content Usage to Date using PCC in the very thin walls of battery packs. Since early 2005, Lenovo has used over 200 The ThinkPad Ultra Dock, ThinkPad Pro Dock and million pounds (gross) of plastic materials ThinkPad Basic Dock use PCC as well. containing PCC and/or PIC in its products, with net PCC of over 99 million pounds and net PIC To overcome the continuing challenges of using of more than 1 million pounds. In 2017, Lenovo recycled content in the design and manufacture of used nearly 14 million pounds (gross) of recycled smart connected devices — especially notebooks, plastics with net PCC of over 9 million pounds. tablets and smartphones — Lenovo’s team of engineers works closely with our PCC suppliers to Please see Objectives and Targets for Lenovo’s develop and qualify new grades of plastic resins recycled content usage targets for FY 2018/19. previously unavailable to the IT industry. Using PCC in IT products presents significant challenges The graph below shows Lenovo’s annualized use due to the unique structural, performance and of PCC and PIC plastics over the past five years. cosmetic requirements associated with these The decline reflects a decreasing use of plastics applications. Depending on the final application overall, which is the result of successful efforts to requirements, the plastic resins contain between make products thinner and lighter. 10 and 85 percent PCC, with some plastic resins Use of Plastics Containing Recycled Use of Recycled Plastics in Products Content 25,000,000 15,000,000 20,000,000 12,000,000 (in Pounds) 15,000,000 9,000,000 (in Pounds) 10,000,000 6,000,000 5,000,000 3,000,000 0 0 CY CY CY CY CY CY CY CY CY CY 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Plastics Containing Recycled Content (PCRC) Net Post-Industrial Recycled Content (PIC) Net Post-Consumer Recycled Content (PCC) 88 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS OTHER MATERIALS OF INTEREST Lenovo supports phasing out1 brominated flame Supporting a Precautionary Approach retardants (BFRs) and PVC, and is committed to driving its supply chain toward this goal. Lenovo Lenovo’s corporatewide environmental standards has made significant progress toward the and specifications require the designers of elimination of BFR and PVC from our systems. all Lenovo IT products to consider certain We continue to focus on eliminating halogen environmentally conscious design practices to from our top-selling products and across as many facilitate and encourage recycling and minimize commodities as possible. Each product group resource consumption. Our priority is to use completes a low halogen scorecard for each environmentally preferable materials whenever new product developed. The product groups applicable. In adhering to this precautionary have committed to improve the generation-toapproach, Lenovo supports restricting the generation low halogen score for at least one intentional addition of materials that are potentially mainstream high-volume product released during concerning when economically and technically FY 2018/19.2 viable alternatives exist. These restrictions may also include implementing concentration limits for Among our achievements: incidental occurrences. • Elimination of most BFR and PVC from For materials where economically and technically ThinkPad notebooks. BFRs are used in power viable alternatives do not exist, Lenovo collects cords, cables, AC adapters, planar ASMs, data on usage above the defined concentration subcards, connectors and some modular limit. This data can then be reported to customers parts. PVC is only used in power cords and or other stakeholders. Lenovo continues to cables. In addition, all ThinkPad notebooks actively search for environmentally preferable have low halogen printed circuit boards. materials that can be used as substitutes. We also expect our partners and suppliers to demonstrate • Many Lenovo commercial monitors meet the the same commitment to environmentally iNEMI definition of low halogen exception for sound practices. Our supplier specifications are their PCBA and external cables. available at: https://www.lenovo.com/us/en/ global_procurement/Guidelines/Restrictions_and_ • Lenovo ThinkCentre desktops have low Packaging.html. halogen chassis and CPUs. Lenovo restricts the use of environmentally sensitive materials in our products. This includes the prohibition of ozone-depleting substances in all applications, restriction on the use of persistent organic pollutants (POPs) under the Stockholm Convention, and the elimination of materials covered under European Union (EU) Restriction on Hazardous Substances (RoHS) and Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH), even beyond 1 Lenovo supports the definition of “BFR/PVC free” as defined in the “iNEMI Position Statement on the ‘Definition those jurisdictions where regulatory requirements of Low-Halogen’ Electronics (BFR/CFR/PVC-Free).” exist. Lenovo’s implementation strategy and requirements are consistent with the requirements 2 To support this activity, all BUs shall include a requirement specified in the EU’s RoHS Directive and REACH for the evaluation of low halogen components (including raw card PCBs) in the development marketing Regulation. requirements document and RFI/RFQs. Qualified low halogen parts available at cost parity shall be used. 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 89 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS Lenovo has completely phased out the use of Big Data Set for Materials and Substances BFR/PVC in all mechanical plastic parts (such as As of the end of FY 2017/18, Lenovo’s FMD external covers, housings, etc.) across all Lenovo system has accumulated more than 50,000 parts product lines. Lenovo currently prohibits the of full material information, forming a big data following from intentional addition to any Lenovo set for materials and substances. This big data parts: set is a tool that can aid structural design and optimization, analyzing materials and mechanical • Polybrominated Biphenyls (PBBs) properties and improving product reliability. • Polybrominated Diphenyl Ethers (PBDEs) Only 2.8 percent of component suppliers do not provide full material disclosure, usually for security • Deca-Brominated Diphenyl Ethers or intellectual property reasons. Lenovo does not exempt any supplier, and we will continue Lenovo has also made significant progress progressing on full material disclosure. Those in phasing out halogen in many commodities who do not provide full material disclosure are across several product lines, including all plastic requested to ensure their components’ compliance enclosures, most components and connectors with its own format of material disclosure, IEC (with the exception of printed board laminates), all 62474 declaration, test report or self-declaration. mechanical plastic parts such as product covers, housings and bezels, and many hard disk drives, Each product has detailed data of 200–300 optical disk drives, solid state drives, LCD screens, pieces of similar parts. This is an important basis memory, CPUs, chipsets, communication cards and for Lenovo’s design and R&D work, especially other commodities with offerings that meet the for the analysis of material environmental health iNEMI definition of low halogen. and safety. In FY 2017/18, Lenovo kicked off a global eco-design program to reduce POPs for Lenovo plans to use additional BFR-and PVCpersonal computer products, including notebooks, free parts and materials across the Think and desktops, all-in-ones and monitors. The program Idea family of products as acceptable alternative includes conducting joint research with institutions materials become available, working toward the and industry associations — our materials and goal to phase out the use of these materials substances big data set will be an important tool across all newly introduced products. We continue for them. to work with our suppliers to pilot new BFR-and PVC-free applications. Lenovo recognizes that the We inform our customers about the environmental phase-out of these materials is dependent upon attributes of our products and compliance the availability of suitable alternatives that meet with applicable laws and regulations through Lenovo’s technological, quality, environmental, an industry standard IT Eco Declaration form. health and safety requirements. Declarations for newly released products are posted on Lenovo’s environmental website at: Lenovo has identified a list of materials and www.lenovo.com/ecodeclaration. substances of environmental interest. These substances may be candidates for further Consistent with our precautionary approach, we restrictions in the future. Lenovo holds suppliers continuously analyze the regulatory environment accountable for reporting the use of these and consider input from our customers, materials through Supplier Material Declarations. nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) and other An industry standard IPC 1752A XML Full Material stakeholders in evaluating the potential health Disclosure (FMD) form, submitted via the Green and environmental impacts of our products. We Data Exchange (GDX), is the preferred format for weigh these inputs to determine the restricted confirmation of compliance to the restrictions and substances, as well as the substances of interest to for reporting when substances in question are be tracked for reporting and for consideration of above the specified concentration levels. future restrictions. 90 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS PRODUCT ENERGY EFFICIENCY Product energy efficiency remains a core focus for Lenovo. Through collaboration with other OEMs, as well as industry stakeholder work groups, existing and proposed global IT product energy efficiency policies, regulations and requirements are vetted against current and future technology. We leverage these results to develop leading edge products with much improved operating and overall efficiencies. Ongoing activities include updates to the ENERGY STAR® program specifications, U.S. DOE Appliance and Equipment standards, California Appliance Efficiency Program requirements, China CEC standards, EU Ecodesign (ErP) requirements and many other emerging protocols and regulations. To further improve product energy efficiency for desktops, workstations and servers, Lenovo certifies internal power supplies to CLEAResult Plug Load Solutions’ 80 Plus program for power supply efficiency. 80 Plus certified power supplies are independently tested and verified to the program’s rated efficiency criteria; i.e., Bronze, Silver, Gold and Platinum. Lenovo desktop, workstation and server products equipped with 80 Plus power supplies are significantly more energy efficient than systems equipped with typical power supplies. The energy consumption and performance of Lenovo products meet the efficiency requirements of China, Japan, the U.S., Europe and other jurisdictions. Many Lenovo notebook, desktop, server and monitor products satisfy and even exceed the current ENERGY STAR® requirements. The ENERGY STAR® qualified models are listed at www.energystar.gov. For more information about Lenovo’s energy-efficient products, visit: www.lenovo.com/energy. Product Energy Management Features Lenovo offers innovative tools for taking control of PC and server power consumption, determining energy savings and reporting on the energy performance of building management, equipment and IT devices. PC Tool Benefit “Lenovo Settings” app in Windows Provides power management features for the user (i.e., Connected Standby) Adaptive Thermal Management Adjusts system power and fan speeds based on ambient levels Active Directory and LANDesk® Supports remote deployment of power schemes and global settings to allow administrators the ability to control and enforce ThinkPad® energy savings company-wide Lenovo EasyResume Gives quick recovery from computer lid close, balancing low power state by suppressing CPU usage at lid close Intelligent Cooling Balances thermal performance to adjust settings to provide a cooler surface for comfort while optimizing product energy performance 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 91 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS Server Tool Benefit The “New Customer WebUI” app Provides power management features for the user [ThinkServer management model] Supports remote deployment of power Allows administrators the ability to control and enforce schemes and global settings [ThinkServer ThinkPad energy savings company-wide management model] Power Manager™ [other operating Helps optimize energy used by a running machine and saves systems] up to 30 percent on energy consumption Lenovo ASHRAE Management Adjusts processor and fan speeds based on ambient levels Rack Planner Helps users better plan for rack efficiency by increasing rack density and calculating power consumption based on specific configurations Smart Grid Helps users monitor and manage the power consumption and temperature of ThinkServers with Intel Node Manager. Smart Grid can save power, increase rack density and avoid data center hotspots PSU smart-on When the system detects that the power loading is low in redundant PSU configuration, it can transfer the loading from 2 PSU to 1 PSU to get higher power efficiency and save power Diagnostics Capabilities and Easy OS installation (LEPT) embedded 80 PLUS Titanium™ server power supplies By improving the efficiency of the server PSUs, energy or PSUs [available for select System x efficiency improvements can be cascaded up through the servers] data center for both power and cooling Liquid cooling solutions Can reduce the facility demands for data center chillers, resulting in facility infrastructure savings Lenovo Efficiency Mode™ (LEM) Works in cooperation with the operating system to fine tune the operating efficiency of the server. LEM can boost performance per watt efficiency by up to 11 percent compared to a server that is not using LEM Intelligently managing power consumption Unused devices embedded in System x servers are either powered down or placed into very low power state automatically during boot time and/or dynamically at run time. Devices include CPU cores, memory channels and DIMMs, PCI express ports, QPI links, SATA and SAS storage controllers, network controllers, serial ports, USB controllers and voltage regulatory devices (VRDs) 92 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS PRODUCT CARBON FOOTPRINT start at one to two years, with the option for Lenovo engages members of the information and many products to purchase an extended warranty. communication technology (ICT) industry and For more details on Lenovo’s warranties, please academia in the development of a tool to simplify visit https://www.lenovo.com/us/en/servicesand expedite determination of the Product Carbon warranty/. Footprint (PCF) for ICT products through the Product Attribute Impact Algorithm (PAIA) project. Lenovo is continuously designing innovative Lenovo’s product development groups currently features for our products to help extend their use the PAIA notebook, desktop, monitor, all-inuseful life. For example, Lenovo Battery Longevity one, tablet, thin clients, servers and network switch Technology extends notebook battery cycle life products PCF calculation tools, and are engaged through key technologies, including: in development of a tool for storage and an online platform. • Increased use of lithium polymer cells: Used in notebooks and tablets with embedded Lenovo, along with RBA (formerly EICC), batteries, these cells typically provide longer the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, life cycles than lithium ion cylindrical cells. HP Inc., Seagate and Cisco, has been working on development of product-specific allocation • Longer lifespan batteries: Many Lenovo methods that link facility-wide carbon data to the embedded batteries are designed to last two specific product types manufactured within that to three times longer than standard batteries. facility. Lenovo Services offers three-year warranty upgrades on many embedded batteries. To download PCF sheets for specific Lenovo The longer lifespan is made possible due products, visit www.lenovo.com/ecodeclaration. to carefully designed cells and charge These information sheets are generated using the algorithms. streamlined PAIA life cycle analysis and include manufacturing, transportation, use and end-of• Dual mode charging algorithms: These life. For more information about Lenovo’s work technologies are used on most notebook on calculating product carbon footprints, visit batteries and adjust charge voltage and www.lenovo.com/climate. current over time to prolong the battery’s lifespan. The feature is implemented in the DURABLE PRODUCTS ARE hardware and as part of the battery firmware, ENVIRONMENTALLY RESPONSIBLE so it is not operating system or application dependent and works with any software load. The longer a product lasts, the longer it stays out of the waste stream. Lenovo designs its • Field updateable battery firmware: products to maximize their product lifecycle, and Customers can download a firmware update offers three-year standard warranties and five utility which allows them to apply firmware years of replacement parts availability on many of fixes to batteries in service, eliminating the our top selling commercial products. Three-year need to replace batteries due to firmware warranties are offered as the base warranty on problems. This program allows customers to many top-selling Think-branded products, including apply fixes quickly and at no cost, even on all commercial monitors, notebooks, desktops batteries outside of the warranty. and others. In addition, customers can purchase warranty upgrades to extend the base warranty by one or two years for many products. Base warranties for Lenovo consumer (Idea) products vary by product type and geography, but typically 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 93 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS PRODUCT PACKAGING Lenovo continues to drive increases in the use of recycled content materials in product packaging. Lenovo is committed to offering environmentally For example, all Think product primary carton preferable packaging for its products. Over the boxes are certified to contain a minimum of 50 past several years, Lenovo has had a strong focus percent post-consumer fiber content and are on increasing the use of recycled and recyclable required to use the maximum available postmaterials in packaging, reducing the size of consumer material where adequate supplies packaging and expanding the use of bulk and exist without compromising required packaging reusable packaging solutions. performance characteristics. The use of recycled content in Lenovo corrugated box packaging In FY 2017/18, Lenovo began implementing the use averages more than 70 percent. Lenovo has of an innovative bio-based packaging made from also transitioned 95 percent of ThinkPad bamboo and sugar cane fiber. The material is not products to recycled cushioning materials with only 100 percent biodegradable, it is lighter than the ThinkPad Edge using 100 percent recycled previous packaging and its strength characteristics cushioning materials. Printing on boxes is done via enable design improvements that reduce overall flexography with water-based, non-toxic, RoHSpackage size. We used this packaging to ship compliant inks. memory and one of our ThinkPad models, gaining positive results. Weight reduction in Lenovo has a strong focus on reducing the size of the packaging material, combined with package our packaging to minimize the amount of materials weight reductions from design improvements, used while maintaining adequate protection for resulted in a 6.7 percent efficiency improvement our products. Smaller packages also contribute in transportation CO2 emissions. Lenovo plans to to increased pallet density, enabling Lenovo to implement wider use of this packaging material increase pallet density by over 33 percent in many going forward. cases. Lenovo uses reusable bulk packaging in our own internal operations for the transportation of chassis to manufacturing locations. In addition, bulk packaging and reusable bulk packaging may be available for many of Lenovo’s products for customers in select regions. Since 2008, Lenovo has eliminated 2,750 tons of packaging consumption by weight. In FY 2017/18 alone, the Packaging Team reduced packaging consumption by 250 tons. To see how Lenovo performed against its FY 2017/18 packaging targets, please see page 109. New bamboo and sugar cane fiber packaging is 100 percent Reuse biodegradable and lighter than previous packaging materials Lenovo provides the end customer an optional returnable packaging service, in which packaging Lenovo discourages the use of polystyrene materials can be sent back to Lenovo after packaging wherever possible, and encourages receiving the products and reused for new the use of molded pulp, fiber and lowshipments by Lenovo. Lenovo is also devoted density polyethylene (LDPE). For more to the reuse of incoming component packaging, information about the process for making especially returning chassis packaging. and recycling LDPE thermoformed cushions, visit www.lenovo.com/packaging and follow the link from there. 94 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS Packaging Specifications Lenovo communicates environmental requirements for packaging to suppliers via a series of packaging specifications. These specifications include requirements for minimum amounts of recycled content, marking for proper recycling, banned materials and other elements. All corrugated container (box) packaging should use a minimum of 50 percent post-consumer recycled fiber, and all paperboard packaging should contain a minimum of 45 percent post-consumer recycled fiber and 100 percent recovered fiber. In addition to meeting these specifications, many Lenovo packaging suppliers provide Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)-certified products for Lenovo packaging. Lenovo is currently in the process of assessing the global availability of FSC-certified packaging to support manufacturing facilities in all geographies. 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 95 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS PRODUCT END-OF-LIFE MANAGEMENT (PELM) At Lenovo, PELM includes the reuse, refurbishing, • We encourage our customers to reuse or de-manufacturing, dismantling, reclamation, recycle products at the end of their life cycle shredding, recycling, treatment and disposal by offering consumers and/or commercial of products, parts and peripherals when they clients a range of recycling options for are taken out of service, reach end-of-life and/ disposing of products, batteries and product or are scrapped. This includes the recovery packaging worldwide through voluntary and reuse of products, parts subassemblies programs and/or country, province or state and components, including scrap electronic mandated programs. and electrical components such as disk drives, printed wiring boards, power supplies, and cables If you are interested in learning more about these and cords. Lenovo-branded and non-branded programs, please visit: www.lenovo.com/recycling. products owned or accepted by Lenovo (including customer returns or take back) are included in this PRODUCT TAKE-BACK PROGRAMS definition. As a global company, Lenovo offers end-oflife recycling and management programs for As a part of our efforts to improve Lenovo’s both consumer and business customers in many supplier base around the globe, we have made countries around the world. Offerings are tailored available our “Lenovo Environmental Electronics to the specific location and business need and End of Life Standard.” This document details include programs for recycling products as well as what is required to become a Lenovo end-of-life packaging and batteries in many geographies. partner. We continue to require (where available) and encourage our global supplier base to become In many European countries, Lenovo offers R2 or e-Stewards certified. customers free-of-charge waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE), battery, and KEY ELEMENTS OF PELM packaging recycling options through local recycling Lenovo supports efforts to reduce the volume of systems. With support of our Europe/Middle East/ end-of-life electronic products being disposed of Africa (EMEA) compliance partner 1cc, Lenovo in landfills, as well as efforts to reduce the need managed over 50 direct take-back programs for for new raw materials by increasing the beneficial WEEE, batteries and packaging in more than 20 reuse of products and parts, or recycling of countries. In FY 2017/18, we managed more than materials. 30,800 tons of equipment. • We support legislation assigning financial With this engagement, Lenovo financed takeback responsibility for end-of-life management to activities in Europe totaling more than six million the individual producers. Euros in FY 2017/18. Lenovo will continue to play an active role in the EMEA recycling landscape • We advocate legislative initiatives that allow and plans to extend coverage of Lenovo take-back at least the option for manufacturers to systems to regions in Eastern Europe and other recover their own brand products, using countries outside of the EU. the information gained from recycling their own brands to be fed back into the product Customers can obtain information about Lenovo’s design process. This practice optimizes the recycling programs and details on offerings by cost not only for the manufacturer, but the country at: www.lenovo.com/recycling. consumer as well. 96 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS For our business customers, Lenovo offers • Review of all audit documentation and Asset Recovery Services (ARS) in more than recommendations by Lenovo’s Product End40 countries. Customer-access information for of-Life Management Program Manager, and these programs in the Americas, Asia Pacific and final approval by Lenovo’s Director of Global EMEA can also be obtained at: www.lenovo.com/ Environmental Affairs. recycling. • Maintain Lenovo Corporate Approved MANAGEMENT OF LENOVO’S PELM Supplier Facility listing by geography and SUPPLIERS approved services for use by all Lenovo Lenovo maintains an extensive program for organizations, sites and programs worldwide ensuring that remarketed products and parts in Lenovo’s internal database. and the refurbishing, remanufacturing, recycling and disposal of end-of-life products owned • Establishment of a Lenovo contract with each by Lenovo or returned by customers are approved supplier with specific environmental accomplished in an environmentally conscious and terms and conditions related to expected legally compliant manner. This program includes environmental performance and reporting. Lenovo onsite environmental evaluations and approvals in accordance with Lenovo’s stringent Suppliers include surplus buyers, end-of-lease, auditing protocol. Some of the critical evaluation asset recovery services, legal and voluntary requirements include: product take-back providers, field services, dismantlers, recyclers and disposal vendors. All • Supplier completion of Lenovo’s initial recovered products and parts are required to supplier evaluation form declaring their be data wiped, refurbished, tested for function, processing capabilities and controls, labeled as refurbished and resold where they will environmental, health and safety management be used as originally intended without further systems, and legal compliance. refurbishing before use. Suppliers are required to use Lenovo-approved recyclers for the disposition • Supplier full downstream disclosure of of non-working products and parts and waste facilities involved with receiving equipment generated from their refurbishing processes. or waste; reusing equipment as a product, Lenovo prohibits the shipment of hazardous waste part or material; and disposing of waste and to non-OECD countries. ensuring all facilities maintain compliance. Additionally, Lenovo incorporates specific • Successful Lenovo onsite environmental and environmental terms and conditions into contracts services audit of all facilities and processes and agreements with all PELM suppliers. Approved prior to their use, and documentation of and contracted facilities are required to submit audit findings and recommendations in a final regular environmental reports documenting report. the total quantities of equipment and e-waste collected and processed on behalf of Lenovo and Lenovo customers, including the identification of methods of disposition and their percentages. Periodic follow-up audits are also completed to ensure continued compliance to legal and Lenovo environmental requirements. 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 97 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS RECOVERY AND RECYCLING TRENDS improvement activities, we look for opportunities During the 2017 calendar year, Lenovo financed to reduce the use of incineration and landfills, and or managed the processing of 24,872 metric tons, maximize reuse and recycling. equivalent to more than 54.8 million pounds, of Lenovo-owned and customer-returned computer Since its launch as a global company in May equipment. Of this total, 2.5 percent was reused 2005, Lenovo has processed more than 207,000 as products or parts, 91.7 percent was recycled as metric tons, or more than 457 million pounds, materials, 3.3 percent was incinerated with wasteof computer equipment through our contracted to-energy recovery, 1.1 percent was incinerated as service providers. Trends for the most recent five disposal treatment, and 1.4 percent was disposed calendar years are illustrated below: of by landfill. As part of Lenovo’s continual Product End-of-Life Management Recovery and Recycling Trends (PELM) (PELM) Disposition 30,000 30,000 25,000 25,000 20,000 20,000 (in Metric Tons) (in Metric Tons) 15,000 15,000 10,000 10,000 5,000 5,000 0 0 CY CY CY CY CY CY CY CY CY CY 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Other PELM Waste to Reused Recycled Energy (WTE) Product Take Back (PTB) Incinerate Landfill 98 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS Product Take-Back (PTB) Disposition 30,000 25,000 20,000 (in Metric Tons) 15,000 10,000 5,000 0 CY CY CY CY CY 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Waste to Reused Recycled Energy (WTE) Incinerated Landfill Our customers have shown considerable interest in our recycling programs. In 2017, customer returns constituted more than 23,800 metric tons, or more than 52 million pounds. Our 2017 performance includes data from Lenovo’s Asset Recovery Services offered to large enterprises, along with data from Lenovo’s other voluntary and legally required product take-back programs for consumers and businesses. 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 99 CONSOLIDATED METRICS, OBJECTIVES AND TARGETS 102 FY 2017/18 Consolidated Metrics 109 FY 2017/18 Performance 113 FY 2018/19 Objectives and Targets EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS CONSOLIDATED METRICS, OBJECTIVES AND TARGETS FY 2017/18 CONSOLIDATED METRICS General Data FY 2013/14 FY 2014/15 FY 2015/16 FY 2016/17 FY 2017/18 Revenue (Millions USD) $38,707 $46,296 $44,911 $43,035 $45,350 Revenue Analysis by Geography FY 2013/14 FY 2014/15 FY 2015/16 FY 2016/17 FY 2017/18 Americas 21% 26% 30% 30% 31% EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa) 25% 28% 26% 26% 28% Asia Pacific (excluding China) 16% 14% 16% 16% 16% China 38% 32% 28% 28% 25% Revenue Analysis by Business Group1 FY 2013/14 FY 2014/15 FY 2015/16 FY 2016/17 FY 2017/18 PC 82% 72% 69% 70% 71% Mobile Internet/Digital Home (MIDH) 14% 20% 19% 18% 16% Enterprise 1% 6% 10% 9% 10% Others 3% 2% 2% 3% 3% Research and Development FY 2013/14 FY 2014/15 FY 2015/16 FY 2016/17 FY 2017/18 Expenditures/Sales 1.89% 2.64% 3.32% 3.16% 2.94% 102 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS Employees, Health and Safety Number of Employees2 FY 2013/14 FY 2014/15 FY 2015/16 FY 2016/17 FY 2017/18 Total 54,372 50,348 48,975 46,163 45,754 Percentage of Employees by Region Americas 23% 25% 15% 15% 16% Asia Pacific (excluding China) 7% 8% 8% 9% 9% China 63% 59% 69% 66% 66% EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa) 7% 8% 8% 9% 8% Percentage of Employees by Gender Males 60% 64% 66% 65% 65% Females 40% 36% 34% 35% 35% CY 2013 CY 2014 CY 2015 CY 2016 CY 2017 Hours of training per manufacturing employee 35 35 35 35 35 (including part-time employees) Incident Rates CY 2013 CY 2014 CY 2015 CY 2016 CY 2017 Recordable Rate 0.19 0.13 0.1 0.07 0.09 Lost-Time Rate 2.27 2.20 2.69 0.5 1.5 Number of employee fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 (work-related) Number of contractor fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 (work-related) CY 2013 CY 2014 CY 2015 CY 2016 CY 2017 Number of OHSAS 18001 registered facilities 9 10 10 10 10 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 103 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS Communities and Philanthropy3 FY 2013/14 FY 2014/15 FY 2015/16 FY 2016/17 FY 2017/18 Corporate Cash and Product Donations Lenovo Foundation and Donor Advised Funds4 $417,500 $590,000 $404,000 $75,000 $819,000 China $358,000 $176,000 $311,000 — $48,000 North America5 $156,500 $411,450 $692,000 $906,000 $325,000 Lenovo Match of North America Employee Donations $214,988 $259,431 $281,778 $352,654 $339,000 EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa) — $105,000 $169,000 $64,000 $86,000 Asia Pacific (excluding China) — $10,880 $82,000 $59,000 $195,000 Regional Product and Other In-Kind Donations Latin America6 $262,086 — $319,000 $15,000 $111,000 China $542,000 $113,000 $100,000 $300,000 $330,516 North America $366,409 $280,766 $388,000 $946,000 $1,050,000 EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa) — $60,000 $36,000 $50,000 $21,000 Asia Pacific (excluding China) 7 — $155,928 $140,000 $67,000 $375,709 Disaster Response in U.S. and Mexico $1,714,000 (reported at cost) Employee Volunteering Hours (through efforts sponsored by Lenovo) North America 7,500 16,000 19,000 26,205 19,296 Rest of World >5,000 >5,000 >5,000 1,266 10,704 Estimated Value of Employee Volunteer Hours8 $1,300,000 Total Contribution to Communities $6,714,225 $7M USD device contribution from Lenovo’s Mobile Business Group to the Sprint 1Million Project not included in “Total Contribution to Communities” — please see page 64 for more information. 104 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS Environmental Data FY 2013/14 FY 2014/15 FY 2015/16 FY 2016/17 FY 2017/18 GHG Emissions 9 (metric tons CO2 equivalent — MT CO2e) Scope 1 13,507 8,996 7,068 8,294 6,371 Scope 2 (location-based) 244,372 221,406 228,493 213,637 193,760 Total Scope 1 & Scope 2 (location-based) 257,879 230,402 235,561 221,931 200,131 Scope 2 (market-based) 244,372 221,406 203,041 185,400 176,800 Scope 3 FY 2013/14 FY 2014/15 FY 2015/16 FY 2016/17 FY 2017/18 Business Travel 26,844 34,600 39,000 58,000 49,000 Product Transportation 316,594 293,102 326,840 351,100 359,000 Emissions from Waste 1,058 2,138 2,149 2,390 1,700 Employee Commuting 24,720 30,700 26,300 23,800 20,100 Purchased Goods and Services 1,117,052 1,054,683 1,646,141 2,054,900 1,855,000 Fueland Energy-Related Activities 8,936 10,737 14,664 12,300 11,900 (not included in Scope 1 or 2) Use of Sold Products 14,300,000 12,800,000 12,000,000 11,600,000 11,847,000 End-of-Life Treatment of Sold Products 400,000 300,000 290,000 280,000 271,000 Capital Goods N/A 37,700 227,700 101,000 246,000 Emissions Intensity: GHG Emissions — Scope FY 2013/14 FY 2014/15 FY 2015/16 FY 2016/17 FY 2017/18 1 & Scope 2 (location-based) 9 (metric tons per $ million revenue) 6.66 4.98 5.25 5.16 4.41 Operational Energy Intensity Use — Scope 1 FY 2013/14 FY 2014/15 FY 2015/16 FY 2016/17 FY 2017/18 & Scope 2 (location-based) 9 (MWh per $ million revenue) Fuel Combustion 0.54 0.72 0.74 0.94 0.77 Purchased Energy 4.14 4.66 6.97 6.74 6.57 (electricity, steam, cooling) Operational Energy Use — Scope 1 & Scope FY 2013/14 FY 2014/15 FY 2015/16 FY 2016/17 FY 2017/18 2 (location-based)9 (MWh) Fuel Combustion 20,953.29 33,201.65 33,363.16 40,257.94 34,733.55 Purchased Energy 160,298.07 215,753.86 313,027.41 290,112.63 298,019.77 (electricity, steam, cooling) 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 105 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS Environmental Data FY 2013/14 FY 2014/15 FY 2015/16 FY 2016/17 FY 2017/18 Voluntary Purchases of Renewable Energy 9 FY 2013/14 FY 2014/15 FY 2015/16 FY 2016/17 FY 2017/18 Solar Energy (MWh) 332 201 221 1,607 3,713 Renewable Energy Credits (MWh)10 12,621 15,000 26,400 16,250 500 International Renewable Energy Credits N/A N/A N/A 22,000 13,200 (MWh)10 Guarantees of Origin (MWh)10 N/A 10 4,500 7,300 8,600 Carbon Offsets (MT CO2e) 45,765 80,000 54,000 55,000 10,000 Renewable Energy Generation Capacity 0.3 0.3 0.3 5.5 5.5 (MW)11 Water12 FY 2013/14 FY 2014/15 FY 2015/16 FY 2016/17 FY 2017/18 (in Cubic Meters) Water Withdrawal 874,742 1,202,689 1,366,829 1,429,610 1,385,080 Waste Water Discharge Values 811,807 1,127,164 1,298,427 1,351,405 1,260,986 Wastewater Exceedances 0 0 0 0 0 Waste13 FY 2013/14 FY 2014/15 FY 2015/16 FY 2016/17 FY 2017/18 (in Metric Tons) Nonhazardous Waste 27,316.95 35,944.75 40,041.55 44,032.69 44,377.44 Hazardous Waste 26.57 210.29 78.90 67.65 75.27 Recovery and Recycling Trends CY 2013 CY 2014 CY 2015 CY 2016 CY 2017 (in Metric Tons) Product End-of-Life Management (PELM)14 12,806 14,587 18,600 29,075 24,872 Product Take Back (PTB)14 10,578 11,252 15,487 27,392 23,868 Product End-of-Life Management (PELM) CY 2013 CY 2014 CY 2015 CY 2016 CY 2017 Disposition (in Metric Tons) Reused 1,239 788 778 710 619 Recycled 11,130 13,209 14,620 26,569 22,808 Waste to Energy (WTE) 264 251 507 907 826 Incinerate 46 78 804 233 284 Landfill 127 256 1,891 656 336 Total 12,806 14,587 18,600 29,075 24,872 106 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS Environmental Data FY 2013/14 FY 2014/15 FY 2015/16 FY 2016/17 FY 2017/18 Product Take Back (PTB) Disposition CY 2013 CY 2014 CY 2015 CY 2016 CY 2017 (in Metric Tons) Reused 266 534 375 164 261 Recycled 9,895 10,205 14,128 25,445 22,194 Waste to Energy (WTE) 261 251 502 906 826 Incinerated 45 78 134 233 270 Landfill 111 184 348 644 318 Total 10,578 11,252 15,487 27,392 23,868 Use of Recycled Plastics in Products CY 2013 CY 2014 CY 2015 CY 2016 CY 2017 (in Pounds) Plastics Containing Recycled Content (PCRC) 22,988,393 23,850,027 20,597,606 15,802,979 13,994,678 Net Post Consumer Recycled Content (PCC) 11,338,718 13,883,806 11,622,364 10,204,469 9,112,367 Net Post Industrial Recycled Content (PIC) 8,818 18,739 6,724 0 0 ENERGY STAR® Certified Products Availability (% of product) Notebook Platforms 100% 98% 100% 98% 100% Desktop Platforms 73% 82% 90% 94% 99% Workstation Platforms 73% 71% 76% 78% 78% Server Platforms 83% 94% 92% 91% 91% Monitors 97% 97% 97% 98% 100% FOOTNOTES: 1. A change in organization structure in FY 2016/17 led to a restatement of revenue analysis data for previous years according to the new structure. 2. Number of Employees — Total includes Lenovo employees (regular and supplemental) only. Contractors are not included as they are not Lenovo employees. 3. In FY 2017/18 Lenovo reorganized its philanthropy efforts, including transitioning the Motorola Mobility Foundation to the Lenovo Foundation. 4. The increase in FY 2017/18 is attributed to the Lenovo Foundation being fully integrated into Lenovo’s giving reporting. 5. The decrease in FY 2017/18 is attributed to re-classifying some donations as disaster-related regional giving. 6. The increase in FY 2017/18 is attributed to contributions made through the first Global Week of Service and the launch of formal partnerships in the region. 7. The increase in FY 2017/18 is attributed to re-classifying India Companies Act giving as in-region. 8. Estimated value of volunteer hours based on an average value of hourly wage in North America, adjusted to a lower hourly wage for rest of world. Total value is likely underreported. 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 107 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS 9. Lenovo’s GHG Emissions and Energy Inventory Specifics: Lenovo started to verify energy and GHG emissions data in FY 2009/2010. At the end of FY 2012/13 Lenovo adjusted its historical Scope 1 and 2 CO2e emissions data to account for acquiring Medion in Germany and creating joint venture with NEC in Japan. At the end of FY 2015/16 Lenovo adjusted historical Scope 1 and 2 CO2e emissions data to account for acquiring System x and Motorola Mobility. Lenovo started to report location-and market-based Scope 2 from FY 2015/16. Base year’s and consecutive years’ Scope 2 totals are the same for location and market-based method as product and supplier-specific market-based data were not available in the base year and consecutive years so the location-based results has been used as a proxy for the market-based method. Beginning in FY 2015/16, System x and Motorola Mobility data are included in energy and Scope 3 emissions data. Approximately 1% of purchased energy (electricity) is estimated based upon energy use at similar Lenovo facilities with metered usage. Product transportation emissions include key upstream suppliers representing majority of global logistics spend. Note: Upon looking into GHG Protocol standard we decided to re-categorize this to upstream from downstream transportation (from FY 2016/17, previous years were adjusted accordingly). Emissions from waste include nonhazardous waste, hazardous waste and waste water from all manufacturing, R&D locations and some large offices. No product waste is included. Purchased goods and services include suppliers covering 90% of direct global suppliers spend. The RBA Carbon and Water Reporting Tool was used for collection of supplier data. Data was allocated based on revenue. Fuel-and energy-related activities (not included in Scope 1 or 2) include transmission & distribution (T&D) losses from Lenovo’s worldwide purchased electricity and natural gas. A World Bank database and Energy Star Performance Rating document were used for determining T&D loss rates. Lenovo used the current Product Attribute Impact Algorithm (PAIA) notebook, desktop, monitor, tablet, all-in-one, ThinClient and server tool for calculating emissions of Lenovo’s typical notebook, desktop, monitor, tablet, all-in-one, ThinClient and server. The calculated results show emissions distribution by different parts and also for use, packaging, transportation, and end-oflife treatment categories. The emissions associated with use and end-of-life treatment of sold products were estimated on a “narrow” baseline for the typical notebook, desktop, monitor, tablet, all-in-one, ThinClient and server multiplied by sold/shipped product volumes. Emissions from capital goods are based on purchased capital goods in a given year. The 2012 Guidelines to Defra GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, Annex 13 was used for emission factors for different type of capital goods adjusted for inflation rate and exchange rate. Solar energy is measured in MWh. Renewable Energy Credit, International Renewable Energy Credit and Renewable Energy Guarantees of Origin represent 1 MWh and carbon offset represents 1 MT CO2e. These are reported and calculated separately and taken into consideration internally when evaluating progress toward emissions targets. Renewable energy generation capacity includes electric solar panels in Shanghai and Hefei, China and hot water solar panels in Beijing, China. 10. FY 2017/18 number is amount Lenovo used, however Lenovo purchased a greater amount. 11. See the Renewable Energy section in the Planet chapter for more information. 12. Water data includes manufacturing, research & development sites and some large offices. Lenovo started to verify waste and water data in FY 2011/12. Beginning in FY 2015/16, System x and Motorola Mobility data are included in water data. In FY 2017/18, the term “water use” was replaced with “water withdrawal,” however, what is being measured is unchanged. 13. Waste data includes site waste from manufacturing, research & development sites and some large offices. Waste data includes processes and operations waste; product waste is reported separately. Lenovo started to verify waste and water data in FY 2011/12. Beginning in FY 2015/16, System x and Motorola Mobility data are included in waste data. 14. Lenovo’s Product End-of-Life Management (PELM) includes product take back (PTB) from customers and Lenovo-owned country returns, manufacturing and R&D scrap, and employee equipment from real estate sites. 108 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS FY 2017/18 PERFORMANCE Product Aspects Key Performance Target Type Objective Indicator(s) Target(s) Status Availability of bulk Support bulk packaging for DCG Target met. packaging products and/or options. Availability Support development of reusable Target met. Minimize packaging of reusable rack crate design for servers. material consumption packaging design Packaging while driving the use of environmentally Amount of PCC Increase use of 100% PCC by 10% Target partially sustainable materials. used based on shipping volumes relative met. to previous year. Weight or volume Achieve 5% reduction in weight or Target partially reduction volume for at least 1 product. met. Energy efficiency New products must show improved Target met. energy efficiency relative to the previous generation of the product.1 Drive reduction in product energy use. Regulatory Ensure all products are compliant Target met. and voluntary with regulatory requirements and energy standard select products are compliant with compliance preferred energy standards. Continue to support external Target met. Product Energy development of PCF methodologies and standards. Quantify lifecycle CO2e Ensure product carbon footprint Target met. emissions associated PCF (kg CO2e) is published for all new Lenovo with the use of Lenovo products.2 products. Begin calculating PCF for Target met. representative sample of newly released servers by January 31, 2018. 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 109 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS Key Performance Target Type Objective Indicator(s) Target(s) Status All newly released DT, Target not met. AIO, workstation, notebook, tablet and visual products shall contain a % PCC in minimum of 2% PCC in product. product/external enclosure All newly released server products Target met. All products across shall contain minimum of 10% PCC all business units shall in external enclosure. contain some PostConsumer Recycled Content (PCC). Develop and approve closed-loop Target met. ABS PCC and packaging PCC Product % products supplier and material. Materials1,3,4,5 containing closedloop ABS PCC/ Packaging PCC Investigate opportunities for use of Target not met. closed-loop ABS PCC and packaging PCC in select products. Sustain technological Make available specific low halogen Target met. advances and maintain parts as needed to support local portfolio relative to geo customer requirements. low-halogen products. Low-halogen parts Monitor and respond to market requirements in this area. Location Aspects Reduce Lenovo's global Scope 1 + Target on track. Scope 2 GHG emissions by 40% by March 31, 2020, relative to FY 2009/10.6 LME, GRE, LCRE and GEA will Target met. establish global action plans to Absolute reduction in reduce combined Scope 1 and Scope Site Air CO2e emissions from Metric tons CO2e 2 GHG emissions by 40% by March Emissions Lenovo operations 31, 2020, relative to FY 2009/10. worldwide. The plan will be reviewed and updated annually, at a minimum.6 Achieve a 4% reduction in global Target met. CO2e emissions by the end of FY 2017/18 relative to previous fiscal year.6 110 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS Key Performance Target Type Objective Indicator(s) Target(s) Status Achieve 30MW of Lenovo-owned or Progress leased renewable energy generation being made Maximize energy Renewable capacity globally by 2020. but significant efficiency and minimize energy generation challenges exist CO2e emissions capacity (MWh) to achieve 2020 Site Energy associated with target. Consumption the development, manufacture and delivery of Lenovo Achieve a YTY increase in energy Target met. products. % total energy purchased from renewable from RE sources generation sources globally, relative to the previous FY.7 Minimize environmental Maintain a global nonhazardous Target met. impacts associated with % nonhazardous waste recycling rate > 90% (+/-5%).8 Waste solid waste generated solid waste Management from Lenovo operations recycled and products. Total global water use will be +/-5% Target met. m3 water Minimize environmental of FY 2016/17. impacts associated Water with water use and Total global wastewater generation Target met. m3 wastewater Management water discharge from will be +/-5% of FY 2016/17. Lenovo operations and products. Develop Lenovo's operations water Target met. Water risk map risk map.9 Supply Chain Aspects Increase number of In identified countries, ensure 100% Target not met. R2-and e-Stewardsof Lenovo approved recyclers and Product certified recyclers and R2 or e-Stewards asset recovery services suppliers are End-of-Life Asset Recovery Service certification R2 and/or e-Stewards certified by Management suppliers on Lenovo's 3/31/2018.10 approved supplier list. Require climate change reduction Target met. Climate change targets for at least 75% of Lenovo reduction targets Monitor and drive direct suppliers. environmental impact reductions in the Environmental Strengthen environmental criteria in Target met. Lenovo supply chain. criteria in supplier Lenovo's sustainability scorecard for sustainability our suppliers year to year. Supplier scorecard Environmental Performance Complete RBA audits of 90% of Target met. % audits identified suppliers per Lenovo requirements. Minimize potential environmental impact of Lenovo’s suppliers. Complete Cat 1, 2 and 3 Target met for Completion on environmental audits per Lenovo Cat 1 and 2. time requirements. Target not met for Cat 3. 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 111 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS Key Performance Target Type Objective Indicator(s) Target(s) Status Engage with global transportation Target met. Climate change carriers to ensure they have climate reduction targets change reduction targets and/or Drive reductions in programs. Lenovo international Transportation product transport carbon emissions. Conduct transportation GHG Target met. GHG emissions emissions assessment against the assessment Global Logistics Emissions Council (GLEC) framework. FOOTNOTES: 1: An exemption from targets in this area may be requested where the BU can clearly demonstrate achieving the target places the Lenovo product at a large price disadvantage against its competition. 2: For products for which a PAIA tool exists. 3: Availability of PCC plastics can be determined through consultation with Lenovo’s Global Environmental Affairs and/or suppliers on the Lenovo Approved PCC Supplier list. 4: To drive increased usage of PCC, all BUs shall include a requirement for the identification of applications for the use of PCC in MRD and RFI/RFQ. PCC shall be used when technical specifications and cost parity are met. 5: PCC percentage is calculated using EPEAT methodology (i.e., net amount of post-consumer recycled content as percentage of total weight of plastic in product). 6: This goal may be accomplished through energy efficiency, installation of onsite renewable generation, entry into power purchase agreements (PPA) with power providers, and/or the purchase of renewable energy credits and carbon offsets. 7: This goal may be accomplished through, installation of onsite renewable energy generation, entry into power purchase agreements (PPA) with power providers and/or the purchase of renewable energy credits. 8: Percent of nonhazardous solid waste disposed of through reuse, recycle or incineration with energy recovery. 9: Lenovo’s owned and managed EMS sites (manufacturing, R&D) are in scope. 10: The identified countries are based on EPEAT requirements. In countries where the government or other authorities select and approve the end-of-life program processors and in which the manufacturer does not control the selection of initial service providers, this target is N/A. 112 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS FY 2018/19 OBJECTIVES AND TARGETS Product Aspects Target Type Objective Target(s) Support bulk packaging for DCG products and/or options. Support development of reusable rack crate design for servers. Increase use of 100% PCC by 10% based on shipping volumes Minimize packaging material relative to previous year. consumption while driving Packaging the use of environmentally Achieve 5% reduction in weight or volume for at least 1 product. sustainable materials. Identify one new Lenovo product for which to implement use of 100% biodegradable/compostable packaging. Packaging box material recycled content must be at least 60% or greater for all new phone products released in FY 2018/19. New products must show improved energy efficiency relative to the previous generation of the product.1 Enable industry best practices to reduce energy waste and improve efficiency on new MBG products where technically and financially feasible. Identify at least one energy efficiency improvement metric for Drive reduction in product product category by September 30, 2018 in support of development energy use. of science-based targets. Ensure all products are compliant with regulatory requirements and select products are compliant with preferred energy standards. For products requiring IEEE 1680.1 registration, ensure applicable Product Energy product meets Lowest Power Mode limits per the requirements and exceptions allowed in the IEEE 1680.1 standard. Continue to support external development of PCF methodologies and standards through membership and participation in key organizations. Ensure product carbon footprint is published for all new Lenovo Quantify lifecycle CO2e products.2 emissions associated with the use of Lenovo products. Begin calculating PCF for representative sample of newly released servers by January 31, 2018. Perform LCA (life-cycle assessment) for one Lenovo selected product by March 31, 2019. 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 113 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS Target Type Objective Target(s) All newly released DT, AIO, workstation, notebook, tablet, visual and accessory products shall contain a minimum of 2% PCC in product. Explore opportunities for PCC usage for MBG products. All products across all business units shall contain All newly released server products shall contain minimum of 10% some Post-Consumer PCC in external enclosure.6 Recycled Content (PCC) Plastic. Develop and approve PC+ABS closed-loop PCC supplier and material. Explore opportunities for closed-loop usage for desktop all-in-one, Product workstation, notebook, tablet, visual and accessory products Materials1,3,4,5 For products requiring IEEE 1680.1 registration, ensure each plastic part in the product exceeding 25 g shall not contain greater than 1000 ppm chlorine or greater than 1000 ppm bromine at the Sustain technological homogeneous level per the requirements and exceptions allowed in advances and maintain the IEEE 1680.1 standard. portfolio relative to lowhalogen products. Monitor For notebook and desktop products requiring IEEE 1680.1 and respond to market registration, assess flame retardants and plasticizers in plastic requirements in this area. parts > 25 g to GreenScreen Benchmark per the requirements and exceptions allowed in the IEEE 1680.1 standard. Upon customer request make available external PVC-free cable. Location Aspects Reduce Lenovo’s global Scope 1 + Scope 2 GHG emissions by 40% by March 31, 2020, relative to FY 2009/10.7 LME, GRE, LCRE and GEA will establish global action plans to Absolute reduction in CO2e reduce combined Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions by 40% by Site Air Emissions emissions from Lenovo March 31, 2020, relative to FY 2009/10. The plan will be reviewed operations worldwide. and updated annually, at a minimum.7 Evaluate Lenovo’s readiness to establish science-based targets for GHG emissions reduction targets after 2020. Achieve 30MW of Lenovo-owned or leased renewable energy generation capacity globally by 2020. Maximize energy efficiency Achieve a YTY increase in energy purchased from renewable and minimize CO2e generation sources globally, relative to the previous FY.8 Site Energy emissions associated Consumption with the development, manufacture and delivery of Achieve YTY improved energy intensity9 index at manufacturing Lenovo products. sites globally, relative to the previous FY. Achieve YTY improved electricity intensity10 at R&D and office sites globally, relative to the previous FY. 114 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS Target Type Objective Target(s) Minimize environmental Maintain a global nonhazardous waste recycling rate > 90% impacts associated with (+/-5%).11 Waste solid waste generated from Management Lenovo operations and products. Minimize environmental Total global water withdrawal will be +/-5% of FY 2017/18. impacts associated with Water water use and water Total global wastewater generation will be +/-5% of FY 2017/18. Management discharge from Lenovo operations and products. Supply Chain Aspects For geos requiring IEEE 1680.1 product registrations, ensure Provide product recycling requirements for end-of-life processing are met with required programs and recycling documentation in place by end of FY 2018/19. Product related information that End-of-Life meets or exceeds local legal Management Develop and implement standardized reporting format for requirements wherever we do business. identification of materials and components requiring selective treatment for products covered under IEEE 1680.1. Require climate change reduction targets for at least 85% of Lenovo direct suppliers based on procurement spend. Monitor and drive environmental impact Reduce the supplier emission intensity 25% by 2025 relative to a reductions in the Lenovo 2015 base year. supply chain. Supplier Strengthen environmental criteria in Lenovo’s sustainability scorecard Environmental for our suppliers year to year. Performance Complete RBA audits of 90% of identified suppliers on time per Minimize potential Lenovo requirements. environmental impact of Lenovo’s suppliers. Complete Cat 1, 2 and 3 environmental audits per Lenovo requirements. Continue DHL Carbon Dashboard reporting for RoW carriers and share results across GSC to influence MoT decisions, and start Drive reductions in Lenovo collecting and reporting for domestic China deliveries. Transportation international product transport carbon emissions. Drive Tier 1 carriers to reduce carbon emissions by establishing carbon emission reporting process and mechanism (incl. baseline, reduction target, initiatives, actions and tracking mechanism, etc.). 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 115 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS FOOTNOTES: 1. An exemption from targets in this area may be requested where the BU can clearly demonstrate achieving the target places the Lenovo product at a large price disadvantage against its competition or is not technically feasible. 2. For products for which a PAIA tool exists. 3. Availability of PCC plastics can be determined through consultation with Lenovo’s Global Environmental Affairs and/or suppliers on the Lenovo Approved PCC Supplier list. 4. To drive increased usage of PCC, all BUs shall include a requirement for the identification of applications for the use of PCC in MRD and RFI/RFQ. PCC shall be used when technical specifications and cost parity are met. 5. PCC percentage is calculated using EPEAT methodology. 6. If product not being registered to EPEAT, PM2 is N/A. If product is being registered to EPEAT, exemptions allowed per EPEAT requirements. 7. These goals may be accomplished through energy efficiency, installation of onsite renewable generation, entry into power purchase agreements (PPA) with power providers, and/or the purchase of renewable energy credits and carbon offsets. 8. This goal may be accomplished through, installation of onsite renewable energy generation, entry into power purchase agreements (PPA) with power providers and/or the purchase of renewable energy credits. 9. Energy intensity index is energy consumption in kWh per million US$ revenue. 10. Electricity intensity is electricity consumption in kWh per employee. 11. Percent of nonhazardous solid waste disposed of through reuse, recycle or incineration with energy recovery. 116 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 117 APPENDIX 120 Lenovo Reference Documentation 121 Material Topic Boundaries 122 GRI Content Index 134 The U.N. Global Compact 135 Hong Kong Stock Exchange Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Reporting Guide Content Index EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS APPENDIX LENOVO REFERENCE DOCUMENTATION Lenovo has posted extensive sustainability information on its website. Below are hyperlinks to some of those pages. If you are reading this as Lenovo Sustainability Web Pages a printed document, you may get to these links • Product: www.lenovo.com/us/en/social_ by opening this Sustainability Report on Lenovo’s responsibility/product/ website at www.lenovo.com/sustainability. Lenovo › Think Green Products — Energy: maintains current copies of many of the policies, www.lenovo.com/energy certifications, verification statements and other › Think Green Products — Materials: documents mentioned in this report online. Please www.lenovo.com/materials visit https://www.lenovo.com/us/en/social_ › Think Green Products — Packaging: responsibility/social_responsibility_resources/ to www.lenovo.com/packaging access these resources. › Think Green Products — Recycling: www.lenovo.com/recycling › Compliance Information: www.lenovo.com/compliance › Accessibility Information: www.lenovo.com/accessibility • Environment: www.lenovo.com/environment › Think Green — Climate: www.lenovo.com/climate › Think Green — Waste and Water: www.lenovo.com/waterandwaste • Social: www.lenovo.com/csr • Global Supply Chain: www.lenovo.com/supply_chain • Sustainability Reports: www.lenovo.com/sustainability 120 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS MATERIAL TOPIC BOUNDARIES Note: This Material Topic Boundaries table includes references to Lenovo’s FY 2017/18 Annual Report Stakeholders Especially Lenovo Materiality Topic Why Topic Is Material Impacted (see stakeholder list Relationship to on page 14) Impact Employees, shareholders Lenovo FY 2017/18 Annual Report: and investors, customers, Direct and Business Ethics p 124 communities in which we indirect operate, suppliers Climate Change (emissions) www.lenovo.com/climate All Direct Communities in which we Community Outreach www.lenovo.com/social_investments Direct operate Lenovo FY 2017/18 Annual Report: Corporate Governance Shareholders and investors Direct pp 49, 123 Communities in which we Digital Inclusion www.lenovo.com/social_investments Indirect operate, customers Diversity and Equal p 57 Employees Direct Opportunity Lenovo FY 2017/18 Annual Report: Employees, shareholders and Economic Performance Direct p 123 investors, suppliers Communities in which we Energy Use pp 73-76 Direct operate Environmental Management Communities in which we www.lenovo.com/environment Direct System operate, customers Human Rights pp 47, 56-57 Employees, suppliers Direct Labor Standards and pp 56-57 Employees Direct Practices Communities in which we Packaging p 94 Direct operate, customers Communities in which we Philanthropy/Disaster Relief www.lenovo.com/social_investments Indirect operate Privacy p 26 Customers, employees Direct Procurement Practices pp 44-46 Suppliers Direct Product End-of-Life Customers, communities in p 96 Direct Management which we operate Customers, communities in Product Energy Use p 91 Direct which we operate Customers, communities in Product Materials www.lenovo.com/materials Direct which we operate Product Responsibility pp 30-34 Customers Direct Supply Chain Environmental Communities in which we www.lenovo.com/supply_chain Indirect Performance operate Supply Chain Labor Communities in which we www.lenovo.com/supply_chain Indirect Practices operate Lenovo FY 2017/18 Annual Report: Talent Management Employees Direct pp 33-34 Customers, communities in Transportation pp 76-77 Direct which we operate Communities in which we Waste www.lenovo.com/waterandwaste Direct operate Communities in which we Water Use www.lenovo.com/waterandwaste Direct operate 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 121 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS GRI CONTENT INDEX Note: Our GRI Content Index below includes references to Lenovo’s FY 2017/18 Annual Report. General Disclosures Disclosure Response Reason for Omission GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 Organizational profile 102–1 Name of the organization Lenovo Group Limited 102–2 Activities, brands, products, and Lenovo, Motorola, Medion, services System x, NEC-PC, Stoneware, LenovoEMC 102–3 Location of headquarters p 12 102–4 Location of operations p 12 102–5 Ownership and legal form Lenovo FY17/18 Annual Report: p 173 102–6 Markets served Lenovo FY17/18 Annual Report: pp 5, 16-23 102–7 Scale of the organization pp 102-103 102–8 Information on employees and other p 103 workers 102–9 Supply chain pp 44-52 102–10 Significant changes to the No significant changes during organization and its supply chain the reporting period. 102–11 Precautionary Principle or approach pp 89-90 102–12 External initiatives pp 16, 40, 72-73, 76, 121 102–13 Membership of associations p 72 Strategy 102–14 Statement from senior decision-maker p 7 Ethics and integrity 102–16 Values, principles, standards, and pp 23-24, 56-57 norms of behavior 102–17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns p 25 about ethics 122 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS General Disclosures Disclosure Response Reason for Omission Governance 102–18 Governance structure pp 20-21, Lenovo FY17/18 Annual Report: pp 49-50 102–19 Delegating authority p 22 102–20 Executive-level responsibility for p 22 economic, environmental, and social topics 102–21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, pp 22-23 environmental, and social topics 102–22 Composition of the highest pp 20-21, Lenovo FY17/18 Annual governance body and its committees Report: pp 51-53, 72-73 102–23 Chair of the highest governance body p 7 102–24 Nominating and selecting the highest Lenovo FY17/18 Annual Report: governance body pp 54-55 102–25 Conflicts of interest p 22, Lenovo FY17/18 Annual Report: p 58 102–26 Role of highest governance body in p 22 setting purpose, values, and strategy 102–27 Collective knowledge of highest Lenovo FY17/18 Annual Report: governance body pp 60-61 102–28 Evaluating the highest governance Lenovo FY17/18 Annual Report: body’s performance p 78 102–29 Identifying and managing economic, p 22 environmental, and social impacts 102–30 Effectiveness of risk management Lenovo FY17/18 Annual Report: processes pp 81-82 102–31 Review of economic, environmental, p 22 and social topics 102–32 Highest governance body’s role in p 22 sustainability reporting 102–33 Communicating critical concerns p 23, Lenovo FY17/18 Annual Report: p 67-68 102–35 Remuneration policies Lenovo FY17/18 Annual Report pp 110-122 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 123 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS General Disclosures Disclosure Response Reason for Omission Stakeholder engagement 102–40 List of stakeholder groups pp 14-15 102–41 Collective bargaining agreements p 56 102–42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders pp 14-15 102–43 Approach to stakeholder engagement pp 14-15 102–44 Key topics and concerns raised pp 14-15 Reporting practice 102–45 Entities included in the consolidated p 12 financial statements 102–46 Defining report content and topic pp 12-13 Boundaries 102–47 List of material topics p 14 102–48 Restatements of information p 107 102–49 Changes in reporting p 13 102–50 Reporting period p 12 102–51 Date of most recent report p 12 102–52 Reporting cycle p 12 102–53 Contact point for questions regarding p 13 the report 102–54 Claims of reporting in accordance p 12 with the GRI Standards 102–55 GRI content index pp 122-129 102–56 External assurance pp 82, 85, 86 124 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS Material Topic Disclosures Disclosure Response Reason for Omission GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and p 121 its Boundary 103–2 The management approach and its Lenovo FY17/18 Annual Report: components pp 16-34 103–3 Evaluation of the management Lenovo FY17/18 Annual Report: approach pp 16-34 201–1 Direct economic value generated and p 102, Lenovo FY17/18 Annual distributed Report: pp 4, 215, 218 201–2 Financial implications and other risks pp 75-76 and opportunities due to climate change GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and p 121 its Boundary 103–2 The management approach and its p 63 components 103–3 Evaluation of the management p 63 approach 203–2 Significant indirect economic impacts pp 64-66, 104 GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and p 121 its Boundary 103–2 The management approach and its p 52 components 103–3 Evaluation of the management p 52 approach 204–1 Proportion of spending on local p 52 suppliers GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and p 121 its Boundary 103–2 The management approach and its p 24 components 103–3 Evaluation of the management p 24 approach 205–1 Operations assessed for risks related p 24 to corruption 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 125 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS Material Topic Disclosures Disclosure Response Reason for Omission GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and p 121 its Boundary 103–2 The management approach and its p 24 components 103–3 Evaluation of the management p 24 approach 206–1 Legal actions for anti-competitive p 24 behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices GRI 301: Materials 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and p 121 its Boundary 103–2 The management approach and its pp 87-90 components 103–3 Evaluation of the management pp 87-90 approach 301–1 Materials used by weight or volume Confidentiality Constraints — Lenovo chooses not to disclose materials used by weight or volume due to concerns about confidentiality related to our manufacturing and development processes. 301–2 Recycled input materials used Confidentiality Constraints — Lenovo chooses not to disclose materials used by weight or volume due to concerns about confidentiality related to our manufacturing and development processes. 126 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS Material Topic Disclosures Disclosure Response Reason for Omission GRI 302: Energy 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and p 121 its Boundary 103–2 The management approach and its pp 70-76 components 103–3 Evaluation of the management pp 70-76 approach 302–1 Energy consumption within the p 78 organization 302–4 Reduction of energy consumption pp 76-77, 87, 94 GRI 303: Water 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and p 121 its Boundary 103–2 The management approach and its pp 70-72, 85 components 103–3 Evaluation of the management pp 70-72, 85 approach 303–1 Water withdrawal by source p 85 303–2 Water sources significantly affected p 85 by withdrawal of water 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 127 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS Material Topic Disclosures Disclosure Response Reason for Omission GRI 305: Emissions 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and p 121 its Boundary 103–2 The management approach and its pp 70-76 components 103–3 Evaluation of the management pp 70-76 approach 305–1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions pp 79, 105 305–2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG pp 79, 105 emissions 305–3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG pp 80, 105 emissions 305–4 GHG emissions intensity p 105 305–5 Reduction of GHG emissions pp 76-77, 87, 94 305–6 Emissions of ozone-depleting Not Applicable — substances (ODS) Lenovo does not manufacture, import or export ozonedepleting substances. Lenovo prohibits the use of ozonedepleting substances in our products and manufacturing processes except in HVAC and firesuppression equipment as permitted by law. 305–7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides Not Applicable — With (SOx), and other significant air emissions the exception of CO2e related to energy use, Lenovo does not have any significant discharges or emissions to air or water. Lenovo has no wet chemical or industrial processes that use volatile organic compounds (VOC) and thus has no point sources of VOC. 128 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS Material Topic Disclosures Disclosure Response Reason for Omission GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and p 121 its Boundary 103–2 The management approach and its pp 70-72, 84-86 components 103–3 Evaluation of the management pp 70-72 approach 306–1 Water discharge by quality and p 85 destination 306–2 Waste by type and disposal method pp 84-85 306–3 Significant spills pp 85-86 306–4 Transport of hazardous waste p 85 306–5 Water bodies affected by water p 85 discharges and/or runoff GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and p 121 its Boundary 103–2 The management approach and its pp 70-72 components 103–3 Evaluation of the management pp 70-72 approach 307–1 Non-compliance with environmental Lenovo FY17/18 Annual Report: laws and regulations p 32 GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and p 121 its Boundary 103–2 The management approach and its pp 49-50 components 103–3 Evaluation of the management pp 50-51 approach 308–1 New suppliers that were screened p 49 using environmental criteria 308–2 Negative environmental impacts in pp 50-51 the supply chain and actions taken 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 129 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS Material Topic Disclosures Disclosure Response Reason for Omission GRI 401: Employment 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and p 121 its Boundary 103–2 The management approach and its pp 56-61 components 103–3 Evaluation of the management pp 58-61 approach 401–2 Benefits provided to full-time pp 58-61 employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and p 121 its Boundary 103–2 The management approach and its pp 40-42 components 103–3 Evaluation of the management pp 40-43 approach 403–2 Types of injury and rates of injury, p 103 occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 403–3 Workers with high incidence or high pp 40-42 risk of diseases related to their occupation GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and p 121 its Boundary 103–2 The management approach and its pp 41-42, 61 components 103–3 Evaluation of the management pp 41-42, 61 approach 404–1 Average hours of training per year per p 61 employee 404–2 Programs for upgrading employee p 61 skills and transition assistance programs 404–3 Percentage of employees receiving p 58 regular performance and career development reviews 130 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS Material Topic Disclosures Disclosure Response Reason for Omission GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and p 121 its Boundary 103–2 The management approach and its pp 52, 57 components 103–3 Evaluation of the management pp 52, 57 approach 405–1 Diversity of governance bodies and Lenovo FY17/18 Annual Report: employees p 52 GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and p 121 its Boundary 103–2 The management approach and its pp 24, 47-48, 56-57 components 103–3 Evaluation of the management pp 50-51 approach 408–1 Operations and suppliers at significant pp 59-63 risk for incidents of child labor GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and p 121 its Boundary 103–2 The management approach and its pp 24, 47-48, 56-57 components 103–3 Evaluation of the management pp 50-51 approach 409–1 Operations and suppliers at significant pp 59-63 risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 131 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS Material Topic Disclosures Disclosure Response Reason for Omission GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and p 121 its Boundary 103–2 The management approach and its pp 24, 57 components 103–3 Evaluation of the management pp 24, 57 approach 412–2 Employee training on human rights p 24 policies or procedures 412–3 Significant investment agreements and p 45 contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and p 121 its Boundary 103–2 The management approach and its pp 44-48 components 103–3 Evaluation of the management pp 44-48 approach 414–1 New suppliers that were screened pp 50-51 using social criteria GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and p 121 its Boundary 103–2 The management approach and its pp 32-33 components 103–3 Evaluation of the management pp 32-33 approach 416–2 Incidents of non-compliance p 33 concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services 132 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS Material Topic Disclosures Disclosure Response Reason for Omission GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and p 121 its Boundary 103–2 The management approach and its pp 24, 34, 70-72 components 103–3 Evaluation of the management pp 24, 34, 70-72 approach 417–1 Requirements for product and service pp 34, 70-72 information and labeling GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and p 121 its Boundary 103–2 The management approach and its p 26 components 103–3 Evaluation of the management p 26 approach 418–1 Substantiated complaints concerning Lenovo is vigilant about breaches of customer privacy and losses of investigating possible leaks, customer data thefts, or losses of customer data. During FY 2017/18, no customer data incident rose to the level of notification to individuals or authorities 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 133 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS THE U.N. GLOBAL COMPACT The U.N. Global Compact is a public-private ENVIRONMENT strategic policy initiative for businesses committed • Principle 7: Businesses should support a to aligning operations and strategies with ten precautionary approach to environmental universally accepted principles in the areas of challenges [see pages 89-90]; human rights, labor, environment, and anticorruption. Lenovo became a signatory to the U.N. • Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote Global Compact in 2009 and our Chairman and greater environmental responsibility [see CEO, Yang Yuanqing, continues to fully endorse pages 70-99, 109-116]; and and support its principles. • Principle 9: encourage the development This report serves as Lenovo’s 2017/18 and diffusion of environmentally friendly Communication on Progress. technologies [see pages 34-36, 74-75, 87-88, 91-94]. HUMAN RIGHTS • Principle 1: Businesses should support and ANTI-CORRUPTION respect the protection of internationally • Principle 10: Businesses should work against proclaimed human rights [see pages 23-25, corruption in all its forms, including extortion 44-52, 56-57]; and and bribery [see pages 23-25, 44-47, 50-51]. • Principle 2: make sure that they are not Click here to see Lenovo’s UN Global Compact complicit in human rights abuses [see pages Participant Information: 24-25, 44-52, 56-57]. https://www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/ participants/6103-Lenovo LABOR • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining [see pages 56-57]; • Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor [see pages 2425, 44-52, 56-57]; • Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor [see pages 23-25, 44-52, 56-57]; and • Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation [see pages 52, 57-58]. 134 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS HONG KONG STOCK EXCHANGE ESG REPORTING GUIDE CONTENT INDEX Page General Disclosures and KPIs Comments/Explanation If Not Reported Numbers Environmental Aspect A1: Emissions Information on: (a) the policies; and See also: (b) compliance with relevant laws and regulations https://www.lenovo.com/us/en/social_ General that have a significant impact on the issuer 70-86 responsibility/climate_policy/ Disclosure relating to air and greenhouse gas emissions, https://www.lenovo.com/us/en/social_ discharges into water and land, and generation of responsibility/environmental_policy/ hazardous and nonhazardous waste 79-80, The types of emissions and respective emissions KPI A1.1 84-86, data 105-106 Greenhouse gas emissions in total and, where KPI A1.2 79-80, 105 appropriate, intensity Total hazardous waste produced and, where KPI A1.3 85, 106 appropriate, intensity Total nonhazardous waste produced and, where KPI A1.4 84, 106 appropriate, intensity 36, 49, Description of measures to mitigate emissions and 73-86, KPI A1.5 results achieved 110-112, 114-115 Description of how hazardous and nonhazardous 84-85, KPI A1.6 wastes are handled, reduction initiatives and results 111, 115 achieved Aspect A2: Use of Resources 70-75, See also: General Policies on the efficient use of resources, including 85, 87-88, https://www.lenovo.com/us/en/social_ disclosure energy, water and other raw materials 91-92, 94 responsibility/environmental_policy/ Direct and/or indirect energy consumption by type KPI A2.1 78, 105-106 in total and intensity KPI A2.2 Water consumption in total and intensity 85, 106 74-77, Description of energy use efficiency initiatives and KPI A2.3 91-93, 109, results achieved 111-115, Description of whether there is any issue in KPI A2.4 sourcing water that is fit for purpose, water 85 efficiency initiatives and results achieved Lenovo does not report total packaging materials used for finished products, rather Lenovo tracks packaging on a per product basis and reports examples of accomplishments. Tracking on a per product basis allows Lenovo to drive improvements in generation-to-generation product packaging designs resulting in Total packaging material used for finished products quantifiable environmental benefits. The KPI A2.5 and, if applicable, with reference to per unit 94-95 amount of total packaging used would be produced mainly dependent on sales volumes, so it is not the most appropriate metric for Lenovo to use to drive real improvements in packaging design. By setting our packaging improvement goals at the product level, we are able to drive and measure improvements in design that are not dependent on overall product sales volumes. 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 135 EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS Page General Disclosures and KPIs Comments/Explanation If Not Reported Numbers Aspect A3: The Environment and Natural Resources See also: General Policies on minimising the issuer’s significant 70-72 https://www.lenovo.com/us/en/social_ disclosure impact on the environment and natural resources responsibility/environmental_policy/ Description of the significant impacts of activities KPI A3.1 on the environment and natural resources and the 73-86 actions taken to manage them Social Employment and Labour Practices Aspect B1: Employment Information on: (a) the policies; and (b) compliance with relevant laws and regulations General that have a significant impact on the issuer 56-62 Disclosure relating to compensation and dismissal, recruitment and promotion, working hours, rest periods, equal opportunity, diversity, anti-discrimination, and other benefits and welfare Total workforce by gender, employment type, age KPI B1.1 103 group and geographical region Employee turnover rate by gender, age group and KPI B1.2 Lenovo does not report this information. geographical region Aspect B2: Health and Safety Information on: (a) the policies; and (b) compliance with relevant laws and regulations See also: General that have a significant impact on the issuer 40-43, 60 https://www.lenovo.com/us/en/LenovoDisclosure relating to providing a safe working environment Health-and-Safety-Policy.pdf and protecting employees from occupational hazards KPI B2.1 Number and rate of work-related fatalities 103 KPI B2.2 Lost days due to work injury 103 Description of occupational health and safety KPI B2.3 measures adopted, how they are implemented and 40-43 monitored Aspect B3: Development and Training Policies on improving employees’ knowledge and General skills for discharging duties at work; description of 41-42, 61 disclosure training activities The percentage of employees trained by gender Lenovo does not roll up gender and employee KPI B3.1 and employee category category training data on a global level. The average training hours completed per Lenovo does not roll up gender and employee KPI B3.2 61 employee by gender and employee category category training data on a global level. Aspect B4: Labour Standards Information on: (a) the policies; and 23-25, 40, General (b) compliance with relevant laws and regulations 44-49, disclosure that have a significant impact on the issuer 56-57 relating to preventing child and forced labour 23-25, Description of measures to review employment KPI B4.1 39-44, practices to avoid child and forced labour 44-49, 51 24, 45-47, Description of steps taken to eliminate such KPI B4.2 50-51, practices when discovered. 56-57 136 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report EXECUTIVE INTEGRATING PRACTICING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING PEOPLE PLANET CONSOLIDATED APPENDIX LETTERS SUSTAINABILITY ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUPPLY METRICS, BUSINESS CHAIN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS AND TARGETS Page General Disclosures and KPIs Comments/Explanation If Not Reported Numbers Operating Practices Aspect B5: Supply Chain Management General Policies on managing environmental and social 44-52 Disclosure risks of the supply chain See: KPI B5.1 Number of suppliers by geographical region https://www.lenovo.com/us/en/social_ responsibility/supplier-list.pdf Description of practices relating to engaging suppliers, number of suppliers where the practices KPI B5.2 44-52 are being implemented, how they are implemented and monitored Aspect B6: Product Responsibility Information on: (a) the policies; and (b) compliance with relevant laws and regulations General 23-25, that have a significant impact on the issuer Disclosure 30-34 relating to health and safety, advertising, labelling and privacy matters relating to products and services provided and methods of redress Percentage of total products sold or shipped KPI B6.1 33 subject to recalls for safety and health reasons Number of products and service related complaints Lenovo does not roll up productand KPI B6.2 32-33 received and how they are dealt with service-related complaints on a global level. Description of practices relating to observing and KPI B6.3 24 protecting intellectual property rights Description of quality assurance process and recall KPI B6.4 30-32 procedures Description of consumer data protection and KPI B6.5 privacy policies, how they are implemented and 26 monitored Aspect B7: Anti-corruption Information on: (a) the policies; and General (b) compliance with relevant laws and regulations 24 Disclosure that have a significant impact on the issuer relating to bribery, extortion, fraud and money laundering Number of concluded legal cases regarding corrupt practices brought against the issuer or its KPI B7.1 Lenovo does not report this information. employees during the reporting period and the outcomes of the cases Description of preventive measures and whistleKPI B7.2 blowing procedures, how they are implemented 25 and monitored Community Aspect B8: Community Investment Policies on community engagement to understand General the needs of the communities where the issuer 63 Disclosure operates and to ensure its activities take into consideration the communities’ interests KPI B8.1 Focus areas of contribution 63-66 KPI B8.2 Resources contribute to the focus area 104 2017/18 Lenovo Sustainability Report 137 www.lenovo.com
