Corporate Responsibility 2017 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress About this report This report constitutes The report covers the Group’s five Danske Bank Group’s main business units and activities in our core markets. In order to give a balCommunication on Progress anced overview of corporate responsito the UN Global Compact bility matters related to our business, and covers the financial we assess and report on material issues (see p. 9). year 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017. With To ensure data consistency, data have this document, we fulfil the been defined and described in business procedures. Internal control procedures requirements regarding have been established to ensure that the management’s report of data are reported according to the sections 135a and b of the definitions outlined in our Corporate Danish Executive Order on Responsibility Reporting Principles, which are available at danskebank. Financial Reports for Credit com/responsibility. We engaged Institutions and Investment Deloitte to verify selected performance Companies, etc. data according to the ISAE 3000 assurance standard and include the independent assurance report on p. 35. Danske Bank Group’s annual reporting suite for 2017 includes Annual Report 2017, Risk Management 2017 and this report. We present detailed and segmented data on corporate responsibility issues in our Corporate Responsibility Fact Book 2017 and issue a Statement on Modern Slavery Act 2017 and a Statement on Carbon Neutrality 2017, all available at danskebank.com/responsibility. We value feedback and welcome any comments or suggestions you might have to this report and our perform­­an­ce, which can help us improve our reporting. Please contact Dorte Eckhoff, Head of Corporate Responsibility, at deck@danskebank.dk. danskebank.com/responsibility www.danskebank.com/responsibility Contents 04 Foreword by CEO Thomas F. Borgen BUSINESS AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STRATEGY 06 Our business at a glance 08 Our Corporate Responsibility Strategy 10 Governance and compliance as business enablers STRATEGIC THEMES 12 Fostering financial confidence at an early age 14 Supporting startups and growth companies 16 Accessible finance for everyone CORE BUSINESS: CONTRIBUTING TO SOCIETY 18 Creating long-term value 20 Engaging with our stakeholders 21 Corporate volunteering and charity CORE BUSINESS: RESPONSIBLE CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS 22 Responsible business conduct 24 Fighting financial crime 25 Keeping our customers safe 26 Sustainable finance CORE BUSINESS: RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER 28 New engagement and diversity ambitions CORE BUSINESS: ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT 30 Limiting carbon emissions CORE BUSINESS: RESPONSIBLE SUPPLIER RELATIONSHIPS 32 A risk-based approach to sourcing 34 Key performance indicators 35 Independent auditor’s assurance report 4 Corporate Responsibility 2017 Foreword by CEO Thomas F. Borgen Corporate Responsibility 2017 5 Dear reader, Danske Bank is the largest financial Contributing to the SDGs services provider in Denmark and one 2017 marked the ten-year anniversary of the largest financial institutions of Danske Bank becoming a signatory in the Nordic region. We recognise to the UN Global Compact, and we that we have a special responsibility continue to support these principles because of our size and impact on the for responsible business conduct. We Nordic economies. Part of our role and support the UN’s 2030 Agenda for responsibility is to be a solid, balanced Sustainable Development and contrib­ and predictable bank that contributes to ute to a number of the 17 Sustainable financial stability and economic growth. Development Goals (SDGs). We have chosen to advance the “Quality EducaSustainable finance tion” and “Decent Work and Economic We play a fundamental role in society Growth” goals in particular. By fostering by lending money to people and busi­ financial confidence in the younger ness­es and investing capital on behalf of generation and supporting startups in our customers to achieve good risk-adtheir growth ambitions, we use our deep justed returns. Integrating sustainability financial competencies for the benefit of perspectives in these activities is both the societies we are part of. an opportunity and a responsibility. We want to conduct our business in The demand for sustainable finance a way that creates opportunities for continues to grow, and the Nordic councurrent and future generations. We tries stand out as global leaders in this have a solid foundation, and we want field. We are seeing substantial interest to strengthen our positive impact on in our European Corporate Sustainable society even further. In 2017, we Bond Fund, and the demand for green initiated this work, and we will launch bonds continues to rise. In 2017, a new strategic approach to corporate we increased our ambition level and responsibility in 2018. strengthened our position on responsible investments, and in 2018, we will Corporate responsibility is a genuine further develop our lending approach. commitment and an explicit choice for Danske Bank. I believe that businesses Fighting financial crime that act responsibly create the best We play a key role in the fight against long-term value for all stakeholders. money laundering and the financing of criminal activities. These issues are high on the agenda at Danske Bank, and in 2017, they became the subject of attention because of potential money laundering activities at our Estonian branch in the period from 2007 to 2015. Both the Board of Directors and Thomas F. Borgen the Executive Board take this very seriChief Executive Officer ously, and in collaboration with external of Danske Bank experts, we have launched investigations into the matter. In recent years, we have substantially strengthened our efforts to combat money laundering and other criminal financial activities. In 2017, we focused on enhancing the processes for both customer onboarding and ongoing due diligence, transaction monitoring and training of our employees. It is imperative to me that our stakeholders are confident that we do our utmost to prevent criminals from misusing our systems. BUSINESS AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STRATEGY Our business at a glance Danske Bank Group is a Nordic universal bank with strong local roots and bridges to the world. For more than 145 years, we have provided banking services for people and businesses by building on our deep financial competence and developing leading, innovative solutions. Danske Bank’s vision is to be recognised as the The Essence of Danske Bank is the foundation on which most trusted financial partner. We focus on providing we build our business across units and countries. proactive and holistic advisory services and products, It defines who we are, how we create value for our setting high standards for customer relations and customers, and what our values are. employee engagement, conducting our business in a responsible and transparent manner, and making our expertise available for the benefit of the societies we are part of. The Essence of Danske Bank Vision Core values To be recognised as the most trusted financial partner We deliver expertise – make knowledge relevant Strategic core We act with integrity – be responsible We are a modern bank for people and businesses across the Nordics with deep financial competence and leading, We create value – make a difference innovative solutions We progress through agility – embrace change and be responsive Customer promise We help customers be financially confident and achieve We believe in collaboration – engage, listen and act their ambitions by making daily banking and important financial decisions easy Aspirations framework No. 1 in customer experience Our aspirations framework provides a clear picture of what we want to achieve and how. Our aspirations are interlinked and support each other: Delivering a leading customer experience requires committed and engaged employees. A best-in-class customer experience will drive customer loyalty and growth. This will create shareholder value and allow us to build a strong Trust and strong position position in society. in society More insights Find more details on our financial performance, market positions and Employee Shareholder business strategy in our Annual Report 2017 and our quarterly finanengagement value cial fact books, which are available at danskebank.com. Corporate Responsibility 2017 7 Our global presence Our core markets are Denmark, Norway, Sweden Norway and Finland, and we also operate in Northern Ireland, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. We have additional offices in several other European countries, the US, China and Russia as well as support functions in Finland India. Sweden Denmark KEY FIGURES 2017 SERVING OUR CUSTOMERS THROUGH FIVE BUSINESS UNITS IN 2017 DKK 48.1 billion Personal Banking serves our personal customers with the ambition to help our customers be financially confident and achieve their ambitions by making daily Total income in 2017 banking and important financial decisions easy. 2,682,000 4,517 DKK 5.2 billion DKK 26.3 billion Customers Employees Profit before tax Profit before tax in 2017 Business Banking serves small and medium-sized businesses. The unit 13.6% offers leading solutions within financing, investing, cash management and risk management with the aim of making banking with us easier and more efficient Return on avg. shareholders’ across the Nordics. The ambition is to deliver the best customer experience on equity in 2017 the basis of a strong value proposition and an increasingly digitalised service and delivery model. DKK 5.3 million 231,000 Customers 2,625 Employees DKK 8 billion Profit before tax Customers, end-2017 Corporates & Institutions serves large Nordic corporate and institutional Good position customers. This unit offers strategic advice, financial solutions and products in most markets within Capital Markets, Fixed Income, Currencies and Commodities and Transaction Banking with the aim of delivering the best customer experience Customer satisfaction through relevant and competitive offerings and by making banking with us easier. 1,907 1,808 DKK 6.4 billion 19,768 Customers Employees Profit before tax Full-time employees, end-2017 Wealth Management combines competencies within investments, pensions and insurance to provide services that are a key part of our financial offering to 85.4% all our customers across the Group and with the aspiration of making the lives of our customers better. Employee engagement score 64,000 1,851 DKK 4.6 billion Customers* Employees Profit before tax Northern Ireland serves personal and business customers through leading digital channels and a network of branches in Northern Ireland. 429,000 1,260 DKK 1.3 billion Customers Employees Profit before tax In addition to our five main business units, we offer mortgage finance through Realkredit Danmark, real estate brokerage through “home”, and leasing through Nordania Leasing. * Private Banking customers only. BUSINESS AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STRATEGY Our Corporate Responsibility Strategy Our Corporate Responsibility Strategy supports our vision to become the most trusted financial partner. The strategy sets the direction for how we will build financial confidence, improve access to financial services and integrate corporate responsibility in our core business. Our Corporate Responsibility Strategy in our core business is key in ensuring sets forth two strategic themes and that we manage our impact on society International commitments five focus areas to integrate corporate and align our activities with international In our Corporate Responsibility responsibility in our core business. commitments and stakeholder expecStrategy and Responsibility Policy, Our two strategic themes, “Fostering tations. we recognise the importance of financial confidence” and “Accessible supporting international commitfinance for everyone, every day”, are Contributing to the SDGs ments that assist businesses in particularly important because of our The financial sector plays an essential operating responsibly, and we role in society and in the financial sector. role in supporting the UN’s Sustainable endorse: We help build financial confidence in the Development Goals (SDGs) by the next generations and in startups and way it allocates capital. We contribute • UN Global Compact growth companies, ensure a responsible to a variety of the SDGs through our • OECD Guidelines for Multina­ transition to future financial services Corporate Responsibility Strategy, and tional Enterprises and develop innovative products and we have so far chosen to align our • UN Guiding Principles on Busiservices that are accessible, easy to use strategic themes with the SDGs by ness and Human Rights and secure. focusing on quality education, decent • UN-supported Principles for work and economic growth through Responsible Investment In our core business, our five focus aregoals No. 4 and 8. Annual targets for • UN Environment Programme as are: contributing to society, fostering our contribution towards the goals are Finance Initiative responsible customer relationships, bereported on pp. 13 and 14. • Universal Declaration of Human ing a responsible employer, reducing our Rights environmental footprint, and ensuring Strengthening our impact on society • ILO Declaration of Fundamental responsible supplier relationships. The We have always recognised that our Principles of Rights at Work integration of corporate responsibility position in society carries a special Corporate Responsibility Strategy 2015–18 The Essence of Danske Bank Foundation Our vision, strategic core, customer promise and core values Our role Contributing to financial stability and economic growth Strategic Fostering Accessible finance themes financial confidence for everyone, every day Responsible Responsible CR in core Contributing Responsible Environmental customer supplier business to society relationships employer footprint relationships Corporate responsibility governance, policies and reporting We have a dynamic strategy to be able to accommodate new developments and the needs of our business units and local markets. In 2016, we aligned the strategy with the SDGs, and Danica Pension added health as a third strategic theme. Corporate Responsibility 2017 9 responsibility. As one of the major which we deemed to be of material Our most material issues are: banking groups in the Nordics, we are a importance in 2017 and therefore mirror of our customers and the socieincluded in this year’s report. These are • Financial stability ties we are part of. issues that may affect stakeholders’ • Financial crime opinions and decisions about Danske • IT security and fraud We want to further strengthen our posBank as well as issues that represent a • Responsible tax itive impact on society by contributing significant business risk or opportunity • Anti-corruption to sustainability and prosperity and the for us. We monitor developments • Transparency, governance and success of future generations. In 2017, through stakeholder surveys and compliance we initiated this work, which includes dialogue, market research and ongoing • Responsible customer advice input from stakeholders on their needs business insights. The way we address • Access to financial services and expectations. We plan to launch the issues and associated potential • Responsible investments a new strategic approach to corporate risks for our business or society is • Financial literacy responsibility in 2018. described in our strategic and core • Supporting SMEs, entrepreneurs business themes. and startups Assessing materiality The materiality matrix offers a snapshot We see human rights and climate of the corporate responsibility issues change as overarching themes, which are addressed in the individual issues. Assessing materiality in 2017 Importance to stakeholders Financial Financial stability Financial crime stability Anti-corruption IT security and fraud Anti-corruption Responsible tax Responsible Transparency, governance customer advice and compliance Supporting Responsible tax Responsible customer economicadvice growth Responsible procurement Transparency, Governance & Compliance Access to financial services Diversity and inclusion Financial literacy Access to investments Responsible financial services Responsible procurement Diversity and Responsible inclusion Human and labour rights IT security Contribute to education Supporting SMEs, entrepreneurs lending and startupsResponsible investments Local community support Job creation Corporate volunteering Financial crime Sustainable products Supporting economic growth Supporting SMEs, entrepreneurs & startsups and services Sustainable products and services Responsible lending Local community support NGO support Employee health and well-being and donations Reducing own environmental footprint Corporate volunteering Employee health and well-being NGO support and donations Reducing own environmental footprint Job creation Importance to business BUSINESS AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STRATEGY Governance and compliance as business enablers Our Business Integrity Board oversees the implementation of our Corporate Responsibility Strategy, and through our framework of policies and procedures, we address key corporate responsibility risks and outline the way we conduct our business. Compliance is a shared responsibility for 2014. The Business Integrity Board is decisions on corporate responsibility. everyone at Danske Bank, and it is an chaired by CEO Thomas F. Borgen and Our Corporate Responsibility function integrated element of our daily business is made up of the members of the Excoordinates the implementation of the operations. We are building a strong ecutive Board and representatives from Board’s decisions, tracks progress on compliance culture with a robust govbusiness areas and staff functions. The the strategy and is responsible for our ernance setup. Our objective is to make purpose of the Business Integrity Board annual reporting on corporate responcompliance a business enabler in order is to set the direction for and develop sibility. to ensure a solid customer experience. our Corporate Responsibility Strategy and related policies and to oversee their Corporate responsibility risks Governing corporate responsibility implementation. and impacts We have a two-tier management strucEffective risk management is a preconture with a Board of Directors and an In 2017, the Business Integrity Board dition for running a responsible and profExecutive Board. The Board of Directors held four meetings discussing the itable business. Our Board of Directors receives annual updates on our corambitions for our new responsible approves the overall business model, porate responsibility performance and investment strategy and diversity and risk profile and strategy. In addition, activities and has final approval of our inclusion targets and initiatives, among the Executive Board and the Board of DiResponsibility Policy. other things. The Board also initiated rectors receive regular reporting on and discussions on our new strategic apmonitor our main risks. Our governance setup enhances transproach to corporate responsibility. parency and accountability and includes In addition to the Business Integrity Our Corporate Responsibility Strategy the Business Integrity Board, which was Board, we have a number of local comand Responsibility Policy address the established by our Executive Board in mittees and boards that drive day-to-day key corporate responsibility risks and Corporate Responsibility 2017 11 Business Integrity Board Board of Directors Decision-making Executive Board Business Integrity Board Implementation Business units and Group functions The Business Integrity Board is chaired by our CEO, Thomas F. Borgen. impacts across our business, and we prices, fraud or failure to comply with report on our policies, activities and applicable regulation, laws or internal performance in this report. Our key corstandards, they can easily report their porate responsibility risks are identified concerns anonymously. Our whistleannually as part of our materiality asblowing mechanism includes a mandasessment process, which is described tory whistleblowing eLearning course Relevant policies on p. 9. for all employees. Group policies of specific relevance to our corporate responsibility In addition to our policies, we have a Our Whistleblowing Policy and mechainclude: number of procedures that support us nism were updated in 2017. Following in identifying and addressing corporate the update and an internal awareness • Anti-Money Laundering (AML), responsibility risks and impacts. campaign, we saw an increase in the Counter-Terrorist Financing (CTF) number of concerns raised. This shows and Sanctions Policy Reporting wrongdoing that our employees trust the mecha• Code of Conduct Policy If our employees become aware of incinism, and we thus consider it a positive • Credit Policy dents of non-compliance or wrongdoing, development. • Diversity and Inclusion Policy such as manipulation of securities • Responsibility Policy • Responsible Investment Policy • Stakeholder Policy More insights • Supplier Code of Conduct Find our policies on danskebank.com and more information on how we govern our business and • Tax Policy manage risks in Corporate Governance Report 2017 and Risk Management Report 2017. • Whistleblowing Policy STRATEGIC THEMES Fostering financial confidence at an early age With the digitalisation of the financial infrastructure, children and young people increasingly need help to develop a sound understanding of money and personal finances. We want to help build financial confidence and have launched a number of initiatives. Even though they are digital natives, Children can see when pocket money the generation of the new millennium is paid into their account and how their must learn to navigate the increasingly savings develop, while parents can use cashless society. Mobile Banking to transfer money and keep an eye on their children’s pocket Our ambition is to help children and money. Children can use the pocket young people develop a sound under­ money card in ATMs and for payment standing of money and personal in stores or online if their parents allow finan­ces that will enable them to make this. Parents can also monitor and set healthy financial decisions later in life. limits for their children’s spending. We develop educational programmes, tools and free online universes that help Contributing to quality education parents and teachers build financial We measure our contribution to SDG confidence in children and young people No. 4 by the number of children and in an inspiring way. Our efforts are part young people in our markets we have of our strategic focus on SDG No. 4 conhelped improve their financial skills. In cerning quality education. 2017, more than 13,500 children and young people participated in our eduIntroducing digital pocket money cational programmes and campaigns, The cashless society influences how and we thus exceeded our 2017 target we give our children pocket money and of 10,000. For 2018, we increase our teach them about money. A survey target from 10,000 to 12,500 children from The Danish Bankers Association and young people.* conducted by A&B Analysis in January 2017 showed that 44% of children SMART, our flagship financial confireceive pocket money digitally by bank dence programme in Northern Ireland, transfer or MobilePay, for example. The reached more than 4,600 pupils in survey also revealed that 68% of par2017. Local employees who are trained ents give their children pocket money to as Youth Ambassadors spent about give them a better understanding of the 150 company-paid hours teaching value of money and a sense of responsiSMART in classrooms. The SMART bility for their own finances. Partnership for post-primary schools covers budgeting and saving, credit In order to help both parents and chiland debit, buying and renting property, Conversations about money dren keep track of the money, we develand entrepreneurship and how to build Parents can use our Pocket Money oped a new digital solution, Pocket Mona business. The programme includes solution as a starting point for ey, in 2017. Pocket Money consists of SMART Junior, which introduces the talking with their children about an app, a pocket money card for children topic of money for primary school money. The solution is available aged 8-14 years and a feature in our children. in Denmark, Norway, Sweden and new Mobile Banking app for parents. Finland. Our national websites also offer inspiration and advice on * We do not expect to reach the same numbers in 2018 as in 2017, since these were partly achieved as a result pocket money. of a campaign held in Finland that year. Corporate Responsibility 2017 13 In Denmark, more than 2,800 pupils in the final years of their lower secondary education got a visit from one of our financial advisers to discuss financial assets and pitfalls and how to protect themselves against cybercrime. The SMART visit is part of our SMART Money programme, which was developed in collaboration with the Danish AssoMoney ciation of Teachers of Mathematics. The programme is based on everyday financial decisions and consists of a range of websites, games and teaching materials. Visit our online universes As part of a campaign in 2017 to Moneyville celebrate the centenary of Finland’s inMoneyville is a game that both parents and teachers can dependence and Danske Bank Finland’s use to give 5to 9-year-olds a basic understanding of 130th anniversary, we arranged 130 money. Children can earn money and decide whether to workshops for 3,000 upper elementary spend it or save it. Since its launch in 2008, the Moneyville and secondary school pupils together website has had over 7 million users. with our Finnish partner, Youth Academy. The pupils were encouraged to think Control Your Money about their dreams and what it would Control Your Money is an educational website that teachtake financially to achieve them. The ers can use to teach 10to 15-year-olds about personal workshops thus improved their financial fi­nances. The pupils can carry out missions, such as confidence in a positive and inspiring arranging and financing a trip abroad and moving away way. from home. Since its launch in 2010, 77,562 Control Your Money missions have been completed. Introducing Money At the Introducing Money website, parents can find age-specific information on how to talk with their children and youngsters about money and personal finances. The subjects range from children’s first pocket money and after-school jobs to managing their own finances. Since its launch in 2014, the website has had 11,582 visitors. SDG No. 4 is about ensuring inclusive and equitable quality education and promoting lifelong learning opportunities for all. 2018 target To help 12,500 children and young people in our “We want to help children become financially responsible markets improve their financial skills in 2018. and develop healthy financial habits, hopefully enabling Number of children and young them to make sound financial decisions people in our programmes in 2017 later in life. We think that our Pocket 14,000 Money app is a good starting point 12,000 for important conversations about the 2017 target 10,000 value of money and the importance 8,000 of saving. The app also meets the 6,000 increasing customer demand for 4,000 an easier way to handle pocket 2,000 money.” Jeanette Fangel Løgstrup is Head of Group Marketing 0 and Communications and Senior Executive Vice President In 2017, more than 13,500 children and young people improved their financial skills by participating in our financial confidence initiatives such More insights as our SMART programmes in Denmark and Find more information on our initiatives to build financial confidence in children and young people Northern Ireland and our workshops in Finland. at danskebank.com/responsibility. STRATEGIC THEMES Supporting startups and growth companies Entrepreneurs and small businesses are essential to innovation, productivity and economic growth in society. We want to make it easier for Nordic startups and growth companies to accelerate their expansion and achieve their ambitions. Competition among startups and small decks. It also helps startups screen the emerging companies can be fierce when market for the most relevant investors, access to resources is limited. who in turn can use The Hub to look for hidden gems. Our ambition is to help Nordic growth companies by being the best at underWe measure our contribution to SDG SDG No. 8 is about promoting sustained, standing their needs, evaluating their No. 8 by the number of jobs posted and inclusive and sustainable economic growth, potential, and serving them. Together visits to The Hub. With 4,974 jobs postfull and productive employment and decent with leading players within entrepreed and 1,346,826 visits to The Hub work for all. neurship, we develop solutions that in 2017, we thus exceeded our 2017 make it easier for startups and growth targets of 2,000 jobs and 800,000 2018 targets companies to deal with scalability visits. For 2018, we have chosen to To support startups and growth companies challenges, such as recruiting the right focus on the number of applications by facilitating 80,000 applications for people, gaining access to capital and instead of visits, since it is a better proxy 9,000 jobs posted on The Hub in 2018. quickly finding the tools they need. Our for how we create value in terms of efforts are part of our strategic focus on employment. Our target for 2018 is to Jobs posted on The Hub in 2017 SDG No. 8 on decent work and economfacilitate 80,000 applications for 9,000 ic growth. jobs posted. 5,000 Danske Bank Growth We promote The Hub at conferences 4,000 In order to create a centre of excellence and events for startups across the Norfor startups and growth companies, we dic region, and in 2017, we participated 3,000 established Danske Bank Growth in in conferences such as Copenhagen 2017, a network of 20 dedicated advisFintech Innovation Day, Slush in Helsin2017 target 2,000 ers across our Business Banking units ki, Oslo Innovation Week, and Startup in the Nordics who share a passion Weekend FemTech in Stockholm. 1,000 for startups. The advisers specialise in understanding the startups and their Helping startups gain a foothold in 0 business models and guide the young China growth companies on their journey by China is an attractive market and a pogiving them access to financial services, tential gateway to the rest of Asia. It is, Visits to The Hub in 2017 including experts and Danske Bank’s however, very different from the Nordics network. and the rest of Europe, which can make 1,400,000 it difficult for companies to create a 1,200,000 The Hub – promoting sustained growth solid foundation for a Chinese business The Hub, Danske Bank’s online platform venture. 1,000,000 for Nordic startups, is tailored to make it 2017 target 800,000 easier to recruit skilled employees, raise In 2017, we entered into a partnership capital and access best practice tools. with nHack, a Norwegian accelerator 600,000 programme, in order to help Nordic 400,000 Launched in 2015, The Hub is a stratestartups enter the Chinese market. 200,000 gic partnership between Danske Bank nHack assists companies with protoand Rainmaking with local partners typing, sourcing, production, local sales 0 Grundr in Norway, SUP46 in Sweden and capital raising in Asia. The accelIn 2017, we supported startups and growth and Maria 0-1 in Finland. It provides erator programme was launched in companies by facilitating applications to tools and guides that enable startups Shanghai in September and six Norwe4,974 startup jobs and guiding 1,346,826 to quickly produce critical documents, gian companies participated. Three new visits to The Hub. such as contract templates and pitch programmes open in February 2018. Corporate Responsibility 2017 15 Female entrepreneurship network, form teams and start comPartnership with Singularity University Female founders are still few and far panies. All participants were coached Since its establishment in 2008 in between. We want to support and enby experienced mentors from different Silicon Valley, the esteemed know­ courage women to develop and realise parts of the FinTech industry, including ledge centre and think tank Singularity their business ideas. experts from Danske Bank. University has educated and inspired thousands of leaders and entrepreneurs In 2017, we arranged the first Startup We also participated in the SHE on the accelerating development of Weekend FemTech in Sweden in a joint FUTURE Conference 2017 in Norway. technology and its consequences for venture with SUP46. Nearly 80 women The conference invited entrepreneurs, both societies and companies. participated and got the opportunity to investors and business leaders to discuss how female participation can We want to bring some of that inspiaccelerate innovation and growth and ration to Denmark, and in 2017, we how we can advance diversity. Danske entered into a partnership with ’SinguBank identified a number of female larityU Denmark’. The new Danish divientrepreneurs who pitched their busision will make Singularity University’s ness ideas to a jury of investors at the knowledge on exponential technologies conference. more accessible to Nordic companies. “We know that running a startup is different from running a conventional company, and especially access to finance can be of critical importance. We help the startups get an overview of the various sources of venture capital in the Nordics and their investment focus.” Lars Mørch is Head of Business Banking and a member of the Executive Board STRATEGIC THEMES Accessible finance for everyone Digitalisation is transforming the financial infrastructure, and it is important for us to manage this transition responsibly. We do this by ensuring that our services are easy to use and accessible to all our customers. While most customers expect and MobilePay, which we introduced in and most of them now use our self-­ value easy access to our products and 2013, is an example of the convenience service solutions as their main touchservices around the clock, others are and instant access offered by digital points with us. This development is less comfortable with digitalisation and solutions. MobilePay feeds into our linked to the decline in cash payments, the increasingly cashless society. Our strategic efforts to provide accessible which in Denmark, for example, fell by customers are quickly adopting mobile finance for everyone, every day, and 36% from 2009 to 2016. We also and digital banking, including seniors, from the onset, the MobilePay platform see significant decreases in both the who are rapidly catching up. But the has been available to everyone, not only amount of cash withdrawn and the digitalisation of financial services also Danske Bank customers. In 2016, we frequency of withdrawals. The reason increases the risk of excluding vulopened the platform to all interested is the increase in card payments and nerable groups from making financial Nordic banks. MobilePay is now an indethe use of services such as MobilePay, transactions. pendent unit run in a partnership with which make it easy to make person-tomore than 60 Nordic banks. In 2017, person payments without using cash. It is part of our responsibility to accomMobilePay had more than 4 million modate the needs of all our customer users in Denmark and Finland. To increase accessibility for everyone, groups, and we want our services and we offer customised solutions for solutions to be easy to use and accesRapid development in touchpoints seniors, the visually impaired and other sible to all our customers, regardless The Nordic countries are among the customers with special needs. of whether they contact us online, by world’s most digital societies. Our phone or in person. customers are also adopting this trend, “We want to accommodate the needs of all our customers, regardless of how they prefer to bank with us. Consequently, we develop our solutions together with our customers based on their lives and pre­ ferences to ensure that they experience a bank that is always there for them when they need it.” Jesper Nielsen is Head of Personal Banking and a member of the Executive Board Corporate Responsibility 2017 17 Customer touchpoints and use of our financial services in 2017 250 35.2 million 56 million branches* self-service eBanking ATM transactions (2016: 272) (2016: 38.7 million) transactions (2016: 63 million) 9.9 million 235 million 48 million self-service mobile calls to our 24/7 MobilePay and tablet banking telephone service transactions (2016: 10 million) transactions (2016: 172 million) (2016: 43 million) *Number of branches at the end of 2017. Our financial services for people with special needs Cash card Ordinary mail and mail payment MobilePay for the homeless Customers in Denmark who are unable For customers with special needs who For the homeless, the increasto visit branches or ATMs, have difficulhave difficulties with digital commuingly cashless society poses a ty remembering a PIN, or need somenication, we offer correspondence by significant challenge. To solve this one to make payments on their behalf, ordinary mail at no extra cost. For a challenge, the Danish homeless can get a Danske Bank cash card. It minor fee, these customers can also organisation “Hus Forbi” joined has a PIN that is easily memorised, a send us their invoices, and we will take forces with MobilePay to offer maximum balance of DKK 7,500, and care of payment. the payment solution to the no overdraft facility. It can be used homeless people selling the “Hus at all ATMs and shops that accept Forbi” magazine in the streets of MasterCard. Denmark. The money they make is transferred to a Danske Bank cash Cash deposits card which is not linked to a perCash can be deposited at selected sonal bank account. This is a major ATMs in Denmark, Norway, Finland and advantage since it can be very Braille services Northern Ireland. In 2017, we estabdifficult for people without an adTo help visually impaired customers, lished 118 new deposit ATMs, bringing dress to open an account. With the many ATMs in Denmark, Sweden and the total to 349. cash card, they can withdraw cash Northern Ireland have keyboards in from ATMs and pay in shops Braille and synthetic speech. In Denthat accept MasterCard. In mark, we also offer monthly account 2017, the number of vendors statements in Braille and home deliverwith MobilePay rose to 350 ies of cash once a month. Step-by-step meetings across the country. Senior customers in Denmark can get basic knowledge about our digital services and help to develop the skills needed to Easy Banking use the services at stepIn Denmark, customers who do not by-step meetings at our local feel confident using digital banking can branches. use our Easy Banking solution, which is a simplified version of our eBanking solution. The system has only three functions: account overview, bill payment, and transfers, including transfers to a cash card. CORE BUSINESS: CONTRIBUTING TO SOCIETY Creating long-term value We want to create long-term value for both shareholders and society. Furthermore, engaging in proactive and collaborative dialogue with our key stakeholders is essential to us. Part of our role in society is to be a solid, on relative performance. Our longerpractices. In April 2017, we published balanced and predictable bank. Our bigterm ambition is to rank in the top three our Tax Policy, which sets out our gest impact is the way we employ the among major Nordic peers in terms commitment to being transparent, to capital we have at our disposal, and we of return on shareholders’ equity. We seeking a proactive, open and cooperaplay a fundamental role in lending monalso create economic value in society tive relationship with the tax authorities, ey to private individuals and businesses through the payment of salaries and and to disclosing our tax payments in and in investing capital on behalf of our social security costs to our employees, accordance with national and internacustomers to achieve the best long-term procurement and tax payments, for tional requirements and good practice results. example. among peers. If it comes to our attention that any of our customers or business In 2017, the return on shareholders’ Responsible tax practices partners engage in tax fraud or tax equity (ROE) was 13.6%, and we have Tax compliance and the risk of tax fraud evasion, we cooperate with the relevant thus met our longer-term ambition for and evasion are issues that are high authorities in accordance with applicaa return on shareholders’ equity of at on both our and our business partners’ ble rules and regulations. least 12.5% in 2018 at the latest. We agendas. Our stand on these issues is therefore introduce a new target based clear: we do not tolerate any illegal tax Value creation Employees Banking customers Shareholders DKK 13.7 billion 18.9 billion Salaries, bonuses and social DKK 1,723 billion DKK Distributed in 2017 to our security costs paid in 2017 to our 19,768 employees. Loans issued to banking approx. 257,000 shareholders, customers in 2017. At the end of 2017, 49% of including share buy-backs totalling our employees were women and DKK 10 billion. 44% of our 51% were men. Loans to Personal Banking shareholders are based in Denmark, customers represent 44% of all 16% in the UK, 11% in the rest of loans, and loans to Business Banking Europe, 24% in the US and Canada customers account for 39%. and 5% in the rest of the world. Tax authorities Asset management Suppliers DKK 5.4 billion DKK 1,530 billion DKK 7.6 billion Tax on profit for 2017. Assets under management consist Payments for products and of our conventional life insurance services delivered by our business (Danica Traditionel), asset 11.765 suppliers in 2017. management (Danica unit-linked and Asset Management) and Most of our suppliers are in the assets under advice (the investment premises and facilities management, decision is taken by the customer) IT, and professional services fields. from personal, business and Private Banking customers. Corporate Responsibility 2017 19 CONTRIBUTING TO SOCIETY Policy commitment making our expertise available for the benefit of the societies “We want to contribute to growth and prosperity through in which we operate, for example, through education, corporate the products and services we deliver and by innovating the volunteering and supporting growth initiatives.” financial infrastructure. We are committed to conducting our Responsibility Policy business in a responsible and transparent manner and to Ambitions and strategy 2015-18 • Create value for all our stakeholders • Contribute to financial stability • Contribute to economic growth • Transparent tax payments • Transparency, contributing to communities and stakeholder engagement Target: at least 12.5% ROE in 2018 at the latest* Performance 2017 12.5% ROE 13.6% ROE A return on avg. shareholders’ equity of at least 12.5% Return on shareholders’ equity in 2017 Key actions 2017 • Contributed to economic growth and financial stability through our services and by innovating the financial infrastructure • Contributed to debates on important societal themes by facilitating 20 local debate meetings leading up to the municipal elections in Denmark, publishing a study on the Danes’ financial confidence, facilitating events on the society of the future, participating in the Danish Disruption Council and facilitating regional events on growth, among other things • Published our Tax Policy • Began developing new guidelines for our donations and voluntary work Outlook for 2018 • Increase our ambition for positive impact on society and update our strategic approach to corporate responsibility • Publish report on our impact on the Danish society, produced in collaboration with Copenhagen Business School • Continue contributing to debates on important societal themes by facilitating debate meetings in Denmark under the auspices of the Disruption Council and by publishing a study on financial confidence, among other things • Launch new digital educational tool about personal finances for 10to 15-year-olds • Implement new guidelines for donations and voluntary work * We have for the second consecutive year – ahead of time – met our longer-term ambition for a return on shareholders’ equity of at least 12.5% in 2018 at the latest. We therefore introduce a new target based on relative performance: our longer-term ambition is to rank in the top three among major Nordic peers in terms of return on shareholders’ equity. More insights Find more details on our financial performance, tax payments and value distribution in Annual Report 2017. CORE BUSINESS: CONTRIBUTING TO SOCIETY Engaging with our stakeholders We have a wide range of stakeholders, in November 2017, we organised 20 all of whom are important to our busidebate meetings at our branches across ness, and we welcome dialogue with the country to support local democracy. all of them, whatever their views. Our More than 200 local candidates, re­ Stakeholder Policy outlines the general presenting the entire political spectrum, principles and guidelines for our stakeand 1,800 citizens participated in the holder engagement. meetings. In 2017, we also facilitated eight regional events in Denmark on We engage in dialogue with a number growth with the participation of politiof our stakeholders on issues relating cians and approximately 350 Business to our strategic corporate responsibility Banking customers. themes. Our efforts concerning customers and employees are described in Since 2014, we have participated in this report. Below, we provide additional the Danish Folkemødet, The People’s examples of our approach and engagePolitical Festival, every year. In 2017, ment in 2017. we hosted three events and engaged in debates on issues such as financial confidence, growth and globalisation. We also participated in the political festivals Almedalsveckan in Sweden and SuomiAreena in Finland. Sharing knowledge In 2017, our CEO, Thomas F. Borgen, was invited to join the Disruption Council established by the Danish government. The aim of the Council is Partnerships of mutual value to ensure that Denmark embraces the opportunities offered by technological In collaboration with relevant organiadvances. Our constant focus on innosations, we provide shared solutions vation means that we have substantial for both customers and society. An experience in this field, and in some areexample is Danica Pension’s partneras, we are frontrunners. We appreciate ship with Børneulykkesfonden on the this opportunity to share our knowledge Active Generations programme. The and experience, thus contributing to programme promotes healthy habits solving challenges in society. across generations in Denmark, and in 2017, almost 14,000 children particiAnother example is the comprehensive pated in a grandparent day in more than study on Danes’ financial confidence 90 kindergartens, where we gave them which we conducted in 2017. The aim inspiration for fun and enjoyable games of the resulting report is to put Danes’ and exercises. financial confidence on the agenda and share our knowledge on how people Our collaboration with ISOBRO, a nationactually feel about their personal finanal umbrella organisation for fundraising ces and financial prospects. As part charities in Denmark, is another examOur engagement principles of the study, we developed a financial ple of how we strive to include stake• We want to share our knowledge confidence index, which shows that, holder concerns and perspectives. With and expertise with our stakeholdin general, Danes have a high degree MobilePay, charitable organisations ers of financial confidence. The report was could raise funds via donations free of • We act and operate with transpublished in the media, distributed in charge in 2017, and we also provided parency and integrity our branches and discussed with a wide them with printed material for door-to• We want to create value for all range of external stakeholders. door collection campaigns. 2017 saw our stakeholders and to form an increase in donations via MobilePay long-term partnerships of mutual of over 230% – from DKK 14 million value in 2016 to DKK 46 million in 2017. • We make ourselves available for In addition, a number of charitable ordialogue and respond to input ganisations are not subject to negative and feedback in a timely and Engaging in dialogue interest rates on credit balances in their agile manner accounts with Danske Bank. We also • We believe in collaboration and We organise and participate in debates entered into a partnership with Finnish base our engagement on genuine on societal themes at our branches, Red Cross, and in 2017, we doubled dialogue – we engage, listen and among other places. In connection with the funds collected with MobilePay for act the municipal elections in Denmark Hunger Day. Corporate Responsibility 2017 21 Corporate volunteering and charity We also contribute to society through val. In 2017, the festival was cashless, support 13 students with a monthly local charitable work and corporate voland MobilePay and special cash cards contribution of EUR 150. unteering. In 2017, we began developwere among the payment solutions. ing new guidelines for our donations and More than 200 employees volunteered Christmas donations voluntary work that will be implemented and issued cash cards for the festival In Denmark, Finland, Norway, Sweden in 2018. guests at cash card stations. and Northern Ireland, employees voted for the charities that would receive Pondus paying it forward In Finland, 48 employees volunteered our annual Christmas donations. In In 2017, we celebrated the 50th birthfor the “Financial knowledge and skills” 2017, DKK 370,000 was donated to day of Pondus, our Danish piggy bank, project to help young people who are the Danish Børnecancerfonden, the by making donations to the Children’s neither studying nor have a job manage Finnish Hyvä Joulumieli campaign, the Fund and UNICEF. The money will help their personal finances. The project is a Norwegian Stiftel­sen Sykehusbarn, the 1.4 million children suffering in the collaboration between the three largest Swedish Musik­hjälpen Sveriges radio, major hunger disasters in South Sudan, banks in Finland and the Finnish Minisand The Kevin Bell Repatriation Trust in Nigeria, Somalia and Yemen. The money try of Education and Culture. Northern Ireland. In addition, we made was raised by auctioning off six Pondus 27 donations totalling DKK 1.5 million figurines decorated by Danish artists, Education of underprivileged children through the Danske Bank Fund. and other activities. In collaboration with NGO Need Base India, we finance the rehabilitation and Danske Bank Vilnius Marathon Employees donate time education of underprivileged children In 2017, we were once again the main Many of our employees engaged in and orphans in India. In 2016, 30 boys sponsor of Danske Bank Vilnius Maravoluntary work in 2017. More than were enrolled in the programme, and thon, which is the largest sports event 200 employees participated in our new in 2017, we welcomed 25 girls. The in Lithuania. The marathon attracts Norwegian initiative, Danske Charity, in programme includes housing, medical more than 15,000 runners from 50+ which employees get a paid day off to do attention and special training to cover countries and promotes a healthy lifecorporate volunteering at an NGO. More any educational gaps, and the children style. Our employees prepared for the than half of the volunteers participatstay in the programme until they pass marathon in the Endomondo challenge, ed in different activities at the Church the 10th grade. tracking their sports activity with the Mission and a quarter of the volunteers app. In total, 3.5 million calories were supported the World Football ChampiSupporting students burned and converted into food, which onship for homeless people. In Latvia, we support gifted and underwas then donated to the “Food Bank”. privileged students by granting scholarThe “Food Bank” subsequently distributIn Northern Ireland, more than 120 ships for university studies in collaboraed 50,000 food portions to vulnerable employees volunteered over 770 tion with the “Vītols Fund” foundation. social groups. hours in local communities through In the 2017/18 academic year, we the “Danske Time to Give” programme. The programme enables employees to volunteer up to one day per year by participating in activities that support Action Mental Health, Business in the Community, Keep Northern Ireland Beautiful, Ulster Wildlife, and Young Enterprise. In Estonia, 25 employees participated in the “Let’s donate time” programme led by the Estonian Employers’ Confederation. The employees get one day off per year to do voluntary work, and our employees donated over 100 hours to educate children with special needs, amongst other initiatives. We are the official banking partner at Denmark’s largest culture and music festival in Roskilde and are in charge of The Pondus figurines were decorated by Danish artists Helle Bovbjerg, Ruth Crone Foster, the overall payment logistics at the festiGitte Skovmand & Eva Holm, Kristian Hornsleth, Frederik Næblerød and Jakob Tolstrup. More insights Find more information on our corporate volunteering in Corporate Responsibility Fact Book 2017. Visit danskebank.dk/tryghed to learn more about our study on Danes’ financial confidence (in Danish). CORE BUSINESS: 22 RESPONSIBLE Corporate ResponsibilityCUSTOMER 2017 RELATIONSHIPS Responsible business conduct We focus on building responsible customer relationships through our engagement and compliance practices, efforts to fight financial crime and cybercrime, and through the provision of sustainable financing. In order to earn the trust of the societies Licence to operate Employees must act in the best interest we are part of, we must meet the expecRegulatory Know Your Customer (KYC) of the customers and offer them the tations of customers, business partners measures are an element of our licence products and advice deemed suitable and regulators. Responsible customer to operate and are central to responsible for them. Communications, regardless relationships are essential to us, and we customer relationships. We must know of the channel and the customer, should will continue to strengthen our efforts our customers and how they expect be open, truthful and unambiguous. and address potential risks, such as to use our products and services. In financial exclusion, financial crime and practice, this means that our customers To best target our customers’ needs, the provision of advice that is not in the must verify their identity and that we we have a number of specialised debest interest of the customer. may have to ask them to answer detailed partments. Examples are Danske Bank questions about certain transactions. Growth, which serves startups (see pp. In 2017, we took several initiatives to 14-15) and Youth Direct, which draws continue to strengthen our compliance Our Code of Conduct Policy communion first-hand experience with the finanprocesses and culture. This included cates the most essential standards for cial issues young customers face, preparing the organisation for the prudent behaviour and conduct that our such as student housing and studies large-scale regulatory financial sector employees must adhere to, including abroad. programmes – the Markets in Financial areas such as anti-money laundering Instruments Directive II (MiFID II), the (AML), data protection, handling of conWe also provide support to customers Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions flicts of interest and inside information. with special needs and work to prevent Act (FACTA), and the General Data financial exclusion in the context of digProtection Regulation (GDPR). The We have annual mandatory eLearning italised financial services, as described programmes relate in different ways to courses to ensure that all our employon pp. 16-17. due diligence procedures and the fair ees have the right skills and knowledge treatment of and engagement with our to support them in their daily work. In Update on responsible conduct customers. 2017, we launched a new and improved In 2017, we published our updated compliance eLearning course on AML, Code of Conduct, and we rolled out Customer satisfaction is a key priorcounter-terrorist financing and finana number of activities, including an ity for us, and it is our ambition to be cial sanctions which is tailored to our eLearning programme in Sweden and ranked among the top two on customer employees’ different areas of work and internal awareness initiatives across the satisfaction in all our core markets. At is available in all local languages. Group. In 2018, we plan to introduce the end of 2017, we were in a good poa mandatory eLearning course on our sition in most markets. We will continue Fair treatment and responsible advice Code of Conduct for all employees. In the our hard work on constantly improving Treating all our customers fairly and Code, we express our respect for human the customer experience. providing responsible advisory services rights and clarify our stand on discrimare requirements and values that are ination, harassment, human trafficking embedded in our policies and practices. and any type of forced labour. This is in Corporate Responsibility 2017 23 line with the recommendations from the cludes three principles, which are 1) not These principles are described in more high-level group-wide human rights risk to accept or solicit bribes in any form, detail in directives, and in case of doubt, assessment conducted in 2016. 2) not to make or accept facilitation employees should consult their managpayments, and 3) not to give or receive er or Group Compliance. We also express our zero-tolerance gifts above token value except for gifts stand on corruption and bribery. This ingiven or received in specific situations. RESPONSIBLE CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS Policy commitment active owners when necessary, through engagement, for “We build long-term responsible customer relationships example, and strive for transparency. through proactive advice with a high level of integrity, through easy and secure access to financial products and services, We ensure that loans and credit facilities are granted through a high level of information security and measures to on the basis of a professional credit assessment, which prevent financial crime, and through responsible investment includes making sure that our customers understand the and lending practices. implications of taking out loans. We extend credit with respect for international principles for human rights, labour We invest with respect for international principles for human rights, the environment and anti-corruption and include ESG rights, labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption. considerations in our lending activities. We do not conduct We integrate environmental, social and governance (ESG) business with customers whom we believe disregard or considerations in our investment practices, and will act as deliberately violate these principles.” Responsibility Policy Ambitions and strategy 2015-18 • Provide responsible customer advice • Prevent financial exclusion by offering access to financial products and services • Improve the customer experience • Offer responsible investment opportunities for customers • Integrate responsible lending principles in credit practices • Build customer trust through reliable IT security Customer satisfaction target Performance 2017 Ranked among the top two in all our core markets • Personal Banking: On target in 3 out of 4 markets • Business Banking: On target in 4 out of 4 markets • Corporates & Institutions: Number 1 overall in the Nordics • Wealth Management: Private Wealth Management: On target in 3 out of 4 markets Asset Management: On target in 1 out of 4 markets Key actions 2017 • Continued our efforts to improve the customer experience • Strengthened our compliance setup across the organisation • Increased focus on cybersecurity as co-founder of the Nordic Financial CERT and through the “Keep it safe” online platform for employees and customers • Developed a strategy for raising our ambitions on responsible investment • Updated our position statements and published a new statement on Agriculture Outlook for 2018 • Assess current whistleblowing setup, including the possibility of making it available to external stakeholders • Continue work om embedding compliance even more into our day-to-day operations • Continue implementing GDPR and MiFID II requirements • Increase responsible investment engagement activities • Update responsible lending strategy More insights Find more information on our customer satisfaction target and performance in Annual Report 2017. CORE BUSINESS: RESPONSIBLE CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS Fighting financial crime Money laundering and terrorist financing In end-December, Danske Bank A/S have major implications for societies all was charged by the Danish Public over the world in terms of illegal arms Prosecutor for Serious Economic and trading, drug and human trafficking, orInternational Crime (SØIK) with having ganised crime, tax evasion and terrorist violated the stipulations of Danish attacks. anti-money laundering legislation on the monitoring of transactions to and from As a member of the global financial correspondent banks. In this conneccommunity, we conduct business in sevtion, Danske Bank accepted a fine of eral jurisdictions around the world, and DKK 12.5 million. The charge and the we play a key role in the fight against fine are the result of the inspection financial crime. Regardless of jurisdicmade by the Danish FSA at Danske tion, we are committed to maintaining Bank in 2015. high standards for anti-money laundering (AML), counter-terrorist financing Dialogue and collaboration with and financial sanctions. authorities The financial sector fights financial KR AML deficiencies and investigations crime in close dialogue with the relevant During the year, serious questions authorities. We have a clear, common were raised regarding events that took interest in making it as hard as possible place at our Estonian branch in the now for criminals to use the financial system terminated non-resident portfolio in the for money laundering, and we work with AML measures and 2017 figures period between 2007 and 2015. Both the authorities on potential and actual • Policy: Anti-Money Laundering, the Board of Directors and the Executive money laundering cases. In 2017, Counter-Terrorist Financing and Board take the suspicions that the Eswe attended a hearing at the Danish Sanction Policy. tonian branch may have been misused parliament regarding money launder• Resources: More than 900 for money laundering very seriously, and ing to contribute to the discussion on employees are dedicated to the we have launched investigations into the how to counter money laundering and combating of financial crime. matter in collaboration with independent the financial sector’s role in terms of • Training: Improved AML training experts. We will share the conclusions cooperating even more closely with the mandatory for all employees when the investigations have been authorities. with direct or indirect customer finalised. contact. In 2017, we also continued our round• IT systems: A hardblock IT Danske Bank has a great responsibility table discussions with politicians and measure ensures that new cusand a substantial role to play in combatrepresentatives of relevant interest tomers cannot make transacing financial crime, and today, more than groups to share information on our tions before proof of identity has 900 dedicated Danske Bank employmeasures to prevent financial crime and been provided. ees work to prevent money laundering detect irregularities. Naturally, we expect • Competency centre: AML and other types of financial crime. The to continue these dialogues in 2018. Utility established to centralise continued development of a strong all transaction monitoring and compliance culture will remain a priority to ensure even more systematic for us in the years to come. and consistent money laundering monitoring. • Screening: 3.7 million customer transactions are screened every month and about 15 million customer numbers (Danske Bank Group, including Danica Pension and MobilePay) are screened every week against international sanction lists. • Warnings: About 158,000 warnings of unusual customer behaviour in relation to money laundering and the financing of terrorism recorded from December 2016 to November 2017. • Reports: More than 8,650 reports submitted to the authorities from December 2016 to November 2017. Corporate Responsibility 2017 25 Keeping our customers safe Cybercrime, including fraud, continues gether our knowledge and tools to help Nordic financial sector to find solutions to be a challenge for consumers and customers be safe online and help our and establish best practices on how to businesses. Danish police reports show employees prevent internal IT issues. reduce the risk of fraud. We cooperate an increase in cases from 647 in 2011 The platform initially targets personal with both national and international law to 22,339 in 2016. A survey from and business customers in Denmark, enforcement agencies, and in 2017, 2017 conducted by Danske Bank on IT Sweden, Norway and Finland. In 2018, we joined the steering committee for security in the Nordics also pointed to we will continue to engage customers the Danish Forum against Economic IT inadequate levels of IT security among and employees on IT security through Crime, founded by the Danish police. both individuals and businesses. Inadcampaigns and events. We also participate in Europol’s Europeequacies relate to the use of insecure an Cybercrime Centre, where we are a passwords, insufficient knowledge member of the Advisory Group on Finanabout IT security, risky behaviour on the cial Services and the European Payment internet, and not reading the small print Council’s Card Fraud Prevention Forum. when entering into agreements online. Danske Bank, DnB and Nordea are Along with the increasing digitalisation founding partners Nordic Financial of our business, we are also strengthCERT, an organisation which was ening our focus on IT security and established in 2017 to identify, defend cybercrime. We invest in both people against and combat cyber risks in the Our “Keep it safe” online platform brings and technology to prevent and detect together knowledge and tools to be safe financial sector more efficiently. In confraud and to help our customers recover online. nection with the launch, Danske Bank from fraud committed against them. As hosted a cyber security conference with part of our due diligence processes, we representatives from banks, pension make regular global threat assessments We also implemented an email validaand insurance providers and data cento allow us to quickly respond to new tion system which has helped reduce tres in Denmark to gain support for the types of threats and shield our customthe number of phishing mails that reach new Nordic initiative. The initiative has ers from attacks. In 2017, we introour personal and business customers been well received, and financial instituduced additional protective measures by more than 2 million. In 2018, we tions across the Nordics will be joining to prevent various types of card and will offer the solution to our business the initiative in 2018. payment fraud, including investment customers to help them protect their and romance scams. customers and fight cybercrime. We also collaborated with a number of stakeholders, including the Danish In 2017, we also launched a “Keep Collective action on fraud prevention Consumer Council Tænk and the Nationit safe” online platform that brings toWe collaborate with the rest of the al Centre for Cybercrime, in creating the “My digital self-defence” app, which was launched in 2017. The app, which has had about 67,000 downloads, helps More insights consumers detect and prevent fraud Visit danskebank.dk/keepitsafe to learn more about how you can protect yourself and your and guides them if they have fallen business against IT fraud (in Danish). victim to it. CORE BUSINESS: RESPONSIBLE CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS Sustainable finance Sustainable investment assets account ment Board and a Credit Committee, Responsible investment for more than a third of all professionally which set the strategies and ambition managed assets globally, and the marlevels and decide on individual cases. In 2017, we developed a new responsiket continues to grow in both absolute ble investment strategy to clearly state and relative terms, according to the New and updated position statements our ambition of having a positive impact Global Sustainable Investment Alliance. Our sector-specific position statements on society that goes beyond our financlarify our credit and investment procecial performance. In order to achieve Sustainable finance is a cornerstone dures for industries known to have this, we will strengthen our engagement in our ambition to be recognised as elevated ESG risks. and active ownership activities, increase the most trusted financial partner. We our communication and transparency believe that the integration of enviroIn 2017, we updated our statements efforts and expand our product offerings mental, social and governance (ESG) on arms and defence, climate change, in the years to come. perspectives in our investment and forestry, fossil fuels, and mining and lending decisions is key to creating longmetals, and published a new position We are signatories to the UN-supported term sustainable value for companies, statement on agriculture to reflect the Principles of Responsible Investments investors and societies. integration of additional international (PRI), the Montreal Carbon Pledge, and conventions and principles in our the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). In 2017, we increased transparency investment and lending processes. As We are also a member of the Interand continued to integrate ESG risks a result, we now have a more comprenational Investors Group on Climate into our policies and due diligence prohensive coverage of human rights risks Change (IIGCC), the UN Environment cesses on responsible investments and as recommended in our group-wide Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI), lending. We have a Responsible Investhigh-level risk assessment from 2016. and the Nordic institutional investor for­ ums on sustainable investments (SIFs). Read more about CDP on p. 30. Engagement and transparency We engage with companies to understand and influence the way they handle ESG risks. If we have reason to believe that a company does not comply with “The majority of our customers state that transparency is the international norms and principles we adhere to, we engage with them. We important when selecting an investment do so independently, in collaboration services provider. To live up to our with other investors through IIGCC, CDP or the UN-supported PRI, amongst othcustomers’ expectations, we introers, or through our external responsible duced a sustainability profile for investment service provider. In 2017, we held dialogues with 27 companies several of our funds in 2017. It is on specific sustainability issues through our external service provider. my hope that the profiles will give a deeper insight into how we work We exercise our ownership rights by voting at companies’ annual general with sustainability.” meetings when needed. We focus our ownership efforts on companies where Tonny Thierry Andersen is Head of Wealth Management we can have a substantial impact. and a member of the Executive Board These are mainly companies domiciled in the Nordic countries, funds with Corporate Responsibility 2017 27 ETFs and ESG screening In 2017, we launched our digital invest“During 2017, we arranged green bonds for the European ment solution June, an easy, personalInvestment Bank, the Nordic Investment ised and low-cost option for customers looking to invest their savings. June is Bank, SBAB and Sveaskog, among based on index-based exchange-traded others, and in the past few years, we funds (ETFs). The global market for ESGscreened ETFs is still very limited. We have become an established arranger are aware of the trade-off and in order to deliver consistent and transparent ofand structurer. We expect to see conferings to our customers, we will seek to tinued growth in this market, and be proactive within both ETFs and ESG investment as the trends converge. we are happy to support a financial instrument that integrates environResponsible lending mental aspects.” When we grant a loan to a customer, Glenn Söderholm is Head of Corporates & Institutions we enter into a long-term commitment. and a member of the Executive Board We carefully evaluate our customers’ financial situation to make sure that we understand it and offer loans that are suited to their needs and financial capacity. We also consider the purpose for which the funds will be used and check significant holdings and where clients 2016. With more than EUR 500 million for ESG issues. have authorised us to do so. In 2017, invested, it is one of the fastest growing we cast votes by proxy at 247 company European sustainable fixed income We do this to ensure that our customgeneral meetings. funds. The fund has a heightened focus ers’ conduct is in accordance with our on company ESG scores and goes beCredit Policy and Responsibility Policy To make it easier for our customers yond screening and exclusion by includand the international principles which to choose the funds that match their ing ESG integration, engagement and we endorse. expectations in terms of sustainability, investments in ESG turnaround stories. we launched sustainability fund profiles We are also seeing a strong interest If our assessments show that continuacross all markets in 2017. The profiles in green bonds, especially in Sweden, ing a customer relationship is contrary describe the degree of active ownership where we are the second largest arrangto our principles, we engage with the of the fund, how it influences compaer of green bonds with a volume of more customer and recommend another nies, any basic or enhanced exclusion than SEK 5 billion. approach. If this process is fruitless, and criteria and how it takes ESG considerour only remaining option is a terminaations into account. The fund profiles Carbon footprint of investment funds tion of the credit agreement, we do so in also show Morningstar’s sustainability In 2017, we published our first report a controlled process that takes all legal globes, with each fund rated from zero focusing on the carbon footprints of two aspects into consideration. to five to reflect sustainability compared types of funds – our restricted equity to its peers. funds, which include seven funds, and Updated mandate, policies and our European Sustainable Corporate procedures Rising interest in sustainable bonds Bonds fund. Going forward, we expect In 2017, our Business Integrity Board In 2017, we saw substantial interest to broaden our scope in step with the requested an update of our responsiin our European Corporate Sustainable emergence of business standards. ble lending strategy, and we initiated Bonds fund, which was launched in dialogues with customers and industry leaders to gain insights on best practices in this field. The updated strategy, which will be launched in 2018, will focus on strengthening internal governance across the organisation and Carbon footprint measurement on selected investment funds (tonnes CO2/USD mn revenue) updating existing processes. We will 250 also update the tools available to our relationship managers to enable them to 200 engage in constructive dialogue with our 150 customers on corporate responsibility 100 issues. 50 We updated our Credit Policy, associ0 ated directives, FAQs and guidelines Global Global Norske DI Europe SRI Sverige Sustainin 2017. The updates include a firmer Restricted StockAksjer High Global Beta ability Picking Institusjon Dividend Equity statement on responsible lending, the Restricted Restricted Restricted Fund handling of ESG risks, and a strengthening of human rights aspects. CORE BUSINESS: RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER New engagement and diversity ambitions We aspire to be the preferred workplace for people who are driven by delivering best-in-class customer experiences. It is the expertise and dedication of monthly PULSE survey, which provides nationality, age, ways of thinking, seniorour more than 19,000 employees management insights on themes such ity and experience important. However, which enable us to create value for our as empowerment, collaboration and our we have chosen to focus initially on customers. Our core values lay the founcore values. gender balance, since we see this as the dation for how we train and develop our stepping stone needed to unlock other employees, foster a culture of diversity, We have high ambitions for our emfacets of diversity. and maintain a safe and healthy working ployee engagement and work with an environment. employee engagement target of 90% in In 2016, we reached our target of 2020. Our 2017 performance shows 25% of the Board of Directors memStrategy and responsibilities that we are on the right track, as our avbers elected by the annual general Group HR defines the policies and erage employee engagement score was meeting (AGM) being women. Including continuously assesses and addresses 85.4%, and we earned an employer net employee-­elected members, 42% of risks associated with our workforce, promoter score of 31. The latter is high our Board of Directors members are such as being able to attract and retain compared with Ennova’s Nordic Banking women. With 35% of all management the right employees and related impacts & Insurance Industry benchmark, which positions held by women, we came on our business. They also work closely is 13. However, we also see areas for close to meeting our target of 38% for with business units, Group functions, improvement and work actively with women in management, while the genunions and employee representatives focus areas such as cross-organisationder target for the Executive Board was to realise our strategy and ensure al collaboration, ambassadorship and not met. In Group Management, two out compliance with policies, legislation and empowerment. of ten are women. international commitments, such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights Diversity and inclusion We have set new targets for 2020. To and the ILO Declaration of Fundamental Workforce diversity is an important realise these targets, we have estabPrinciples of Rights at Work. enabler for a successful business translished a range of initiatives, including formation, and an inclusive culture is management training to raise awareEmployee engagement key in attracting, hiring and retaining the ness of unconscious bias and a review In 2016, we introduced two new emright people. of key HR processes. In 2018, we will ployee engagement tools: Team Talk, focus on adjusting our recruitment which engages managers and employWe take a broad perspective on diversetup to further reduce any bias in the ees in dialogue at a local level, and a sity and consider gender, education, process and work to ensure that we are an attractive employer for all talents, regardless of gender. Equal pay We also address gender equality by “We believe that engaged employees are focusing on equal pay. We monitor this key to delivering the best customer experiarea internally at Danske Bank and report our numbers annually to the Danish ence. That is why we focus strategically on Employers’ Association for the Financial improving employee engagement, developSector. In addition, we have carried out an internal deep-dive analysis on ing our employees’ skills, ensuring an realised numbers for 2016 in Denmark, Sweden and Finland and discussed the inclusive culture and diverse workfindings with employee representatives force, and on creating a healthy, in the local work councils and in our European Work Council. safe and inspiring workplace.” In all three countries, the investigation Henriette Fenger Ellekrog is Head of Group Human identified gender pay gaps. In Denmark, Resources and Senior Executive Vice President where we identified the largest gap, the difference between average total comCorporate Responsibility 2017 29 pensation for male and female employand in positions in professional areas councils, and through collaboration with ees was 44%. However, the analysis did with higher market remuneration levels, unions and employee representatives. not reveal gender pay inequality. Rather, such as corporate banking and asset the data pointed at other factors as the management. We will continue to use In 2017, we focused on reducing cause of a general gender pay gap, such gender pay gap analysis as an indicative stress factors and increasing employee as a difference in levels of management metric for the outcome of this work. well-­being. Frequent dialogue between positions, career patterns and progresemployees and managers is key in sion. As a result, to overcome gender Health and safety at work achieving this, and we have therefore pay gaps, we will not focus on pay in We work to prevent illness and to implemented processes to encourage isolation, but take a broader perspective ensure a workplace that is healthy this dialogue. These processes include on diversity and inclusion to ensure and safe, both physically and mentally, our monthly PULSE, the results of which a more even distribution of women in through local management, an active are used to create new initiatives to particularly higher managerial positions working environment organisation and strengthen engagement and well-being. RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER Policy commitment while protecting our employees’ privacy, right to freedom “We are a responsible employer: We base our actions on of association and collective bargaining and right to raising our core values, provide challenging and meaningful work, concerns without fear of retaliation.” and give our employees the opportunity to develop and grow. Responsibility Policy We sustain a healthy and safe working environment and a collaborative culture where our employees feel engaged, and “Danske Bank Group is committed to working towards where our leaders are expected to role model our values, drive increasing the share of the underrepresented gender (women) customer centricity, and inspire their employees to succeed. in executive and managerial positions. The goal is to increase We want to promote diversity and a global culture, ensure the number of female managers at all levels.” equal opportunity and eliminate discriminatory treatment, Diversity and Inclusion Policy Ambitions and strategy 2015-18 Gender targets and performance • Integrate core values in people practices Perform­ • Develop a culture of continual learning Targets ance Targets • Broaden the diversity and inclusion agenda 2017 2017 2020 • Ensure a healthy and safe working environment Share of AGM-elected Board of • Engage employees in corporate volunteering activities Directors members being women 25% 25% 38% Share of women on the Board of Directors – total (employee-elected 42% members included) Share of women on the Executive Board 12.5% 0% 12.5% Share of women in 38% 35% 38-40% management positions Key actions 2017 • Rolled out of updated Code of Conduct across the Group (see p. 23) • Continued extensive leadership development based on our leadership model and establishment of internal academies for professional skills training • Launched diversity and inclusion initiatives, including a review of the recruitment process • Introduced new, improved confidential support hotline for employees in Denmark which is operated by Danica and is open 24/7 • Continued engagement of employees in corporate volunteering activities (see p. 21) Outlook for 2018 • Introduce new performance appraisal system • Train our managers in awareness of unconscious biases in relation to diversity and inclusion • Establish a specialist talent acquisition team and launch new talent acquisition initiatives focusing on diversity, inclusion and competencies • Increase focus on good employee experiences through employee journeys More insights Find more KPIs related to our employees on p. 34 and in Corporate Responsibility Fact Book 2017. Read the Statement on Modern Slavery Act 2017 at danskebank.com/responsibility. CORE BUSINESS: ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Limiting carbon emissions We constantly strive to improve our environmental management setup in order to minimise the environmental footprint of our operations and reduce our CO2 emissions. Climate change is a global challenge Besides reducing CO2 emissions, the that represents a major risk to societies, projects promote sustainable developeconomies and the environment worldment in their local communities. wide. It is imperative that global warming is limited to less than 2 degrees Furthermore, since 2014, we have inCelsius, and we have endorsed this vested almost DKK 2 billion of our own position in our commitment to the Paris funds in green bonds issued for large Pledge for Action. We are a signatory renewable energy projects and climate to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) protection. Green bonds represent an and the Montreal Carbon Pledge, and investment opportunity with a low risk we disclose the carbon footprint of a and competitive returns while supportselection of our funds and offer responing the transition to a sustainable future. Carbon Disclosure Project sible investment products (see p. 26). We have invested in bonds issued score 2017 by Stockholm’s City Council, Nordic We closely monitor best practices and Investment Bank (NIB) and Berlin Hyp, Danske Bank score regulatory developments within the field, amongst others, and we evaluate new Industry average such as the work of the EU High-Level opportunities to invest in green bonds Expert Group on Sustainable Finance on an ongoing basis. A: Leadership and the Task Force on Climate-related B: Management C: Awareness Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Nine large solar cell parks installed on D: Disclosure the roofs of shopping centres owned by As a financial services provider, our Danica Pension make us one of the A carbon emissions are low compared largest private-sector owners of solar with many other industries. With more cell parks in Denmark. This is part of than 19,000 employees worldwide, our Danica Pension’s energy strategy, which B total emissions are significant, however, also includes a DKK 100 million investand we work to reduce them and our ment in energy efficiency in order to C environmental footprint in general. achieve a 38% reduction relative to the 2015-level in energy consumption in Sourcing and investing in our shopping centre portfolio by 2020. D renewable energy Danske Bank’s operations have Environmental management been carbon neutral since 2009. We have implemented an environmenWe achieved this by limiting our CO2 tal management system to minimise our GoverRisk EmisVerifinance and sions cation emissions and by purchasing renewCO2 emissions and manage our environand oppormanaable electricity and CO2 credits. To mental impact as effectively as possible. strategy tunity gement underline our commitment to sourcing We assess the environmental risks of manarenewable electricity, we signed up to our business activities and monitor our gement RE100 in 2017. RE100 is a global consumption of energy and paper as initiative uniting businesses committed well as our use of transport. In 2017, Danske Bank received an to 100% renewable energy that works overall score of B in recognition of the to increase the demand for renewable In 2017, our CO2 emissions totalled actions, policies and strategies we energy. Since 2015, we have purchased 18,089, a minor decline of 3,1% from implemented to address environmental 100% renewable electricity certified the level in 2016. Emissions from issues. We received the same overall by Guarantees of Origin, and from heating, road transportation and paper score in 2016 but have improved our 2016 also by International Renewable all saw declines, while emissions from score in the Emissions Management Energy Certificates. We offset the CO2 air travel rose. category. Going forward, the CDP recommends that we strengthen the emissions which we cannot eliminate management of reduction targets and by investing in carbon credit projects in The reduction in paper consumpactivities further and provide examples India, Turkey, Lithuania and Uganda that tion across the Group continued, as of management methods implemented are verified according to international consumption fell 25% in 2017. This to identify risks and opportunities. standards, such as the Gold Standard. decrease was the result of our ongoing Corporate Responsibility 2017 31 digitalisation of documents and our In 2017, employees were engaged in loof our Earth Day activities as planned. constant focus on minimising paper cal environmental initiatives and events In 2018, we will evaluate how we can consumption in our offices. to raise environmental awareness. increase employee engagement both We decided not to extend the scope locally and at Group level. Our use of road transport measured in kilometres decreased 10.1% from the level in 2016. Air travel saw a steady Highlight of environmental indicators increase, however, because of higher travel activity between the Nordic coun2017 2016 2015 tries and to and from Lithuania, where CO2 emissions (tonnes)* 18,089 18,664 18,836 we continue to expand our operations. We reduced the number of domestic Consumption of electricity (MWh)** 57,203 60,311 57,166 flights across all countries, however, and we continue to encourage employees to Consumption of heating (MWh) 56,213 53,130 54,542 use trains and have online meetings and Paper consumption (tonnes)** 870 1,161 1,598 video conferences. Road transport (company vehicles and Our work in Northern Ireland received 12,485 13,883 13,969 employees’ cars) (1,000 km)** local recognition when we were awarded Gold status in the Environmental BenchAir transport (1,000 km) 72,003 67,570 61,392 marking Survey for the third year in a row, * Data cover DK, SE, NO, IRL, NI, FIN and LIT and include estimated figures for the remainder of the Group in 2014 and we retained our position as number and 2015. In 2016, we included exact figures from our operations in IN. one in the financial sector in 2017. ** Data cover DK, SE, NO, IRL, NI, FIN and LIT. In 2016, we included figures from our operations in IN. ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Policy commitment environmental impact of our operations and reduce our CO2 “We achieve a strong environmental performance by working emissions through energy and environmental management in systematically to limit the negative environmental impact accordance with the ISO 14001 standard.” of our business operations. We strive to minimise the Responsibility Policy Ambitions and strategy 2015-18 • Revise the Climate Strategy • Continue to develop the environmental management system • Increase transparency and communication • Reduce energy consumption by 15% from the 2014 level (megawatts) Energy target 2018 Performance 2017 15% reduction in overall energy consumption 6% reduction in overall energy consumption from the from the level in 2014 (megawatts)*** level in 2014 (megawatts) Key actions 2017 • Signed up to RE100 to underline our commitment to renewable electricity • Relocated our Lithuanian headquarters to a more energy-efficient facility (LEAD Gold certified) • Reduced paper consumption as a result of digitalisation, among other things • Analysed energy efficiency at our offices in Denmark and implemented a large number of minor initiatives to reduce heating and electricity consumption Outlook for 2018 • Identify energy-reduction projects in collaboration with external partners with the goal of selling back energy savings to energy companies • Relocate our Helsinki corporate offices to a more energy-efficient facility (LEAD Gold certified) • Continue optimising and adapting our energy consumption in our building portfolio *** The overall energy consumption in 2014 was 121,126 megawatts. More insights Find more environmental KPIs on p. 34 of this report and in Corporate Responsibility Fact Book 2017. Read the Statement of Carbon Neutrality 2017 at danskebank.com/responsibility. CORE BUSINESS: RESPONSIBLE SUPPLIER RELATIONSHIPS A risk-based approach to sourcing We work with responsible sourcing in collaboration with our suppliers to raise corporate responsibility standards in our supply chain. We source products and services in their ability to meet our responsibility responsible sourcing is now part of the many areas, and in 2017, we had standards in order to minimise adverse introduction and training of new employ11,765 active suppliers. Our Group impacts in the supply chain. When we ees in Group Procurement. Procurement unit is responsible for all assess the price of a product, we look purchases, and in 2017, they collaboat the total cost of ownership, which inWe have not been able to meet our rated with branches, departments and cludes purchase price, quality, delivery, supplier target for 2017 of getting all business units across the Group on current costs and disposal of the asset. tenders involving Group Procurement more than 1,410 contracts. through the process. We did, however, Responsible sourcing process succeed in getting 60% of the tenders Group Procurement is responsible for In 2017, we focused on the implethrough. Furthermore, we initiated the setting a competitive landscape, optimentation of our responsible sourcing onboarding of selected strategic supplimising business value through market process, which was launched in 2016 ers in the process as planned. analysis, tendering, and implementing a and is outlined in the figure below. negotiation strategy. The individual busiThrough the responsible sourcing proIn 2018, we will continue the implemenness units and areas are accountable cess, we ensure that suppliers comply tation and our efforts to raise awarefor the scope, budget, vendor selection with our responsibility standards. Our ness and consolidate the process for and implementation of the contracts. requirements are defined in our Supplier screening and assessing high-risk supWe have organised our purchases in Code of Conduct and are based on pliers. Furthermore, we are working on this way to ensure optimal sourcing prointernationally recognised standards. optimising and automating the process. cesses, and responsible sourcing is an Furthermore, we place specific environBased on our experiences from 2017, important element of this. We choose mental demands on selected products our target for 2018 is to get 80% of the our suppliers on the basis of an overall and services. All Group Procurement tenders involving Group Procurement assessment of price and quality and employees have received training, and through the process. A process based on dialogue We base our responsible sourcing process on dialogue and try to avoid burdening suppliers with unnecessary and time-consuming questions. Our risk assessment process consists of three steps, but many suppliers need to go through only the first one. Supplier Code Step 1: Step 2: Step 3: of Conduct Pre-qualification questions Self-assessment Corrective action plan The Supplier Code of We assess the risk profile of questionnaire If we deem the result Conduct applies to all suppliers for contracts above Suppliers that are assessed of the self-assessment suppliers that deliver DKK 1 million on the basis of as high-risk and suppliers questionnaire to be goods or services to any information about the type of of contracts above DKK 10 unsatisfactory, we engage of our business units and products or services of the million are asked to complete in dialogue with the supplier subsidiaries, and it is tender and where they are an additional in-depth quesand agree on a corrective included in all contracts. The produced. tionnaire about their ESG polaction plan, if needed. Supplier Code of Conduct icies and performance. We If this does not resolve the states that suppliers must use Verisk Maplecroft and issues to our satisfaction, set the same or comparable Ecodesk as external partners we may not select the standards for their to assess the country and supplier or may stop using subcontractors. category risks and to evaluits services. ate the responses from the suppliers. Corporate Responsibility 2017 33 New audit programme decides upon the appropriate follow-up To strengthen our responsible sourcing action depending on the severity of the Spending per category in 2017 process, we implemented a new audit issues in question. (% of total spend) programme for suppliers in 2017. We 100 have engaged an independent thirdFeedback from suppliers party auditor, and we will conduct audits The two audits in 2017 revealed no 80 every year, each covering one of the severe issues but showed that some 60 four categories in our self-assessment suppliers had left out information in their questionnaire: Social, Environment, self-assessment that, if included, would 40 Governance, and Supply chain. have given them a better score. As a 20 result, a supplier survey was initiated to The suppliers are selected on the basis get general feedback on our question0 of their risk profile and their impact on naire. Overall, the survey showed that Banking Professional Premises IT our business. Audits, which include both suppliers find the questions relevant services and Facility desk studies and announced on-site and clear but also comprehensive and Management visits, evaluate whether the supplier’s time-consuming. Some suppliers were self-assessment (step 2) is sufficient uncertain how their answers are used In 2017, our largest spending items were IT and credible and whether their ESG polin the overall assessment, and conseand Premises and Facility Management. IT icy and performance live up to our Supquently, we now provide better feedprocurement includes not only hardware and plier Code of Conduct. We go through back on the results of the assessment. software but also IT consultants and services. the audit report with the supplier and We will review the self-assessment Professional services include HR, marketing agree on any areas to be improved. questionnaire in 2018 and include the and communications services as well as serOur Responsible Sourcing Escalation findings from the supplier survey. vices for travel, meetings and events, whereas Committee reviews all audit reports and the largest share of the spending for Banking was on the procurement of market data. This is comparable to the level in 2016. RESPONSIBLE SUPPLIER RELATIONSHIPS Policy commitment “We want to ensure responsible supplier relationships by “The Code applies to all Danske Bank’s suppliers that deliver integrating environmental, social and ethical standards goods and services to any of Danske Bank Group’s business and by focusing on impact and risk. We aim at maintaining units and subsidiaries. The Code is a total supply chain constructive relations based on dialogue and improvement initiative, and the Group’s suppliers are responsible for setting and expect of our suppliers that they share our adherence to the same or comparable standards for their subcontractors. international principles for human rights, labour rights, the It is the responsibility of the suppliers to ensure that their environment, and anti-corruption and set similar standards for subcontractors are informed of the Code and uphold the their supply chain. Furthermore, we integrate environmental requirements. The Group will conduct control measures from requirements if a product potentially has an adverse time to time.” environmental impact in order to strengthen both our financial Supplier Code of Conduct and environmental performance.” Responsibility Policy Ambitions and strategy 2015-18 • Update Supplier Policy with detailed guidelines for environmental and social responsibility • Implement responsible sourcing screening process • Conduct dialogue with non-compliant suppliers Supplier target 2018 Performance 2017 80% of tenders involving Group Procurement 60% of tenders involving Group Procurement to go through the responsible sourcing process went through the responsible sourcing process Key actions 2017 • Assessed and evaluated high-risk suppliers by means of a self-assessment questionnaire (responsible sourcing process, step 2) • Initiated onboarding of selected strategic suppliers in the responsible sourcing process, such as Top 30 market data companies and the Big 4 consultancies • Implemented an audit programme for suppliers and engaged an independent third party auditor, who conducted two supplier audits Outlook for 2018 • Continue consolidation of the responsible sourcing process for screening and assessment of high-risk suppliers • Strengthen training in and awareness of the responsible sourcing process among employees in Group Procurement • Review the self-assessment questionnaire and other tools to identify potential areas for improvement • Conduct supplier audits through an independent third-party verification process 34 Corporate Responsibility 2017 Key performance indicators As part of our annual reporting prac­ The key performance indicators (KPIs) Data is prepared according to our tices, we include an overview of assured listed in the table provide an overview Corporate Responsibility Reporting performance data related to our busiof our performance over the past three Principles available at danskebank.com/ ness operations, employees and the years for comparison. responsibility. environment. 2017 key performance indicators 2017 2016 2015 Business operations (DKK millions)* Total income 48,149 47,959 45,611 Operating expenses 22,722 22,642 23,237 Profit before tax 26,288 25,357 17,762 Financial services employer tax and social security costs 1,802 1,659 1,520 VAT 1,207 1,126 933 Tax 5,388 5,500 4,639 Net profit for the year 20,900 19,858 13,123 Net profit for the year before goodwill impairment charges 20,900 19,858 17,724 Return on avg. shareholders’ equity (%) 13.6 13.1 8.5 Return before goodwill impairment charges on avg. shareholders’ equity (%) 13.6 13.1 11.6 Employees Number of full-time employees (FTE), end of year* 19,768 19,303 19,049 Percentage of women in workforce (%) 49 50 51 Percentage of women in management (%) 35 35 35 Employee turnover (%) 12 11 11 Average years of service 12 13 14 Absence due to illness (avg. number of illness days per employee) 5,4 5.3 6 Employee Engagement (%)** 85 66 Environment CO2 emissions (tonnes)† 18,089 18,664 18,836 CO2 emissions per employee (tonnes/FTE) 0.93 0.97 1.0 Energy consumption (electricity and heat) (MWh)†† 113,416 113,441 111,708 Energy consumption per employee (MWh/FTE) 6.04 6.1 6.3 Electricity consumption (MWh)†† 57,203 60,311 57,166 Heat consumption (MWh) 56,213 53,130 54,542 Road transport (company vehicles and employees’ cars) (1,000 km)†† 12,485 13,883 13,969 Air transport (1,000 km) 72,003 67,570 61,392 Paper consumption (tonnes)†† 870 1,161 1,598 * Data are from Annual Report 2017 and Fact Book Q4 2017. For a definition of ratios, see Definition of alternative performance measures on p. 41 in Annual Report 2017. .** In 2016, we replaced our annual Employee Opinion Survey with new tools to facilitate a constructive ongoing dialogue on employee engagement. This means that the Employee Engagement Index has replaced two HR indicators on Employee satisfaction and motivation as well as perceived opportunities for professional and personal development. †  Data cover DK, SE, NO, IRL, NI, FIN and LIT and include estimated figures for the remainder of the Group in 2014 and 2015. In 2016, we included exact figures from our operations in IN. †† Data cover DK, SE, NO, IRL, NI, FIN and LIT. In 2016, we included figures from our operations in IN. Corporate Responsibility 2017 35 Independent auditor’s assurance report To the Management and the stakeholders of Danske Bank assurance engagement. Considering the risk of material We have assessed Danske Bank’s 2017 Corporate Responmisstatement, we planned and performed our work to obtain sibility Report (‘the Report’) to provide limited assurance on all information and explanations necessary to support our selected 2017 data on page 34 of the Report. The Report conclusion. covers Danske Bank’s international activities from 1 January to 31 December 2017. We performed our on-site reviews at Danske Bank’s Head Office in Copenhagen in November and December 2017. Our assessment was performed in order to assess whether: Our work has included interviews with key functions in Danske Bank, inquiries regarding procedures and methods • All environmental data and all employee data on page 34 to ensure that selected CR data and information have been in the Report have been stated in accordance with the incorporated in accordance with the reporting principles. We criteria defined by the reporting principles; have assessed processes, tools, systems and controls for gathering, consolidating and aggregating CR data at Group • Danske Bank has offset its consolidated CO2 emissions level, and performed analytical review procedures and tested for 2017. CR data prepared at Group level against underlying documentation. Furthermore, we have received documentation We express a conclusion providing limited assurance. that the consolidated CO2 emissions have been offset by purchase of offset certificates. Finally, we have evaluated the Management’s responsibility overall presentation of the report, including the consistency of The Management of Danske Bank is responsible for collectinformation. ing, analysing, aggregating and presenting the information in the Report, ensuring that data are free from material We have not performed site visits or interviewed external misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Danske Bank’s stakeholders, nor have we performed any assurance procenon-­financial reporting principles contain Management’s dures on baseline data or forward-looking statements such as defined reporting scope for each data type. The criteria for targets and expectations. Consequently, we draw no concluthe reporting principles can be found at danskebank.com/ sion on these statements. responsibility. Conclusion Auditor’s responsibility Based on our work, nothing has come to our attention causOur responsibility is to express a limited assurance concluing us not to believe that: sion on all environmental data and all employee data on page 34 in the Report. Furthermore, our responsibility is to provide • The employee and environmental data subject to our limited assurance on whether Danske Bank has offset its review have been stated in accordance with the criteria consolidated CO2 emissions for 2017. We have conducted mentioned in the reporting principles; our work in accordance with ISAE 3000, Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial • Danske Bank has offset its consolidated CO2 emissions Information, and additional requirements under Danish audit for 2017. regulation to obtain limited assurance about our conclusion. Deloitte Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab is subject to International Standard on Quality Control (ISQC) 1 and, Copenhagen, 1 February 2018 accordingly, applies a comprehensive quality control system, including documented policies and procedures regarding Deloitte compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Business Registration No. 33 96 35 56 We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by FSR – Danish Auditors (Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants), which are based on the fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. Jens Ringbæk Marie Voldby State-Authorised Lead Reviewer A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in Public Accountant scope than a reasonable assurance engagement. ConseMNE no. 27735 quently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had we performed a reasonable Danske Bank A/S Holmens Kanal 2-12 DK-1092 København K Tel +45 3344 0000 CVR No. 61 12 62 28 København danskebank.com
