Sustainovate Progress Report 2017 Contents INTRODUCTION 2 This is Husqvarna Group 4 Sustainovate 5 Megatrends STRATEGY 6 Integrating sustainability across the Group 8 CEO & CFO in conversation 10 Impacts along the value chain OUR 2020 PRIORITIES 12 Climate challenge 18 Team challenge 20 Supplier challenge 22 Safety challenge 26 Community challenge INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY 28 A model for creating value 30 A culture of integrity 31 Integrating Sustainovate 32 Materiality – A focus on value creation ABOUT THIS REPORT 34 GRI Index 36 Additional indicators Shaping great experiences For more than 325 years, our passion for are our business partners and they always expect innovation has made us refine and reinvent our the most from us. We bring user-centered, offering to match what our customers need innovative solutions that meet their needs. to get the job done. This has helped us find We aim to make a difference for everyone new opportunities based on our engineering shaping green spaces and urban environments. and innovation expertise. Through centuries And we turn our passion for gardening into of change in the market, we’ve been turning enjoyable tools and great end results created by technology into opportunity. users. Each of these experiences is sustainable When a customer chooses a product or in terms of environmental impact, endurability solutions from our broad portfolio of brands, it’s and attractiveness. not just a chainsaw or lawn mower, power cutter Everything we do through all of our brands, or smart garden system, it’s performance, pride products, solutions and services is part of the and the promise of better results. Our customers same mission: to shape great experiences. 50%Share of HUSQVARNA DIVISION CONSUMER BRANDS DIVISION 23% Share of Group net sales Group net sales 14% Share of GARDENA DIVISION CONSTRUCTION DIVISION 13% Share of Group net sales Group net sales Sustainovate Anchored in our passion for innovation and connecting people with nature, Sustainovate is Husqvarna Group’s way of integrating sustainability into our business. Creating a strong company for the future demands the ingenuity and courage of our people, forward-thinking leadership and the insights of our strategic partners. We are committed to raise the bar on safety and product efficiency and find new ways to reduce consumption of energy, water and other resources. Just as vital to our vision is exploring innovative product ideas and business models that will deliver positive impacts on people and the planet, and making these OUR CORE PURPOSE technologies widely available. Turning technology into opportunity With a passion for innovation we create performance, pride and improved results for our customers. OUR VISION Shaping great experiences We make a difference to those who shape green spaces and urban environments through our leadership in sustainable, user-centered solutions. OUR KEY BEHAVIORS It starts with me I take ownership and I ask myself: What can I do? • Seek customer’s point of view in all meetings and decisions. • Demonstrate collaboration by giving and seeking support. • Maintain focus and simplicity. 4 Sustainovate | Report on progress 2017 | Husqvarna Group The megatrends impacting our business Knowing the future helps us plan for today. Charting the trends that influence our business is critical. At Husqvarna Group, our starting point is how society is evolving and, in turn, how these changes cascade down to customer perceptions, employee expectations, opportunities for innovation and what society expects of companies. Sustainovate, our strategy for integrating sustainability into our business, is informed by this analysis. For an analysis of market trends, see The Husqvarna Group’s Annual Report 2017 page 18. MEGATRENDS Climate Resource change scarcity Changing Globalization & the knowledge demographics society Speed of Transformation technology & of energy innovation systems Sustainovate | Report on progress 2017 | Husqvarna Group 5 Integrating sustainability across the Group Sustainovate is the Group’s strategic approach to integrating sustainability throughout the business. At its heart is innovation that brings people and nature closer together. With its focus on long-term value creation, embracing sustainability 2015*. Each division has identified its role in achieving the strategy is critical to market leadership. Sustainovate is founded on five key and is driving initiatives in the areas where it can add the most value. challenges that reduce impacts and enhance the Group’s role to Husqvarna Group will raise the bar on safety and product efficiency positively affect lives and the environment. It includes Group-wide and promote product ideas and business models that deliver value targets to drive company performance up until 2020, compared to as well as market and sustainability leadership. The ambition 2020* Targets 2017 Progress against the target 10% 26% Carbon Through innovation, energyChallenge efficient operations and new Decouple products, the Group aims to our business grow its business while reducing CO2 emissions intensity CO2 emissions intensity reduction growth from emissions across its value reduction across the value across the value chain CO2 emissions. chain – from product design 33% 11% and development, suppliers, manufacturing and logistics to smarter product use. absolute CO2 emissions absolute CO2 emissions reduction from product use by reduction from product use 2035 +8 +10 Team Efforts to build an attractive, Challenge behavior-led workplace should Be the best never stop. And by providing a place platform for employees to make a A Team Survey Net Promoter Net Promoter Score to work. difference and delivering opportuScore (NPS) equal to or better In 2017 the peer group´s NPS nities where people of all backthan the peer group. was +8 grounds can maximize their talents, the Group aims to be the employer of choice. 70% 20% Supplier By evaluating suppliers’ Challenge environmental, human rights and Inspire and safety performance as well as build ethical standards, the Group aims of the purchasing spend of the purchasing spend derived a sustainable to motivate suppliers to improve, derives from strategic suppliers from audited and approved supplier base. and prioritizes those with high audited and approved on their suppliers sustainability performance. sustainability performance 35% 6% Safety With its strong focus on safety Challenge and ergonomics in product Lead our development and by creating safer industry in and more secure workplaces, the reduction in new product reduction in new product incidents safety across Group will improve safety across incidents, compared the value chain. its value chain. with 2016 40% reduction in injury rate 30% reduction in injury rate in in operations operations Community By connecting people with To be defined 2018 Defined themes Challenge nature, the Group aims to protect • Protecting biodiversity Build a platform biodiversity, promote healthier • Promoting healthier lifestyles for our teams to lifestyles and create more resilient • Supporting communities during engage in local communities. and after natural disasters communities. * Unless otherwise stated. 6 Sustainovate | Report on progress 2017 | Husqvarna Group Contributing to change In 2015, the United Nations adopted a plan to achieve a better future, • By reducing the negative impacts of its own operations the Group paving a path to end extreme poverty, fight inequality and injustice can contribute to five of the goals. and protect our planet to 2030. • By making a positive impact for customers and its own value chains through its products and services, the Group can contribute to ten At the heart of this agenda are the 17 United Nations Sustainable of the goals. Development Goals (SDGs). Realizing the SDGs requires efforts across all sectors of society and business has an important role to • By positively impacting society at large through engagement in play as a change agent. Based on the sustainability issues most local communities the Group can contribute to five of the goals. relevant to its business, the Group works to make a difference within 12 SDGs in three ways: Where the Group can reduce negative impacts of its operations With our sience-based target, Where the Group can positively impact customers and value chains Husqvarna Group has made a bold commitment to reduce our carbon footprint by a third to 2035. We are the first company listed on the Swedish stock exchange and the first company in our sector to have its goal approved by the sciencebased target initiative, a tough jury of non-government organizations. Where the Group can positively impact society at large Sustainovate | Report on progress 2017 | Husqvarna Group 7 With our sights set on 2020 Sustainovate is increasingly influencing our offering, our innovation and way of working. It is generating engagement across the organization and interest among our stakeholders. Progress has been made in most of our five challenges and we are gaining ever-more clarity on our role in achieving greater sustainability. Husqvarna Group’s CEO Kai Wärn (KW) and CFO Jan Ytterberg (JY) highlight progress towards our 2020 targets and the challenges ahead. 8 Sustainovate | Report on progress 2017 | Husqvarna Group What role has Sustainovate played in the 2020 strategy? What are you proudest of? Can you see that it is making a difference to the business? JY: Our overall improvements in the five areas, which shows both KW: It won´t be possible to secure market leadership without being our commitment and progress. In functional responsibility, we have a leader in sustainability. From that point, Sustainovate provides integrated energy criteria into how we drive our investment request direction and guidance and it is necessary in order for us to achieve process, not least relating to real estate. Environment and safety are our business ambition. important there. We see progress across our five Sustainovate challenges, and are We’ve made major investments in renewable energy this year. especially pleased to see that we are on track to meet our targets for Thirteen Group manufacturing sites in Europe purchase only Carbon, Team and Supplier. While workplace safety is in line with our renewable electricity, and more sites will follow in 2018. Safety target, internal processes for product safety need to be further Solar power capabilities are up and running in Huskvarna, Sweden reinforced to meet our aspiration. For our Community challenge, we and Nashville, USA. Solar panels are expected to deliver 25 percent have defined three common themes where we can make the greatest of the Nashville plant’s electricity needs. Our two 2017 investments difference: protecting biodiversity, promoting healthier lifestyles and will deliver a CO2 savings of 2,100 tonnes compared to purchasing supporting communities in natural disaster relief. electricity entirely from the grid. In Changzhou, China, solar panels will be in operation in 2018. Three strategic focus areas in the business strategy, KW: Yes, this is impressive. The share of renewable electricity is robotics, digitization and battery technologies play an now 43 percent, from pretty much nowhere a couple of years ago. important role in the Group’s product offering. How are The value of the launch of our 2035 Science Based Target covering these focus areas benefitting Sustainovate? product efficiency can't be underestimated. It gives us clarity and KW: Robotics and digitization deliver efficiency and optimization. a lot of work during the year has been invested in defining our That’s why they are important drivers for our sustainability approach. technology roadmap to achieve it. They deliver greater intelligence and increased connectivity in our products, so we can better optimize their use and our offering. In what ways can we see that Sustainovate is being Energy requirements for robotics have been reduced over the integrated throughout the Group’s organization? years and the battery density for battery-powered products are KW: That’s another big difference compared to last year. Each being improved. New technologies are opening applications for division has been driving Sustainovate in 2017. From being a Group products and the type of power you can leverage. initiative, it has cascaded and now, divisions are driving it. In practical terms, it's the larger things—like progress on our Carbon JY: At the same time, we are increasing our understanding of the Target—how we are delivering on a technology roadmap as well as environmental, ethical and human rights aspects of battery and the small innovations and ongoing improvements that show how digital technologies – how they are sourced, produced, used and Sustainovate is making an impact. Step changes and continuous recycled. These are important perspectives that we need to manage improvement in parallel, this is also how I visualize this going forward. well and take into consideration. JY: In regards to our Team Challenge, we’ve received positive and KW: There is no silver bullet for sustainability solutions. We need to constructive feedback from employees on how they perceive Husqvarna increase our knowledge and focus on improving efficiency across Group as a workplace based on satisfaction, engagement and our portfolio, both in petrol products and battery technologies. communicative leadership. We received an NPS score of +10, compared We’re seeing greater efficiency in petrol products. For example, the to -5 in 2015, which is an impressive improvement in three years. Husqvarna brand's newly launched pro chainsaw, the 70cc, will allow a 15 percent CO2 emissions reduction compared to its predecessors. What areas require greater focus? JY: We need to create better processes that deliver deeper insight Last year you stated in our sustainability report that into our supply chain—beyond Tier 1 suppliers—to ensure that we are “Consumers are not driving sustainability yet, but sourcing sustainably, not least related to conflict minerals. In order to awareness is increasing.” How would you describe achieve our 2020 target, we also need to apply a common approach consumer awareness this year? Have you seen any to track and share best practice in regards to product safety. movement? KW: Sustainovate is an important way to demonstrate our KW: I would say that we actually see a broad movement from commitment to the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact and we investors, professional customers and consumers, in that order. We see that in many ways, it overlaps with the Sustainable Development see professionals – active in municipalities and public procurement – Goals. Management will continue to inject energy and engage more who are clearly taking a stance on this, as we have experienced in our with employees, suppliers, customers and local communities in our Silent City events in China, Germany and Sweden during the year. challenges, so that we can integrate Sustainovate deeper into who Although we see increased engagement among consumers on the we are and what we do. importance of sustainability criteria, I'm not sure yet whether it can be properly measured through existing market data. JY: As of 2018, we will be tracking safety and environmental criteria in our brand health tracker across all divisions. That helps us to better understand how these criteria influence our brand positioning. Sustainovate | Report on progress 2017 | Husqvarna Group 9 Impacts along the value chain A value chain perspective helps us better understand our impacts and maximize the benefits of our work. The long term view helps us pinpoint the relationships we need to strengthen in order to deliver on Sustainovate. Achieving Sustainovate depends on our ability to identify how actions Here’s how we see our greatest impacts along our value chain to in one phase of our value chain link to the impacts in another phase. 2020, and how Sustainovate is designed to create value by actively addressing them. Our Product & services development Sourcing Manufacturing Carbon emissions and product safety With Sustainovate, we are leveraging With 13,000 employees in 40 impacts targets spur innovation and enable the shift to low-carbon alternatives. over 160 of our most strategic suppliers – representing some 70 percent of countries, our economic and social impacts are sizeable. Our direct along the This year, 1,342 (1,241) MSEK were invested in R&D, a large share of our purchasing spend – to generate change and reduce risks upstream. carbon footprint is relatively small however, about two percent, and is value chain this in new product innovation and efficiency. How we'll meet our challenges mostly from electricity consumption. But the decisions we make in this area • Supplier-enabled innovation set the tone for other priorities along How we'll meet our challenges • Long-term financial performance the value chain. • Develop energy & water efficient • Procure from sustainable suppliers products • Ethical business practices How we'll meet our challenges • Solutions for customer health • Efficient operations & safety The difference we make • Talent management • Technology investments A partnership approach helps us • Health, safety & wellbeing • Materials use achieve climate and supplier targets and deliver cost savings for us and our The difference we make The difference we make suppliers. We encourage suppliers to As a trusted brand and a company Driving low-carbon alternatives share our sustainability ambitions and committed to market leadership, and safety innovation helps create help us reduce our impacts. we attract the right competences. a competitive edge while reducing Producing products efficiently and impacts at the customer-use phase. close to market allows significant Meeting ambitious regulations in one cost optimization.Employees gain market provides insight into anothers' job development opportunities and ­requirements. This approach stimusecurity. Local communities benefit lates industry performance. through jobs and economic stability. Degree of influence the Group exerts at each phase HIGH MEDIUM HIGH 10 Sustainovate | Report on progress 2017 | Husqvarna Group CO2 emissions in the value chain n Suppliers 10% n Manufacturing 2% n Transportation 1% n Product use 85% n Other 2% According to the Group's carbon footprint, our greatest impact occurs during the use of our products. Transportation Point of sales Customer use End of life Approximately one percent of the Our products are sold via 25,000 About 85 percent of a petrol-powered Our long-term vision is to turn our Group's carbon dioxide emissions is dealers and retailers in 100 countries product's carbon impact occurs when products’ end of life into the beginrelated to transportation, primarily to consumers and professionals and it is in use. Our ability to influence ning of a new cycle. This requires a from road, ocean and airfreight. through online sales. Our aim is to depends on product development, framework that few companies can Product packaging and operations increase sales of products that go battery technology and growing achieve on their own. footprint can positively influence our beyond local regulation for emissions opportunities offered through carbon impact. and safety. digitization. How we'll meet our challenges • Develop sustainable products How we'll meet our challenges How we'll meet our challenges How we'll meet our challenges & services • Shift to preferred transport modes • Ensure long-term financial • Develop sustainable products • Regulatory management • Optimize logistics performance & services • Optimize packaging • Promote sustainable and efficient • Solutions for customer health The difference we make products and services. and safety Our products are comprised largely of The difference we make • Personal protective equipment steel and plastics and we participate Shifting to more sustainable transport The difference we make in recycling schemes for electrical and decreasing use of air cargo are Sales growth improves our long-term The difference we make equipment and batteries in some important objectives for society that financial viability. By promoting Energy-efficient products deliver cost markets in North America and Europe. we support through our purchasing battery we’re growing the market savings for customers. Focusing on With the circular economy as a choices. Optimizing logistics can yield for a low-carbon product portfolio. safe solutions delivers a sense of segrowing imperative, we are exploring significant cost savings. Increasing transparency on envicurity to users and bystanders. Spare opportunities to contribute further ronmental and social impacts help parts and fleet-management services with the increased use of recycled dealers and retailers meet customer extend the lifetime of our products. plastics in our products. This brings expectations. us a step closer to creating a more circular value chain. LOW MEDIUM LOW LOW Sustainovate | Report on progress 2017 | Husqvarna Group 11 Carbon challenge 2020 target How we’ll get there 10% CO2 emissions CO2 emissions intensity reducOptimize product efficiency and tion across our 10% intensity from pro-duct use Increase share of battery and robotics value chain CO2 emissions Reduce airfreight 10% intensity in transportation Optimize distribution and packaging CO2 emissions Purchase renewable energy 30% intensity in manufacturing Improve energy efficiency CO2 emissions Collect energy consumption data -10% intensity from strategic suppliers Drive improvements and share best practice Cutting CO2 emissions where it matters most Through our carbon target, we aim to decouple our CO2 emissions from our ambition to grow as a company. By tackling four aspects of our business – products, operations, transportation and suppliers – our value chain approach is reducing CO2 where our impacts are the greatest. Two years into the launch of Sustainovate and there is growing Product innovation reduces impacts evidence that addressing climate change is spurring innovation, More than 80 percent of our CO2 impact occurs when products are generating operational efficiencies, reducing risks and delivering in use. We see this as an opportunity to challenge our teams and tangible cost savings across the value chain. our partners to develop new solutions. Our greatest contribution to tackling climate change and contributing to customer value is to The target develop and produce more fuel-efficient products and by increasThe 2020 target engages every aspect of the business. CO2 ing the use of technologies that promote low-carbon alternatives. ­emissions intensity will be reduced by 10 percent across the value The latter includes a wider battery and robotics offering and more chain compared with the target’s 2015 baseline. Four sub-targets connected products. Although the Group’s products span over a covering suppliers, operations, transportation and product use number of categories, more than 80 percent of our sales derive from encompass the target. 2020 is an important milestone towards petrol-powered products. Across our divisions, however, we see an realizing the Group's Science-based target, launched in 2016. increased demand for battery and robotic solutions. This ambitious target reflects the Group’s aim to cut absolute CO2 emissions from product use by 33 percent by 2035. 12 Sustainovate | Report on progress 2017 | Husqvarna Group Progress against the target Performance against Product CO2 Transportation CO2 Operations CO2 overarching target emissions intensity emissions intensity emissions intensity 26% 26% 13% 43% Walking the talk in operations and transport Our approach to managing CO2 reductions Although emissions from operations and transport represent about three percent of our total CO2 footprint, conducting our business in a leaner way has benefitted us through lower costs and engaging the With 2015 as our baseline, the four sub-targets are fororganization. Our manufacturing operations are located in 15 counmulated as a snapshot of the year’s performance, not as an accumulated target. Every division has defined its own tries, including fossil-fuel intensive regions such as Asia and Eastern targets, initiatives and roadmaps relevant to its business Europe. For transport, we have a global network of providers across context. The heads of sourcing, manufacturing, transport, air, ocean, road and rail. Our focus is to limit CO2 impacts through and products own their respective share of the target energy optimization, production and sourcing of renewable electricity, and initiatives. improved logistics planning and reduced dependency on airfreight. Overall progress on the target is reported as CO2 emissions intensity, tailored to each aspect of the value chain. Target on track For products, we measure CO2 emissions emitted during We have reduced our overall CO2 emissions intensity by 26 percent the product’s lifetime, normalized to net sales. In manuand reduced our CO2 emissions intensity in operations by 43 percent. facturing, we measure energy consumed at our factories, warehouses, R&D centers and offices, also normalized to Energy consumption in operations remained flat while value added net sales. In transport, we track CO2 emissions per tons increased by 20 percent in comparison to 2015. In transportation, our shipped, in order to create a way of working where we can CO2 intensity decreased by 13 percent compared to 2015. increase our sales, but reduce the relative impact we have on the environment. We are in the process of establishing a relevant way of measuring progress for energy use among suppliers. When emissions are aggregated on Group level, it is reported as per value added. Progress is reported regularly to Group Management. Cross-divisional networks – such as for example the Group Technology Forum, Group Sourcing Forum, Sustainability Forum, S&OP forum and CO2 network– regularly convene We attained a 43 percent discussions with responsible managers from every division to share best practice and identify barriers to realizing the challenge. In 2018, we will evaluate results against the reduction in our CO2 emissions Group’s level of ambition and adjust initiatives thereafter. intensity from operations. Sustainovate | Report on progress 2017 | Husqvarna Group 13 Initiatives that define low-carbon operations Across our value chain, initiatives are ongoing to reduce CO2 emissions and find low-carbon energy alternatives. We have a responsibility to reduce energy use along our value chain. Towards renewable in our operations Cutting it in areas beyond our direct control demands a special skillIn factories, warehouses, R&D centers and offices across the Group, set, including leveraging our influence and building partnerships. initiatives are in place to achieve our target. This year, we attained a 43 percent reduction. Raising awareness, making CO2 a criteria in Engaging suppliers our investment-evalution process, as well as investments in energy-­ Throughout the year, we have been raising awareness among our efficient and low-carbon solutions all played important roles. some 160 strategic suppliers, which represents 70 percent of our The shift to renewables is delivering a large share of our 30 percent purchasing spend. One on one, and at a yearly supplier conferences, target. We have begun the journey by sourcing renewable electricity we outline our target objectives, how we aim to achieve it and share for our factories and are generating our own electricity from solar best practice. power. Thirteen sites in seven European countries now only purchase We piloted a program with some strategic partners from the US, renewable electricity. More sites will follow in 2018. Seven sites in Europe and Asia to collect information on direct and indirect energy Europe and fifteen globally have not yet secured agreements to use. With their insights, we arrived at a common way of gathering purchase renewable energy. data, understanding boundaries and measuring performance. This Solar power capabilities have been installed in Nashville, USA program is currently being rolled out among all strategic suppliers. and Huskvarna, Sweden. These efforts will deliver a savings of 2,100 During the year, we developed an energy-efficiency workshop tonnes of CO2 from solar energy in Nashville alone and is expected program, available for suppliers needing additional guidance to supply 25 percent of their electricity consumption. In Huskvarna and support. solar power will produce up to 18,000 kWh/year. In Changzhou, China, solar power will be in operation in 2018. 14 Sustainovate | Report on progress 2017 | Husqvarna Group CO2 emissions intensity from manufacturing 20 tCO2e/SEKm VA 15 10 5 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 CO2 emissions intensity from manufacturing were reduced by 43 percent between 2015 and 2017. At three three sites in Germany, UK and USA, we have invested in energy-efficient plastic injection molding equipment – an energy-­ intensive process –that promises an 11 percent increase in energy efficiency. At Huskvarna, Sweden, we have invested in a control system for compressed air that is delivering an energy savings of At our Nashville, Arkansas plant in the USA, we built our first solar power 300,000 kWh/year. Additionally, the switch to LED Group-wide has generating facility with 1,3 MW capacity. It is expected to reduce our CO2 footprint by approximately 52,000 tons over its 25-year lifespan. generated a savings of 1.5 million kWh/year. Concerted efforts are ongoing to influence behavior and eliminate energy-intensive practices through our energy treasure hunting proInformed by science gram. Seven of 35 sites across the Group have achieved ISO 50001 certification, an energy-management and efficiency standard. Through Sustainovate, we aim to reduce CO2 emissions intensity in the value chain by 10 percent by 2020. But this is Sustainable transport only a milestone on our journey to our 2035 target. Consolidating our warehouses to one distribution center in OrangeIn 2015, the international community committed to limiting burg, SC, USA eliminated the need for some 4,000 shuttles. This the global temperature increase to less than 2°C compared reduced our CO2 impact by approximately 2,000 tonnes. McRae, GA to pre-industrial levels. Reflective of this commitment, and and Nashville, AR in USA will be following Orangeburg's example backed by the latest climate science, we ­defined an ambitious, in 2018. In Europe, we work with major retailers to shift towards a long-term target to cut absolute CO2 emissions from products more sustainable logistics system. We are achieving this through by 33 percent by 2035 ­compared to 2015 emissions levels. larger shipment sizes and replacing express deliveries previously on Husqvarna Group is the first Swedish-listed company, and airfreight with road transport. the world’s first forest and garden company, to have its CO2 reduction targets approved by the Science Based Targets initiOur next step is to limit just-in-time use of airfreight for some ative. This initiative of non-government organizations includes professional customers and integrate rail as a transport option from the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), the UN Global Compact, the Far East to Europe. The shift promises to cost 14 times less than World Resources Institute and World Wildlife Fund (WWF). airfreight and emits 25 times less CO2. While our 2020 target relies primarily on sustainable products in our current product mix, we will deliver our 2035 target through innovation for improved product efficiency and delivering step-change technologies and business models. Our technology roadmap, launched in 2017, guides our process and will be regularly reviewed. CO2 emissions intensity from transportation tCO2e/SEKm VA 5 4 3 2 1 0 2015 2016 2017 CO2 emissions intensity from transportation was reduced by 13 percent between 2015 and 2017. Sustainovate | Report on progress 2017 | Husqvarna Group 15 Increasing sales of efficient products We can make the biggest difference to our 2020 target by promoting efficient and sustainable products and solutions. The vast majority of our CO2 emissions occurs when our products are are even easier to use. Since 2015, battery sales have accelerated in in use. Our approach to the 2020 target is twofold and is based prithe Husqvarna division and increased notably in the Gardena division marily on sales of products from our current mix. We aim to increase and the Consumer Brands division in North America. Even among sales of the most energy-efficient petrol-driven products and proHusqvarna Construction customers, we see greater demand to go mote solutions such as batteries, robotics and connected solutions ‘battery.’ New or updated products, batteries and chargers are ready that allow for energy sources with lower CO2 emissions . In parallel, for market rollout starting in 2018. our R&D efforts focus on innovation of new products that will deliver The battery lawn-mower market stands out particularly for its on our technology roadmap and realize our 2035 Science-based potential growth. We expect sales to reach a new level in 2018, with target (Informed by Science, p. 15). the launch of several models built on the Group's battery systems, sold under the Husqvarna brand. CO2 emissions intensity from product use tCO2e/SEKm VA 800 Water-wise 700 With greater concern about water constraints across our markets, we have a role to play in how water is managed in gardens. 600 Gardena’s range of products for lawn and garden irrigation can 500 deliver a water savings of up to 70 percent. Gardena Division has set 400 a 2020 target of a 50 percent increase in sales of these water-efficient 300 irrigation products, compared to 2015 sales. Included in the target 200 scope are sales of the Gardena smart system the market's first 100 connected automatic lawn care and water management system. It also 0 encompasses sales of efficient drip-irrigation solutions such as the 2015 2016 2017 Gardena Micro-Drip-System. CO2 emissions intensity from product use were reduced by 26 percent between 2015 and 2017 Air quality in focus We are also reducing other exhaust emissions, including nitrogen Fuel-efficient engines oxides (NOx) and hydrocarbons (HC), as well as improving uptime, Although the market for batteries and robotics is growing, our legacy performance, reliability and durability. In fact, through improvements in petrol products is still central to our business. We continue to in scavenging and combustion, NOx + HC emissions have decreased make significant investments in R&D across the petrol hand-held over the last 20 years by approximately 50 percent for engines with a program, replacing older generations with state-of-the art products. cylinder volume of 50cc or above, and by 80 percent for engines with Fuel consumption has decreased on average by 15 20 percent for cylinder volumes below 50cc. comparable products on the market. The Husqvarna brand’s recently launched pro chainsaw, the 70cc, for example has a 15 percent CO2 Partnerships for innovation emissions reduction compared to its predecessors thanks to the Together with strategic partners, we are finding innovative ways to addition of the X-torq technology, the latest development in low introduce low-carbon solutions. We have further strengthened the emission engine technology. partnership with BMZ GmbH, a system provider and specialist in intelligent battery solutions, covering the development and manFleet-management systems ufacture of future generation lithium-ion batteries. BMZ is a leader One of our greatest challenges is to find ways to influence how users in the lithium-ion rechargeable battery market and is currently our operate their products at optimal efficiency. By gathering data from ­largest supplier of battery packs. Our partnership aims to shorten devices and providing the analytics to crunch that data, digitizatime to market, enhance innovation and ramp up the shift to a tion helps customers optimize the use of products. It also gives us low-carbon product portfolio. insights into how we can create even better customer solutions and fine-tune our products to each task. The HiPPO happening Although still a recent launch, sales of Husqvarna Fleet Management Services are increasing significantly. Designed especially for professional users in gardens and construction, these services monitor Through HiPPO (Husqvarna Improved Print Packaging performance and guide users on how to optimize equipment use. We’ll Opportunity) initiatives, we plan for investments in improvbe launching Fleet Management Services 2.0 in 2018, including new ing transport volumes efficiency by rethinking print and packaging solutions as well as product design. Through this features for greater user flexibility, efficiency and productivity. Group-wide initiative, we are able to achieve hippo-sized cost savings and a CO2 reduction of 20–30 percent. Battery lawn mowers Under the HiPPO umbrella to date, we have redesigned packSales of battery-based products are increasing at a fast pace. aging for handheld products and reduced the product width of Husqvarna Group is committed to driving the shift to battery for one of our Automower models. We increased the transporter’s a number of reasons. It delivers opportunities to use low-carbon pallet fill rate and thereby reduced CO2 emissions by 111 tonnes energy sources, improves safety (less tripping on cords), has no and 288 tonnes respectively. Initiatives were rolled out in 2017 fumes, less vibration and lower noise levels. Battery-powered tools and will affect products across the Group. 16 Sustainovate | Report on progress 2017 | Husqvarna Group Inspired by efficiency Across our divisions, we are introducing more energy and water-efficient products. And through smart business models and innovation, we are preparing for the shift to the circular economy. On the cutting edge Based on our new innovation platform, the 572 XP® chainsaw leads Husqvarna’s next generation saws for professional use. Leveraging connectivity, efficiency and safety, the saw is delivering new levels of productivity, durability and reliability. At 6.6 kg and with a powerful 4.3 kW engine, the 572 XP® has a better power-to-weight ratio than any equivalent Husqvarna saw and 12 percent higher cutting capacity than equivalent models. Cooling and heavy-duty filtration mean great performance. With AutoTune™ Bringing the sharing economy and Air Injection™ it is designed for optimal efficiency and help even lumberers deep in the forest deliver all day long. With its 70cc to your garden plot engine, it is 15 percent more efficient compared to its predecessors. The Husqvarna Battery Box makes borrowing tools from your Launched in 2017 across all our markets, the 572 XP has been neighbor a thing of the past. In 2017, Husqvarna equipped an tested to make sure it can withstand any extreme environment. See unmanned and app-controlled tool shed outside a major shopping the video here. area with some 30 products such as saws, chain saws, leaf blowers and trimmers. Via this pay-by-use rental depot, gardeners booked battery-powered garden products for a day for 350 SEK per tool. The concept was designed to remove the need for servicing and investment in products used sporadically by gardeners. All equipment was charged in the shed via solar power capabilities on the shed’s roof. Learnings here will inform the development of future business model concepts that help our customers take the leap to the sharing economy. The smart way to garden Gardena Smart System is the latest in watering and lawn care, using Plastic 2.0 IoT technology and data analysis, it is controlled from the gardeners’ mobile phones. Smart sensors monitor soil, and if already moist, We are exploring opportunities to improve the materials they limit a pre-defined watering cycle. Our Pressure Pump allows we use in our products. This includes using recycled plastic gardeners to draw water from wells or cisterns instead of consuming alternatives, and replacing pure plastic solutions with a precious drinking tap water. Developed in partnership with Netatmo, combination of wood and plastics. About two percent of our climate impact derives from plastics use in our products an outdoor security camera is integrated and operated through – equating to the impact in the manufacturing phase. Not the system. It allows users to monitor and control their gardens only do these solutions promise a reduced climate impact, from anywhere. it will be an important area to explore to make our business Gardena smart system will introduce several new hardware devices models more circular. and software features in 2018. Sustainovate | Report on progress 2017 | Husqvarna Group 17 Team challenge 2020 target How we’ll get there +8 Achieve a Team Survey Net Promoter • Strengthen teamwork and team efficiency Score equal or better than our peer group. • Improve working climate and engagement within manufacturing •D  evelop leadership capabilities • Strengthen performance dialogue •B  uild our employer brand Aligned in our goals We deliver value to our employees by creating an attractive workplace, providing opportunities and helping our teams maintain sharp focus on meaningful priorities. Our Team Challenge target measures how we are living up to their expectations. Our teams, with their competencies, energy and commitment, are the focus on improving engagement among factory workers; caskey to realizing the Group's long-term objectives. That's why delivercading information at all levels of the company; and supporting ing value to them plays a central role in Sustainovate. In our approach managers in need of strengthening their leadership abilities. to people management, we foster engagement and develop our employees and teams. Since we are accountable to our employees, Backed by action progress against the Team Challenge is measured based on the To support us in maintaining and exceeding our target of +8, a series feedback of every team member. of initiatives on Group, divisional and local levels are ongiong to improve dialogue, team efficiency, leadership, working environment The target tells a story and to strengthen our employer brand. These include: Our Team Challenge aims to create the best place to work and our target is to meet and exceed the industry benchmark in these • Team Survey Workshops. Based on 2016 results, 93 percent of regards, based on employee feedback. Net Promoter Score (NPS) the Group's teams reviewed the outcomes of their surveys with is our litmus test and +8 is the average score among evaluated their managers in 2016 and 2017. They developed improvement companies this year. We measure our NPS through our Team Survey, action plans related to their team's working environment and which asks all employees how likely it is that they would recommend efficiency. Over 80 percent of the actions identified have since Husqvarna Group as a place to work. We monitor how well we rate been completed. across three overarching areas: employee satisfaction, engagement • Group Leadership Development. In 2017, we launched our “Future and communicative leadership. A thumbs-up by employees within Executive Program” with the London Business School for selected these three areas indicates that many underlying factors for an individuals reporting to the Group’s Management Committee. attractive workplace and a well-functioning team are in place. Through the program, we are equipping future leaders with insights and capabilities to develop and implement strategy going From strength to strength forward. The Group has five additional Group-level leadership This year, we received a record-high response rate to the survey – programs targeting new and experienced managers. So far, 460 11,300 respondents, or 94 percent of our employees – with input employees have taken part in these programs. from both office and factory workers. Overall, we received an NPS score of +10, compared to +1 in 2016 and -5 in 2015. Our efforts to strengthen leadership at Husqvarna Group are showThe survey indicates that we continue to strengthen our pering results all leadership questions in Team Survey show a positive formance in all three areas of the Team Challenge. As last year, trend and the percentage of teams with managers designated survey results show high and increasing levels of confidence in as having 'good' or 'excellent' leadership based on index scores the strategy and how the Group is managed. Both office and has increased. This is especially critical as leadership has a strong factory worker evalu­ations showed similar increases in positive impact on engagement. perceptions across the three areas. In 2017, we set the objective to improve engagement within manufacturing. Our efforts were • Raise employee engagement at manufacturing sites. For 2017 all reflected in the positive shift in all index results for factory workers manufacturing sites across the Group were challenged to develop and in the increased confidence among factory workers for their local plans with related KPIs to improve employee engagement and team leaders’ skills. the Group's employer attractiveness. These plans were formally For the first year, our performance exceeded that of the average followed up at three-month intervals during the year. benchmark company, both in response rate and survey outcome. • Key Behaviors training. Our key behaviors – maintain focus and The benchmark was based on the score of 500,000 respondents simplicity, collaborate and support as well as keep a customer point and 82 percent response rate, representing some 200 companies. of view – are embedded into people processes and supported One third of the benchmark represented the manufacturing indusby local activities. In Asia Pacific, for example, approximately 80 try. To encourage ambitious targets going forward, a Top 25 perpercent of our employees had undergone training in this area by cent benchmark has been added to survey results in 2017, showing year end 2017. index levels for the top quartile of companies in the benchmark database. To achieve this ambitious target, we need to continue Efforts across these initiatives will continue into 2018. 18 Sustainovate | Report on progress 2017 | Husqvarna Group Progress against the target Net Promoter Employee Engagement Communicative Score satisfaction index index leadership index +10 91 79 74 A diverse organization Next steps for Team Challenge A global organization requires the insights of a diverse workforce. In 2018, we will continue to develop the capabilities of our workforce Cultural and gender diversity is in focus, particularly on divisional by providing development opportunities and a strong performance and regional levels. In terms of gender, overall, the share of females culture to their support growth. Employee engagement and Key represents 34 percent of the workforce compared to 33 percent in Behaviors will remain in focus and will strengthen our employer attrac2016, with 24 percent on senior levels (Tiers one to three). tiveness through the launch of a Group Employer Branding project. Supporting our employer brand We aim to communicate a strong and dynamic company culture. The initiatives, actions and energy generated under Sustainovate provide a platform for employees to make a difference. Sustainovate also helps us understand future needs and develop an inclusive approach, all of which are prerequisites for long-term organizational planning, as well as for being a flexible and attractive employer. Millennials represent a growing share of the global workforce. Based on external research (Universum, 2017), we know that they expect the companies they work for to have a clear sustainability agenda. For these reasons, Sustainovate will be an integral part of our employer branding. Initiatives such as early career and trainee programs will also be leveraged to build our brand among this influential target group. Our approach to managing our teams Our teams comprise of some 13,000 people, located across 40 countries, four divisions and a range of functions. Our way of working with the Team Challenge is guided by Net Promoter Score (NPS) our strategic and financial priorities and Key Behaviors. Striking the right balance between global and local alignment 10 for collective action and individual responsibility is crucial. 5 Divisional-level initiatives will primarily deliver on the goal for the Team Challenge. 0 Shared services improve consistency across the organiza-5 tion for managing our people. Together we find a common -10 agenda for the way of working with communication and ethics and how we evaluate performance. -15 The People & Organization management team meets -20 regularly and has quarterly progress meetings on the Team Challenge initiatives on Group and local levels. -25 See also p. 31. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Benchmark For the fifth consecutive year Husqvarna Group's NPS is on the rise. This year we received a record high response rate to the Team Survey – 11 300 respondents or 94 percent. Sustainovate | Report on progress 2017 | Husqvarna Group 19 Supplier challenge 2020 target How we’ll get there 70% of our purchasing spend will • Secure contractual agreements derive from suppliers audited and approved based on their sustaina•C  onduct sustainability risk assessments & audits bility performance •K  now-how transfer & capacity building •S  upplier development and business integration EXCITEd about change By partnering with suppliers, we enhance our ability to understand and reduce our sustainability risks, as well as spur innovation towards more sustainable solutions. We focus primarily on the suppliers that represent 70 percent of the Group’s purchasing spend. Husqvarna Group continues to leverage its two-pronged approach Integrated into sourcing to managing the supply chain. To manage risks and increase The Sustainovate target is driven by our sourcing organization. This ­transparency on our impacts, we are building capabilities to audit enables sustainability priorities to be integrated into criteria such as and assess suppliers in all regions. At the same time, strong partnerquality, delivery, risk and cost. ships with suppliers – built on encouragement and shared goals – Sustainability was a focus area at our EXCITE Day 2017, which was yields greater opportunities for lasting change and secures competattended by nearly 100 strategic suppliers. We discussed our three itive advantage. priorities: to roll out supplier sustainability audits; increase transparency on chemical compliance and work together together with Shared priorities suppliers to achieve CO2 emissions reductions. Our target reinforces our commitment to work closely on environTo create lasting change takes time. Two years into the launch of mental, human rights and anti-corruption priorities with over 160 the program, we have an organization in place to raise awareness suppliers that are classified as strategic. Representing 70 percent of and trigger change. the Group’s purchasing spend, our relationship with these suppliers is built on longer-term contracts and shared priorities. These include Our approach to managing suppliers suppliers that are helping to build our offering for electric and battery products and delivering efficient engines for the petrol business. Sustainability performance is an integral part of our relationships Our responsible sourcing program aims to reduce risks, with strategic suppliers. ensure transparency and encourage positive change among suppliers. Under the responsibility of the Group’s purchasing EXCITE, our group-wide supplier program, is a network-oriented, team, we have sourcing expertise in Sweden, Germany, the collaborative approach to working with these suppliers. Through the US and China. Local sourcing staff at each production facility program and our internal auditing process, we help suppliers build are trained to monitor, align and communicate how suppliers capabilities and sharpen practices and we gain valuable insight into meet our expectations. our upstream impacts. The program also invites opportunities for us Established in 2013, our Supplier Code of Business Ethics to learn how we can further improve our performance. We piloted applies to all suppliers of direct materials, indirect materithis approach with our energy-efficiency program, which supports als and services to any company in the Group and requires our Carbon target (p. 14). their full compliance. The Code covers legal compliance, All strategic suppliers are to be audited at least once by 2020. fairness in business relations, respect for the individual, fair employment conditions, child labor, the environment, health Since 2015, 25 percent of the strategic suppliers have been audited, and safety and fire prevention. We expect our suppliers to and 22 of 160 suppliers were audited in 2017. confirm that they are in compliance with our Code as part of In addition to audits and training, our expectations on perforour on-boarding process. mance are a core aspect of quarterly business review meetings We select candidates for auditing based on their risk level. with them. If non-compliances are unveiled, suppliers are required to submit corrective actions within two weeks. We consider child and forced labor as zero tolerance issues. Eliminating suppliers because of non-compliance is a last resort. We prefer to work with suppliers to address non-compliances. Cases of serious non-compliance must be resolved within a year with monthly progress follow-ups. For Since 2015, 25 percent of selected high-risk suppliers, we also perform site-verification audits to ensure that corrective measures are in place. The strategic suppliers have purchasing team is trained on the Code of Business Ethics and how to identify potential non-compliances. New members of the purchasing team undergo sustainability training been audited. on-site and through joint audits. 20 Sustainovate | Report on progress 2017 | Husqvarna Group Progress on the target Share of spend from Share of approved approved suppliers strategic suppliers 20% 18% A risk-based approach All suppliers must comply with our Supplier Code of Business Ethics and our Restricted Materials List and convey the same expectations to their suppliers. This is a precondition for doing business with us. The Group has approximately 2,100 suppliers, ranging from original Focus this year was on strategic suppliers. During the year, 13 new equipment manufacturers (OEM) to direct material suppliers. Our deep-dive sustainability audits were conducted among strategic suppliers are located across North America, Asia and Europe. suppliers in China. We also re-audited three suppliers and followed At-risk suppliers are located in regions – or working in operations – up with 36 Chinese suppliers. Environmental protection, workthat pose highor medium-risks for non-compliances to the Supplier place safety and fire safety are the three most frequently found Code of Business Ethics. As per the Group’s Country Risk Model, 27 non-compliances in China. Over the past three years, conditions percent of our suppliers are located in high-risk regions that include have improved across our sustainability priorities. No zero tolerance China, India, Thailand, Mexico and Brazil. Critical operations are non-compliances such as child labor or forced labor were found. involved in production of rubber and plastic components, casting, Supplier training was completed in China for approximately 50 steel and electrical components and OEM suppliers. Asian suppliers, which include the introduction of Sustainovate, the Code of Business Ethics and chemical legislation such as REACH Reducing risks and increasing transparency and RoHS. We continue to monitor performance among these suppliers through In 2018, we will rollout training of Husqvarna purchasing teams on audits and self-assessments. the Supplier Code of Business Ethics. With Ecovadis, we will scope To deepen our approach, we have expanded our sustainability risks of our supplier base in order to set future priorities. auditing capacity with auditors in China, Europe and the US and by engaging a global third-party sustainability rating system, Ecovadis. Our customers, employees and investors are increasingly interResults of sustainability audit score in 2015-2017 (%) ested in understanding our sourcing risks and how we manage them. This includes tracing risks for conflict minerals and modern slavery. 100 Dealers and major retailers expect that we will be proactive in ensuring that our suppliers live up to universal standards of doing business 80 and that we are transparent about their performance. 60 In general, we assess both strategic suppliers and those deemed as at-risk suppliers. We track risk for selected tier two and three sup40 pliers through our monitoring system, Risk Methods. Our auditing process also evaluates if our suppliers have conveyed our expecta20 tions to their suppliers. We also require transparency on chemicals use. In 2017, we piloted 0 a project to gather supplier data, and subsequently subcontracted General Fairness Human EnvironOccupational Fire requirement in business Rights and ment health & safety safety information gathering to third-party experts. relations Workplace practices Monitoring performance n 2015 n 2016 n 2017 Four types of audits were conducted to ensure that our expectations Over the past three years, conditions have improved are met. across our sustainability priorities. 1. D  eep-dive audits, led by our sourcing team. 2. Quality audits, incorporating sustainability criteria, performed by our sourcing team. 3. Third-party audits, carried out by our customers in supplier factories. 4. Third-party assessments, undertaken by Ecovadis, with expertise in sustainable supply chains. Sustainovate | Report on progress 2017 | Husqvarna Group 21 Safety challenge 2020 target How we’ll get there 40% •L  ead via management commitment and action Reduction of injury rate in operations • Advance and mature our safety culture • Involve and engage all employees and partners • Proactively anticipate and prevent incidents 35% •P  roduct innovation and design improvement Reduction of new product incidents • Improve incident information and root-cause analysis Group-wide •E  ngage consumers on safe product use Safety is integral to all we do Strengthened processes have led to fewer workplace safety incidents and improved safety performance across the organization. Our Safety challenge comprises two targets – workplace and prodWe are in the early phases of building a Group approach to meeting uct safety. They reflect our commitment to protecting employees, our target. This includes raising awareness, collecting data and sharpartners and customers alike. ing best practice for innovating for safety, which is a growing priority, particularly among our professional users. Workplace safety Our 2020 target for workplace safety is to reduce our injury rate by 40 percent in operations, compared to 2015 performance. Overall, we have seen a 30 (20) percent reduction of our injury rate from 2015. Our approach to managing workplace safety The target is designed to reflect a yearly snapshot on performance. Our year-end outcome represents 75 percent of what we aim to Managing safety in our operations and warehouses is the imachieve with the target by 2020. Compared to our 2015 baseline, we perative of every factory manager. Local managing directors see marked reductions in safety incidents. With a Group total cases and line management have responsibility for defining prioriincident rate, or TCIR, of 5.8 per million hours worked, our perforties, setting targets, implementation and evaluating progress against Group-wide targets and KPI's. The Environment, mance in most of our facilities reflects – and at some sites exceeds Health and Safety (EH&S) Network collectively identifies and – industry standard in the manufacturing sector. Best practice in the mitigates potential risks and shares ideas to reduce impacts. industry is two incidents. Driven by continuous improvement, the Husqvarna OperWith restricted duty cases now consistently included, Lost workating System (HOS) is our standardized, hands-on approach days incidents rate (LWIR) has been revised and reinforced in 2017. for all manufacturing operations. Our EH&S Management Although this may be the result of ongoing alignment of language system is an integrated part of the HOS and is aligned in the indicator’s scope, we will continue to keep a sharp eye on this with ISO45001. Factory management teams regularly walk indicator moving forward. through the factory to dialogue with workers, inspect operaEach division has defined its own safety target that will deliver tions and review corrective measures. This system helps spur improvements on all levels in an integrated and cross-functhe Group’s 40 percent reduction. The starting point to realizing the tional way. target therefore varies between divisions. Some divisions focus on At least one safety manager is on site at every location. solutions that are close at hand, while others are fine-tuning existing Incidents and progress are reviewed at site management performance to achieve best practice. meetings. Performance is to be reported monthly to divisional levels. Most sites apply ten common standards that address Product target areas that pose specific risks – such as equipment use, wareOur target for product safety is to reduce new product incidents house safety, chemicals handling and protective clothing. by 35 percent compared to 2016. Our current product safety metric When serious incidents occur, Group-level is informed accounts for the number of injuries or property damage cases within eight hours and a recommended action plan is rolled out to all sites. involving new products over the last 24 months. This equates to 60 Safety management systems and ISO certification of sites incidents or fewer for 2019 and 2020. Incident reports encompassed are acquired at site, country or regional levels. XX (three) by the target represent approximately 85 percent of Group revenue. factory sites are currently certified to OHSAS18001. Internal Asia does not lie within the scope of the target due to lack of access audits and self-assessments help us remain proactive, preto market data. 2017 is the first year in which we report performance vent accidents, raise awareness and engage management. against the target. We aim to continue to improve training and coaching. In 2017, 38 cases involving products released in 2016 and 2017 Regional EHS managers meet on a monthly basis to were reported. This brings our product safety result down from 94 exchange best practice and coordinate initiatives. cases to 88 cases, a six percent improvement. 22 Sustainovate | Report on progress 2017 | Husqvarna Group Progress against the target TCIR (Total cases Incidents related incident rate) to new products 30% 6% Safety starts at the local level Our focus on occupational safety primarily concerns the Group’s Towards a zero-accident mindset factories, warehouses and service centers. Actions like operating line We are working to further reduce these incidents. On track to realize production, handling sheet metal and using forklifts pose particular our target, in 2018, the focus will be on safety measures that require risks to the safety of our employees that need to be reduced. more time and effort, but promise long-standing behavior changes. The size of operations, safety challenges and awareness levels An important objective is to shift towards a zero-accident mindset vary between sites, and some operations rely on seasonal workers to with every employee. This means proactively identifying and mitigatmeet production peaks. By managing safety at local levels, we can ing risks, not only responding to near misses and incidents once they better address these aspects. Each of our factories has safety profeshave occurred. sionals and ownership of corrective actions and preventive measures With temporary workers active at our factories every year, training is at the site. coupled with a strong safety culture are ongoing priorites. All of our In 2017, our work focused on the following areas: sites have seasonal workers and they have safety training processes • To heighten our understanding of how we measure progress, we in place. sharpened our reporting processes in our EH&S management system and aligned it with the future health and safety standard ISO45001. • To achieve a common view on performance, we further defined incident categories and severity. • We increased activities to improve our safety culture. • We established a group-wide network of safety professionals to share best practice and align our way of working. Reporting on incidents Unfortunately, some accidents occurred in 2017, 166 (185) injuries required medical treatment, 105 of which required days away from work or restricted duties. There were no fatalities. Fifty-one incidents occurred this year in our logistics operations. This underlined the importance of a behavior led approach to improving safety. Injury rate per million hours worked Lost workday injury rate per million hours worked 12 TCIR 4,0 LWIR 3,5 10 3,0 8 2,5 6 2,0 1,5 4 1,0 2 0,5 0 0,0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2014 2015 2016 2017 We have reduced total cases injury rate by 30 The 2017 increase in LWIR is due to inclusion percent between 2015 and 2017 of restricted duty cases Sustainovate | Report on progress 2017 | Husqvarna Group 23 Enhancing product safety Our products are designed with safety in mind. They are equipped to meet or exceed regulatory and industry standards and are continually fine-tuned to further improve their safety performance. Our target aims to establish a group-wide structure for sharing inforOur approach to product safety mation, tracking progress and actively reducing incidents. Product safety is a critical factor in the purchasing decisions of our customers. Product development and information sharing are both essential to A Group Committee on Product Safety (COPS) drives our boost product safety and enhance user experience. target, measures progress, coordinates actions and raises it Our long-term goal is to achieve zero incidents involving all our to Group level if necessary. They meet at least three times a year and as-needed. As outlined in our Product Safety Policy, products. Anchored in our Product Safety Policy, this aspect of the each business unit within divisions must inform their COPS Safety Challenge will drive process improvements and help us better upon concern for a product manufactured or supplied by us. understand the root causes of incidents. To influence the behavior of Types of concerns include: the users of our products – both in how they use them safely and how they maintain them we aim to facilitate the access to product knowl• Actual or potential incidents involving personal injury, or edge. Another challenge is to design and promote the development • Actual or potential incidents involving major property of innovative product safety features; ranging from smart tweaks to damage, or cutting-edge technologies. • A market intervention procedure such as service bulletins, One of our priorities in 2018 is to continue reinforcing market rework, or recalls. feedback and to focus particularly on at least one product category Each product brand carries the responsibility for imple­with pilots for process improvements. Several ongoing projects will menting improvements in design, manufacturing process and introduce new safety features which will contribute to our challenge product information and ensuring that we meet local regulain the coming months. tory requirements. Our approach to product safety is threefold. • On an ongoing basis, we introduce product features and corrective actions that prevent accidents or reduce their severity in all products. • We raise awareness of the importance of safety to users and bystanders through product information at point of sale and online. • We help improve industry performance by actively taking part in the development of safety standards across our sector. 24 Sustainovate | Report on progress 2017 | Husqvarna Group Playing it safe Our commitment to safety shapes the development of our products and how we engage with users on how to operate them. Top training Operating a product safely rides on awareness and knowledge, not least when using power cutters and diamond tools. At Husqvarna Construction, we tailor our training to each customer and how our products are used in their work. In Sweden, we perform safety-­ training sessions together with several customers, including the construction companies Veidekke and NCC. Through practice and theory, our training program teaches users to apply a correct cutting technique. Theory makes up 25 percent of the training program. In order to pass the course, participants are tested on their skills. Hold on tight Using handheld power cutters for pipe cutting in trenches can be a tricky business. Take repairing urgent water leaks, which is often associated with time pressure, tight workspaces, strenuous positions and increased risk for injuries. Our new pipe-cutting clamp, an attachment for power cutters, allows operators to complete these tough jobs safely-enabling a fast and precise cut while reducing the risk for kickback. Along for the ride Blade runner It’s always safety first when getting behind any wheel – whether When working with handheld it’s a bike or car or even ride-on mowers. Improving the safety of power cutters, safety and perfor‘wheeled’ product categories is therefore a priority. mance go hand in hand with proImportantly, safety depends to a high degree on the drivers’ ductivity. This is why Husqvarna behavior. Instruction manuals guide drivers on how to reduce risk Elite-Cut, Vari-Cut and Tacti-Cut of harm and operate their vehicles safely. Most Husqvarna ride-on Diamond Blades feature intuitive mowers feature pedal-operated hydrostatic transmission systems and recognizable indicators to simplify a task. that allow users to keep both hands on the steering wheel while Application markers help ensure that users are applying the right adjusting speed and direction with foot pedals and have easily blade for the right job. The wear indicators provide information on accessible gauges and controls. the blade’s wear and side clearance; reducing risks for pinching We also have features in place to reduce harm if an accident or kickback. The directional arrow helps ensure that the blade is occurs. For large commercial mowers, we have a rollover protection mounted correctly. For rental businesses, the measuring holes will system that prevents injury if the mower tips. help them keep track of the total wear between usage. Our All-Wheel-Drive system ensures traction on uneven, wet and The addition of these features provides a better, safer and more slippery areas and slopes, automatically adjusting to conditions on user-friendly blade. The new and improved S series diamond blades all wheels. Our efforts have been recognized by the consumer review will be available on the market in 2018. site: toptenreviews.com. The Husqvarna PZ60 stood out for its reliability, operator safety and fast cutting performance and was rated among the top 10 riding lawn mowers in the US and Europe. Sustainovate | Report on progress 2017 | Husqvarna Group 25 Community challenge 2020 target How we’ll get there By connecting people with nature, we aim to pro• Develop a framework to align the Group's objectect biodiversity, promote healthier lifestyles and tives and way of measuring our positive impact more resilient communities. •B  uild partnerships •B  uild group-wide capacity for a disaster­relief program Making a difference on the ground By connecting people with nature and helping communities in crisis situations, divisions employ their strengths–people, products and financial contributions–to benefit others. The aim of the Challenge is twofold: to explore ways the Group's Husqvarna division invested over a half million SEK into ‘Husqvarna products and organizations can engage in relevant ways and to love parks’ and engaged around 300 employees. Benefits include procreate a platform and the impetus to share learning across the tecting local biospheres, providing training for local conservationists Group. Through our offering and engaged employees, we are well on using our products and engaging with the public on their parks. positioned to make a difference in the communities where our conThrough our ongoing initiative Silent City, we have been convensumers live and where we have a presence. Our community work also ing industry thought-leaders, academics and landscaping companies aligns with the Group’s strategic objectives. and journalists to explore the role of parks for improving the lives of urban populations. Silent City has been an ongoing forum for Three themes that make a difference dialogue across our markets since 2015. This year, the international This challenge aims to support local operations in building partnerSilent City was held in Scotland and several local events were held in ships and investing in community efforts in relevant ways, aligned to the US, three in China as well as one in Denmark and Sweden. three common themes: • Improving biodiversity Preserving species • Promoting healthier lifestyles; and During 2016 and 2017 Husqvarna Division in South America engaged • Supporting communities to be stronger and more resilient, in the Peru Cocoa Alliance, a multi-stakeholder initiative to provide a ­especially during and after natural disasters. viable economic alternative to the illegal cultivation of coca for PeruThe first two aspects of the challenge are grounded on Sustainovian farmers. In partnership with the platform Palladium, Husqvarna vate’s purpose—using our technology and know-how to connect supported the program that facilitates and increases capabilities of people with nature. cocoa producers, while at the same time protecting tropical forests. We are a significant employer in communities where our factories are located and we are inspired by our relationships with consumers, Emergency response who live for the outdoors. Together with development and conservaWhether it be an earthquake, hurricane or blizzard, professional tion organizations and local communities, we can support efforts to products and Group competence can play an important function preserve biodiversity in fields, forests and urban environments. in times of emergency. Infrastructure such as roads, airports and The third theme of the challenge reflects our ambition to build waterways need clearing and people caught in the crisis need to capabilities within our organization for a collective Group response to be secured. Supporting local efforts when disaster strikes—which support communities and organizations in times of natural disaster. occurred this year in Texas (see case), for example —are important This includes deploying our expertise, products and resources. ways of demonstrating our commitment to the regions where we Further refined in 2017, the Challenge target—to engage in two have a presence. or more community projects—is being reformulated to reflect a new challenge objective. A framework that each local organization can apply within which the Group can share best practice will be developed in 2018. This will also include common ways of measuring the positive impact that we contribute to through our community By promoting urban parks involvement. and through biodiversity efforts, We love parks We intend to make our products instruments for good. the Group is helping to create the The Husqvarna Loves Parks initiative was born out of this ambition and engages employees in our vision. Initiatives in 11 counright conditions for conservation tries across our markets launched the program this year, done in partnership with local conservation and community organizations. and to promote healthier lifestyles. 26 Sustainovate | Report on progress 2017 | Husqvarna Group Husqvarna loves parks USA Employees at the Husqvarna Brand Division in Charlotte, North Carolina visited Dan Nicholas Park in nearby Rowan County for a day of outdoor service. Equipped with battery and gas-powered Husqvarna products, 40 volunteers spent the day cutting back brush, widening hiking trails and cleaning up landscapes and garden beds. With the cooperation of park rangers, Husqvarna team members worked together to improve the park and provided training to park keepers on optimizing the use of our power products. Australia In Wyong, NSW, Husqvarna Group Australia partnered with Landcare NSW and Central Coast Council for an initiative to help restore vegetation along Porters Creek. By removing weeds and brush and increasing the planted area, the team set the scene to give native species a chance to regenerate. This also helped reduce the risk of pollution entering into the water supply. Some 60 employees took part. Clearing the path Silent City Supported by local dealers, Husqvarna products supported Three Chinese Silent City seminars were held throughout the year, clean-up efforts in the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey, which convening local authorities and organizations such as the Beijing ­devastated southern Texas in September. Chain saws and power Landscaping Association. Regional representatives introduced a cutters cleared the way of fallen trees on roads, people’s homes blueprint for the city’s gardens, and underlined the role that develand critical infrastructure. oping parks have for improving critical urban challenges such as air With rainfall and heavy winds, Harvey devastated large stretches quality and quality of life. of land in populated regions of the Houston area into Louisiana. On hand for over two weeks, a team from Husqvarna USA assisted directly in various communities, helping to clear roadways and remove downed trees. Our approach to managing community engagement Deployed directly in the affected area, territory managers on the ground also helped coordinate post-storm deliveries to locations Our approach to engagement will continue to be anchored in local impacted by the storm and provided guidance and basic training and divisional initiatives because the impact of our efforts is greatest support on safe saw usage for new users. when on the ground and connected to each business area. At the onset of the hurricane season, Husqvarna USA forms a task To support them in their work, this Sustainovate challenge provides us with a group-wide foundation to share best practice and explore force comprising of both staff and external sales teams to help supways to better engage. port potential relief efforts. Plans take form at the beginning of the The Global Media and Sustainabililty manager is responsible for season to ensure that we are prepared to support. coordinating our response across the Group. Sustainovate | Report on progress 2017 | Husqvarna Group 27 A model for creating value At the core of the Group’s business model are our customers. By shaping great customer experiences we can be leaders in their eyes. That's how we'll win market share and shape our future positioning. Built on a strategy of market leadership, our business model is What sets us apart designed for profitable growth -bringing the best outdoor and Profitable growth is the way we generate stakeholder value. construction solutions to market by maximizing our assets and We achieve this through a strong focus on efficiencies as well as minimizing waste that our operations produce. We achieve this by investments in innovation and acquisitions. The Husqvarna Group keeping our customer at the core. business model comprises these main priorities: • The Group strategy aligns our objectives. Expansion and profitable Our assets growth will position us to outgrow the market, take market share The strengths of our brands and our 13,000 colleagues are our and improve our operating margins. most important assets. Our owners provide us with the flexibility to • Decentralized governance keeps us agile. Each of our four divisions focus on long-term profitable growth. Our financial strength brings are organized on a business model basis. A decentralized way of the freedom to invest in new opportunities through innovation working keeps our actions close to our customers. The Husqvarna and acquisitions. We have a presence in 140 countries and have Operating System, based on the principles of lean manufacturing, the channels in place to build strong relationships with customers, improves efficiencies. dealers, retailers, consumers and suppliers. As an integrated part • A winning culture engages our teams. A foundation of a shared of achieving operational efficiencies, we optimize the use of vision and core purpose, key behaviors and importantly, policies resources in production, which primarily comprise energy, such as the Code of Conduct, underscore how each employee can plastics, steel and aluminum. contribute to building a results-oriented and trusted company. • Sustainovate gives us the outside in perspective. Sustainovate is our way of integrating sustainability across the business. It allows us to better address market dynamics, societal challenges and understand stakeholders better. Flexibility is required in a business with fluctuating demand in different seasons. Combined, these four aspects create a shared way of working, meaning, excitement and clear direction across the Group. 28 Sustainovate | Report on progress 2017 | Husqvarna Group Outcome: Sustainable growth Creating value Through innovation, energy-efficient operations, engaged and Our focus on profitable growth will deliver opportunities for the dedicated teams, we are growing our business while reducing CO2 sustainable and innovative products and services that generate emissions and waste across our value chain. Products across 13 economic, environmental and social value. Key stakeholder groups— categories are tailored to our customers’ demands for efficiency, customers, investors, employees and society at large all benefit quality, durability and safety across our markets, resulting in great from this approach. It will also generate the income to reinvest in the customer experiences. company through R&D and market leadership initiatives. Husqvarna Group business model CODE OF CONDUCT MAR STRATEGIC ASSETS K ET OUTPUTS E LE How each employee UR AD FOCUS AREAS U LT E con­tributes C R Battery, Robotics, • 13,000 to build­ing NN SH Digitalization Employees a trusted IN IP G company Y TEG WI HUSQVARNA GARDENA • 13 Product • 15,665 SEKm RA DIVISION DIVISION categories Equity ST • Fleet services • 12 Brands • Product • 25,000 Dealers CUSTOMER INSIGHTS maintenance & retailers • 56 kilo tonnes • Presence in 140 countries DEC of wastes CONSUMER EN BRANDS CONSTRUCTION • 6 million • 35 Factories & DIVISION TR DIVISION tonnes CO2 26 ware­houses VA AL TE emissions HUSQVARNA IZ • 160 Strategic D FLEXIBILITY OPERATING E O suppliers G OV IN SYSTEM A ER ST Our way of Group-wide approach NA SU servicing a N CE for achieving excellence seasonal market The value we create Customers Investors Employees Retailers & dealers Society • Safe, efficient, durable • Long-term financial • Fair wages • Lasting partnerships • Taxes paid and reliable products performance • Good working • Knowledge building • Employment and services • Capital efficiency conditions • Safe, efficient, dur­able opportunities • Knowledge building • Employment security and reliable pro­ducts • Community • Channel of choice • Development and services involvement opportunities Sustainovate | Report on progress 2017 | Husqvarna Group 29 A culture of integrity Husqvarna Group’s commitment to the highest standards of integrity is expected of every employee and manager and in every country where we do business. Reflecting our commitment to upholding the principles of the UN Actions taken under the Compliance Improvement Program during Global Compact, we have zero tolerance for non-compliance to the 2016 and 2017 included the following: Code of Conduct and corruption. Our approach to managing these non-compliances has three purposes: • Compliance Risks Mapped. We used a third party compliance • Prevention: Policies (such as the Code of Conduct and Code mapping tool to obtain the input of approximately 50 top managers of Business Ethics), training and communications, as well as on their perceptions of managing Group and regional risks. We risk assessments. supplemented these findings with an analysis of cases logged in • Detection: Reporting channels, internal investigations and audits. Alertline. This formed a baseline for improvement actions. • Remediation: Lessons learned and disciplinary actions • Compliance Training Expanded & Formalized. Compliance trainwhere required. ing is conducted through e-learning and in-person training. We are expanding both frequency and subject-matter training for specific The President & CEO, together with the head of each Group Function staff functions. This includes competition law training to sales staff. ensure that activities conducted within their area of respons­ibility • A Group compliance officer position has been enstated. are done in compliance with our Code of Conduct. The Compliance • Annual “Compliance Certification” by country officers. A country Forum supports our approach and comprises heads of Legal Affairs, officer—typically the ranking finance person in each country—will People & Organization, and Group Internal Audit. The General be required to annually certify that (1) each employee has received Council chairs the Forum. Code of Conduct and AlertLine training, (2) all actual or suspected violations were be reported to the Group General Counsel or Identifying and addressing concerns regional compliance officer. Any employee who becomes aware of any non-compliance to the Code of Conduct or other unethical conduct is expected to report Next steps such matters to our internal compliance function. In regions where A revised Code of Conduct will be presented for Board approval. We there is a perceived higher risk of corruption, the Group strengthens will establish an annual compliance plan with measurable indicators its efforts to mitigate them by increasing internal control and audit that include training and types of non-compliances. We will also activities as well as third-party due diligence. revise compliance policies and improve our hotline reporting. Concerns are primarily identified through: • Hotline. We maintain a worldwide toll-free telephone hotline Risks across the value chain system whereby employees can report compliance concerns. Such The Group applies the precautionary principle to prevent and reduce calls can be made in a variety of languages,are fielded in the first risks of harming people and the environment. Responsibility for ­­­longinstance by our third-party service provider and are logged into our term material risks follows the Group’s delegation procedure and is AlertLine System which is our compliance management system. cascaded from the Board to the CEO and President, and from the • Compliance e-mail system. We maintain an email address (compliCEO to divisional presidents. ance@husqvarna.com) where employees and other stakeholders Our business is exposed to a number of non-financial risks, can submit concerns. The General Counsel and Chief Compliance including within product development, production, supply chain, as Officer receive the emails and input them into the Alertline system. well as regulatory and brand management. They include managing • Discovered matters. In some cases, concerns are reported directly issues such as chemicals, climate change, health and safety, to line managers within the organization, are discovered by a transparency, human rights, security and potential environmental Husqvarna manager during business activities, or are identified by liabilities in connection with the acquisition of land or production internal or external audits. facilities. Assessments are conducted on a regular basis and cover direct and indirect, social, economic and environmental risks. Each reported matter is logged in the Alertline and investigated An outline of how the Group manages its risks is included in the according to our policy for compliance investigation, reporting Husqvarna Group’s 2017 Annual Report. and action. If we find that an alleged violation has been committed, appro­pri­ ate actions will be taken against the person committing the violation, up to and including dismissal from employment. Investigated compliance matters are reported quarterly to the Board's Audit Managing risks Committee and annually to the Board of Directors. In acute cases, the Board's Audit Committee is also informed at short notice, as well as the Board of Directors if senior managers are implicated. The Internal Audit function continually evaluates and In 2017, 75 cases were reported worldwide into the system and improves the effectiveness of our governance processes, included a variety of alleged violations of the Code of Conduct, risk management and internal control. In addition to the including Conflict of Interest and Work Place Harassment. Of those company’s auditors, operations are subject to external reviews cases, 5 were substantiated and led to Disciplinary action and/or and monitoring by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority modifications to existing HR policies and procedures (Finansinspektionen) and Nasdaq Stockholm. Business partners are continuously evaluated and selected Managing anti-corruption on the basis of criteria including efficiency quality, delivery, We have a zero tolerance for corruption and bribery in any form price and reliability as well as their ability to meet the and we expect that local Group companies will implement and requirements of the Supplier Code. See also p. 22. monitorprocedures to ensure that such practices do not occur. 30 Sustainovate | Report on progress 2017 | Husqvarna Group Integrating Sustainovate Core to our business model, Sustainovate is the Group’s approach to integrating sustainability throughout its business. We set priorities at Group level and each division responds in the People and Organization, define the agenda, set overarching priority form of targets and initiatives for contributing to achieving the areas, share best practice and align practices and processes. Human targets. Networks of experts representing Group functions support resource management, divisional targets and actions are set at local each division in realizing their initiatives. The Sustainability Forum and divisional levels. evaluates progress and reports to Group Management on a quarterly In operations, the Group has developed its own management basis and externally on an annual basis. system – the Husqvarna Operating System (HOS). Site-specific ISO management certifications for Health and Safety (OHSAS18000) Cross-functional accountability are in place at some facilities, and ISO 14001 for environmental On Group level, the VP EHS and Sustainability, reporting to the management are in place in the majority of our factories. Senior Vice President Group Operations, is responsible for shaping Certification for energy management (ISO 50001) is in place in 7 sites, the Group’s sustainability agenda, developing procedures and with more to come in 2018. standards, coaching and challenging divisional activities. The Group’s own control systems identify critical processes and management responsibilities across the organization. At production facilities, plant managers have overall responsibility for operational environmental and health issues and collect and report EHS data into Group-wide reporting systems on a quarterly basis. People and operations is similarly organized. The Group function, An integrated approach Group Sets level of ambition à Sets priorities, aspirations and aligns targets. Shared processes & best practice à Aligns processes and shares best practice through subject-specific Networks and Forums. à Continually tracks CHALLENGES progress and monitors the sustainability à CARBON agenda through the Divisions à TEAM Sustainability Forum. à SAFETY à Set relevant targets and KPIs à Reports progress annually. that support Group’s level of à SUPPLIER ambition. à COMMUNITY à Integrate initiatives into business plans. à Regularly report progress on targets to Group Define targets & KPIs Management. Drive initiatives & actions Sustainovate is the Group’s approach to integrating sustainability throughout its supported by networks of experts representing Group functions. The Sustainabilbusiness. Priorities are set at Group level and each division responds in the form ity Forum evaluates progress and reports to Group Management on a quarterly of targets and initiatives for contributing to achieving the targets. Divisions are basis and externally on an annual basis. Sustainovate | Report on progress 2017 | Husqvarna Group 31 Materiality – A focus on value creation A materiality assessment helps us prioritize how different topics impact our ability to create value for stakeholders and for our business. For the Husqvarna Group, sustainability is all about building a strong Our analysis and profitable company for the future and delivering lasting financial, Of the 14 prioritized sustainability topics, three – the Differentiators social and environmental value for our stakeholders. By analyzing our – provide a competitive advantage. Differentiators demonstrate how impacts through this lens, we were able to determine areas where we we can make the greatest difference to stakeholders and are directly can make the greatest difference. relevant to our business. Two are product related and the third concerns financial stability. The foundation of our approach Six topics are deemed Enablers and support the business strategy. As part of our materiality process, the Group hosted a series of They are important processes for integrating sustainability priorities internal leadership workshops and conducted interviews with key into our business. stakeholder groups, starting in 2015. Discussions centered on a Five topics are Trust Builders among stakeholders – although long list of issues clustered into 26 sustainability topics that were expectations are high on performance in these areas, they are not potentially relevant to our business, related to our negative impacts necessarily among the priority areas for value creation. and value to stakeholders. The sustainability agenda is a moving target. We have therefore Based on internal stakeholder insights, we mapped these topics also identified an additional four topics as Emerging Issues. These according to the degree they influence stakeholders’ perceptions topics, including our role in the circular economy and delivering of the Group’s ability to create value and the degree of their impact positive impacts on biodiversity, will be closely monitored to chart on the business. We thereafter prioritized and analyzed the role of how expectations evolve over the strategy period. the topic in our sustainability work (see illustration). The resulting Linking our priority topics to an analysis of society’s megatrends prioritized topics were plotted along the value chain. The value revealed five challenges – carbon, team, safety, supplier and chain helped us define our role in addressing relevant topics and the community. Sustainovate includes ambitious goals and leading boundaries of responsibility for tackling them. performance indicators in order to track our progress. Our 14 The prioritized topics were incorporated into the sustainability prioritized topics lay the foundation for sustainability content in the strategy in various ways. For example, efficient products are central Group’s 2017 annual and sustainability reports. to the Carbon Challenge and diversity is incorporated into the Team Challenge. 32 Sustainovate | Report on progress 2017 | Husqvarna Group Our most relevant topics Of the 26 topics on the Group's radar screen, 14 are deemed as most material to our business and are integral to realizing Sustainovate. An additional four topics are important to monitor. n Differentiators n Business enablers n Trust builders n Emerging issues Topics that drive Topics that support achieving Topics to meet baseline Topics with changing agendas, competitive advantage. the business strategy. expectations defined by important to monitor. universal business conduct. m arkets ers & u s tom e wc rs gn supplie Ethica hin a in able l bu sine ac us t ss p Re &s rac nt ti c eme en t Efficie es u r gem nt o oc ana per Pr t m ati on len s Ta ty Health, & safe safe alth ty & r he we me ll b s to Promot ein Cu ement in g g m anag s prod ustai ory uct nab lat s iversity biod le gu y Divers olog t on Re ity & chn ments pac oppo e M Lo e T est rtun qua financ ng-ter i al p m inv ity l im ive zation erfo Prod sit timi Sustain rm an Po l op ucts abl ce uc & se e pro t re ria 14 cing d ate pro rvic du es cts pla n Energ Re terials i ability y& efficien t pr wate ma od uc rc yc l ts OF 26 POTENTIALLY RELEVANT TOPICS Our materiality process Our topics cut across economic, social and environmental • Alignment of business priorities: On the same matrix, we spheres, and our process includes the following components: mapped topics against our business strategy, their importance • Forward-looking view: We mapped the impacts of megto our corporate culture and the degree of impact as per the atrends on the business strategy to 2020, including an analysis product life cycle and interactions with society. of competition, stakeholders and markets, to identify potentially •T  opic analysis: Based on the matrix, we pinpointed the issues relevant topics (p.5) that deliver competitive advantage, enable the business • Value creation: Customers, investors, employees, retailers ­strategy, build trust and those we will continue to monitor. and dealers, and societal representatives are key stakeholder •V  alidation: Five interviews with representatives of stakeholder groups. In order to distinguish their priorities, we analyzed each groups helped us validate our analysis. topic based on how we create value for them. •D  egree of impact of our business on society: We charted prioritized topics along the value chain. Sustainovate | Report on progress 2017 | Husqvarna Group 33 About this report This 2017 Report on Progress presents Sustainovate, the Husqvarna Group’s ­approach to integrating sustainability into the business. The report is framed around five challenges that are most relevant to our company’s ability to create economic, social and environmental value for our stakeholders. We have applied the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) sustainability five years. 2015 was defined as the baseline for all Challenge targets. reporting guidelines as a guide. The GRI Index leads readers to Health and safety statistics are based on local definitions in terms of information on relevant indicators as defined by the GRI standards. what constitutes a workplace injury and a lost day due to injury. The Based on our materiality analysis, Sustainovate encompasses company's previous sustainability report was published in April 2017. the sustainability issues most relevant to the Group and our value In accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act chapter 6,§11, chain. In the report, we outline why sustainability is relevant to Husqvarna Group has chosen to establish the statutory sustainability our business, our priorities and response, ways we are measuring report as a report separated from the Annual Report. The required progress and our approach to managing each of them. information in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act constitutes Where relevant, this report also highlights how the Group's part of the Board of Director’s report and is incorporated in this priorities reflect our commitment to the UN Global Compact’s Ten document. Principles. The report therefore also serves as our Communication This report has been submitted to the auditor at the same time as on Progress. the Annual Report. For further information, see p.51 in the Annual Report. Information about our business and financial performance is Boundary of the report provided in our Annual Report, available here. Unless otherwise indicated, standard disclosures include all operations that can potentially affect Group performance. External assurance Data has been collected over the 2017 calendar year. This report The sustainability report has been reviewed by an assurance provider covers 13,000 employees at year end, including both office and to ensure that we meet information requirements of Sweden's factory workers and seasonal employees. Data encompasses 35 legislation on sustainability reporting. factories, 26 warehouses and 2 R&D centers, in 19 countries. Historical data have also been adjusted when it has been found to For more information contact: be incorrect, to improve quality of indicators. Wherever possible, Åsa Larsson the Group reports on its performance indicators covering the last Global Media and Sustainability Manager asa.larsson@husqvarnagroup.com GRI Index AR = Husqvarna Group Annual Report 2017 GRI 102: General disclosures Reference (page) Stakeholder Engagement Organizational profile 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 29 102-1 Name of the organization. 1 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Not collected at 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services AR 12-13 Group level 102-3 Location of headquarters 39 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 32 102-4 Location of operations 34 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 32 102-5 Ownership and legal form 58 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 32 102-6 Markets served AR 16-17, 24, 28, Reporting Practice 30, 32 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial AR 75 102-7 Scale of the organization 28-29, AR 2, 44 statements 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 18-19, AR 51, 84 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 32-33 102-9 Supply chain 10-11, 20-21 102-47 List of material topics 33 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply AR 44 102-48 Restatements of information 34 chain 102-49 Changes in reporting 34 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 30 102-50 Reporting period 34 102-12 External initiatives 7, 9 102-51 Date of most recent report 34 102-13 Membership of associations Not collected on 102-52 Reporting cycle 34 Group level 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 34 Strategy 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 34 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 8-9 Standards Ethics and Integrity 102-55 GRI content index 34 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 30 102-56 External assurance 34 34 Sustainovate | Report on progress 2017 | Husqvarna Group GRI 201: Economic performance GRI 403: Occupational health and safety 103-1, 103-1, Management approach 22-23, 33 103-2, 103-2, 103-3 Management approach 64 103-3 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 36 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational 23, 36 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities GRI 301: Materials 103-1, Management approach 12-17, 33 103-2, GRI 404: Training and education 103-3 103-1, Management approach 18-19, 33 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 37 103-2, 103-3 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular perfor36 GRI 302: Energy mance and career development reviews 103-1, Management approach 12-17, 33 103-2, 103-3 GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 36 103-1, Management approach 18-19, 33 103-2, 103-3 GRI 303: Water 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 36 103-1, Management approach 16-17 103-2, 103-3 GRI 408: Child labor 303-1 Total water withdrawal by source 37 103-1, Management approach 20-21, 33 103-2, 103-3 GRI 305: Emissions 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for inci21 103-1, Management approach 12-17, 33 dents of child labor 103-2, 103-3 GRI 409: Forced or compulsory labor 305-1 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 36 103-1, Management approach 20-21, 33 305-2 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 36 103-2, (Scope 2) 103-3 305-3 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3) 36 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 21 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 36 incidents of forced or compulsory labor GRI 306: Effluents and waste 103-1, Management approach Waste is not a GRI 414: Supplier social assessment 103-2, material topic. 103-1, Management approach 20-21 103-3 Therefore, no MA 103-2, is included in the 103-3 report 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and 20-21 306-2 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 37 actions taken GRI 308: Supplier environmental assessement 103-1, Management approach 20-21, 33 103-2, 103-3 308-1 New suppliers screened using environmental criteria 21 308-2 Supplier environmental assessment 36 GRI 401: Employment 103-1, Management approach 18-19, 33 103-2, 103-3 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 36 Sustainovate | Report on progress 2017 | Husqvarna Group 35 GRI disclosures Economical indicators Indicator Unit 2017 2016 2015 2014 201-1 Generated direct economic value Group Net sales SEKm 39,394 35,980 36,170 32,838 Distributed direct economic value Operating costs (materials and services) SEKm 28,186 26,277 27,009 24,607 Employee salaries SEKm 5,121 4,680 4,508 4,157 Social security costs and pensions plans SEKm 1,187 1,059 1,021 957 Payments to states and municipalities (taxes) SEKm 431 280 252 231 Credit institutions (interest) SEKm 500 422 344 325 Shareholders (dividends) SEKm 1,114 946 945 859 Economic value retained SEKm 2,855 2,318 2,091 1,702 Social indicators Indicator Unit 2017 2016 2015 2014 401-1 Employee turnover voluntary % 9.1 7.8 10.5 7.1 403-2 Total cases incident rate per million hours TCIR 5.8 6.6 8.3 10.5 403-2 Lost workday injury rate per million hours worked involving employees LWIR 3.7 1 2.7 3.4 3.8 403-2 Fatal workplace accidents involving employees No 0 0 0 0 404-3 Performance reviews % 73 71 69 69 of white collar % 87 86 86 87 of blue collar % 60 57 55 54 405-1 Proportion of female employees in total workforce % 34 33 35 36 in senior management positions % 24 22 24 12 in the Executive Board % 38 38 38 33 Net Promotor Score (NPS) No 10 1 -5 -6 Environmental indicators Indicator Unit 2017 2016 2015 2014 308-2; 414-2 Deep-dive sustainability audits were conducted in risk-defined No 27 19 22 9 areas including new audits, follow up and re-audits Indicator Unit 2017 2016 2015 2014 302-1 Renewable electricity as a percentage of total electricity % 41.5 7.0 0 0 302-1 Renewable energy as a percentage of total energy % 25.3 4.3 0 0 305-1 Direct CO2 emissions (Scope 1) tCO2e 33,494 34,890 42,875 43,361 305-2 Indirect CO2 emissions (Scope 2) tCO2e 79,922 108,413 122,205 124,815 305-3 CO2 emissions from transportation (airfreight & ocean) tCO2e 31,532 26,986 27,405 28,170 305-3 CO2 emissions from business travel tCO2e 10,497 9,009 2 8,168 7,800 305-4 CO2 emissions intensity (Scope 1 and Scope 2) tCO2e/SEKm VA 9.9 14.2 17.4 20.0 1) Restricted duty cases consistently included. 2) 2016 has been restated due to a correction. 36 Sustainovate | Report on progress 2017 | Husqvarna Group 301-1 – Materials used by weight or volume Unit 2017 2016 2015 2014 Steel Tonnes 70,873 79,473 81,237 87,136 Plastic Tonnes 22,774 21,342 18,441 18,284 Aluminium Tonnes 877 692 764 773 Magnesium Tonnes 999 946 1,121 1,146 302-1 – Energy consumption within the organization Unit 2017 2016 2015 2014 Total energy used MWh 374,962 379,712 384,447 386,560 Direct energy MWh 117,761 117,890 124,140 139,382 Indirect energy MWh 257,201 261,822 260,307 247,178 303-1 – Water consumed Unit 2017 2016 2015 2014 Total water consumed m3 1,114,026 1,226,076 1,288,894 1 320,128 Ground water m3 204,934 188,063 183,584 193,401 Surface water m3 416,962 554,510 623,736 564,821 Collected rainwater m3 180 180 170 60 Purchased water m3 491,950 483,323 481,404 561,846 306-2 – Waste Unit 2017 2016 2015 2014 Total waste1 Tonnes 56,060 56,176 67,401 61,263 Non-hazardous recycled waste Tonnes 45,088 46,155 57,242 53,006 Non-hazardous non-recycled waste Tonnes 7,602 7,150 7,353 5,245 Hazardous recycled waste Tonnes 466 436 540 370 Hazardous non-recycled waste Tonnes 2,904 2,434 2,266 2,642 Previously published data has been reviewed and some minor corrections (<10%) were made. Calculations of CO2 emissions and other greenhouse gases have been done in accordance to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol). 1) Scrap mass included within the scope. Sustainovate | Report on progress 2017 | Husqvarna Group 37 The auditor’s report on the statutory sustainability report To the general meeting of Husqvarna AB, corporate identity number 556000-5331 Engagement and responsibility The Board of Directors is responsible for that the statutory sustainability report has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The scope of the audit Our examination of the statutory sustainability report has been conducted in accordance with FAR´s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor´s report on the statutory sustainability report. This means that our examination of the statutory sustainability report is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. Opinion A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. Stockholm, 6th March, 2018 Ernst & Young AB Hamish Mabon Authorized Public Accountant PRODUCTION: Husqvarna AB (publ), Purple Ivy and Narva. Copyright © 2017 Husqvarna AB (publ). All rights reserved. Husqvarna, Jonsered, Klippo, Zenoah, Diamant Boart, Gardena, Flymo, ­McCulloch, Poulan Pro, Weed Eater, Husqvarna Automower® and other product and feature marks are ­trademarks of Husqvarna Group. 38 Sustainovate | Report on progress 2017 | Husqvarna Group NARVA Head office Husqvarna AB (publ) | Mailing address: Box 7454, SE-103 92 Stockholm, Sweden Visiting address: Regeringsgatan 28 | Telephone: +46 8 738 90 00 | www.husqvarnagroup.com Registered office Husqvarna AB (publ) Jönköping | Mailing address: SE-561 82 Huskvarna, Sweden Visiting address: Drottninggatan 2 | Telephone: +46 36 14 65 00
