WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Table of contents This is Wärtsilä 03 Sustainability 43 Governance 100 Investors 143 Financial review 155 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 This is Wärtsilä 3 This is Wärtsilä This is Wärtsilä CEO review 04 Energy Solutions 24 Wärtsilä in brief 06 Marine Solutions 30 Strategy 06 Manufacturing 35 Targets 09 Research and development 36 Sustainability highlights 16 Innovating for sustainability 38 Services 20 Why invest in Wärtsilä 40 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 This is Wärtsilä 4 Anchor CEO review The year 2017 developed in line with our expectations. Increased power plant deliveries supported some growth in net sales, while profitability was in line with the previous year. The highlight of the year was the order intake growth seen in all of our business areas. This provides a sound foundation from which we can develop our business in the coming years. Services’ net sales remained solid, thanks to steady demand for power plant related service work, and healthy activity in the cruise and gas carrier markets. While this performance was satisfactory, bearing in mind the challenges we faced in the offshore and merchant segments, our ambitions are still higher. Central to achieving growth is developing stronger partnerships with our customers, and providing them with greater value in the form of new service concepts, and through utilising the opportunities provided by digitalisation. The strategic partnership with Carnival Corporation, announced in the beginning of the year, is a compelling demonstration of where we are headed. The agreement emphasises continuous joint improvement efforts, and targets the increased safety, reliability, and operational efficiency of Carnival’s cruise vessels. This will include using the latest digital solutions. In the energy industry, many emerging countries are now prioritising increased access to clean and reliable power to support their economic and social growth. Meanwhile, in the developed markets, the demand for operational flexibility is becoming increasingly relevant. This is largely because the decline in solar and wind prices is increasing the competitiveness of renewable sources of energy. These converging trends have together created a strong demand environment for our energy solutions during the year. I am pleased that there has been an increase in orders, both for our traditional engine-based plants, and in newer business areas, such as LNG-terminals and solar PV plants. 2017 saw a recovery in vessel contracting from the record low levels of the previous year. Although overcapacity and a lack of financing continue to burden the marine industry, an increased confidence in economic growth resulted in improved sentiment, particularly among our merchant customers. This, in combination with a favourable vessel mix and our broad offering of solutions, was supportive of growth in Marine Solutions’ orders received. During the year, we launched our company purpose – enabling sustainable societies with smart technology – to provide an even stronger sense of direction to our work, both now and in the future. Central to the purpose is our commitment to promoting a low emissions economy, and providing intelligent ways of producing and using energy. Equally important is being at the forefront in developing new technologies and new business models that create increased value for our customers. Indicative of this is our acquisition of Greensmith, which was a strategic response to the transformation that is taking place in the energy industry as the world moves from traditional baseload generation to renewable energy. Through Greensmith, we strengthen our system integration capabilities, and expand our offering to include storage technology and advanced software. This complements our portfolio of flexible power generation solutions, and supports our Smart Energy vision by positioning us at the very core of future energy systems. Our Smart Marine vision on the other hand, emphasises the opportunities offered by connectivity and digitalisation to promote safety, alleviate environmental impact, and improve efficiency. Our innovations will increasingly centre around this vision. Prime examples from 2017 include the introduction of our marine hybrid solution and the development of our competences in intelligent shipping, for instance through the acquisition of Guidance Marine. By emphasising collaboration with our customers and partners, and supported by our deep industry know-how and broad offering of solutions, we will continue to develop the innovations and competences needed to lead the transformation into a new era of shipping. Protection of the environment, and supporting the general well-being of the community and its people, are at the heart of a sustainable society. To this end, Wärtsilä is committed to supporting the UN Global Compact and its principles with respect to human rights, labour, the environment, and anti-corruption. Fostering an inclusive corporate culture by respecting diversity, providing equal opportunities, and demonstrating high ethical standards is high on our agenda. Ensuring safe working conditions is another priority, and the decline in our lost time injury frequency shows that we are moving in the right direction. However, reaching our target of zero lost-time injuries will require an even stronger effort to develop safety consciousness throughout the organisation. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 This is Wärtsilä 5 Looking ahead, I am confident that an essential element for creating customer value will be our continued focus on developing smart technology and integrating new business models into our offering. Our shareholders, stakeholders and society at large will also benefit from this approach. By emphasising energy efficiency, lifecycle optimisation, and innovative solutions in our offering, we shall be able to reach our long-term target of profitable growth. In terms of 2018, we expect our demand outlook to improve somewhat. We see a good demand environment for our Services business, thanks to growth opportunities related to our portfolio of long-term agreements and the increasing technological sophistication of our installed base. The demand for our energy solutions is anticipated to be at a good level, supported by a healthy project pipeline and favourable market trends. In the marine industry we expect market conditions to improve, and this will support a solid demand outlook. I would like to take this opportunity to thank our personnel for their continued dedication and for enabling us to achieve our common goals. To our customers, I say thank you for your trust in our solutions and services, and finally yet importantly, I thank our shareholders for their confidence in our continued future success. Jaakko Eskola President & CEO Key figures MEUR 2017 10‑12/2017 7‑9/2017 4‑6/2017 1‑3/2017 2016 2015 Net sales 4 923 1 445 1 178 1 292 1 007 4 801 5 029 Services 2 215 654 526 546 490 2 190 2 184 Energy Solutions 1 401 425 324 412 239 943 1 126 Marine Solutions 1 307 366 328 334 279 1 667 1 720 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment -134 -42 -30 -30 -33 -138 -124 1 Comparable operating result 590 244 135 126 86 583 612 1 Comparable operating result , % 12.0 16.9 11.4 9.7 8.5 12.1 12.2 Profit before taxes 506 215 114 103 74 479 553 Earnings per share, EUR 1.95 0.86 0.43 0.38 0.28 1.79 2.25 Order intake 5 644 1 514 1 354 1 363 1 413 4 927 4 932 MEUR 2017 31.12.2017 30.9.2017 30.6.2017 31.3.2017 2016 2015 Balance sheet total 5 607 5 607 5 365 5 264 5 382 5 391 5 589 Interest-bearing liabilities, gross 619 619 729 637 670 629 724 Cash and cash equivalents 379 379 292 332 403 472 334 ROI, continuing operations, % 18.9 18.9 19.5 19.5 16.9 17.1 21.0 Gearing 0.10 0.10 0.20 0.14 0.13 0.07 0.17 Order book, end of period 5 064 5 064 5 075 5 065 5 096 4 696 4 882 Year-end market capitalisation 10 375 8 418 8 314 Personnel, number at end of period 18 065 18 065 17 859 17 783 17 832 18 011 18 856 1 Figures exclude items affecting comparability. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 This is Wärtsilä 6 Anchor Wärtsilä in brief Wärtsilä is a global leader in smart technologies and complete lifecycle solutions for the marine and energy markets. By emphasising sustainable innovation, total efficiency and data analytics, Wärtsilä maximises the environmental and economic performance of the vessels and power plants of its customers. In 2017, Wärtsilä’s net sales totalled EUR 4.9 billion with approximately 18,000 employees. The company has operations in over 200 locations in more than 80 countries around the world. Wärtsilä is listed on Nasdaq Helsinki. Services Wärtsilä Services creates lifecycle services for its customers, enhancing their business – whenever, wherever. Wärtsilä provides the industry’s broadest range of services for both shipping and power generation. The service solutions range from spare parts and basic support to ensuring maximised lifetime, increased efficiency and guaranteed performance of customer’s equipment or installation – in a safe, reliable, and environmentally sustainable way. Energy Solutions Wärtsilä Energy Solutions is a leading global systems integrator offering a broad range of environmentally sound solutions. Wärtsilä supplies ultra-flexible internal combustion engine based power plants, energy storage systems, and utility-scale solar photovoltaic (PV) power plants, as well as liquefied natural gas (LNG) terminals and distribution systems. These flexible and efficient solutions provide superior value to customers and enable a more sustainable and modern energy system for future generations. Marine Solutions Wärtsilä Marine Solutions enhances the business of its marine and oil & gas industry customers by providing innovative products and integrated solutions that are safe, environmentally sustainable, efficient, flexible, and economically sound. Being a technology leader, and through collaboration and knowledge sharing, Wärtsilä is able to customise solutions that provide real value to its customers around the world. Anchor Strategy Wärtsilä’s purpose is to enable sustainable societies with smart technology. The demand for clean and flexible energy and the need for efficient and safe transportation are increasingly affecting the way that customers operate. This forms the basis for Wärtsilä’s offering of smart solutions to the marine and energy markets. With an integrated portfolio of services, systems and products, the company is well positioned to respond to the demand for energy efficient and innovative solutions. The emphasis is placed on optimising installation performance throughout the lifecycle, using data analytics and artificial intelligence to support customers’ business decisions. Wärtsilä’s digital transformation will provide increased customer value through a new era of collaboration and knowledge sharing. A strong presence in key markets and a superior global service network support the company’s profitable growth ambitions. With its flexible production and supply chain management, Wärtsilä constantly seeks new ways to maintain high quality and cost efficiency – often in co-operation with customers and leading industrial partners. The investments in R&D and the focus on digitalisation create a strong foundation for securing and strengthening a position at the forefront of market innovation. This innovative culture, together with a constant emphasis on safety, diversity, and high ethical standards, attracts skilled and committed people and creates the basis for a high performing organisation. The implementation of operational excellence ensures that Wärtsilä is easy to do business with, and drives increased productivity and efficiency throughout the lifecycle. Smart energy Wärtsilä’s objective is for customers to recognise the company as the leading energy systems integrator, providing all the essential technologies, services, and solutions for sustainable and reliable power systems. The energy landscape is experiencing a paradigm shift, thus creating a more complex operating environment for the industry. The world is moving from traditional baseload generation to renewable energy, while storage technology is disrupting old design This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 This is Wärtsilä 7 principles and the importance of gas is increasing. Simultaneously, the role of consumers in energy production is increasing. Digitalisation brings new opportunities for predicting consumption and maintenance needs and can deliver improved competitiveness. Wärtsilä is at the very core of future energy systems. The company’s engine power generation solutions provide a unique combination of energy efficiency, and both fuel and operational flexibility. Wärtsilä supports the continued development of the gas infrastructure with small and medium size LNG terminals and liquefaction solutions. Responding to the increasing use of renewable power sources, the company seeks growth by offering solar PV power plants, energy storage solutions, and advanced integration software. The aim is to continuously develop optimal and environmentally sound solutions for customers by focusing on Wärtsilä’s core competences; market and system understanding, EPC capabilities, systems integration, and lifecycle optimisation. Smart marine Wärtsilä’s aim is to lead the industry’s transformation towards a Smart Marine Ecosystem. Building on the sound foundation of being a leading provider of innovative products, integrated solutions, and lifecycle services to the marine and oil & gas industries, Wärtsilä aims to unlock new customer values through connectivity, digitalisation and smart technology. The marine industry is moving towards a future that is increasingly connected. The opportunities offered through smart technology will foster a new era of collaboration and knowledge sharing with customers, suppliers, and partners. Industry players are faced with major sources of inefficiency that impose a significant negative impact on business operations and profitability, the three most notable being overcapacity, inadequate port-to-port fuel efficiency, and time wasted waiting when entering ports and other high traffic areas. Eliminating these inefficiencies forms the basis of the Wärtsilä marine strategy towards ecosystem thinking. Wärtsilä sees four primary forces that will re-shape the industry. Shared capacity will improve fill rates and reduce unit costs; big data analytics will optimise both operations and energy management; intelligent vessels will enable automated and optimised processes; and smart ports will result in smoother and faster port operations. Wärtsilä is ideally positioned, together with its customers and partners, for positive disruptive development and to lead the transformation into a new era of shipping. Building on Wärtsilä’s broad portfolio of products, systems, solutions, and lifecycle services, and its vast installed base and industry know-how, the company will continue to develop the smart technologies, business models, and competences needed to create a Smart Marine Ecosystem. By applying smart technology and performance optimisation services, Wärtsilä aims to deliver greater efficiencies, minimised climate impact and a higher safety to the shipping industry, leading to more sustainable, safe and profitable operations for ship owners and operators around the world. The ultimate goal is to enable sustainable societies with smart technologies. Sustainability Wärtsilä's aim is to meet shareholder expectations and contribute toward the well-being of society. This requires efficient, profitable, and competitive company operations. Good economic performance establishes a platform for the other aspects of sustainability – environmental and social responsibility. Wärtsilä's overriding promise is to supply technologies and services that offer high efficiency with low environmental load. Our objective is to continuously improve the environmental performance of our products and services taking into account the lifecycle perspective, as well as to maintain technological leadership through R&D and by utilising new technologies and collaborating with our customers and other stakeholder groups. In doing this, we help our customers and society at large to meet the goals of the tightening global environmental regulations and guidelines. Wärtsilä acts as a good corporate citizen wherever we are active. Our business operations and relations with our stakeholders are governed by our Code of Conduct. Wärtsilä is a responsible employer, and we seek to offer our employees an interesting and exciting workplace where openness, respect, trust, equal opportunities, and scope for personal development prevail. A further aim is to offer a hazard-free working environment to our employees and contractors, and to minimise the health and safety risks associated with the use of our products and services. Supply chain management and development are integral elements of our operations. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 This is Wärtsilä 8 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 This is Wärtsilä 9 Anchor Targets Financial targets Net sales Target Wärtsilä's target is to grow faster than global GDP. Development In 2017, net sales increased by 3% to EUR 4,923 million. Wärtsilä's CAGR 2007-2017 was 2.7%. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 This is Wärtsilä 10 Profitability Target Wärtsilä's operating profit margin (EBIT%) target is 14% at the peak of the cycle. At the trough of the cycle, the target is to keep the operating profit margin above 10%. Development In 2017, the comparable operating result was EUR 590 million, which represents 12.0% of net sales. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 This is Wärtsilä 11 Capital structure Target Wärtsilä's target is to maintain gearing below 0.50. Development In 2017, gearing was 0.10. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 This is Wärtsilä 12 Dividend Target Wärtsilä's target is to pay a dividend of at least 50% of earnings over the cycle. Development The Board of Directors proposes that a dividend of 1.38 euro per share be paid for the financial year 2017, which represents 70.8% of operational earnings. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 This is Wärtsilä 13 Sustainability targets Target Schedule Status ENERGY SAVINGS: 2025 By the end of 2017, energy savings of 942 MWh Reduce energy consumption by at least were achieved, representing 3.2% of the final 7% in terms of absolute consumption target. (GWh) from 2015 levels by 2025. ETHICAL BEHAVIOR: 2020 Training records are continuously monitored. At Ensure commitment to the Code of the end of 2017, the Code of Conduct training Conduct throughout the organisation programme coverage was 89.3% of all (Code of Conduct training coverage employees. 100%). OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY: 2020 In 2017, the positive trend in improving, Reach the long-term goal of zero consolidating, and spreading a safety culture injuries. within Wärtsilä continued. The corporate losttime injury frequency rate target for the year was 2.35. The result 2.48 was above the target, however, it represents a 4% improvement compared to the previous year's result (2.59). As a highlight, proactive near miss and hazard reporting increased by 49% in 2017 compared to 2016. CLIMATE CHANGE: 2018 During 2017, Wärtsilä monitored changes in Prepare an analysis of the impact of international climate policy and updated its the Paris Climate Change Agreement analysis of the greenhouse gas reduction on Wärtsilä. ambitions of key nations. Further steps for internal work were planned. SUSTAINABLE POWER SYSTEMS: 2020 In 2017, some 3,800 MWs of new modern, highly Contribute to the development of an efficient gas and liquid fired Smart Power affordable, reliable, sustainable, and Generation plants were sold. This represented modern power system worldwide. substantial growth from previous years. Additionally, Wärtsilä launched the world's most efficient gas engine 31SG with its first 31SG power plant sold to the USA. Wärtsilä also acquired Greensmith, a leading energy storage company, and proceeded in the development of hybrids. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 This is Wärtsilä 14 SMALL-MEDIUM SCALE LNG 2020 In 2017, Wärtsilä signed a contract to supply an SOLUTIONS: LNG terminal to Hamina. In addition, the Become a global actor in the LNG mechanical completion, and the successful value chain, which develops unloading of the first shipment of LNG, at the opportunities, creates solutions, and Tornio Manga LNG terminal were achieved. builds infrastructure for clean-burning Wärtsilä extended its technologies in the biogas LNG to replace liquid fuel. value chain by acquiring Puregas, a company that delivers biogas upgrading solutions. Wärtsilä also delivered regasification solutions for FSRU vessels. SOLAR AND HYBRID SOLUTIONS: 2018 163 MWp worth of deals were announced during Solar and solar hybrid power plants for 2017. cleaner energy and fuel savings. Delivery of 200 MW solar power by the end of 2018. CLIMATE CHANGE: 2020 During 2017, Wärtsilä identified and determined Reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) the technology packages for the reduction of emissions from gas engines by 15% greenhouse gas emissions. The product specific from 2015 to 2020. implementation schedules were also decided. Greenhouse gas emissions from gas engines were reduced by 7% from the baseline year. DECARBONISATION OF 2020 The W31 engine with the best efficiency in the TRANSPORT: market was introduced. Also, the Wärtsilä HY Contribute to the development of more hybrid concept combining engines and batteries sustainable transportation through gas was introduced. Wärtsilä raised its market share based and other technologies. for orders of liquid natural gas fuel tanks from 36% to 50% (tank capacity) compared to 2016. CLIMATE CHANGE: 2020 The estimated reductions of CO2 emissions in Reduce over 300,000 tons of annual 2017 were approximately 175,000 tons. CO2 from vessels with the help of Eniram solutions. WELL-BEING AT WORK CAREER: 2020 In 2017, 45% of open vacancies were filled Balance between external and internal through internal selections for job levels 3 and recruitments: More than 50% of the up, and 55% through external selections. open vacancies filled from internal applicant pool, including promotions and lateral moves. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 This is Wärtsilä 15 PERSONNEL DEVELOPMENT: 2020 By the end of 2017, altogether 96.4% of the Development discussion coverage company’s employees had completed 100%. development discussions. DIVERSITY: 2020 In 2017, the share of female employees was Increase the share of female 16%. employees to 20%. SUPPLIER LIFECYCLE 2018 In 2017, Wärtsilä defined the requirements and MANAGEMENT: created a prototype for a Supplier Relationship Risk-based supplier assessment and Management tool. Additionally, criteria for management process in use by 2018: supplier compliance and performance levels • Phase I: new suppliers by 2017 were determined. The Supplier Relationship • Phase II: existing suppliers by 2018 Management tool supports the risk-based supplier assessment and will be taken into use during 2018, starting with the assessment of new suppliers. SUPPLIER MONITORING: 2020 In 2017, the rating coverage of direct supplier Reach the following rating coverage of spend was 94%. The rating coverage of indirect suppliers: supplier spend was 73%, and of local supplier • 96% of direct supplier spend rated spend 77%. • 70% of indirect supplier spend rated • 75% of local supplier spend rated. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 This is Wärtsilä 16 Anchor Sustainability highlights 26.1. “Leader in safety, leader in business” – Wärtsilä’s Board of Management kicked off the new ZeroMindset leaders' occupational safety engagement programme. 10.2. Wärtsilä joins Seabin Project in the battle against ocean plastics. 20.2. Wärtsilä contracted to supply its first ever gas-fired power plant to China. 22.3. Wärtsilä contracted to supply a solar PV plant to Burkina Faso – creating Africa’s largest engine-solar PV hybrid power plant. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 This is Wärtsilä 17 15.5. Wärtsilä acquires Greensmith Energy Management Systems Inc. enabling Wärtsilä to expand its footprint in the energy storage market and position itself as a leading global energy systems integrator. 30.5. A new era of technological evolution arrives with the first order for the Wärtsilä HY, a hybrid power module that combines engines, an energy storage system, and power electronics. 31.5. Wärtsilä introduces its Eniram SkyLight 2.0 monitoring & predictive analysis system update. The Eniram SkyLight 2.0 adds nautical maps, weather layers, and route importation to make predictive analysis and proactive planning more available. The updated system can visualise a vessel's route from economic, environmental, and safety perspectives. 30.6. Wärtsilä joins the Global Industry Alliance, a new public-private partnership initiative of the IMO, which aims to bring together maritime industry leaders to support an energy efficient and low carbon maritime transport system. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 This is Wärtsilä 18 4.7. Wärtsilä will enhance the reliability of the world’s largest offshore wind farm in the North Sea. Wärtsilä low voltage switchboards will be installed for the world's first offshore reactive compensation station. The reactive compensation station enables the high voltage AC system to work with cable lengths longer than those previously used for offshore wind applications. 7.9. Wärtsilä included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI). 12.9. Wärtsilä partners with AW-Energy to add wave power generation to its capabilities as an energy system integrator. 20.9. Wireless charging of a hybrid coastal ferry successfully tested. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 This is Wärtsilä 19 24.10. Wärtsilä to build an energy storage system for Singapore’s Energy Market Authority and SP Group. Energy storage capacity will support Singapore’s use of solar power by providing energy reserves and reducing peak demand. It will also assist in evaluating the performance of ESS technologies in the country’s hot and humid climate, its impact on the electricity grid, and to establish future guidelines for ESS deployments. 31.10. Wärtsilä combines competences to ensure ultra-silent propulsion for a research vessel. 15.11. Introduction of the Wärtsilä 31SG engine raises simplecycle efficiency to an entirely new level. 4.12. Wärtsilä Voyage Emissions Reduction (VER) system saves oil tanker cargo losses, fuel costs, and the environment. The system effectively eliminates the problem of evaporated cargo and resulting volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions from tankers during laden voyages. The VER system reduces VOC emissions by up to 75 percent. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 This is Wärtsilä 20 Anchor Services Wärtsilä Services supports its customers throughout the lifecycle of their installations by optimising efficiency and enhancing their operations, thus helping to grow their business. Wärtsilä's service network of approximately 11,000 professionals in 160 global locations is unmatched in the marine and energy delivering services to more than 12,000 customers every year. Wärtsilä Services’ portfolio of solutions and services is the broadest in the industry, ranging from supplying spare parts to optimising customer operations and providing performance guarantees. Wärtsilä is committed to providing high quality, expert support, and to making its services available in the most environmentally sound way possible, whenever, wherever. By developing close relationships with customers, Wärtsilä enables an in-depth understanding of their business so as to extend the value of its services accordingly. The Services business generates value for customers by providing reliable performance, improving environmental efficiency, and by optimising the performance of their assets. By providing analytics of installations, operational transparency is ensured, performance improved, and customers’ revenue potential increased. Digitalisation means leveraging new technologies, enhancing the core business, and building capabilities enabling installation-as-a-service future offering. Wärtsilä's competences are constantly being developed in order to extend the service capabilities to cover multiple brands of equipment. While working together with customers, Wärtsilä also believes it can make a difference in those markets in which the company operates by actively harnessing its capabilities to shape the transformation taking place in the marine and energy industries. This is done by providing a cleaner, safer and more energy intelligent environment to live in, taking an active role in shaping the market and working to fulfil Wärtsilä’s purpose in enabling sustainable societies with smart technology. The service offering Wärtsilä Services creates lifecycle value propositions together with its customers, based on the broadest portfolio of solutions and services. A comprehensive knowledge of the customer’s business and operational challenges, combined with technical expertise, forms the basis for being able to offer different levels of support: • Full maintenance and performance monitoring, utilising both spare parts and services (field services, condition based maintenance, dynamic maintenance planning). • Optimising customers’ businesses via analytics, proactive recommendations, efficiency improvements (e.g. fuel cost savings), and shared performance targets for the operation and maintenance of their equipment. • Guarantees for the operational reliability, performance and uptime of customer assets. • Spare parts for equipment, with an emphasis on excellent delivery performance and the availability of a broad range of parts. Areas of expertise include: Lifecycle solutions Wärtsilä Services’ lifecycle solutions enhance asset performance and help business growth by utilising digital innovations and advanced data analytics to create a holistic approach that goes beyond maintenance and servicing. Lifecycle solutions offer measurable and guaranteed benefits in a safe, reliable and environmentally friendly way. These include increased competitiveness in daily operations, improved asset and business availability and performance, productivity gains and cost benefits, as well as maximised installation life. New to the agreement offering is the additional capability connected to renewables, including PV Solar and Energy Storage technology. Wärtsilä tailors its lifecycle solutions to enable customers to choose from different levels of partnership agreements. The scope of the agreements may vary from covering every aspect of day-to-day operations and related maintenance and administration tasks, to guaranteed asset performance solutions where Wärtsilä guarantees the operational reliability, performance and uptime of the customer’s assets. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 This is Wärtsilä 21 Wärtsilä Genius services Wärtsilä Genius services utilise the advantages available from connectivity and real-time data gathering to optimise operations, deliver more value, and enable growth. A tailored security support for the installation helps keep industrial control systems secure and compliant. Eniram services Eniram – a Wärtsilä company – provides the marine industry with leading insights for asset, operational, and commercial shipping management. Eniram solutions range from single vessel services to comprehensive fleet wide solutions to maximise efficiency through digital insights, cost savings, and maximising overall profitability, while reducing emissions that harm the environment. Service projects Project management capabilities enable Wärtsilä to optimise the performance of its customers' installations through upgrades, modernisations, fuel conversions, and safety solutions. Engine services Wärtsilä provides complete global services for mediumand low-speed diesel, gas, dualand multiple-fuel engines, and related systems. The broad extent of the offering ranges from standard engine overhauls, to optimisation retrofits that improve the performance of older installations. Customers operating with multiple engine brands are served by QuantiServ, which offers specialised, fast and reliable support, as well as maintenance and repair services. Specialised professionals provide re-manufacturing and in-situ services, as well as flexible repair and overhaul services for auxiliary engines and generating sets. Turbocharger services The offering includes spare parts, maintenance and repair services, and versatile conversion and upgrade solutions for turbochargers – provided by a global network of certified turbocharger workshops. Turbocharger maintenance is essential for the overall performance of the engine. Propulsion services A complete range of services to maintain performance throughout the lifecycle of propulsion systems. Parts, repairs, maintenance, modernisation solutions, and efficiency upgrades are also provided in order to keep propulsion systems running powerfully and efficiently. Environmental services Many of Wärtsilä’s products and services are designed to have a direct and positive environmental impact, either by improving efficiency or by eliminating or reducing polluting emissions from customer processes. These solutions include, for example, fuel conversions, low NOx solutions, upgrades or modernisations, ballast water management systems, and exhaust gas cleaning systems. Seals & Bearings services The company offers a broad range of sealing, bearing, and stern tube solutions in the form of integrated systems, packages, and products. These services offer lifecycle efficiency and reduced risk, and are environmentally sustainable. Hydro & Industrial services The offering includes seals, bearings and associated equipment and lifecycle services focusing on modernisations and retrofits to optimise operational performance for hydropower, tidal power, and industrial power applications. Services’ operating environment Wärtsilä Services operates in the marine, energy and oil & gas industries, as well as in hydro and industrial related businesses. The main driver for the Services business is the size and development of Wärtsilä’s installed equipment base, which consists of This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 This is Wärtsilä 22 propellers, engines and other products. However, the offering and competences are continuously being developed in order to extend the service capabilities to cover multiple brands of equipment. The market conditions faced by Wärtsilä’s end customers have a direct impact on the utilisation rate of installations in operation, and dictate the need for services relating to maintenance, lay-down, or redeployments. Throughout the lifecycle of any installation, there are various maintenance requirements, as well as possible needs for upgrades or life-extension services. Wärtsilä's customers may also face the need for retrofits and upgrades of their equipment based on structural changes to their operating environments, such as changes in the availability or pricing of fuels, regulatory developments, or increased safety requirements. The interest for lifecycle solutions in the form of partnership agreements is evident in the marine and oil & gas markets, as well as in the energy industry. Such agreements further the optimisation of both maintenance and performance, thereby improving operational efficiency, reducing costs, and creating business growth. Real time monitoring and analytics are driving further opportunities for using data to optimise customer business performance Competition and market position Wärtsilä has a strong position in servicing equipment that has been sold and designed by Wärtsilä. The key differentiators are a truly global presence with a fully owned service network and the capability to provide support and optimise performance throughout the lifecycle of the installation. Only a few other players are able to provide such a broad service offering globally; these being other Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEM) focusing on their own equipment brands, and independent service companies. Competition is, therefore, fragmented in nature and consists mainly of local players with a limited offering scope, such as parts traders, repair yards, local workshops, component suppliers for spare parts (non-OEM), and field service businesses. Wärtsilä is constantly developing its global footprint and local operations in order to serve its customers with superior quality, while at the same time meeting increased demands for a speedy response. In the energy industry, the competition for lifecycle solutions comes from a few regional players capable of offering plant operational services. In the marine market, the competition for lifecycle solutions is even more fragmented with some ship management companies serving this segment. Digitalisation is expected to bring new types of players to the market, leading to new types of potential disruption. However, it also provides opportunities for structured players developing ecosystems based on increased collaboration and connectivity. Services’ strengths • Long-term relationships with customers and an in-depth understanding of the operation of their assets. • A complete lifecycle service offering • An unmatched global service network • The capability to deliver operational and asset performance optimisation globally • State-of-the-art digital solutions for enhancing customer businesses based on optimising, predicting and solving, utilising the benefits of real-time data, and data analytics • Technical support capabilities and know-how • The track record and capability to deliver complex projects with performance guarantees. Services and sustainability As one of the marine and energy industries’ leading partners, Wärtsilä Services supplies efficient solutions that can benefit both the customer and the environment. Environmental compliance Environmental efficiency should be seen as a holistic process of identifying and planning activities to optimise installation performance and reduce emissions. It starts with analysing the true condition of an installation and optimising the equipment, operations and maintenance to meet the appropriate standards and requirements. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 This is Wärtsilä 23 Many of Wärtsilä Services’ products and services are designed to have a direct environmental benefit. By eliminating or reducing polluting emissions from customer processes, they are able to continue operating without restrictions in sensitive areas around the world. Wärtsilä provides customers with the tools for enabling compliance with both current and future environmental legislation, helping them contribute towards a clean society. Energy efficiency provides a competitive advantage Improving power plant energy efficiency With up-to-date equipment, well-planned maintenance and skilled operation, a power plant’s energy efficiency can be kept at a high level throughout its lifecycle. With customized lifecycle upgrades, its energy efficiency can even be considerably increased. A boost in energy efficiency decreases emissions, thus reducing negative environmental impacts. Wärtsilä offers a range of solutions for improving the energy efficiency of a power plant – from the replacement of a single component, to complete modernisation or operation and maintenance solutions. A site audit by Wärtsilä’s energy efficiency experts helps identify equipment and processes with improvement potential. Energy efficiency in the marine industry The overall energy efficiency of a vessel is determined by choices made throughout its lifecycle. Improvements in energy efficiency lead to increased profitability, reduced emissions, and a more sustainable brand image. When looking for ways to improve the energy efficiency of a vessel, optimising its operation and engine and propulsion systems can offer significant opportunities for savings. Utilisation of the latest digital technologies and data intelligence enable continuous monitoring and optimisation of the operations of the entire fleet. Predictive analytics and optimisation systems help the crew and operators to become more energy efficient. Wärtsilä can develop a holistic optimising strategy that covers the entire lifecycle of a fleet, or provide a customised solution to a specific challenge. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 This is Wärtsilä 24 Energy Anchor Solutions Wärtsilä Energy Solutions is a leading global system integrator offering ultra-flexible internal combustion engine based power plants, energy storage systems, and utility-scale solar PV power plants, as well as LNG terminals and distribution systems. These flexible and efficient solutions offer superior value to customers and provide access to a more clean and modern energy system for future generations. This supports Wärtsilä’s purpose in enabling sustainable societies with smart technologies. As of 2017, Wärtsilä had over 65 GW of installed power plant capacity in 177 countries around the world. Wärtsilä serves three main customer segments Wärtsilä Energy Solutions' three main customer segments are Utilities, Independent Power Producers (IPPs), and Industrial customers. Utilities supply electricity and gas to residential, commercial, and industrial end users. They invest in gas infrastructure projects and various types of power plants to ensure adequate load coverage, and the right palette of cost-effective and reliable products and services for their customers. IPP’s are financial investors investing in the gas infrastructure, power plants, and in selling the generated power to utilities. Their investments are return driven, and as with utilities, their technical requirements are application driven. Industrial customers are mainly private companies with energy intensive production operations, such as cement or mining facilities. By investing in captive power, they are able to achieve lower energy costs and can be prepared for any grid reliability issues, thus ensuring security of supply. Wärtsilä serves the top end of this customer group, i.e. large industries requiring a relatively high electrical load. Focus on flexibility Wärtsilä’s engine based power plants, referred to as being Smart Power Generation, are used for a wide variety of applications. These include base load generation, capacity for grid stability, peaking and load-following generation, and the integration of wind and solar power. Wärtsilä’s power plant solutions are tailored according to the specific requirements of its customers, utilising modular products and services. The delivery scope ranges from equipment deliveries to complete turnkey power plants, all of which are supported by Wärtsilä’s superior project management capabilities. The fuel flexibility of Wärtsilä’s solutions enables the choice and utilisation of the most feasible fuels, including natural gas and many other gases, as well as most fuel oils. The customer can also choose to run their plant on multiple fuels. In addition to a broad offering of services to support customers through the lifecycle of their installations, Wärtsilä also provides financial services to help them arrange financing and assemble complex projects. The increasing level of intermittent renewable energy sources in many power systems has created a rapidly growing need for greater flexibility. Gas fuelled power plants represent the most flexible and environmentally sound alternative for balancing the variability of these renewable sources. Smart Power Generation plants provide the best means of support to the power system by offering the highest degree of flexibility, enabling major savings, and creating an optimised response to rapid changes in intermittent generation. Growth through energy storage, solar, LNG and system integration The global transition from carbon-intensive energy sources to low carbon fuels, such as natural gas and renewable source solutions, presents Wärtsilä with many opportunities for growth. As a forerunner in gas and multi-fuel engines, fuel systems, technology and services, Wärtsilä supports the global shift to gas with its LNG infrastructure projects. The company provides a full range of project and lifecycle support services, from small and medium scale LNG liquefaction plants and terminals, to the delivery of complete Equipment, Procurement and Construction (EPC) projects worldwide. Wärtsilä has the capability, in partnership with its customers, to develop the entire LNG value chain. When providing a complete turnkey solution, an LNG terminal can be integrated with a Smart Power Generation power plant, thereby utilising gas as fuel in places where gas was not earlier available. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 This is Wärtsilä 25 Responding to the increasing share of renewables within the energy mix, Wärtsilä has developed its offering to include utility-scale hybrid power plants that unite large fuel-based power stations with solar PV power plants. Wärtsilä’s hybrid solutions are provided on an EPC basis, with solar PV modules sourced from leading module suppliers. The aim of engine-solar hybrids is to save fuel, which results in lifecycle cost savings and environmental benefits. The two assets are optimised in such a way that the amount of solar energy is maximised, with the engines providing a secondary source of generation. The solar hybrid plant can be part of a retrofit project, where solar modules are combined with an existing Smart Power Generation plant. The acquisition of Greensmith Energy Inc., USA’s leading energy storage software and integration service provider, enables Wärtsilä to take the leading position in the emerging energy storage market and further strengthen its energy system integration capabilities. As a combined solution, Wärtsilä’s Smart Power Generation, solar PV and energy storage, together with Wärtsilä’s integration capabilities, decades-long experience in delivering complex turnkey engine power plants, and a wide palette of services, will provide sustainable, reliable, and affordable power — particularly in countries and regions with isolated or weak electricity grids. Energy Solutions' operating environment The main drivers for Wärtsilä's Energy Solutions business are: • Economic growth, electrification and improving standards of living • Growth in sustainable energy, reducing carbon emissions • Rapid growth of intermittent renewable generation and escalating demand fluctuation • Replacement of other fossil fuels with natural gas • Ageing installed capacity driving investments in new technologies Economic growth, improving standards of living, and consequential electrification are jointly resulting in an increase in electricity consumption in non-OECD countries. The demand for flexible baseload power plants, as well as for industrial self-generation, is driven by the price of electricity purchased from the local grid, and by fuel price projections. The introduction of gas supply networks to the emerging markets is resulting in increased demand for gas and dual-fuel driven power plants, solutions in which Wärtsilä has a leading position. In the OECD countries, tightening emissions legislation is forcing the closure of ageing capacity, which in turn drives the demand for new investments. Another driver is the political emphasis towards low carbon power systems, resulting in rapidly increasing levels of renewable generation. This has already created a substantial need to add flexibility into power systems. Wärtsilä’s Smart This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 This is Wärtsilä 26 Power Generation power plants represent the most efficient solution for integrating intermittent renewable energy, thereby enabling the transition to a sustainable, reliable, and affordable low carbon power system. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 This is Wärtsilä 27 Energy Solutions’ competition Wärtsilä is facing new types of competition while broadening its offering portfolio. The main competitors in larger gas-fired projects are gas turbine manufacturers, such as GE and Siemens. In smaller gas power plant projects, and in the heavy fuel oil power plant market, the competitors are mainly other internal combustion engine suppliers, such as MAN Diesel & Turbo, GE Jenbacher, Caterpillar (MAK), and Rolls-Royce. When competing against gas turbines, Wärtsilä’s combination of high efficiency, greater fuel flexibility, and superior operational flexibility enables better value propositions to many customer projects. Wärtsilä’s systematic market development is shaping the energy sector by utilising a value based market approach, which builds on monetising the benefits of Smart Power Generation. Wärtsilä’s advanced gas and dual-fuel engine technology, optimised modular power plants, superior project management capabilities, and the global service support provided throughout the lifecycle of installations, have led to Wärtsilä’s market leading position in the gas and liquid fuel combustion engine power plant markets. In the utility scale solar PV business, independent, regional, and local EPC companies are the main competitors. The competition in LNG infrastructure projects comes mainly from contracting companies. When looking at energy system integration, software and battery storage systems, the competition comes from companies such as NEC and Tesla, among others. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 This is Wärtsilä 28 Energy Solutions and sustainability The development of a more sustainable energy infrastructure is being driven by climate policies, energy security, and economics. Carbon-intensive energy sources are being replaced by low carbon fuels, such as natural gas and renewable source solutions. Energy savings and efficiency improvements are encouraged, and even legally enforced, at every level. This development is evident on a global scale, even though short-term actions can vary in different regions. In line with its commitment to sustainability and responsible business conduct, Wärtsilä has taken an active role in the development of markets and solutions. This includes advising national decision makers on changes in the power markets and on relevant technical and commercial norms. In this way, Wärtsilä helps and enables the transition to more sustainable power systems. Wärtsilä strives to maintain a deep understanding of market requirements and drivers, and to develop its solutions in a way that enables them to contribute effectively to improved energy system performance in the various regions of the world. Wärtsilä's solutions for the energy sector offer a unique combination of flexibility, high efficiency, and sustainability. Many different fuels, including bio-fuels, can be used efficiently, which helps to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Thus, Wärtsilä's Smart Power Generation technology enables the development of a reliable and sustainable energy infrastructure. The integration of wind and solar energy with flexible Smart Power Generation capacity is already reducing carbon emissions across the globe. In addition to this, Wärtsilä's strong capabilities to offer energy storage, utility-scale solar PV power plants and hybrid solutions, including the most advanced software for energy management, enables maximising the share of renewables into the energy mix, which in turn ensures the widest optimisation of the different assets and the reliability of the system. Towards sustainable power systems The challenges associated with climate change require a dramatic decrease in baseload coal based power generation and a major increase in low carbon power generation, including wind, solar, and natural gas fired plants. In future power systems, the majority of the electricity will be generated by wind and solar power, while thermal power generation will be increasingly used for system balancing and back-up. The inherent variability of wind and solar sources requires operational flexibility from the thermal capacity. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 This is Wärtsilä 29 Current and earlier power systems were not designed for this purpose, and in order to meet the required capacity, new flexible power generation assets need to be added to the system. Such flexible capacity is based on three elements: operational flexibility, energy efficiency, and fuel flexibility. Operational flexibility is needed for reacting to the rapid changes in wind and solar output and for sudden power system disturbances. Power plant requirements include the following features: • Frequent and fast starts and stops without negative wear and tear consequences • Cyclic operation with high up and down ramp rates • High full and part load efficiency • A broad load range • Minimal CO2 emissions. Energy efficiency means that less fuel is needed to generate electricity. In combined heat and power generation, energy efficiency can be significantly improved. Lower fuel consumption results in lower CO2 levels from power generation. Fuel flexibility enables the transition to more sustainable fuels whenever they become available. This feature becomes increasingly important when investing in new power capacity, because the plant is not fixed to any particular fuel where more sustainable fuels may be available in the future. These three elements form the cornerstones of the Smart Power Generation solutions. Such solutions enable maximised utilisation of valuable renewable power, smooth operation of inflexible baseload thermal power plants and, according to the results from future power system modelling, a dramatic reduction in system level CO2 emissions. Wärtsilä's Smart Power Generation power plants allow true operational optimisation of the entire energy system in an affordable, reliable, and sustainable way, and offer benefits that include: • The achievement of extremely low carbon emissions from the entire power system • Enabling high penetrations of wind and solar power without power system issues • Enabling baseload plants to operate at high output and efficiency, thereby lowering CO2 levels • Enabling wind curtailment to be minimised while helping to avoid negative price developments • Reducing the amount of spinning reserve required • Enabling the efficient use of bio gasand liquid bio-fuel resources. By removing the abusive cyclic load from plants that are not designed for it and providing high efficiency over a wide load range, Smart Power Generation plants allow the entire system to operate in the most cost effective way and ensure system reliability even during extreme wind variations and contingency situations. They also enable decentralising the intermediate and peak load capacity with flexible plant sizing and installing generating capacity in load pockets to reduce grid losses, while helping to avoid investments in new high voltage grid expansions. The ability to deliver Smart Power Generation solutions on a fast-track basis enables local capacity deficits to be rapidly overcome. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 This is Wärtsilä 30 Anchor Marine Solutions Wärtsilä Marine Solutions has a strong position in the marine and oil & gas industries. By providing solutions that are optimised, and both environmentally and economically sound, Wärtsilä enhances the viability and profitability of shipping operations and enables the development of sustainable societies. Wärtsilä’s reputation is based on an in-depth understanding of its customers’ businesses, its design capabilities, a broad product portfolio, and technological leadership. The organisation is structured into end-to-end business lines with full control over sales, R&D, engineering, procurement, and manufacturing. This enables increased flexibility, fast decision-making, and the optimal utilisation of resources to provide superior customer service. Serving both shipyards and ship owners Wärtsilä’s marine customers comprise both shipyards and ship owners; the needs and demands of which differ significantly. Product prices, delivery times and reliability, project management, ease of installation, and the supplier’s ability to manage large delivery scopes typically affect the decision-making process of shipyard customers. Ship owners, on the other hand, require safe and efficient operations, reliability and support, as well as the availability of services. Their decision-making is also impacted by freight rates, interest rates, and the capital and operating costs of the ship. Both ship owners and operators are increasingly taking other factors, such as environmental compliance and fuel flexibility, into consideration in their decision-making. Wärtsilä is committed to meeting the needs of both customer groups. Success is achieved through a comprehensive understanding of their businesses, operating models, and requirements. This understanding is backed by an extensive network, a broad product portfolio, and the ability to be involved in the life of the vessel as early as the design process. This enables Wärtsilä to support its customers throughout the lifecycle of their installations with products and solutions that best serve their business interests. The broadest offering in the industry Wärtsilä Marine Solutions is active in all the main vessel segments with a broad range of products, services, and solutions. The company understands the particular needs and requirements related to each of these segments – from the initial vessel design choices to everyday operations throughout the vessel’s lifecycle. Wärtsilä’s portfolio also covers gas systems for land-based installations, such as gas terminals. Innovative and competitive products, delivered efficiently and with high quality, form the basis of Wärtsilä’s offering, which consists of: • Medium-speed diesel and dual-fuel engines • Propulsion systems and gears • Seals and bearings • Navigation and automation systems • Entertainment systems • Communication and control systems • Power distribution and management systems • Electrical design for complex vessels • Energy management systems and hybrid solutions • Environmental solutions, including for example, exhaust gas cleaning and ballast water management systems • Pumps and valves • Gas systems, including LNG, LPG and biogas handling, inert gas systems, compressors, liquefaction, regasification, and equipment for small-to-medium scale onshore gas installations • Ship design. The ability to combine the products offered into larger systems and solutions supports Wärtsilä's strategy of being the main solutions provider to its customers. This strategy provides added value to both shipyards and ship owners. Shipyard customers can focus on their areas of expertise and benefit from a reduced risk of product interface problems, while ship owners can rely on operational and maintenance benefits. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 This is Wärtsilä 31 Segment Vessel type Main offering Merchant Gas carriers 4-stroke dual-fuel engines, auxiliary engines, controllable pitch propellers (CPP), gearboxes, tunnel thrusters, environmental solutions Tankers, containers, Auxiliary engines, fixed pitch propellers (FPP), tunnel bulkers thrusters, 4-stroke engines for smaller vessels, navigation and automation systems, electric power distribution, environmental solutions Other: cargo, RoRo, car All of the above carriers Offshore Floating exploration: 4-stroke engines, steerable thrusters, tunnel thrusters, vessel drillships, semiautomation systems, electric power distribution, gearboxes, submersibles, etc. environmental solutions Floating production 4-stroke engines, steerable thrusters, tunnel thrusters, CPP, units: FPSO's, FSO's, vessel automation systems, electric power distribution, floating LNG, etc. gearboxes, environmental solutions Service/Supply vessels: 4-stroke engines, steerable thrusters, tunnel thrusters, CPP, OSV's, PSV's, AHTS, electrical propulsion systems, ship design, automation AHS systems, gearboxes, environmental solutions Other: crane vessels, All of the above pipe layers, accommodation vessels Cruise Cruise vessels 4-stroke engines, FPP, tunnel thrusters, navigation, and Ferry entertainment and automation systems, electric propulsion and power distribution, environmental solutions Ferries 4-stroke engines, CPP, FPP, steerable thrusters, tunnel thrusters, navigation, entertainment and automation systems, electric propulsion and power distribution, environmental solutions Other: Ro-Pax, yachts All of the above Special Tugs 4-stroke engines, FPP, steerable thrusters, tunnel thrusters, vessels vessel automation systems, ship design, environmental solutions Dredgers 4-stroke engines, CPP, FPP, steerable thrusters, tunnel thrusters, vessel automation systems, environmental solutions Other: fishing vessels, All of the above ice breakers, research vessels, work boats, inland waterway vessels Navy Frigates, corvettes, Waterjets, seals and bearings, tunnel thrusters, 4-stroke patrol vessels, aircraft engines, navigation and automation systems, electric This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 This is Wärtsilä 32 carriers, destroyers, propulsion and power distribution, underwater communication, submarines, support sonar systems, environmental solutions vessels Growth through gas, environmental solutions, and vessel efficiency Wärtsilä Marine Solutions is uniquely positioned for growth driven by the increasing availability and use of gas as a marine fuel, the introduction of new environmental regulations, and the increased demand for more efficient vessels. Stricter environmental regulations are driving the interest in gas as a marine fuel, as well as in emissions abatement technologies, such as exhaust gas cleaning and ballast water treatment systems. Marine Solutions offers its customers alternative solutions for meeting these requirements in a way that best meets the needs of their businesses and operating models, both as part of new build projects and as retrofits to vessels already in operation. Wärtsilä was the first company to introduce dual-fuel engines to the shipping sector, thereby facilitating the use of liquefied natural gas (LNG) as a marine fuel. Since LNG contains no sulphur, there is an increasing trend towards the use of LNG fuel as a viable means of complying with the sulphur cap requirements. Wärtsilä also has a strong position in exhaust gas cleaning systems, with the most extensive reference list on the market. Today, the portfolio of SOx scrubber systems is the broadest in the industry and consists of closed loop systems for fresh water use, open loop systems for seawater use, and a combination of the two, i.e. the hybrid system. Wärtsilä’s scrubber systems are approved by the IMO and by the Singapore flag state authorities. For NOx reduction and IMO Tier III compliance, Wärtsilä provides its customers with products based on selective catalytic reduction (SCR) technology. For ballast water treatment, customers can select systems utilising the two most common technologies: ultraviolet treatment and electro-chlorination. Both BWMS systems are IMO Type Approved, are available for both safe and hazardous area installation, and are expected to receive full USCG Type Approval in 2018. Efficiency has become one of the top concerns for ship owners and operators. Wärtsilä’s in-depth expertise and system skills help to optimise the efficiency of vessels, and make it possible for customers to achieve the performance, cost, and environmental compliance parameters that specifically match their operating profile. Marine Solutions' operating environment Wärtsilä Marine Solutions serves the marine and oil & gas industries. The main vessel segments covered in the marine industry are traditional merchant vessels, gas carriers, cruise & ferry, navy, and special vessels. In the oil & gas industry, Wärtsilä is active in serving offshore installations and related industry vessels, as well as land-based gas installations. General shipbuilding and shipping market drivers The global demand for new vessels in the shipbuilding and shipping industries is mainly driven by developments within the global economy and the resulting impact on trade and transportation capacity requirements. The global economy also influences fuel prices, which in turn have both a direct and an indirect impact on the marine and oil & gas industries. Price, availability, and demand are the driving factors in the oil & gas industry, while in the general shipping industry, fuel costs increase the demand for more efficient vessels. Other factors, such as shipyard capacity, newbuild prices, decommissioning and scrapping, as well as interest and freight rates, also affect these industries. Another important driver is the increasing level of environmental regulations and their impact on the demand for optimised vessel efficiency, environmental solutions, and gas as a marine fuel. Main drivers for Wärtsilä's Marine Solutions business • Developments in the global economy • Development of world trade and needed transportation capacity • Global energy demand growth • Development of oil and gas prices • Development of oil & gas fields and infrastructures • Environmental regulations • Technological developments and innovations This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 This is Wärtsilä 33 Competitors and market position Wärtsilä Marine Solutions has continuously broadened its portfolio, which today ranges from engines and propulsion equipment to electrical equipment, navigation & automation, ship design, environmental solutions, gas systems, and pumps and valves. This is backed by the capability to build environmentally sound solutions, and by superior service support throughout the lifecycle of the product. Wärtsilä’s competitive advantage lies in having the industry’s broadest marine focused offering comprised of leading, innovative products, integrated systems, and engineering, which is supported by a unique sales and service network in touch with customers globally. The field of competitors is extensive. It includes engine companies, such as MAN D&T, Caterpillar and HiMSEN, propeller makers such as Schottel and Thrustmaster, and environmental and auxiliary equipment providers like Alfa Laval. It also includes electrical and automation houses, notably Siemens, GE, ABB, and Kongsberg, pump and gas system providers, such as TGE Marine and Framo, and companies with broad offerings such as Rolls-Royce. Wärtsilä is recognised as a proven supplier of innovative and sustainable technologies across its portfolio serving the marine and oil & gas markets. Marine Solutions and sustainability The marine and oil & gas industries are at the centre of converging megatrends, namely a move towards a more diverse and cleaner energy mix, decarbonisation, increased transparency and accountability with regards to environmental performance, and a need to improve economic performance despite uncertainties in the global economy. For Wärtsilä it is clear that improved sustainability is central to addressing all these trends. Wärtsilä is committed to becoming the most valued business partner to its customers. Thus, it is essential for Marine Solutions to have sustainability at the very core of its product and solutions development. The company’s R&D and business development activities are based on a deep understanding of how these megatrends affect customers. The expansion and development of Wärtsilä’s offering to the marine and oil & gas industries over the years demonstrates the response made to the needs of its customers. Gas, environmental compliance, and efficiency are the three pillars on which Marine Solutions builds its offering. The shift towards natural gas The global energy landscape is shifting towards a more diverse and sustainable energy mix, and natural gas – the cleanest fossil fuel – has a key role to play in this transition. During recent years, along with the increase in supply of natural gas, the oil & gas industry has seen a dramatic rise in demand. The marine industry is also affected by this transition, with interest in the use of gas as a marine fuel rising sharply. Wärtsilä develops products and services that enable the safe use, handling, and distribution of natural gas for the marine and oil & gas industries. Wärtsilä is the marine industry’s undisputed leader when it comes to gas-fuelled propulsion, with dual-fuel mediumspeed engines ordered for more than 300 vessels, and more than 19,000,000 running hours having been accumulated in both land-based and marine applications. These milestones represent achievements that cannot be matched today by any other engine manufacturer. Thanks to a strong and safe track record in the use of gas as a marine fuel for LNG carriers, the industry is increasingly keen on expanding the use of LNG to other vessel types. The benefits of using Wärtsilä’s proven low-pressure dual-fuel technology are many: • Emission reductions (when operating in gas mode): 85% less NOx, 99% less SOx, up to 99% reduction in particulates, 20-30% less CO2 emissions, and no smoke • Fuel flexibility to enhance operational security and competitiveness, with the use of heavy fuel oil, marine diesel oil, bio fuels, and crude oil possible • Capital expenditure reductions of 15-20%, since the use of low pressure technology means simpler (lower cost) gas handling systems, and no need for further exhaust gas cleaning systems • Reduced waste streams (liquid waste) • No need to use secondary emission reduction systems (and hence no consumption of reagents) • Redundancy and safety • Stable operation on gas fuel across the entire load range, with no need to switch to diesel fuel at low loads • Lower consumption of pilot fuel (just 1% of the total fuel used). This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 This is Wärtsilä 34 Enabling the use of gas as a marine fuel means much more than merely applying a proven technology to gas engines. For Wärtsilä, it also means maintaining its leading position in the design of gas-fuelled vessels, and offering reliable and competitive gas storage and handling systems. Wärtsilä also supports the development of the broader gas value chain in the oil & gas industry with, for instance, its liquefaction and regasification solutions. Environmental compliance The marine industry is undergoing the implementation of changes needed in order to comply with existing environmental regulations, while at the same time evaluating the possibilities for complying with upcoming regulations. Emissions to air (CO2, NOx, SOx, particulate matter, volatile organic compounds (VOC), and others) and water are under scrutiny. Similarly, regulations relating to safe and clean operations are becoming stricter, especially for the oil & gas industry. Wärtsilä offers a broad set of options for compliance with environmental regulations. All include working technologies, fast installation, and support throughout the company’s global network. Wärtsilä is committed to providing its customers and society at large with reliable and safe technologies for environmental compliance, which will be available for use as new regulations come into force. The company can also assist customers in evaluating the best options for compliance so as to adopt a solution that meets their specific operational needs. In the marine industry, Wärtsilä’s offering for environmental compliance covers the following: • For SOx and NOx compliance: gas propulsion, conversions to gas propulsion, NOx reducers, SOx scrubber systems, and retrofit services • For ballast water compliance: products based on ultraviolet treatment and electro-chlorination technologies, and retrofit services • For Energy Efficient Design Index (EEDI) compliance: improved efficiency of individual products and ship design • For emissions to water compliance: waste water, bilge water, scrubber water, and sealing systems. In addition to these, Wärtsilä’s offering to the oil & gas industry includes the following solutions to facilitate safe and clean operations: • VOC recovery • Flare gas recovery • Inert gas and nitrogen systems • Oil separation • Waste water systems • Oily and slop water cleaning • Fresh water generation • High pressure compressors. Focus on efficiency The global economic downturn has put enormous pressure on the cost structure of the marine industry in particular, while the oil & gas industry is also deeply affected by low oil prices. In the marine industry especially, the cost of fuel is a key driver for upgrading equipment, rethinking operational profiles, and for new vessel designs. Investments in improved energy efficiency have both economic and improved environmental performance benefits. Wärtsilä strives to optimise the lifecycle cost of installations. This is done because it makes economic sense to customers, and because of the company’s in-house understanding of the pressure for reducing operating costs. Hence, Wärtsilä is committed to investing in developing products and solutions that will help achieve significant savings for its customers. Furthermore, improved efficiency results in better environmental performance. In 2017 Wartsila launched the Wartsila HY, a fully integrated hybrid power module combining different power sources, an energy storage system, and power electronics optimised to work together through a newly developed energy management system. It is the marine sector’s first hybrid power module of this type produced, thereby establishing a new industry benchmark in marine hybrid propulsion and providing a lower environmental impact than conventional machinery solutions. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 This is Wärtsilä 35 Manufacturing Anchor Wärtsilä’s manufacturing is focused mainly on the assembly, testing, and finishing of products and key strategic components. The company’s business model, which is strongly connected to a broad network of suppliers, guarantees flexibility in capacity. Being close to the customer is important, as is the focus on quality and the continuous emphasis placed on technology leadership in the company’s R&D activities. Wärtsilä provides products and systems that are reliable, cost efficient, environmentally compatible, and technologically advanced. They are capable of being integrated into overall solutions or delivered as standalone equipment. Manufacturing footprint Wärtsilä’s manufacturing footprint is global and continuously optimised for competence, availability, customer presence, and efficiency. Being close to customers enables Wärtsilä to provide better service to customers locally, and allows savings to be achieved in both production and transportation costs. Wärtsilä's global supplier network supports flexibility in manufacturing Through close co-operation, excellent relations, and the sharing of information with suppliers, the supply of components and market-conform lead times are secured. Wärtsilä has numerous suppliers globally. The sourcing strategy is to focus on carefully selected suppliers, with a strong emphasis on performance, innovation, and a presence close to Wärtsilä’s manufacturing units and joint ventures. The aim is to continuously develop and strengthen the company’s global supply chain with a strong emphasis on quality and cost competitiveness. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 This is Wärtsilä 36 Anchor Research and development Wärtsilä is strongly committed to research and development. The aim of its R&D activities is to continuously strengthen the company’s technology leadership position, and to further improve its competitive edge in the global marine and energy markets. This is achieved by developing products and services that are based on reliable, efficient, and cost-competitive technologies, and which address customer needs. The focus of Wärtsilä’s R&D activities is on digitalisation, smart technologies, new products, and solutions that are flexible, efficient, reliable, safe, cost-efficient to operate, and that have a minimal environmental footprint throughout their lifecycles. A substantial proportion of the company’s investments in product development is targeted at securing environmental compliancy, providing shortand long-term benefits for the company’s customers, and enabling sustainable societies. By focusing on the initial stages of the development process, and by utilising modularity, simulation, virtual testing, and validation, Wärtsilä is able to reduce the lead time for new solutions thereby securing reliability and safety aspects without compromising quality. Validation testing on site with existing installations, in co-operation with the customers, is an important element in furthering the improved performance of existing solutions. It also assists in finding new and better solutions while, at the same time, gaining long-term experience under real field conditions. A field installation also provides an opportunity to gain valuable learning and insight regarding new technologies and solutions. When the product has successfully passed all the validation process steps, both in the laboratory and in the field, and its performance meets Wärtsilä's high standards, it can be delivered to the market. Wärtsilä protects innovation and competitiveness through close attention to Intellectual Asset Management and the continuous development of internal key competences. Networks and clusters are formed to further extend the company’s know-how, skills, and capabilities by committing to long-term relationships with suppliers, engineering companies, university partners, and with licensees and other Original Equipment Manufacturers. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 This is Wärtsilä 37 The HERCULES programme and sustainable innovation through partnerships The long-term HERCULES R&D programme was conceived in 2002, and has been set up within the context of the EU's sixth and seventh Framework programmes. Sharing a joint vision, the major lowand medium-speed engine manufacturers, Wärtsilä, Winterthur Gas & Diesel, and MAN Diesel & Turbo, are collaborating with universities, research institutions, and other industrial partners to develop new technologies for marine engines and related systems. The fourth phase kicked off in 2015 in the form of the HERCULES-2 project that aims at creating fuel flexible large marine engines that are optimally adaptive to their operating environment. The project HERCULES-2 comprises four R&D Work Package Groups: • I: Fuel Flexible Engine • II: New Materials (Applications in engines) • III: Adaptive Powerplant for Lifetime Performance • IV: Near-Zero Emissions Engine The HERCULES-2 consortium comprises 32 partners of which 30% are Industrial and 70% are Universities or Research Institutes. HERCULES-2 is planned to run for three years, from 2015 to 2018, with a total budget of EUR 25 million. The project was made possible by a EUR 20 million funding through the European Commission Horizon 2020 Innovation Programme and a contribution from the Swiss government. In November 2017, Wärtsilä entered into a unique co-operation program with four leading Finnish universities on developing world-class research into sustainable future applications for internal combustion engines. The academic institutions participating in this Engine Research Initiative (ERI) programme are Aalto University, Tampere University of Technology, Åbo Akademi University, and the University of Vaasa. The ERI aims at creating an open research ecosystem wherein cutting-edge technologies involving internal combustion engines can be developed together with other partners, and matured to meet the evolving future needs of the shipping and power production sectors. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 This is Wärtsilä 38 Anchor Innovating for sustainability Wärtsilä’s purpose is to enable sustainable societies with smart technologies. As a global leader in complete lifecycle solutions for the marine and energy markets, Wärtsilä plays a key role in providing environmentally sound solutions and services that enable its customers to develop their businesses in a sustainable way. This approach is the basis of the company's sustainability work and is supported by its strong commitment to responsible business conduct. The growth in the world's energy needs, combined with increasingly stringent environmental requirements and the scarcity of natural resources, create a challenging operating climate for the marine and power sectors. To secure its leading position at the forefront of sustainable innovation, Wärtsilä continuously invests in technology development. Wärtsilä focuses on improving the energy efficiency of its products, while simultaneously striving to reduce their emissions. As part of its sustainable innovation approach, Wärtsilä seeks to create solutions that benefit the entire power system and marine ecosystem. Innovation and product development, and the willingness to explore new technologies are essential for meeting current customer needs, as well as for being prepared for future requirements, and remaining an industrial frontrunner. Wärtsilä develops environmentally sound products and solutions across a broad front, including technologies related to efficiency improvement, the reduction of gaseous and liquid emissions, waste reduction, noise abatement, as well as effluent and ballast water treatment. The company's proactive approach to meeting future demand has resulted in the development of both primary and secondary abatement technologies, and has broadened the range of usable fuels. Wärtsilä actively seeks to utilise opportunities provided by the digital transformation taking place in the maritime and energy sectors. Wärtsilä’s commitment to investing in research and product development benefits both its customers as well as the environment, both in the short-term and over a longer time span. The key features of Wärtsilä's environmentally sound solutions include: • Reliability, safety, and long life span • Low emission levels • The ability to utilise renewable energy, including storage systems • Fuel flexibility • Efficiency improvement with lower lifecycle costs • Low water consumption • Design and operational optimisation of vessels By combining these key features, and understanding the system level benefits of its offering, Wärtsilä is able to provide solutions that enable the development of sustainable shipping and power systems. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 This is Wärtsilä 39 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 This is Wärtsilä 40 Anchor Why invest in Wärtsilä Wärtsilä’s strengths lie in its integrated services and solutions offering, data-driven innovations, close and long-standing customer relationships, and an unparalleled global presence. Supporting customers with lifecycle solutions Wärtsilä’s business model is based on providing the marine and energy markets with smart technologies and optimised lifecycle services. The Services business, which represents nearly 50% of Wärtsilä's net sales, provides a good foundation for achieving the company’s long-term target of profitable growth. The demand for Wärtsilä’s services is supported by the increasing technological sophistication of the installed equipment base. Digitalisation provides further opportunities to develop a value-adding customer offering. It also enables the leveraging of new technologies to build capabilities that will create a future offering with equipment-as-a-service. A leader in smart technology for the marine and energy markets The shift towards clean and flexible energy production, and the need for efficient and safe transportation, form the basis of Wärtsilä’s offering of smart solutions. As an industry frontrunner, Wärtsilä is well positioned to respond to the need for innovative and energy efficient solutions. Wärtsilä’s digital transformation will provide increased customer value through a new era of collaboration and knowledge sharing. Continuous investing in research and development is vital for ensuring the competitiveness of the company’s product portfolio, and for securing a leading position in sustainable innovation. A capital-light business model emphasising increased efficiency Wärtsilä’s manufacturing model is assembly-based, with shared production and R&D facilities. This creates flexibility in aligning operations to market conditions, and synergies in innovation processes. Achieving operational excellence by focusing on continuous process improvement throughout the organisation is a central pillar for reaching Wärtsilä’s financial targets. So too is the driving of benefits related to a business line-based organisation with decentralised accountability. Investing in technological leadership and providing shareholder returns Wärtsilä’s financial position enables the securing of future positioning by allowing investments in research and development activities, and by developing the business through acquisitions. It also enables solid dividends to be offered to the company’s shareholders. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 This is Wärtsilä 41 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 This is Wärtsilä 42 Wärtsilä is included in the following sustainability indices: MCSI Global Sustainability Ethibiel Sustainability Index FTSE4Good Index Index Series (ESI) Excellence Europe OMX GES Sustainability Nordic ECPI Global Carbon Equity Index & OMX GES Index & ECPI Global ESG Best RobecoSAM Sustainability Sustainability Finland Index in Class Equity index Yearbook Euronext Vigeo index: STOXX Global ESG Leaders Member of Dow Jones Eurozone 120 index Sustainability Indices This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 43 Sustainability Sustainability Sustainability at Wärtsilä 44 Economic 64 Stakeholder relations 45 Environment 66 Sustainability management 49 Social 70 Guiding principles 49 Compliance 75 Management system 55 Report profile 78 People management 56 Materiality assessment 79 Environmental management 58 Reporting principles 84 Occupational health and safety 60 Independent Assurance Report 86 Responsible business conduct 61 GRI and UNGC index 88 Product design principles 62 UN Sustainable Development Goals and 97 Supply chain management 63 Wärtsilä Sustainability data 64 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 44 Anchor Sustainability at Wärtsilä Our commitment to sustainability and responsible business is based on our purpose and strategy, which along with our sustainable development objectives create the framework for developing the company's activities and products. Wärtsilä’s strategy is based on three key areas, energy efficient solutions, lifecycle optimisation, and innovative solutions, all of which contribute to a more sustainable future in both the energy and the marine industry. Our strength is our technological leadership and therefore technology plays a central role in our sustainability work. Wärtsilä Energy Solutions and Marine Solutions businesses focus on developing and providing sustainable solutions for the industries in which they operate, whereas Wärtsilä Services has a key role in supporting our solutions and providing the latest technologies for existing installations through upgrades and modernisation packages. The utilization of lifecycle data analytics will enhance our efforts on enabling sustainable societies with smart technology. Wärtsilä identifies and assesses its sustainability risks on an annual basis. Based on the current assessment, the sustainability risks are considered to be at a moderate level. Generally speaking sustainability can be seen as an opportunity for Wärtsilä. Wärtsilä’s sustainable development is based on three closely interrelated pillars: economic, environmental, and social performance. In the field of sustainable development, Wärtsilä's overriding focus is on the following: Economic: profitability Environment: environmentally sound products and services Social: responsible business conduct For the sustainability reporting purposes Wärtsilä has identified the following topics as material: Emissions, environmental compliance, economic performance, training and education, and occupational health and safety. The overall management approach of sustainability is presented in the picture Wärtsilä’s sustainability approach. Wärtsilä’s This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 45 strategy for environmental and social responsibility is presented in the Strategy section. Wärtsilä sets corporate level sustainability targets for the core areas. Anchor Stakeholder relations Wärtsilä actively handles its relations with stakeholders by engaging with them in an open and constructive dialogue. Wärtsilä considers this approach as an essential element when developing its operations, products, and services. At the corporate level, Wärtsilä has defined its most important stakeholders as being its customers, owners, suppliers, employees, and society in general. Wärtsilä's subsidiaries define their own primary stakeholders, which in addition to the ones mentioned above, include local residents close to production plants, educational institutes, and public authorities. Wärtsilä’s Code of Conduct provides the foundation for the management of stakeholder relations, while the priorities involved vary within Wärtsilä from one subsidiary to another. In order to facilitate active dialogue with its customers, Wärtsilä arranges Customer Days for existing and potential customers at locations in various parts of the world. During these events, subjects of topical interest from both local and global perspectives are reviewed, and existing and future needs and challenges are discussed. In addition to these Customer Days, the Marine Solutions and Energy Solutions businesses arranged or participated in over 300 industry-related events globally during 2017, including international and national seminars, exhibitions, and conferences. These events were attended by customers, potential customers, and other stakeholders, such as investors, consultants, suppliers, students, and other interested parties. Long-term research programmes are an important means of enhancing open dialogue and co-operation with key industry players and important research institutions. Wärtsilä has actively initiated and participated in the development and work of common research programmes, both locally and internationally. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 46 Dialogue with employees takes place in many formats. More information about the procedures and processes to support active and engaging dialogue with Wärtsilä employees is described in the section covering Consultation and information procedures in Group companies. Wärtsilä also engages in an active and open dialogue with local and international public authorities and officials. The aim is to share information, provide expertise and support authorities in improving the quality of regulatory matters. Wärtsilä participates in public consultations in areas that are of importance to the company. Channels of dialogue Stakeholder Channel of dialogue Assessments (Frequency) Customers Regular contact with customers, System for measuring customer lifecycle support for products, satisfaction and quality customer events and seminars, (Continual) Customer Days, customer magazines, corporate websites and newsletters, social media, conferences and exhibitions, product documentation, customer feedback system Employees Open and continuous Employee satisfaction surveys communication between MyVoice (Biennial) management and employees, annual development discussions, town hall meetings, intranet, employee magazines, newsletters, training events, national statutory employee bodies and the European Works Council, occupational health and safety committees, suggestion system, whistle blower, Continuous Improvement Process (CIP), Technology and Innovation Award, Customer Care Award Owners, investors Management meetings with Investor relations surveys, investors, financiers, and analysts, sustainability surveys and indices stakeholder magazines, Annual (Annual) General Meetings, information meetings, stock exchange and press releases, annual and interim reports, capital markets days, corporate websites, investor relations surveys, sustainability surveys Suppliers Regular contact and meetings with Supplier assessments suppliers, Supplier portal, supplier (Continual) development activities, supplier days Society Reporting to, and co-operation with, Stakeholder feedback public officials on issues such as the (Continual), corporate image environment and occupational surveys (Annual) health and safety, meetings with This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 47 decision makers, position papers and consultations, Open Door days, sustainability reports, corporate presentations, local communications, corporate websites, social media, sponsorships Organisations Memberships, participation in local trade and industrial organisation activities, active role in working groups, contacts with various public bodies Universities R&D projects, placements and Preferred employer surveys internships, thesis collaboration, (Annual) participation in career fairs and seminars, sponsorship of student activities, lectures Media Stock exchange, corporate and Surveys conducted among trade press releases, management business journalists, media and expert interviews, annual and surveys (Annual) interim reports, stakeholder magazines, briefings, site, factory and reference visits Voluntary commitments Wärtsilä signed the United Nations Global Compact initiative in 2009 and supports its ten principles with respect to human rights, labour, the environment, and anti-corruption. Wärtsilä is committed to aligning its strategy, culture, and day-to-day operations with the principles, and to engage in collaborative projects that advance sustainable development. Wärtsilä's Code of Conduct and sustainability programmes are the practical tools used for promoting the principles within its sphere of influence. In 2011, Wärtsilä joined the Sustainable Shipping Initiative (SSI) and signed its Vision for a Sustainable Shipping Industry in 2040. The initiative brings together some of the biggest companies in the maritime sector. Wärtsilä also participates in the Sustainable Marine Biofuel Initiative, the purpose of which is to accelerate the development of reliable combustion engines capable of running on sustainable, scalable, and affordable marine bio-fuels. Wärtsilä has signed the Finnish Business and Society's (FIBS) Diversity Charter, and has also signed an agreement in 2016, whereby Finnish industry voluntarily endeavours to use energy more efficiently. Wärtsilä North America Inc. signed the Customs Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT) agreement in 2003. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 48 Activities in organisations In 2017, Wärtsilä participated in activities organised by various national and international organisations and associations. The key organisations for Wärtsilä and the nature of Wärtsilä's involvement in the organisations are presented in the table below. Stakeholder Organisation Nature of activity Interest groups Confederation of Finnish Industries (EK), Membership and participation in Federation of Finnish Technology activities. Industries, Finland Chamber of Commerce, International Chamber of Commerce (ICC), ICC Finland Industrial Association of Singapore Marine Industries Board membership and organisations (ASMI), Brazilian Institute of Oil and Gas participation in activities of (IBP), Brazilian Thermoelectric Generators specific working groups (CII, Association (ABRAGET), Cogen CIMAC, Cogen Europe, EMA, Europe, Confederation of Indian Industry Euromot, EUGINE, VDMA, (CII), Cruise Line International Association WaterBorne TP). (CLIA), BIMCO, EnergyVaasa, Engine Manufacturers Association (EMA), Membership and participation in European Association of Engine activities (ABRAGET, ASMI, Manufacturers (Euromot), European BIMCO, CLIA, EGCSA, Engine Power Plants Association EURELECTRIC, EnergyVaasa, (EUGINE), Exhaust Gas Cleaning System Hong Kong Shipowners Association (EGCSA), Hong Kong Association, IBP, IDEMA, Shipowners Association, Indian Diesel Interferry, SGMF, SolarPower Engine Manufacturers Association Europe). (IDEMA), Interferry, International Council on Combustion Engines (CIMAC), Society for Gas as a Marine Fuel (SGMF), Union of the Electricity Industry (EURELECTRIC), Verband Deutscher Maschinenund Anlagenbau (VDMA), WaterBorne TP, SolarPower Europe Standardisation European Committee for Standardisation Participation in activities. organisations (CEN), International Organisation for Standardisation (ISO) International European Sustainable Shipping Forum Participation in activities through organisations (ESSF), International Maritime national delegations (IMO). Organisation (IMO), Global Compact Participation in activities (ESSF, Nordic Network (GCNN), Global Industry GCNN, GIA). Alliance (GIA) Other Cleantech Finland, Finnish Business & Participation in activities. Society (FIBS), European Energy Forum (EEF), Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), Sustainable Shipping Initiative (SSI) This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 49 Anchor Sustainability management Wärtsilä's sustainability is systematically managed through the Group-wide guiding principles and management systems and practices in place for material sustainability aspects and impacts. Wärtsilä’s global guiding principles together with the company’s values ensure a harmonised way of working towards sustainable development. Wärtsilä’s Corporate Manual includes a description of the company's operating procedures, responsibilities, and the management system structure that are applicable for the entire company. Wärtsilä's governance and risk management principles are described in the Governance section. The key elements of Wärtsilä's sustainability management are described in the table below. The guiding principles lay the foundations for uniform management practices. The management approach covers procedures, processes, and systems to manage and monitor material aspects. Guiding principles Management area Material aspect Targets • Code of Conduct • People • Personnel skills and • Wärtsilä • QEHS Policy management development Corporate • Product design • Environmental impacts Sustainability • Employee principles of Wärtsilä’s products and targets practices • Environmental services • Locally defined • Corporate Manual management • Occupational health targets • Other policies and • Occupational and safety guidelines health and safety • Compliance with laws management and regulations • Responsible • Anti-corruption and business conduct bribery • Supply chain • Economic impacts to management stakeholders Anchor Guiding principles Wärtsilä’s Code of Conduct defines common rules for all employees, and provides guidance on Wärtsilä’s approach to responsible business practices. The key areas of the Code of Conduct include: compliance with laws, transparency and continuous stakeholder dialogue, respect for human and labour rights, fair employment practices, anti-corruption, anti-fraud, and data privacy. Wärtsilä takes an active approach to the application of the Code of Conduct, and promotes its implementation through the effective communication of its contents to its employees. Application of the Code is monitored internally. Wärtsilä has also implemented an externally hosted whistleblowing channel for all employees to report potential misconduct relating to the Code of Conduct or other Wärtsilä policies. Such reporting can be made anonymously and in 16 languages. Suppliers and business partners are an important and integral part of the total value chain of the company’s products and services. They are expected to conduct their businesses in compliance with the same high legal and ethical standards and business practices as Wärtsilä. Wärtsilä also promotes the application of the Code of Conduct by monitoring the actions of its suppliers and business partners, and has a stringent pre-qualification and monitoring programme for all sales intermediaries complemented with a tailored e-learning programme. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 50 Group-wide policies complement the Code of Conduct and the commitment to maintain the highest legal and ethical standards in everything the company does. Wärtsilä's Quality, Environmental, Health and Safety Policy sets principles for managing the environmental impacts of Wärtsilä’s products and services. Wärtsilä's corporate policy on equal opportunities and fair employment practices creates a common framework for employee practices in all group companies. It covers the following issues: equal opportunities, human and labour rights, well-being at work, non-harassment, and remuneration. Wärtsilä's Corporate Manual also includes other policies, such as anti-corruption, compliance reporting, and Wärtsilä’s supply management policies. The purpose of the manual is to safeguard compliance with relevant legislation, and to provide further guidance concerning daily business conduct. Values and Code of Conduct programme Wärtsilä executes a Values and Code of Conduct programme, including various actions to strengthen the ethical culture of the company. The programme elements include Wärtsilä Values and Code of Conduct discussion modules, the signing of an individual Code of Conduct Undertaking, an e-learning programme, and inclusion of the Code of Conduct topic into the annual development discussions covering all employees. The purpose of the Values and Code of Conduct discussions is to create a common understanding and to strengthen the values and principles of the Wärtsilä Code of Conduct. Additionally, every employee is required to sign a personal undertaking letter indicating that they have read the Code of Conduct and that they commit to complying with its contents in their work. Code of Conduct Introduction Wärtsilä is committed to carrying out its business in a sustainable way. In order to promote the long-term interests of Wärtsilä and its stakeholders, the company strives to maintain the highest legal and ethical standards in all its business practices. Each employee is expected to act responsibly and with integrity and honesty, and to comply with this code and its underlying policies and instructions. Compliance with laws All business and other activities of Wärtsilä shall be carried out strictly in compliance with all applicable laws and under the principles of good corporate citizenship in each country where such activities take place. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 51 Each employee is expected to comply with the requirements of those laws and regulations that apply to Wärtsilä's operations and to his/her job and with the Wärtsilä principles of good corporate citizenship. Openness Wärtsilä promotes openness and transparency as well as continuous dialogue with its stakeholders, including customers and other business partners, shareholders, personnel, authorities, local communities, and the media. Stock exchange rules and competitive considerations may, however, in some cases restrict such openness and transparency. Wärtsilä strives to be honest and accurate when communicating with its stakeholders, and also Wärtsilä employees shall make their statements in accordance with this principle. Respect for human and labour rights Wärtsilä supports and respects the protection of human rights as defined in the United Nation's Universal Declaration on Human Rights. No employee is allowed to take any action that violates these human rights principles, either directly or indirectly. Wärtsilä supports basic labour rights as defined by the International Labour Organization. In this respect, Wärtsilä upholds the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. In the case that these rights are restricted by local law, Wärtsilä endeavours to offer its employees alternative means to present their views. Wärtsilä does not accept any form of forced or compulsory labour, or the use of child labour. Fair employment practices Wärtsilä promotes freedom from discrimination based on race, ethnic or national origin, colour, gender, family status, sexual orientation, creed, disability, age, political beliefs or other characteristics protected by law. Wärtsilä fosters equal opportunity and our employees are selected and treated on the basis of their abilities and merits. Wärtsilä does not accept any form of discrimination, harassment or bullying from its employees. Occupational health and safety Wärtsilä endeavours to create hazard-free workplaces for its employees, contractors and others working in various locations by applying high standards of occupational health and safety. Wärtsilä strives to assure the safety of its products and solutions through its world-class product and solution development processes. Each employee is responsible for complying with the safety instructions, for using personal protection equipment when required, and for reporting on any shortcomings regarding safety instructions or protection measures. Conflicts of interest Wärtsilä expects full loyalty from its employees. Employees must avoid situations where their personal interests may conflict with those of Wärtsilä. This means, for instance, that employees are not allowed to accept gifts or entertainment from a stakeholder, except a gift or entertainment of a minor value given on an occasional basis, providing it does not create a conflict of interest situation. Anti-corruption No Wärtsilä company or any of its employees may, directly or indirectly, promise, offer, pay, solicit or accept bribes or kickbacks of any kind, including money, benefits, services or anything of value. Such payments and favours may be considered bribery, which violates local legislation and internationally recognised principles for combatting corruption and bribery. Environment Wärtsilä's target is to develop and produce for its customers environmentally advanced solutions and services that fulfil essential requirements, such as low emissions and high efficiency. Efforts are made to achieve sustainable development by means of raw material selection, processes, products, wastes and emissions through the use of the latest technical advances. Each employee shall comply with the policies and instructions regarding environmental protection. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 52 Relationship with authorities and local communities Wärtsilä maintains constructive co-operation with authorities and regulatory bodies, at both local and international levels. Wärtsilä seeks to play a role in serving the needs of the local communities whenever possible. Innovation and protection of proprietary information Wärtsilä supports and encourages innovation by its employees in all areas of its activities. Wärtsilä's intellectual property is one of its most valuable assets, and the patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, and other proprietary information of Wärtsilä must be protected. At the same time, each Wärtsilä employee must respect the intellectual property rights of others. Accuracy of accounting records Wärtsilä accounting records must be accurate and reliable in all material respects. Unrecorded funds are prohibited. The records must not contain any false, misleading, or artificial entries. Competition and fair dealing Competition laws aim to protect consumers and businesses against unfair business practices. Each employee shall comply with those laws. Actions such as participation in cartels, abuse of a dominant position in the market place, or the exchange of price or other commercial information between competitors are prohibited. Wärtsilä employees should be sensitive to competition concerns when attending occasions where competitors, or potential competitors, can be present. Anti-fraud Wärtsilä does not tolerate fraudulent behaviour or activities, such as embezzlement, fraud or theft. Such violations will lead to immediate termination of employment and are subject to criminal sanctions. Implementation Wärtsilä takes an active approach to the application of this Code and promotes its implementation through the effective communication of its contents to employees. Wärtsilä monitors the application of this Code internally. Suppliers and business partners are an important and integral part of the total value chain of the products and services of Wärtsilä. They are expected to conduct their businesses in compliance with the same high legal and ethical standards and business practices as Wärtsilä. Wärtsilä promotes the application of this Code by monitoring the actions of its suppliers and business partners. In the case that questions arise regarding the interpretation of, or compliance with, this Code, Wärtsilä Legal Affairs should be contacted. The application of the Code will be reviewed from time to time by the Board of Management, which may decide on necessary revisions or interpretations. Reporting violations Any Wärtsilä employee becoming aware of a potential violation of this Code must contact his or her superior or Wärtsilä Legal Affairs. The president of the respective subsidiary must be informed, unless he or she is party to the alleged violation, in which case the Group General Counsel of Wärtsilä Corporation must be contacted. Wärtsilä will investigate all reported matters with discretion. Wärtsilä shall not take any adverse actions as a result of such reporting against any employee reporting in good faith what he or she believes to be a violation of this Code. Sanctions Violation of this code may lead to a warning, the termination of employment, and the payment of damages. Additionally, certain violations of a criminal nature can lead to criminal sanctions, such as fines or imprisonment. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 53 Approved by the Board of Management in 2011. Quality, Environmental, Health and Safety Policy We shape the marine and energy markets with advanced technologies, and focus on lifecycle performance to enhance our customers’ business and benefit the environment being: • Reliable and safe • Efficient and environmentally sound • Compliant with the applicable legal requirements and regulations. We continue to improve our performance and reduce adverse environmental impact to satisfy our customers and other stakeholders. We create and maintain safe and healthy workplaces for our employees and partners in all of our business operations. We give our employees the authority to stop work if conditions are unsafe or quality is compromised. Our skilled organisation acts as a responsible global citizen. Approved by Wärtsilä Board of Management 10.12.2015 Jaakko Eskola President & CEO Employee practices Wärtsilä's corporate policy on equal opportunities and fair employment practices creates a common framework for employee practices in all Wärtsilä companies and contains the following sections: Equal opportunities, Human and labour rights, Well-being at work, No harassment accepted, Remuneration, Implementation, and Violations. Equal opportunities Wärtsilä is committed to fostering equal employment opportunities, in which individuals are selected and treated on the basis of their job-relevant merits and abilities, and are given equal opportunities within Wärtsilä. Wärtsilä's policy is to treat all employees equally on the basis of their merits, without discriminating them on the basis of their race, ethnic or national origin, colour, gender, family status, sexual orientation, creed, disability, age, or political beliefs. Employee benefits and remuneration The basic principle for remuneration in the company is to pay the same wage for the same job and the same performance. The salary is meant to be just, fair, and encouraging. Differences in individual salaries are based on how demanding the job is, on differences between competence, work experience, and performance, and not on gender. In general, temporary and part time employees are offered the same benefits as permanent employees. In some countries, eligibility is linked to months or years of service – such differences being typically based on collective agreements according to local legislation. Individual salaries are reviewed once a year in connection with the performance review and in the framework of annual salary increase guidance. The company may pay employees an annual bonus in accordance with company rules and based on separate bonus agreements. Based on financial and individual performance, the bonus outcome is determined once a year. Employees This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 54 may be paid a spot bonus based on exceptional performance. Benefits, such as a company car, service year award, and wellbeing, fitness, and health services, are planned and implemented locally taking into account both company guidelines and national practices. Minimum notice period Wärtsilä complies with European Union directives, local acts of co-operation in the companies and corporations, collective agreements and equivalent regulations concerning consultation and local bargaining. Concerning the termination of employment, Wärtsilä respects national labor union agreements and employment legislation. In the case of occurrences having significant business or social implications, such as personnel redundancies, the transfer in full or part of production facility location, structural changes, as well as transnational effects, the EWC Working Committee and/or local employee representatives are consulted before decisions about such matters are made or, if that is not possible, as soon as possible. The objective is to provide information about any significant operational change at the time of planning. Competency management Wärtsilä's Competency Management and Development frame is a structured way to carry out long-term competence development plans within our businesses and functions. Wärtsilä has defined 16 global job families consisting of generic job descriptions for seven different demand levels. In the job description, the most critical competencies of the job are defined and used as a basis for individual position competence requirements. Typically in the connection of annual development discussion, individual competencies are assessed against the job requirements and position profile. Competence assessment of our employees and a comparison with competence targets allow us to analyse competence gaps and create development plans accordingly. All learning and development activities in Wärtsilä strive to develop, maintain, and renew the shortand long-term skills and competencies required to fulfil our strategy. Having the right competencies available at the right time and being able to continuously adapt to a changing business environment are critical success factors for Wärtsilä. Consultation and information procedures in Group companies Wärtsilä's procedures for consultation and information within the Group are arranged in each country according to local legislation. Wärtsilä's Code of Conduct calls for ongoing and open dialogue between the company's management and employee representatives through co-determination bodies, and employees are kept informed of both the Group's situation and that of their particular company. Company management and personnel engage in an open discussion also in those countries where there are no formal co-determination bodies as such. Regular briefings for personnel are an integral part of the operating procedures of Wärtsilä companies. Employee participation in decision-making also extends to occupational health and safety (OHS). Most Wärtsilä units have an OHS committee with representatives from all personnel groups. In addition to Wärtsilä's procedures for consultation and information for employees at the local level, the European Works Council (EWC) handles issues that affect at least two companies located in the EU and the Group as a whole. The EWC and its working committee play an active role in considering and pursuing transnational issues. Dialogue at the individual level is conducted through development discussions, which are held at least once a year. The subjects covered in these discussions range from the Group's and business unit's targets to the individual's job description, competence development, career alternatives, personal targets, and feedback. Development discussions are by definition held with all employees. Employees are able to have a direct impact on the company's operations and their development by making suggestions. Each Wärtsilä employee can offer suggestions for improvement in operations either through the continuous improvement process (CIP) or by submitting private initiatives. CIP-proposals are discussed jointly and need a common decision to be put into effect. Individual initiatives are evaluated by experts within the company and, if found to be feasible, are put into effect. Another global channel for new ideas is the MyDea tool in the Idea Management portal via which new ideas concerning products and solutions, operational development, and business are proposed and channeled to the nominated substance owners for comments and further reviews. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 55 Business performance updates are given to all personnel on a regular basis in connection with Wärtsilä interim reporting. The company intranet Compass'' and the employee magazine Wattsup are the common global channels for internal communication. Recognition of excellent performance Wärtsilä encourages its employees to be innovative by granting an annual Technology and Innovation Award either to an individual or to a team for the best technical innovation of the year. The award criteria are that the invention must be innovative and environmentally sound, it must represent leading technology, improve a product or process, and offer potential for cost savings. Wärtsilä also grants annually a Customer Care Award for a team or individual who actively participated in the initiatives leading to development of business operations, quality improvements in how we serve and partner with customers, customer satisfaction, or Wärtsilä values demonstration. Anchor Management system Wärtsilä's management system aims to generate added value for Wärtsilä's various stakeholders, achieve the company's strategic objectives, support sustainability performance, manage operating risks, and enhance Wärtsilä's performance through the continuous improvement process. The system includes a range of tools, such as systems for managing quality, the company's environmental responsibilities, and occupational health and safety. Management reviews are conducted at various levels of the organisation to monitor the effectiveness of the system, the achievement of targets, and the development of key performance indicators. Wärtsilä's processes are developed in the Businesses, the Business lines and the Functions. These development projects are governed by the Wärtsilä Controllers’ meeting and OD Portfolio Management Team, Wärtsilä Presidents’ Quality Review and Quality Reviews, the Functional Management Teams, and Wärtsilä Digital Leadership team. Wärtsilä's Board of Management is responsible for defining the company's main strategies, principles and policies, and for the management system itself. The Board of Management regularly monitors the effectiveness and performance of the management system. Responsibilities are distributed to the line organisation at all levels of the company, and the management system defines a specific sphere of responsibility for each Wärtsilä employee. Work groups for developing the management system are appointed at the corporate level and in most Wärtsilä subsidiaries. At the Group level, the following work groups coordinate the development of product and operational issues: Work group Focus Main tasks Wärtsilä Presidents’ Quality Overall responsibility for Wärtsilä's quality, Quality Review quality process improvement, and achievement of strategic quality goals. Wärtsilä Controllers’ Strategic operational Overall responsibility for Wärtsilä's Meeting development operational development and the operational development plans, and governing the work of IM and Process development Business Line Quality Quality Support and oversee quality development Reviews based on customer perception of our quality and full end-to-end lifecycle view. Platform for focusing on the key improvement areas with the biggest impact to our customers. Cross-functional decision making to increase efficiency and shorten resolution lead time. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 56 Wärtsilä OD Portfolio Operational development Operational development road map, Management Team targets, and guidelines based on business strategies and targets, and overall operational development process responsibility for the approval of the Wärtsilä Controllers’ Team. Crossdivisional operational development alignment and harmonisation. Wärtsilä EHSS Environmental, health and Overall responsibility for Wärtsilä EHSS, Management Team safety and security (EHSS) EHSS management system development, corporate level overall responsibility for Wärtsilä EHSS measuring and target setting, and monitoring of legislation developments. Management systems Proportion of Wärtsilä companies with certification Quality (ISO 9001) 93% Environment (ISO 14001) 69% Occupational health and safety (ISO 18001) 70% Anchor People management Wärtsilä’s People Strategy is as an integral part of group strategy, and supports the company’s businesses and the successful implementation of their strategies. This is achieved by developing the company’s organisation, competencies and way of working to meet both the current and future business needs. The key focus areas of the strategy are the further development of leadership and a leadership culture, as well as an emphasis on high performance and operational excellence throughout the organisation. Strengthening accountability and ownership is encouraged by promoting employee engagement through a culture of open communication, integrity, and innovation. Similarly, the strategy ensures that the businesses have the required resources, and skilled and motivated people at their disposal. This involves the implementation of changes within the organisation, a continuous focus on competence development and performance excellence, with quality in the setting of targets, proper and regular feedback, the evaluation of overall performance, and recognition of outstanding performance. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 57 Wärtsilä Human Resources focuses on developing people management processes, tools, and ways of working that are consistent across national and organisational boundaries. In particular, an intensive effort has been made to further develop managerial skills in people management. In 2017, the performance management process focus was in improving the feedback process in the organisation and supporting line managers in their daily leadership role. Wärtsilä Human Resources invests in technologies and tools that enable quick access to online reports, employee information, and annual compensation planning for both local and multi-country teams. Transforming company culture Together with the digital transformation initiatives Wärtsilä promotes new ways of working and company culture. Wärtsilä's purpose is driving all our activities and the company’s values of “Energy, Excellence and Excitement” are strengthened by the diversity of its employees. Wärtsilä aims to capture opportunities and make things happen, to do things better than any of its competitors, and to foster openness, respect, and trust while creating excitement. A diverse workforce generates innovation, higher profits, has better complex problem-solving skills, and enables access to a larger talent pool. Performance management One of the essential elements of the Wärtsilä People Strategy is to embrace and develop a culture of high performance and performance excellence throughout the organisation. Coaching to achieve better performance through smart target setting together with continuous and real-time feedback is a vital element. The well managed performance management process supports Wärtsilä in reaching its business targets by translating business strategies into team and individual objectives. Each Wärtsilä employee needs to know and understand Wärtsilä's business strategies and their goals. More importantly, everyone needs to know the main targets set for their own units, and the target areas related to their own work. More focus has been put on the quality and impact of the process by emphasising the importance of continuous feedback, expected behaviours, and opportunities for personal growth. The good coverage of development discussions has continued. The global coverage of the annual development discussions was 96.4%. As a part of the performance management process, each employee receives performance feedback and an evaluation based on their overall job performance, as well as a personal development plan for the future. Overall performance evaluation is one of the considerations in compensation decisions, and is in line with the principle of performance-based rewarding. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 58 Learning and development In 2017, Wärtsilä continued its leadership development activities in many areas. New learning solutions for line managers have been developed to support them in their people management and leadership roles. The annual executive development programme (LLP) was held in November, and six other global leadership development programmes for senior managers were held during the year. The first implementation of the Growth Lab programme, which focuses on future leaders’ development, was kicked off in August 2016. Growth Lab 2017 started in August 2017 and twenty Wärtsilä managers and future leaders, with 7 to 15 years’ work experience, were nominated for this action learning programme. The participants have been given three project assignments by the Board of Management. These projects are aimed at analysing and building possible future business opportunities. The second Growth Lab programme will end in the end of April 2018. Wärtsilä’s HR organisation has developed the Operational Excellence Academy learning framework and an Operational Excellence learning portal with supporting materials for all those staff members in the organisation involved in leading operational excellence. More than 200 senior managers have participated in operational excellence learning modules during 2016 and 2017. The aim of the OE Academy is not only to learn, but to establish operational excellence as an integrated part of the company culture and way of working, and to ensure continuous efficiency improvement. Learning on the job, self-learning, mentoring, coaching, job rotation, and assignments designed to encourage competence development and the transfer of competence and skills from experienced to younger employees, are integral parts of the development of learning and competence within the company. Employees are given formal classroom training at all organisational levels; from induction training for new employees, to training courses for the company's top executives. Wärtsilä employees attended a total of 39,158 training days during 2017; an average of 2.2 training days per employee. In 2017, HR together with the Wärtsilä Land & Sea Academy launched a new global learning management system WeLearn. The new cloud version is more user friendly and features the latest learning management system (LMS) capabilities, which are translated into an enhanced user experience. This supports the organisation's present and future needs in terms of virtual learning, collaboration, reporting, assessment, and finally mobility; enabling users to learn anywhere, anytime. The new LMS was operational in the end of the second quarter of 2017. Engagement At Wärtsilä, equal opportunities and opportunities for personal growth are core principles. The company supports its employees in self-improvement and in finding their own path within the company. Recruiting and retaining the best talent enables Wärtsilä to be the valued business partner of its customers, and the employer of choice for current and future employees. In autumn 2017, it was decided that Wärtsilä will invest in a new recruitment system and, more importantly, in the development of recruitment and onboarding processes. The development project has been established, vendors selected and the launch will be by the end of the second quarter of 2018. Through this change Wärtsilä endeavours to attract new talent, improve the candidate experience and promote Wärtsilä’s employer brand. Anchor Environmental management The environment is the key element in Wärtsilä's approach to sustainability. In 2017, Wärtsilä announced its purpose for “enabling sustainable societies with smart technology”. One of the three key ingredients for this targeted industry transformation is to achieve a clean environment, and Wärtsilä´s environmental management practices gives full support to reaching this goal. For Wärtsilä, environmental responsibility has two dimensions: products and operations. Most of the efforts to improve the company’s environmental performance, including its operations, are conducted as part of the product development and improvement processes. This work is supported by operational measures, which are based on achieving high environmental standards and which seek constant improvement. The continual improvement in environmental performance requires the organisation to consistently work in a systematic way. This work is guided by the company’s strategy and its environmental targets, the Code of Conduct, and policies relating to Quality, This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 59 Environment, Health and Safety, and it is co-ordinated and monitored by the cross-business EHSS Management team. In developing its operations, processes, and products, Wärtsilä endeavours to utilise the latest technologies available for improving efficiency in areas such as material and energy consumption, as well as for reducing and managing emissions and waste throughout the lifecycle of its products and services. Wärtsilä has defined a process for developing an environmental strategy and targets for its products. The process includes the identification of aspects and impacts of the products, the means to influence these impacts, the identification of enabling and restricting boundary conditions, analyses of the information, and the preparation and implementation of the strategy and targets. Wärtsilä continuously develops and improves its operations and products with the help of certified environmental management systems. The principle means is to apply certified EHS (Environmental, Health and Safety) management systems based on ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 in all Group companies, excluding those companies focusing purely on sales. These units are required to apply Wärtsilä's internal EHS model, which was aligned in 2016 to meet the requirements of the new ISO 14001:2015 standard. Wärtsilä’s EHS management systems cover all operations of its subsidiaries, which allows environmental protection and the reduction of adverse impacts to be promoted on a wide front. Currently, Wärtsilä is undergoing a transformation involving changing subsidiary management system certificates to business line specific certificates. This transformation is expected to be completed by end of 2018. The company's EHS management system emphasises compliance with legal requirements, identifying and reducing environmental aspects, impacts and risks, training personnel and clearly defining their responsibilities, the full documentation of activities and procedures, actions to be taken in emergencies, and the continuous improvement of environmental performance. The company's subsidiaries and business units set their own targets for covering the significant environmental aspects of their operations, and for monitoring the overall performance of the management systems. At the end of 2017, 57 Wärtsilä companies operated with a certified environmental management system. These certified environmental management systems cover roughly 87% of Wärtsilä's total workforce. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 60 Anchor Occupational health and safety Wärtsilä's occupational health and safety principles are defined in the Code of Conduct, the company's Quality, Environmental, Health and Safety (QEHS) Policy, and in the directive on environment, health, and safety (EHS). Wärtsilä's subsidiaries are required to have a management system in place that conforms to the QEHS Policy and the EHS directive. The main aspects of the management system relate to compliance with legislation, identifying and minimising occupational health and safety risks, personnel training, implementing effective health and safety programmes and instructions, recording and investigating occurred incidents, and the continual improvement of occupational health and safety performance. At the end of 2017, 58 Wärtsilä companies operated with a certified occupational health and safety management system, covering roughly 87% of Wärtsilä's total workforce. Currently Wärtsilä is undergoing a transformation involving changing subsidiary management system certificates to business line specific certificates. This transformation is expected to be completed by the end of 2018. In addition to the management system, Wärtsilä companies apply occupational health and safety programmes as required by local legislation. These are normally developed by occupational health and safety committees made up of company management and personnel representatives. Altogether, 78% of Wärtsilä companies currently have an occupational health and safety committee. The indicators used to measure occupational health and safety performance include the number of accidents, the time of absence due to sickness, the frequency of accidents, and the number of near miss / hazard observation reports. Wärtsilä has set a corporate level target of achieving zero injuries. This target is a long-term commitment from the company to strengthen a safety culture, and it requires actions from all Wärtsilä companies and employees. The safety performance of the companies is monitored on a monthly basis and the results are reviewed by the Board of Management. To further strengthen Wärtsilä’s safety culture, a new global programme known as ZeroMindset has been introduced. ZeroMindset focuses on three key elements: leadership, the shared safety mindset of individuals, and effective safety tools and practices. In 2017, the main focus of the ZeroMindset programme was on leadership and 1,542 Wärtsilä management level employees participated in face-to face “Leader in Safety, Leader in Business” workshops led by certified local facilitators throughout the Wärtsilä network. The first group to participate in this workshop was Wärtsilä’s Board of Management, followed by 19 senior business management teams. In addition, Wärtsilä held its third global Safety Day, which took place on 10 March 2017. The theme for this event was Stop and Care , encouraging everybody to act when observing unsafe practices. This Safety Day was a great success, with local events held in locations throughout the entire Wärtsilä network. As part of the events, employees participated in team discussions based on a web quiz and “stop and care” videos. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 61 Anchor Responsible business conduct Human and labour rights Wärtsilä supports and respects basic human values as outlined in the UN's Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Wärtsilä also supports the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact, of which six principles are related to Human and Labour rights. Wärtsilä's employees represent 136 nationalities. The company supports fair and equal treatment of all its employees. Wärtsilä supports the work-related rights defined by the International Labour Organization. Therefore the company works to ensure that there is freedom of association and right to collective bargaining in the company. In those countries where local legislation does not recognise these rights, Wärtsilä endeavours to give employees other channels for expressing their opinions. Wärtsilä does not accept the use of forced labour or child labour in any form. Human and Labour rights are a part of the Wärtsilä Code of Conduct training material and also the Wärtsilä Supplier Handbook. At the end of 2017, 89% of Wärtsilä’s employees have successfully completed the renewed Code of Conduct training. Preventing corruption and bribery Wärtsilä's Code of Conduct, Anti-Corruption Policy, as well as specific Policies implemented for sales intermediaries, namely Agent, Broker and Distributor Policies, expressly prohibit the company and its employees from offering or accepting any kind of benefit considered to be a bribe and from taking actions that could give rise to a conflict of interest or breach of loyalty. The instructions make it compulsory to comply with anti-corruption laws of all the countries in which Wärtsilä does or intends to do business and urge the reporting of any cases of corruption and bribery. The company continues to rendering an extensive training programme for its personnel on anti-corruption principles and applicable legislation as well as the relevant company policies and procedures. At the end of 2017, 92% of Wärtsilä’s employees have successfully completed the Anti-corruption training. Political lobbying Wärtsilä's policy is to engage in an open dialogue and discussion with both local and international public authorities and officials. The aim of the dialogue is to share information and improve the quality of regulation. Wärtsilä participates in public consultations in the areas of importance to the company. Wärtsilä is part of the Transparency Register of the European Commission. Competition regulation Wärtsilä has a compliance programme for managing risks relating to competition law in place, and the company's management is strongly committed to implementing this programme. The cornerstone of the programme is a competition law manual, which is kept up-to-date, providing information on competition rules and guidelines for Wärtsilä’s personnel. An updated competition compliance program was launched in 2017 and a number of trainings were held for the relevant personnel in order to promote knowledge of competition laws and thereby ascertain full compliance with them. Security management Wärtsilä has a corporate security policy and various guidelines, which incorporate human rights considerations and international best practices. Wärtsilä’s security management principles and strategies are reviewed and approved in the Wärtsilä Security Steering Group, which consists of Presidents of each Business, Executive Vice Presidents for Digitalisation, Corporate relations & Legal affairs, as well as Finance & Control and security professionals. Security management in Wärtsilä is divided into six specific security areas: Personnel, Premises, Information, Cyber, Crisis Management, and Travel Security. Operational security management in these areas is implemented on the business and local level. Wärtsilä prefers security service providers who are members of ICoCA (International Code of Conduct Association). Local community approach Wärtsilä aims to contribute towards the well-being of local communities in which the company is present. This can be reached, for example, by creating employment, paying taxes and social dues, providing training and education to employees, co-operating with local stakeholders, and by supporting local development. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 62 The guiding principle of Wärtsilä's Code of Conduct is to promote openness and good interaction with its stakeholders locally. This applies as much to the families of personnel, our neighbours, educational institutions, and the media, as to local authorities and officials. The methods used towards this end include Open Door days, press briefings, and different modes of communication for different target groups. As a truly international company, Wärtsilä has delivered solutions to more than 170 countries. Wärtsilä supports its solutions globally during their entire lifecycle, often spanning up to 30 years. Thus, Wärtsilä can at times be present in countries facing various uprisings, ethnic conflicts, area disputes, or violations of human rights. Conducting business locally emphasises the importance of responsible business practices. Governments and the international community define the proper framework for companies to conduct their business. Wärtsilä complies with relevant legislation and international conventions. Wärtsilä complies with all relevant guidelines of the OECD and the International Chamber of Commerce and with the sanctions set by the United Nations and the European Union, by supporting their implementation. In addition, the Wärtsilä Code of Conduct applies to all Wärtsilä employees. We are committed to sustainable development and responsible business conduct, and we promote the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact within the sphere of our influence. Wärtsilä's impact on employment, the public sector, and the company's activities for charitable purposes are described in the Economic Performance section of this report. Measures to evaluate the impacts on local communities in case of operational changes of Wärtsilä subsidiaries are determined case by case. Anchor Product design principles Wärtsilä strives to develop environmentally sound, safe, and reliable products and solutions for its customers. By providing lifecycle maintenance, reconditioning, and retrofitting services for its products, Wärtsilä is able to support its customers' operations throughout the entire life of service of Wärtsilä products. Reconditioning of engines and components increases the reliable service life of the products. Modernising can improve current operational performance of installations and enables customers' operations to meet tightening future regulative requirements. The majority of the international environmental policies and requirements for Wärtsilä’s products and solutions are set by the International Maritime Organization (IMO), and the International Finance Corporation (IFC), a member of the World Bank (WB) group. On the regional or national level, organisations such as the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE), European Commission (EC), US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and other emission standards such as in Germany, Japan, and India are considered the most important policy and regulatory directors for Wärtsilä products. The IMO is responsible for adopting its own standards for the safety and security of shipping and the prevention and control of marine pollution and emissions from vessels. The IMO regulates nitrogen oxides and fuel sulphur content as well as ballast water treatment procedures and limitations. The IFC provides general and industry specific Guidelines of Good International Industry Practices (GIIP) such as the Environmental, Health, and Safety (EHS) Guidelines for Thermal Power Plants, which is today considered the minimum environmental standard in larger global power plant projects. It is adhered to in most of the projects financed by international financial institutions in emerging markets. In the European Union (EU), the Industrial Emissions Directive (IED) and the Medium Combustion Plant Directive (MCPD) set the requirements for large and medium-sized combustion plants to minimise pollution from different industrial sources throughout the EU. Wärtsilä's engines are designed to meet the requirements of the EC’s Machinery Directive, the SOLAS Convention and other relevant safety directives. Wärtsilä's propulsion systems are designed to comply with the SOLAS and safety requirements of relevant classification bodies. New types of engines must also meet international safety requirements. Type approval is acquired from classification societies before new products are launched. Wärtsilä's ship design follows class society and flag state rules in the design process to secure safe and compliant designs for its clients. Class approval is required for drawings and calculations to be delivered to the client before construction of the vessel starts. Wärtsilä's products are delivered with appropriate user guides that include basic information about the products and full instructions for their use. In addition, Wärtsilä provides appropriate specific training to ensure environmentally sound and safe utilisation of Wärtsilä’s products at customers’ daily operations. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 63 In order to ensure Wärtsilä’s ability to respond to future regulation requirements, the company actively monitors legislative initiatives and changes in environmental legislation. As a result, Wärtsilä has focused its R&D activities on the development of new environmentally sound products and solutions that meet the future demands of the changing operating environment. Anchor Supply chain management Suppliers play a significant role in our delivery process. We aim to have close and excellent relationships with our key suppliers in order to ensure that both parties understand and comply with our strict process and product requirements. Apart from financial benefits, close relationships stimulate knowledge sharing, create an environment of innovation, and integrate more strongly strategic suppliers into Wärtsilä's value chain. Wärtsilä has an extensive supply base with more than 25,000 active suppliers, most of whom are located in Europe, where we have our main production units. We are also continuously investing in developing a strong supply chain network in Asia. Wärtsilä has defined processes for selecting suppliers, determining their requirements, and developing the supply relationship. We offer our suppliers a partnership that strengthens the competitiveness of both parties. A precondition of this partnership is an open and continuous dialogue. The partnership approach is also applied in Wärtsilä's research and development activities, in which we often collaborate with universities, research institutes, and key suppliers. Wärtsilä's supplier requirements address both general features and issues relating to quality, product-specific requirements, environmental management, occupational health and safety, social responsibility, and legal compliance. These requirements are included in standard supply contracts. Suppliers are also responsible for complying with relevant laws and regulations. Wärtsilä monitors that key suppliers comply with these requirements by using performance indicators and conducting various types of audits. Suppliers must demonstrate their compliance with these requirements in order to receive approved supplier status. Wärtsilä assesses and manages its key suppliers through its Supplier Management System. Wärtsilä regularly conducts supplier evaluations, which are divided into three categories: pre-assessment, auditing, and performance review. In the pre-assessment phase, Wärtsilä assesses potential new suppliers before the supplier relationship begins. Audits are conducted for new suppliers of critical components and for suppliers whose performance does not meet Wärtsilä's requirements. Performance reviews are carried out to identify and solve deviations from the requirements. As part of the supplier evaluation, Wärtsilä conducts a rating based upon Wärtsilä's supplier requirements. This rating is a result of an assessment of various information sources, such as pre-qualification questionnaires, dialogue with suppliers, and/or conducted audits. Based on this rating, the suppliers can be approved, approved with remarks, or banned. During 2017, 137 suppliers with no valid assessment were rated, and 167 suppliers received a renewal of their rating (valid for 3 years). By the end of 2017, we rated 687 out of our 1,120 key suppliers, which covers 93% of key supplier spend, and 2,968 suppliers in total with a spend coverage of 70%. This rating is part of the quarterly supplier reviews conducted by Wärtsilä Supply Management. The rating is reviewed regularly, as are the results of conducted audits. In 2017, 13 suppliers were banned because of non-compliance with Wärtsilä’s requirements, including five for sustainability reasons. Wärtsilä has clear expectations towards its suppliers in terms of compliance with relevant legislation, environmental, quality, and occupational health and safety management, and social performance, and strives to ensure that these expectations are met. Wärtsilä develops its supply management system on a regular basis. In 2018, Wärtsilä will be launching a risk-based supplier assessment and management system for new suppliers, which will be applied by 2019 also to existing suppliers. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 64 Anchor Sustainability data Anchor Economic Wärtsilä's objective is to create value for its various stakeholders. The focus is on profitability and raising shareholder value. Achieving this depends on our ability to satisfy the expectations of our other stakeholders as well. These include providing customers with high-quality and environmentally sound products, solutions and services, as well as on building long-term partnerships with suppliers, offering employees competitive compensation and working conditions, and contributing to the wellbeing of the local communities in which Wärtsilä operate. Good economic performance establishes a platform for the other aspects of sustainability – environmental and social responsibility. Economic performance Direct economic value generated and distributed (GRI 201-1) MEUR 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Customers Net sales 4 923 4 801 5 029 4 779 4 654 Suppliers Cost of goods, materials, and services purchased 3 021 2 969 3 136 3 066 2 901 Value added 1 902 1 831 1 893 1 713 1 753 Distribution of value added Distributed to stakeholders 1 656 1 593 1 555 1 475 1 443 Employees Wages and salaries 1 000 939 935 906 903 Public sector Taxes and social dues 336 343 349 313 314 Creditors Net financial items -47 -53 -34 -28 -19 Shareholder Dividends 272 256 237 227 207 Communities Donations given 1 2 1 1 1 For business development 246 238 338 239 310 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Customers Net sales (MEUR) 4 923 4 801 5 029 4 779 4 654 Net sales by market area (MEUR) Europe 1 527 1 581 1 566 1 402 1 329 Asia 1 948 1 774 2 051 1 989 1 759 Americas 1 113 1 039 1 006 840 1 068 Africa 233 313 329 398 405 Other 102 94 78 150 93 Suppliers Cost of goods, materials, and services purchased (MEUR) 3 021 2 969 3 136 3 066 2 901 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 65 Employees Salaries and wages (MEUR) 1 000 939 935 906 903 Salaries and wages by market area (MEUR) Europe 689 650 632 637 649 Asia 156 153 163 144 138 Americas 130 110 112 99 91 Africa 18 19 21 18 14 Other 7 7 8 8 10 Net sales/employee (TEUR) 276 262 271 265 248 Public sector Taxes and social dues (MEUR) 336 343 349 313 314 Taxes and social costs by market area (MEUR) Europe 235 246 246 220 232 Asia 45 45 50 42 34 Americas 42 47 44 37 39 Africa 13 5 6 12 8 Other 1 0 2 2 2 Subsidies received (TEUR) 9 891 8 343 9 669 11 486 6 331 Net financial items (MEUR) -47 -53 -34 -28 -19 Community Donations given, Board of Directors (TEUR) 110 1 365 110 110 111 Donations given, Wärtsilä companies (TEUR) 673 533 511 608 609 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change (GRI 201-2) Wärtsilä Italia S.p.A is the only subsidiary that falls into the scope of the EU Emission Trading Scheme (ETS) because of the heating plant of the factory. The EU ETS has not had any impact on the company's profitability. Wärtsilä's response to climate change is to develop and provide products, solutions, and services that enable our customers to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. More information about Wärtsilä's solutions for climate change can be found on our website: www.wartsila.com. The potential business risks related to climate change and Wärtsilä's products are presented under the sustainability and climate change risks in the Risk Management chapter of the Governance review. Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans (GRI 201-3) The pension cover is based on the legislation and agreements in force in each country. In Finland, most of the pension obligations are covered by the Employee Pensions system (TyEL). The largest defined benefit plans are used in Switzerland, Germany, the UK and Sweden. Most of these defined benefit pension plans are managed by pension funds, and their assets are not included in the Group's assets. Wärtsilä's subsidiaries make their payments to pension funds in accordance with the local legislation and practices in each country. Authorised actuaries in each country have performed the actuarial calculations required for the defined benefit plans. More information on the Group's pension obligations can be found in the Financial Review, Note 21. Pension obligations. Financial assistance received from government (GRI 201-4) Subsidies received (TEUR) 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 9 891 8 343 9 669 11 486 6 331 The value of the subsidies received in 2017 was EUR 9 891 thousand and they were among others related to R&D projects. The most contributing countries in 2017 were China, Finland, Spain, and Norway. Market presence Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage (GRI 202-1) This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 66 Wärtsilä applies and follows local employment legislation in all countries, and respects local collective labour agreements, which often define the minimum wage levels. In addition, entry level salaries are benchmarked against the market references by function and educational qualification. While laws and regulations determine the minimum level, the actual salaries often exceed these levels. A total compensation package for employees in each country is in line with the corporate rewarding guidelines, local market practices, and labour agreements. The base salary is set to meet market conditions, the demands of the job, and individual competence and performance. Proportion of senior management hired from the local community (GRI 202-2) Wärtsilä always publishes all open vacancies internally, thus ensuring an equal opportunity to apply for Wärtsilä positions. If there is no specific reason, such as a competence transfer need from other countries, to hire expatriates to the position, local residents are hired. This principle also applies to senior management positions. Senior management consists of global business and corporate management and local company management positions. Globally, 69% of Wärtsilä’s senior management is locally hired, in other words from the same country as the Wärtsilä subsidiary they work for. Anchor Environment The environmental impacts of Wärtsilä's operations largely relate to manufacturing. The main environmental aspects of manufacturing relate to the use of energy and natural resources and thus also to the emissions that are produced by the manufacturing processes. Product development also requires the testing of products and individual components which, alongside manufacturing, loads the environment. However, the positive impacts of product improvements on the environment far outweigh the negative impacts of testing when taking the product's entire lifecycle into account. Materials Materials used by weight or volume (GRI 301-1) The main materials used in Wärtsilä products are various metals: cast iron, alloy and structural steel, aluminium alloys, and bronze. In 2017, the total material usage was 73 738 tons (84 913). The major material groups were various metals 75%, sand 18%, and various chemicals 2%. Materials 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Total material usage (t) 73 738 84 913 100 767 88 736 91 720 Metals (t) 55 416 59 898 73 285 65 363 69 991 Sand (t) 13 493 18 399 20 915 16 445 16 537 Chemicals (t) 1 575 1 831 * 5 025 5 447 3 865 Others (t) 3 255 3 601 1 542 1 481 1 327 * A substantial error in reporting classifications was corrected in 2016, meaning that the figure is not directly comparable to earlier years. Recycled input materials used (GRI 301-2) The main materials used in Wärtsilä products are various metals: cast iron, alloy and structural steel, aluminium alloys and bronze. Recycled material content of these metals vary depending on the material and supplier in question. Recycled material, such as end-of-life coins and bronze propellers, is used for example in the casting of new propellers. Energy Energy consumption within the organisation (GRI 302-1) This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 67 The total energy consumption (in terajoules, TJ) includes the electricity, heat, and fuels used in Wärtsilä companies in recent years. The fuels are used mainly in engine testing, but also in heating, production, and transportation. In 2017, the fuels were from non-renewable sources. Wärtsilä uses electricity in its manufacturing operations for example in machining components and in service workshops and offices. Both the electrical and the heat energy generated during engine test runs can be utilised. Wärtsilä's aim is to use the electrical energy for its own purposes while also selling part of this electrical energy to local power companies. Due to the nature of engine test runs, the production of electricity and the company's electricity demand are not equivalent; this allows the surplus energy to be sold to local power companies. Heating for factories and offices accounts for most of Wärtsilä's consumption of heat energy. In several factories, the heat generated in engine test runs is used for heating. Some factories and offices are connected to a local district heating network, some have their own heating plant, and some use electricity for heating. Energy 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Total energy consumption (TJ) 1 477 1 471 1 539 1 475 1 613 Electricity consumption (MWh) 131 960 139 363 142 819 140 713 143 833 Purchased electricity (MWh) 128 176 132 771 131 501 131 896 136 098 Generated electricity (MWh) 3 784 6 592 11 318 8 817 7 735 Sold electricity (MWh) 28 066 23 620 21 834 25 548 23 527 Heat consumption (MWh) 36 890 33 542 30 161 25 073 29 077 Light fuel oil (t) 4 327 3 918 4 801 4 461 4 765 Heavy fuel oils (t) 3 798 3 647 3 675 3 579 3 755 Natural gas (t) 8 393 8 614 9 750 8 721 9 806 Other fuels (t) 2 811 3 209 2 834 3 348 4 214 Energy intensity (GRI 302-3) Energy 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Total energy consumption (TJ/ Net sales) 0.308 0.313 0.334 0.319 0.354 Reduction of energy consumption (GRI 302-4) From the start of 2017, Wärtsilä set an energy saving target to reduce energy consumption by at least 7% in terms of absolute consumption (GWh) by 2025, compared to the energy consumption in 2015. In the first year to the new target, permanent energy savings of 942 MWh was reached, mainly by reducing electricity or heat consumption. Wärtsilä's previous energy saving target period was launched in 2008 and ended in 2016, resulting in permanent energy savings of 43.3 GWh. Energy savings 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Annual energy savings (GWh) 0.9 1.3 4.6 1.9 15.7 Cumulative energy savings (GWh) 0.9 43.3 42.0 37.5 35.6 Water Water withdrawal by source (GRI 303-1) Wärtsilä's water consumption can be divided into two categories: domestic use and cooling use. Domestic water is used mainly for sanitary purposes and by industrial equipment, such as machine tools and washing machines. Some factories also use domestic water to produce moulds or to fill in their closed-loop cooling system needs. Wärtsilä uses seawater for its engine and process cooling needs. Total annual water consumption split by the water withdrawal source: Out of cooling water about 99% comes from local surface watercourses where only heat is released along with clean water, and about 1% of cooling water comes from municipal water utilities. Out of Wärtsilä’s total This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 68 water consumption in 2017, about 95% was seawater for cooling purposes, about 4% was from municipal water supplies, about 1% was directly withdrawn groundwater, and about 0.01% was rain water or waste-water reused from another organisation. Water 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Total water consumption (1 000 m³) 12 749 8 444 6 971 7 774 7 534 Consumption of domestic water (1 000 m³) 631 613 703 683 744 Consumption of cooling water (1 000 m³) 12 118 7 831 6 268 7 091 6 790 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water (GRI 303-2) No water source has been found to be significantly affected by any Wärtsilä subsidiary water withdrawal. Percentage and total volume of Water recycled and reused (GRI 303-3) Wärtsilä Italia S.p.A. recycled 123 164 m3 of water in 2017 by running it through a water treatment plant and reusing the cleaned water in production processes. The amount corresponds to roughly 42% of Wärtsilä Italia’s annual water consumption and 1% of Wärtsilä’s total water consumption in 2017. No other major water recycling processes are in use in Wärtsilä production facilities globally. Emissions Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and intensity (GRI 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4) In addition to direct CO2 emissions, Wärtsilä’s operations generate indirect CO2 emissions. In 2017, the calculated secondary CO2e emissions were 56 002 tons (59 697) (from purchased electricity and heat) and the CO2e emissions from flights totalled 34 846 tons (37 972). There were no biogenic CO2 emissions in 2017. GHG emissions 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Emissions of carbon dioxide (tCO2e) (direct) (SCOPE 1) 57 998 57 355 63 441 57 477 59 631 Emissions of carbon dioxide (tCO2e) (indirect) (SCOPE 2) 56 002 59 697 60 317 55 989 57 040 Emissions of carbon dioxide (tCO2e) (indirect) (SCOPE 3) * 155 537* 168 571* 39 033 39 619 40 596 GHG emissions intensity (all) 56.1 60.8 35.3 33.1 34.5 * Includes indirect emissions from materials, energy, and flights from 2016 onward. Pre-2016 figures only include emissions from flights. Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (GRI 305-5) Wärtsilä has taken several measures to reduce its indirect CO2 emissions. The energy efficiency commitment aims to reduce energy consumption and emissions. In addition, Wärtsilä’s focus lies on reducing travelling by implementing a strict travel policy and by using three main virtual meeting concepts: Skype instant messaging, which enables live chats between two people or more, Skype meetings allowing multi-person meetings from personal computers, in which presentation material can be shared, and the Telepresence videoconferencing system. In Wärtsilä, Skype and Telepresence are in everyday use. Approximately 1 300 Skype conferences are arranged daily, 95 video conference rooms in 41 countries and 38 Telepresence rooms established in Wärtsilä premises in 19 countries. Additionally, several other collaboration tools have been taken into use. Although estimating the reductions from the above mentioned measures is not possible, several local measures have been estimated to have achieved permanent reductions of total 5 618 tons CO2e in 2017. Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions (GRI 305-7) Air emissions are mainly caused by test runs and the painting of completed engines or other Wärtsilä products. Test run emissions consist of nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulphur dioxide (SOx), carbon dioxides (CO2) and particles, as well as small amounts of other emission components. The painting of engines and other Wärtsilä products generates VOC emissions (volatile organic compounds). Engine emissions are reduced through This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 69 research and development, as well as product development and testing. These measures also generate emissions, but their results reduce the future emissions of manufactured engines. Emissions 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Emissions of nitrogen oxides (t) 534 500 553 519 549 Emissions of sulphur oxides (t) 62 59 63 76 91 Emissions of total hydrocarbons (t) 131 116 145 87 130 Particulates (t) 8 9 9 9 10 Emissions of VOC (t) 36 30 40 40 49 The primary sources of manufacturing noise are the engine test runs and the ventilation machinery on factory roofs. This noise is mostly low frequency and is therefore not easily detected by the human ear. Wärtsilä has specifically addressed the issue of noise protection using technical means and has succeeded in lowering noise levels considerably. However, noise abatement is a continuous need and requires regular monitoring. Effluents and waste Water discharge by quality and destination (GRI 306-1) Wärtsilä uses seawater for its engine and process cooling needs, in which case the cooling water system is kept separate so that only heat is released into the natural water system. Wastewater is sewered and piped to the local wastewater treatment plant or treated on site before being discharged. If the effluent is not suitable for discharge, it is taken away for appropriate processing, for example to a special treatment plant for hazardous wastes. Several Wärtsilä subsidiaries have environmental permits allowing clean or properly treated water discharge into natural water bodies. Most of this discharge is clean cooling water released back into local surface watercourse, where only heat is released. In 2017, the total amount of water discharge was 12 691 935 m3. Municipal Re-used by 2017 water discharge sewer Sea River Ground other entity Amount (m3) 213 760 12 109 678 336 985 29 559 1 953 % of total water discharge 2 95 3 0 0 Waste by type and disposal method (GRI 306-2) Manufacturing activities cause various wastes. These are divided into two main categories: hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. Hazardous wastes include cutting fluids, various types of waste oil, paints and solvents, oily wastes, solid wastes, etc. Non-hazardous wastes include scrap metal, metal swarf, waste plastics, waste wood, domestic waste, cardboard, and paper waste. All Wärtsilä companies sort their waste according to local municipal regulations. Generally speaking, the main sorting categories are waste to be incinerated, waste for landfills, and waste for recycling. Waste management in Wärtsilä has four aims, listed in their order of priority: • to reduce the amount of waste generated in processes • to use waste as a material • to use waste as energy • to dispose of waste in an environmentally sound way Waste 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Total waste (t) 32 580 50 020 52 037 46 829 44 741 Non-hazardous waste (t) 28 928 42 663 44 864 39 409 33 623 Hazardous waste (t) 3 651 7 357 7 173 7 420 11 118 Waste for landfills (t) 3 198 9 962 8 593 9 621 16 875 Waste for recycling (t) 23 647 30 695 34 074 27 328 14 622 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 70 Waste for incineration (t) 1 990 1 889 2 197 2 460 2 125 Waste for composting (t) 95 Hazardous waste for landfills (t) 548 964 2 586 2 504 6 360 Hazardous waste for recycling (t) 2 113 5 470 3 502 3 792 2 796 Hazardous waste for incineration (t) 990 923 1 084 1 124 1 963 Products and services Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services Environmental products and services are the most important means for Wärtsilä to mitigate the environmental impacts. Wärtsilä has a key role in providing environmentally sound solutions and services that enable our customers to develop their business in a sustainable way. The value of sustainable innovation is delivered across a wide range of environmentally sound products and solutions, including technologies related to efficiency improvement, reduction of gaseous and liquid emissions, effluent and ballast water treatment, as well as to products and solutions that are flexible, efficient, reliable, safe, cost-efficient to operate, and that have a minimal environmental footprint throughout their lifecycles. Expenditures Total environmental protection expenditures and investments Concerning Wärtsilä’s operations, we have defined expenditures as environmental expenditures if they are related to soil, water and air pollution control, waste management, environmental management, or noise control. A substantial proportion of the company's investments in product development are targeted at securing environmental compliancy providing shortand long-term benefits for the whole value chain and ultimately for the environment. Expenditures 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 R&D costs (MEUR) 141 131 132 139 138* Environmental costs Environmental capital expenditures (MEUR) 4.0 0.7 0.5 1.9 0.6 Environmental operating expenditures (MEUR) 3.8 4.0 4.6 4.8 5.1 *restated, figures include continuing operations Anchor Social Wärtsilä's aim is to provide the best value and service to its customers by continuously developing its competences and way of working. The strategic goal of Wärtsilä's social responsibility and people strategy is to bring the business strategy alive by developing Wärtsilä's organisation and competences to meet the evolving business needs. The aim is to have energetic, competent, and motivated personnel with exciting and meaningful jobs and career opportunities led by excellent leaders. Good performance is recognised and diversity respected. By applying high standards of occupational health and safety, Wärtsilä strives to offer a hazard-free workplace to its employees, contractors, and others working in different parts of the corporation. Good corporate citizenship is accomplished through active co-operation, open communication, and good relationships with stakeholders. Wärtsilä's operations and relations with its stakeholders are based on the company's Code of Conduct, with which each Wärtsilä company and individual is required to comply. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 71 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain in 2017 (GRI 102-10) In July Wärtsilä completed the acquisition of Greensmith Energy Management Systems Inc., a market leader in intelligent energy storage technology and solutions. The acquisition will enable Wärtsilä to expand its footprint in the energy storage market and position itself as a leading global energy systems integrator. The US-based Greensmith employs over 40 people. In October, Wärtsilä reached an agreement to acquire Puregas Solutions, a provider of turnkey biogas upgrading solutions. The acquisition provides Wärtsilä with added equipment and expertise in biogas upgrading, and will complement well the company’s existing position in the biogas liquefaction market. The Sweden based company currently has approximately 40 employees. Also in October, Wärtsilä reached an agreement to acquire Guidance Marine Limited, a privately owned company with offices in the UK, Singapore and the USA. The acquisition enhances Wärtsilä’s capabilities in the area of situational awareness and near-field measurement, both essential for more intelligent vessel navigation. Guidance Marine employs more than 50 people worldwide. In December 2017, Wärtsilä announced the opening of CSSC Wartsila Electrical & Automation Co Ltd (CWE&A), a joint venture between Wärtsilä and China State Shipbuilding Corporation (CSSC) that will focus on the growing Chinese electrical & automation market. Also in December, Wärtsilä strengthened its service portfolio by acquiring Trident B.V., a Netherland based company specialised in providing underwater ship maintenance, inspection, and repair services. The acquisition supports Wärtsilä's goal to become the first operator with a global underwater services footprint. The acquisition is estimated to be closed in January 2018. Trident employs approximately 30 people. Employment Information on employees and other workers in 2017 (GRI 102-8, GRI 401-1) In addition to direct employment, Wärtsilä employed also indirectly an external workforce totalling 3 234 man-years in subcontracting at its factories and units. The units located in Finland had a total personnel of 3 056 employees. All in all, 1 634 employees left and 2 104 joined Wärtsilä globally during 2017 for different reasons. Wärtsilä had 18 065 employees at the end of 2017. Personnel 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Number of employees at the end of the year 18 065 18 011 18 856 17 717 18 663 Personnel by business Services 10 624 10 567 10 592 10 692 10 785 Marine Solutions 5 845 6 074 6 847 5 603 3 612 Energy Solutions 1 038 903 959 978 1 053 PowerTech * * * * 2 449 Other 559 467 459 444 764 Personnel by market area Europe 10 463 10 399 10 893 9 633 10 507 Asia 4 890 4 992 5 297 5 477 5 628 Americas 1 960 1 919 1 917 1 840 1 876 Africa 665 612 656 676 563 Other 88 89 92 91 89 Average age of employees 41.5 41.0 41.0 40.2 39.7 Permanent employees (%) 92 89 89 88 88 Temporary employees (%) 8 11 11 12 12 Full-time employees (%) 98 98 98 98 97 Part-time employees (%) 2 2 2 2 3 Employee turnover (resigned) (%) 5.3 5.3 5.2 6.2 7.7 Net employment creation -213 -840 -755 -283 -477 * PowerTech was merged into Marine Solutions in 2014 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 72 Number of employees by employment contract and gender in 2017 Permanent Temporary Total 16 566 1 498 Male 13 996 1 243 Female 2 570 255 Number of employees by employment contract and region in 2017 Permanent Temporary Europe 10 100 363 Asia 4 020 872 America 1 919 40 Other 566 185 Permanent employees by employment contract type and gender in 2017 Full-time Part-time Total 16 250 320 Male 13 886 216 Female 2 360 104 New employee hires in 2017 Employees Rate (%) Total 2 104 11.6 Gender Male 1 688 11.1 Female 416 14.4 Age group < 30 years 798 31.7 30-50 1 120 9.9 > 50 years 186 4.4 Market area Europe 1 070 10.2 Asia 569 11.6 Americas 346 17.7 Other 118 15.7 Employee turnover (resigned) in 2017 Employees Rate (%) Total 879 5.3 Gender Male 719 5.1 Female 160 6.2 Age group < 30 years 163 10.7 30-50 521 5.0 > 50 years 195 4.8 Market area Europe 484 4.8 Asia 254 6.3 Americas 106 5.5 Other 35 6.2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees (GRI 401-2) This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 73 In general, temporary and part time employees are offered the same benefits as permanent employees. In some countries, eligibility is linked to the number of months or years of service – such differences being typically based on collective agreements according to local legislation. Labour / management relations Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes (GRI 402-1) Wärtsilä way of working concerning minimum notice periods is described in the Employee Practices section. Occupational health and safety Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees (GRI 403-1) Wärtsilä companies apply occupational health and safety programmes as required by local legislation. These are normally developed by occupational health and safety committees consisting of representatives from both management and personnel. Altogether 78% of Wärtsilä companies have an occupational health and safety committee covering in total 92% of Wärtsilä’s employees. Type of injury and rates of injuries, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities (GRI 403-2) The positive trend in reducing lost time injuries has continued, with a lost time injury frequency 4% below that of the previous year. There has been a continual reduction in the frequency of lost time injuries since 2008. However, Wärtsilä regrets to report a contractor fatality at a power plant construction site in India. A contractor’s employee was walking ahead of a mobile crane holding a transported steel frame when he fell and was run over by the crane. The employee lost his life in this accident. Injuries 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Total number of injuries 446 439 461 510 730 Number of lost time injuries resulting in at least 1 day absence, total 138 147 157 168 199 Number of lost time injuries – work-related 88 95 104 130 162 Number of lost time injuries – commuting 50 52 53 38 37 Lost time injuries / million working hours 2.5 2.6 2.8 3.5 4.4 Absence rate Absence due to illness (% of total working hours) 2.0 2.2 1.9 2.0 2.1 Absence due to lost time injury (% of total working hours) 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Absence due to occupational diseases (% of total working hours) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Fatalities Number of fatalities, total 1 1 1 5 1 Employees 0 0 1 3 1 Contractors 1 1 0 2 0 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation (GRI 403-3) This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 74 Wärtsilä employees constantly work close to running engines while conducting overhaul or testing activities, which exposes them to high levels of noise. Wärtsilä has occupational safety and health programmes in place to prevent hearing loss, including providing hearing protectors to those employees at risk of hearing loss or impairment. In 2017, there were in total 15 cases of occupational disease diagnosed, which is equivalent to 0.4 cases / million worked hours. Training and education Average hours of training per year per employee (GRI 404-1) Wärtsilä's average number of training days in 2017 for male employees was 2.3 and for female employees 2.0. Training days/employee 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 All employees 2.2 3.0 3.0 4.2 4.1 Managers and superiors 3.5 3.7 3.5 5.1 4.6 Other white-collar employees 3.0 2.9 2.9 3.5 4.1 Blue-collar employees 2.0 3.0 3.1 4.4 3.6 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs (GRI 404-2) Wärtsilä programmes for skills management is described in the People Management section. Wärtsilä offers a wide variety of internal training and learning opportunities for its employees, covering more than 20 training categories. These include topics such as engine technology, health and safety, language and culture, project management, environment, security, and leadership. Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews (GRI 404-3) Development discussions held annually 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Coverage % 96 96 92 92 91 Diversity and Equal opportunity Diversity of governance bodies and employees (GRI 405-1) A diverse workforce generates higher profits, better complex problem-solving skills, and access to a larger talent pool. Wärtsilä’s Diversity Initiative began in 2012 and is aimed at driving an inclusive corporate culture at all levels to meet both global and local requirements. By investing in diversity and supporting employees of varied gender, age, personality, and educational background, Wärtsilä becomes an even more attractive employer and a more valued business partner for its customers. Gender diversity 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Male/female ratio (%) 84/16 84/16 85/15 86/14 85/15 Executive positions globally: male/female ratio (%) 89/11 89/11 89/11 90/10 90/10 Regional diversity Number of nationalities 136 134 131 122 120 Ratio Number of employees per age group in 2017 Employees (%) < 30 years 2 517 13.90 30-50 11 340 63 > 50 years 4 209 23 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 75 Percentage of members of Board of Management (BoM) and Board of Directors (BoD) per age group in BoD 2017 BoM (%) (%) < 30 years 0 0 30-50 22 25 > 50 years 78 75 Percentage of members of Board of Management (BoM) and Board of Directors (BoD) per gender in BoD 2017 BoM (%) (%) Female 11 25 Male 89 75 Customer satisfaction Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction (GRI 102-43) In order to put the needs of customers always first, Wärtsilä carefully listens and acts upon customer feedback, at both operative and management levels. Wärtsilä places great emphasis on earning long-term customer trust through keeping its promises. While challenges may arise at any time in this business, relationships are strengthened by focusing on customer satisfaction and loyalty. Customer feedback on project deliveries and the operation of their installations, is welcomed. To know what works and where to improve, as well as understanding the customers’ operational environments, is critical in developing the company’s products and services. To ensure customer satisfaction, their feedback is systematically reviewed and the needed actions are taken. In addition, Wärtsilä collects feedback during different events, activities, and interactions with its customers. Customer satisfaction 2017 2016 2015 Marine Solutions 76% 76% 75% Services 87% 90% 89% Energy Solutions 95% 97% 95% Sample 4 875 4 899 4 312 Customer satisfaction percentage is based on one question: Are you satisfied with Wärtsilä overall performance? Answering options: Satisfied, Neutral or Dissatisfied. Percentage shows Satisfied as part of total answered. Anchor Compliance Wärtsilä is committed to carrying out its business in a sustainable way. In order to promote the long-term interests of Wärtsilä and its stakeholders, the company strives to maintain the highest legal and ethical standards in all its business practices. All business and other activities of Wärtsilä shall be carried out strictly in compliance with all applicable laws and under the principles of good corporate citizenship in each country where such activities take place. This requires all employees to act responsibly and with integrity and honesty. Wärtsilä is committed to ensuring compliance with the Wärtsilä Code of Conduct in all of its business operations globally and has, therefore, established a Group policy for reporting misconduct incidents and suspected Code of Conduct violations. Wärtsilä employees are encouraged to voice their concerns as to potential violations of the Code and its underlying policies and instructions. The reported misconduct cases are investigated either locally or centrally, as appropriate. The primary way for reporting suspected misconduct incidents is via the line management. However, employees also have alternative reporting routes, including an externally hosted whistleblowing channel, reporting directly to the compliance function, or by informing legal affairs. Should a suspected violation involve the top management of Wärtsilä Corporation, or where the suspected case is believed to be This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 76 significant, the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of Wärtsilä Corporation may be contacted directly. An employee who reports a potential Code of Conduct violation in good faith shall suffer no harassment, retaliation, or adverse employment consequences. Finally, Wärtsilä employees are instructed to seek advice on ethical and lawful behaviour and on matters of integrity from Wärtsilä legal counsels or from the compliance function. Environmental compliance Wärtsilä companies comply with all local environmental legislation. The operations of Wärtsilä's manufacturing companies require a valid environmental permit, the terms of which are generally met. Incidents of non-compliance are described in the following chapters. Significant spills (GRI 306-3) and complaints The number of disturbances, complaints, and incidents of non-compliance are presented in the table below. Reported disturbances typically cover incidents in which the Wärtsilä company concerned has been obliged to report the disturbance to the authorities. The main environmental disturbances that occurred in Wärtsilä's business locations in 2017 were 6 minor fuel or oily water spills. These disturbances were investigated and the appropriate corrective actions to minimise the impact on the environment were taken in each case. Wärtsilä UK Ltd. received a complaint made by a resident of the neighbouring property related to light pollution. The direction of the lighting was promptly adjusted to the satisfaction of the neighbouring resident. Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations (GRI 307-1) Wärtsilä Singapore Pte Ltd. Received a warning from the National Environment Authority for a non-compliance related to mosquito breeding. The authorities were satisfied after corrective actions had been taken. Disturbances, complaints, and non-compliances 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Environmental Disturbances 6 12 3 11 5 Non-compliances 1 0 3 1 2 Complaints 1 2 2 1 1 Social Non-compliances 1 4 4 1 4 Fines of non-compliance cases (EUR) 22 575 37 860 30 111 9 824 9 787 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken, and non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area (GRI 103-2, GRI 406-1, GRI 419-1) Wärtsilä supports and respects basic human values as outlined in the UN's Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Wärtsilä also supports the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact, of which six principles are related to Human and Labour rights. Wärtsilä's employees represent 136 nationalities. The company supports fair and equal treatment of all its employees. Wärtsilä supports the workrelated rights defined by the International Labour Organization (ILO), and works, therefore, to ensure that there is freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining in the company. In those countries where local legislation does not recognise these rights, Wärtsilä endeavours to give employees other channels for expressing their opinions. Wärtsilä does not accept the use of forced labour or child labour in any form. Wärtsilä is unaware of any cases of human rights being breached, discrimination, infringements of rights at work, or the use of forced or child labour. During the reporting period the following misconducts were realised: Wärtsilä Korea Ltd. was charged a penalty fee of EUR 21 500 for not fulfilling its legal obligation to hire six disabled persons. The company has mainly hired blue collar employees, which limits the suitable job offerings to disabled persons. Non-compliance cases presented in previous reports This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 77 Wärtsilä Brasil Ltda’s appeals in 2016 against three claims related to non-compliances on found by the Ministry of Labour in its Niterói/RJ facility were rejected, and the company received a fine of EUR 1 075. Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures, and Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken (GRI 205-2, 205-3) During the review period, no instances of corruption or bribery were identified. Wärtsilä Anti-Corruption Policy is provided to sales intermediaries such as agents. Wärtsilä has arranged specifically tailored trainings to agents and other sales intermediaries. Wärtsilä’s Anti-Corruption Policy is available for suppliers and any person or organization upon request. Political contributions (GRI 415-1) During 2017, Wärtsilä did not make any contributions to political parties. Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices (GRI 206-1) Wärtsilä arranged, as it has earlier, a number of competition law training seminars in 2017 for relevant personnel in order to further promote their knowledge of competition laws, and thus ascertain full compliance with such laws. Incidents of non-compliance concerning health and safety impacts of products and services, product and service information, marketing communications and customer privacy and data (GRI 416-2, GRI 417-2, GRI 417-3, GRI 418-1, GRI 419-1) During the review period, no instances of non-compliance related to product health and safety or information liability, or customer privacy were identified. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 78 Anchor Report profile Data collection The data on the products' environmental performance is based on measured test results. Performance data on the environmental and social aspects of sustainability has been collected from the Wärtsilä companies using a detailed questionnaire. Economic performance data is based mainly on audited financial accounts. The sustainability data is collected and reported according to Wärtsilä's specific internal reporting guidelines that include all the definitions and instructions necessary for this purpose. Environmental expenditure and investments are reported applying the Eurostat instructions. Each company has a nominated individual responsible for collection and consolidation of the data, and for its quality and reliability. The management of each company approves the data before it is consolidated at the Group level. The companies report their sustainability data using Wärtsilä's sustainability reporting system. The reported data is checked at both local and Group levels before its consolidation. The content of this Sustainability Report was reviewed and approved by Wärtsilä's Board of Management. Report assurance PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy has independently assessed the report against GRI principles for defining content and quality. As part of the assurance process, PricewaterhouseCoopers assesses local level data management and processes, evaluates the relevance and reliability of the data reported to headquarters, and assesses whether the reporting guidelines of Wärtsilä are well understood and applied. This is achieved through conducting site visits and videoconferencing. Site visit was carried out in Vaasa, Finland. Wärtsilä Brasil, Wärtsilä Japan, Wärtsilä Norway, Wärtsilä Singapore and Wärtsilä UK were assessed through videoconferencing. Additional sources of information Wärtsilä has previously published the following reports: Wärtsilä Environmental Report 2000 Wärtsilä Sustainability Report 2002 Wärtsilä Sustainability Report 2004 Wärtsilä Sustainability Report 2005 Wärtsilä Annual Report 2006 Wärtsilä Annual Report 2007 Wärtsilä Annual Report 2008 Wärtsilä Annual Report 2009 Wärtsilä Annual Report 2010 Wärtsilä Annual Report 2011 Wärtsilä Annual Report 2012 Wärtsilä Annual Report 2013 Wärtsilä Annual Report 2014 Wärtsilä Annual Report 2015 Wärtsilä Annual Report 2016 These reports and their sustainability data are available on Wärtsilä's website: www.wartsila.com. Sustainability Report Project Team Marko Vainikka Director, Corporate Relations and Sustainability (contact person: marko.vainikka@wartsila.com) Harri Mäkelä Sustainability Officer Alina Pathan Manager, Corporate Relations Natalia Valtasaari Director, Investor & Media Relations This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 79 Anchor Materiality assessment Identified material topics and boundaries Entities included in the organization's consolidated financial statements (GRI 102 45) The entities included in Wärtsilä’s Consolidated Financial Statements are listed in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 32. Subsidiaries. All the Group companies are included in Wärtsilä’s Sustainability reporting. The report covers Wärtsilä's businesses. At the company level, the report includes the parent company and its subsidiaries as well as its manufacturing, service and sales units. The report excludes Wärtsilä's associated companies, joint ventures, and supply chain companies. Process for defining report content and aspect boundaries (GRI 102 46) Wärtsilä's Sustainability Reporting 2017 is prepared according to the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Standards and the Reporting Principles for Defining report content. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option. This means that our reporting covers all the General Disclosures of the GRI Standards framework and all the sustainability topics we have identified as material in our operations. In 2017, Wärtsilä updated the assessment of material sustainability topics. The process included an assessment of economic, environmental, and social topics from the stakeholders’ point of view and as an impact to Wärtsilä’s business. Stakeholder views were collected through a questionnaire answered by 88 key stakeholder contacts in various Wärtsilä units and functions worldwide. The aim of the stakeholder questionnaire was to evaluate how important different sustainability topics are for assessments and decision-making of Wärtsilä’s stakeholders. Sustainability topics for the stakeholder evaluation were identified based on Wärtsilä’s previous experience on material sustainability topics, industry peer review, and analysis of significant economic, environmental and social impacts in Wärtsilä’s value chain. Focus on stakeholder assessment was in investors and financiers, major customers, personnel, local societies, and media. The significance of identified topics was then analysed as a current or potential business impact on Wärtsilä. The business implications of identified sustainability topics were evaluated based on direct financial impacts as well as risks and opportunities. In addition the level of internal policies or practices were used as an indication of potential business impact. As a result of the materiality assessment, the following GRI topics were identified as material for Wärtsilä: • Emissions • Environmental Compliance • Economic Performance • Training and education • Occupational health and safety In addition to the identified material aspects Wärtsilä discloses sustainability data on several other areas, because they are frequently asked by Wärtsilä’s stakeholders or they are considered important on the basis of continuity of sustainability reporting. These non-material topics have not been considered as content for defining the application level of GRI Standards. Topic boundaries for the identified material topics were then evaluated in reflection to the sustainability context that is based on the significance of their economic, environmental, and social impacts in our value chain. A more detailed description of the topic boundaries and completeness of data collection for the identified material topics can be found in the GRI 103-1-b and GRI 103-1-c, Topic boundary within the organisation and Topic boundary outside the organisation. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 80 Material topics (GRI 102-47) From a sustainability impact point of view, product-related environmental issues are the most significant for Wärtsilä. The use of Wärtsilä’s products has an environmental impact both locally and globally. Other dimensions of sustainability mainly have a local impact. Sustainability impact Local Global Economic • Environmental • Product related • • • Operational • Social • The following GRI topics have been identified as material for Wärtsilä’s sustainability reporting: Category Topics Identified Other topics Excluded material included in from Wärtsilä topic for Wärtsilä Sustainability Wärtsilä, Sustainability Reporting reported in Reporting accordance with GRI Standards Economic Economic performance • Market presence • Indirect economic impacts • Procurement practices • Anti-corruption • Anti-competitive behaviour • Environmental Materials • Energy • Water • Biodiversity • This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 81 Emissions • Effluents and waste • Environmental Compliance • Supplier Environmental • assessment Social Employment • Labour/management • relations Occupational health and • safety Training and education • Diversity and equal • opportunity Non-discrimination • Freedom of association • Child Labour • Forced or compulsory • labour Security practices • Rights of indigenous • peoples Human rights assessment • Local communities • Supplier social assessment Public policy • Customer health and • safety Marketing and labelling • Customer privacy • This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 82 Socioeconomic • compliance Wärtsilä’s sustainability reporting provides a full disclosure of the management approach, relevant general disclosures and material topic-specific disclosures defined by the GRI Standards. Topic boundary within the organisation (103-1-b and 103-1-c) The topic boundary for the material topics is all Wärtsilä companies. The economic performance data covers all Wärtsilä companies. The data on environmental and social performance covers all Wärtsilä companies except the following: • Wärtsilä Operations Guyana Inc. • Wärtsilä Yuchai Engine Co. Ltd. • Wärtsilä Egypt Power S.A.E • Wärtsilä Tanzania Ltd. • Wärtsilä Muscat LLC • American Hydro Corp. • Puregas Solutions GmbH • Puregas Solutions Ltd • Puregas Solutions AB • Guidance Marine Ltd • Guidance Marine Pte Ltd • Guidance Marine LLC • Greensmith Energy Management Systems Inc. These companies will be included in Wärtsilä's sustainable development reporting in the forthcoming years. Wärtsilä's Sustainability Reporting is an integrated part of its annual reporting, and therefore Wärtsilä publishes its sustainability data annually. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 83 Coverage of operational data Operational data, % of Wärtsilä companies 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Economic 100 100 100 100 100 Environmental 86 93 83 94 93 Social 100 100 100 100 93 Operational data, % of personnel 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Economic 100 100 100 100 100 Environmental 96 98 91 98 99 Social 100 100 100 100 99 Operational data, % of product manufacturing 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Economic 100 100 100 100 100 Environmental 100 100 95 100 99 Social 100 100 100 99 93 Topic boundary outside the organisation (GRI 103-1-c) Wärtsilä’s Sustainability Report does not cover performance data collected outside the Group companies. Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports (GRI 102-48) There are no major restatements of information provided in previous reports. Significant changes from previous reporting periods (GRI 102-49) The list of material topics changed from previous reporting periods so, that in accordance with the materiality analysis in 2017, Anti-corruption is no longer listed among the material topics. There are no significant changes from previous reporting periods in the reporting topic boundaries. Historical data covers all entities that were part of the Group at the end of each reporting period. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 84 Anchor Reporting principles Economic performance data The economic performance data is based on audited financial accounting and covers all Wärtsilä subsidiaries unless otherwise stated. Donations: The data of this indicator included 15 major Wärtsilä subsidiaries and the parent company in 2017. Subsidies: The data of this indicator included all Wärtsilä subsidiaries and the parent company in 2017. The social costs for employees contribute to the funding of pensions, unemployment, and other social benefits that provide security and improve the quality of life for the company's employees and their families. Senior management includes all employees with the highest job grade levels 12-15. At the end of 2017 this covered 94 employees. Environmental performance data Materials include all the major material flows used in the production processes globally. The most material consuming product categories include engines, propellers, and propulsion systems. Total energy consumption includes both direct and indirect energy usage. The direct energy usage includes the fuels used by Wärtsilä subsidiaries. Lower heating values (LHV) are used to calculate the energy consumption of fuels in joules. LHVs are based on information supplied by vendors or results of fuel analysis for engine testing and R&D purposes, and for other fuel consumption the source is the DEFRA (the UK government Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs). The indirect energy usage includes the purchased electricity and heat. Since the efficiency of purchased electricity and heat generation is not known, the energy conversion is done directly from the purchased values. Fuel consumption data is based on either invoices or measured values. Heat and electricity data is based on either invoices or measured values. Energy intensity describes the ratio of total internal energy consumption divided by the total net sales of the subsidiaries included in the data gathering in a particular year (MJ/ euro). GHG emissions intensity describes the ratio of total greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1, 2 and 3) divided by the total net sales of the subsidiaries included in the data gathering in a particular year (gCO2/ euro). Reduction of GHG emissions data is collected on a site level, based on permanent GHG emissions reduction measures, and either calculated or estimated (Scope 1 and 2). Reduction of energy consumption data is collected on a site level, based on permanent energy saving actions, and either calculated or estimated. Water consumption: The reported figures are based on either measured values or invoices. The cooling water usage might also be calculated from the heat load in some units. Recycled water: The reported amount is the total measured recycled water used in Wärtsilä Italia S.p.A. Their water treatment plant provides reusable water for manufacturing processes. Water discharge: The reported figures are based on either measured values or invoices. The cooling water discharge might also be calculated from the heat load in some units. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 85 Emissions: The reported figures are mainly based on measured values, based on which specific emission factors are determined. The specific emission factors are determined for various fuels and engine types. The emissions of the heating boilers are either measured or calculated. The indirect CO2 emissions (scope 2) are calculated by using the emission factors from the DEFRA (the UK government Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs). The indirect CO2 emissions (scope 3) of energy consumption are calculated by using the emission factors from the DEFRA. The indirect CO2 emissions (scope 3) of material consumption are calculated by using the emission factors from thinkstep’s GaBi database. The CO2 emissions of air travel (Scope 3) are based on calculations by Wärtsilä's travel agency and are based on DEFRA defined factors. The other-than-GHG emissions of vehicles are calculated by using the VTT (Technical Research Centre of Finland) Lipasto database emission factors. GWP factor used for converting methane emissions to CO2-equivalent is 25. Only CO2 and methane are considered for the CO2 emissions. Waste: Information on waste disposal methods normally comes from waste disposal contractor. Environmental disturbances: As such are considered major incidents, which generally require communication to local authorities. Social performance data Total number of injuries: The reported figures include all types of reported work-related injuries, including first-aid cases, as well as commuting injuries and possible fatalities. Lost time injuries: The reported figures include all reported work-related injuries resulting in absence from work of at least one scheduled work day, lost day counting from the first day after the injury. LTI frequency is expressed as reported lost time injuries and possible fatalities per million working hours. The working hours are actual paid working hours. The lost time injury rate does not include commuting injuries. Net employment creation is calculated by deducting the number of permanent employees having left the company for any reason from the amount of newly hired permanent employees during the reporting period. Employee turnover is calculated from permanent employees. The number of resigned permanent employees is divided by the number of permanent employees at the end of the reporting period. Employees and other workforce: The data on Wärtsilä employees is mainly from global SAP HR database. Less than 3% of employees, the amount varying between indicators, have not had all their employment details in the global HR processes, and thus their qualities have been assumed to be the same as on average among the rest of the global employees, i.e. their gender, employment and contract type. The new-hires and resigned employee numbers do not include any such assumptions of employees having joined but still lacking the formal record of that activity. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 86 Anchor Independent Assurance Report Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report To the Management of Wärtsilä Corporation We have been engaged by the Management of Wärtsilä Corporation (hereinafter also the Company) to perform a limited assurance engagement on selected sustainability disclosures for the reporting period 1 January to 31 December 2017, disclosed in the “Sustainability” and “Stories” sections (hereinafter Sustainability Information) of Wärtsilä Corporation’s Annual Report 2017. In terms of the Company’s GRI Standards reporting and GRI Content Index (in Wärtsilä Corporation’s Annual Report 2017 “GRI and UNGC index”) the scope of the assurance has covered economic, social and environmental sustainability disclosures listed within the Topic-specific Disclosures as well as General Disclosures 102-8 and 102-41. The assured information in the “Stories” section has been indicated with “Sustainability Assured”. Management’s responsibility The Management of Wärtsilä Corporation is responsible for preparing the Sustainability Information in accordance with the Reporting criteria as set out in the Company’s reporting instructions and the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative. The Management of Wärtsilä Corporation is also responsible for such internal control as the management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the Sustainability Information that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Practitioner’s independence and quality control We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy applies International Standard on Quality Control 1 and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Practitioner’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the Sustainability Information based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained. Our assurance report has been prepared in accordance with the terms of our engagement. We do not accept, or assume responsibility to anyone else, except to Wärtsilä Corporation for our work, for this report, or for the conclusions that we have reached. We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (revised) “Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information”. That standard requires that we plan and perform the engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether the Sustainability Information is free from material misstatement. In a limited assurance engagement the evidence-gathering procedures are more limited than for a reasonable assurance engagement, and therefore less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement. An assurance engagement involves performing procedures to obtain evidence about the amounts and other disclosures in the Sustainability Information. The procedures selected depend on the practitioner’s judgement, including an assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the Sustainability Information. Our work consisted of, amongst others, the following procedures: • Interviewing senior management of the Company. • Visiting the Company’s Head Office as well as one site in Finland. • Conducting five video interviews with sites in Brazil, Japan, UK, Norway and Singapore. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 87 • Interviewing employees responsible for collecting and reporting the Sustainability Information at the Group level and at the site level where our site visits and video interviews were conducted. • Assessing how Group employees apply the Company’s reporting instructions and procedures. • Testing the accuracy and completeness of the information from original documents and systems on a sample basis. • Testing the consolidation of information and performing recalculations on a sample basis. Limited assurance conclusion Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that Wärtsilä Corporation’s Sustainability Information for the reporting period ended 31 December 2017 is not properly prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting criteria. When reading our assurance report, the inherent limitations to the accuracy and completeness of sustainability information should be taken into consideration. Helsinki, 12 February 2018 PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy Sirpa Juutinen Partner Sustainability & Climate Change This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 88 Anchor GRI and UNGC index General Disclosures GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 GRI Standard / Disclosure Links Remarks UNGC Organizational profile Wärtsilä in 102-1 Name of the Organization brief 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Wärtsilä in brief Energy solutions Marine Solutions Services Shares and 102-3 Location of headquarters Helsinki, Finland shareholders Wärtsilä in 102-4 Location of operations www.wartsila.com brief Shares and 102-5 Ownership and legal form shareholders Wärtsilä in 102-6 Markets served brief Wärtsilä in 102-7 Scale of the organization brief Shareholders 102-8 Information on employees Social and other workers Supply chain 102-9 Supply chain management 102-10 Significant changes to the Social organization and its supply chain Product design principles 102-11 Precautionary Principle or Risks and risk approach management Research and development This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 89 Stakeholder 102-12 External initiatives relations Stakeholder 102-13 Membership of associations relations Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior CEO review decision-maker Risks and risk management Corporate strategy Energy Solutions and 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and sustainability See also business strategy sections opportunities Marine Solutions and sustainability Services and sustainability Innovating for sustainability Ethics and integrity Corporate 102-16 Values, principles, strategy standards, and norms of behavior Guiding principles Guiding 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and principles concerns about ethics Compliance Governance Corporate governance 102-18 Governance structure Board of Directors Corporate governance 102-19 Delegating authority Board of Directors 102-20 Executive-level responsibility Board of for economic, environmental, and Management social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on Annual general economic, environmental, and social meeting topics Internal control This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 90 102-22 Composition of the highest Board of governance body and its Directors committees 102-23 Chair of the highest Board of governance body Directors The nomination committee proposes new board members. The committee Annual general consults major shareholders, and in 102-24 Nominating and selecting meeting their proposals they take into account the highest governance body Board of the specific needs of the Board, Directors including sustainability competencies and diversity. Board of Directors 102-25 Conflicts of interest Insider management Shareholders 102-26 Role of highest governance Board of body in setting purpose, values, and Directors strategy Internal control Internal control 102-27 Collective knowledge of Boad of highest governance body Management The evaluation is of general nature, but also includes sustainability issues 102-28 Evaluating the highest Board of if such concerns arise. The governance body’s performance Directors evaluation partly affects the membership changes within the Board. Board of 102-29 Identifying and managing Directors economic, environmental, and social Risks and risk impacts management 102-30 Effectiveness of risk Board of management processes Directors Board of Directors 102-31 Review of economic, Board 9 meetings in 2017 environmental, and social topics committees Internal control 102-32 Highest governance body’s Report profile role in sustainability reporting 102-33 Communicating critical Internal control concerns 102-34 Nature and total number of This information is not publicly critical concerns disclosed This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 91 Salary and 102-35 Remuneration policies remuneration report 2017 Board 102-36 Process for determining committees remuneration Employee practices Salary and 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration remuneration report 2017 102-38 Annual total compensation This information is not publicly ratio disclosed 102-39 Percentage increase in This information is not publicly annual total compensation ratio disclosed Stakeholder engagement Stakeholder 102-40 List of stakeholder groups relations 58% of Wärtsilä employees were 102-41 Collective bargaining covered by collective bargaining agreements agreements in 2017 102-42 Identifying and selecting Stakeholder stakeholders relations Stakeholder 102-43 Approach to stakeholder relations engagement Customer satisfaction 102-44 Key topics and concerns Stakeholder raised relations Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the Materiality consolidated financial statements assessment 102-46 Defining report content and Materiality topic Boundaries assessment Materiality 102-47 List of material topics assessment Materiality 102-48 Restatements of information assessment Materiality 102-49 Changes in reporting assessment 102-50 Reporting period Report profile 102-51 Date of most recent report Report profile 102-52 Reporting cycle Report profile This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 92 102-53 Contact point for questions Report profile regarding the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in Materiality accordance with the GRI Standards assessment Independent 102-56 External assurance assurance report GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI Standard / Disclosure Links Remarks UNGC 103-1 Explanation of the material Materiality topic and its Boundary assessment 103-2 The management approach Disclosure on management approach Sustainability and its components for all material topics are covered in at Wärtsilä the Sustainability managementSustainability section. Please see management www.wartsila.com 103-3 Evaluation of the Sustainability management approach management Sustainability targets Sustainability data Risks and risk management Topic-specific standards GRI 200 Economic Standard Series Material GRI Standard / Disclosure Links Omissions UNGC topic disclosures GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 201-1 Direct economic value Economic generated and distributed performance The costs of 201-2 Financial implications and Economic actions taken to other risks and opportunities due to performance manage the risks or climate change opportunities is not This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 93 applicable, as it is not possible to calculate specifically 201-3 Defined benefit plan Details in points a obligations and other retirement Economic – e will be studied plans performance and analysed in 2018 Divisions by 201-4 Financial assistance received Economic country will be from government performance studied and analysed in 2018 GRI 202: Market Presence 2016 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level Only reported the wage by gender compared to local Management Market presence minimum wage Approach disclosure 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local Market presence community GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-1 Operations assessed for risks Coverage of risk related to corruption Risks and risk management management processes is 100% of our operations 205-2 Communication and training Employees’ about anti-corruption policies and classification by procedures employee category Responsible and region, as well business as by business conduct partners, will be studied and analysed in 2018. 205-3 Confirmed incidents of Compliance corruption and actions taken GRI 206: Anti-competitive behaviour 2016 206-1 Legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and Compliance monopoly practices GRI 300 Environmental Standard Series Material GRI Standard / Disclosure Links Omissions UNGC topic disclosures This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 94 GRI 303: Materials 2016 301-1 Materials used by weight or Materials volume The recycled material input of metals varies between 20% and 95%, depending on the type of furnace and foundry used 301-2 Recycled input materials used Materials by the metal recycling companies in the supply chain, of which there are too many to state an exact percentage. GRI 301: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the Energy organization 302-3 Energy intensity Energy 302-4 Reduction of energy Energy consumption GRI 303: Water 2016 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Water 303-2 Water sources significantly Water affected by withdrawal of water 303-3 Water recycled and reused Water GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Emissions emissions No data available for market-based 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) Emissions scope 2 emissions, GHG emissions will be reported in 2018 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG Emissions emissions 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Emissions It is not possible to state the exact 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Emissions amount of GHG emission reductions This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 95 achieved from the reduced travelling, because such a figure would be purely hypothetical. Not applicable, 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting Wärtsilä does not Emissions substances (ODS) produce, import or export ODS. 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant Emissions air emissions GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 306-1 Water discharge by quality and Effluents and destination waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal Effluents and method waste Effluents and 306-3 Significant spills waste GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 307-1 Non-compliance with Compliance environmental laws and regulations GRI 400 Social Standard Series Material GRI Standard / Disclosure Links Omission UNGC topic disclosures GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-1 New employee hires and Employment employee turnover 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to Employment temporary or part-time employees GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016 Labour/ 402-1 Minimum notice periods Management regarding operational changes Relations GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 Not possible to 403-1 Workers representation in Occupational state the operating formal joint management–worker health and level due to local health and safety committees safety variations. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 96 Injury rate (non-lost time), occupational disease rate, classifications by 403-2 Types of injury and rates of Occupational region and gender injury, occupational diseases, lost health and not reported. For days, and absenteeism, and number safety contractors only of work-related fatalities fatalities reported. These will be studied and analysed in 2018. 403-3 Workers with high incidence or Occupational high risk of diseases related to their health and occupation safety In some cases local collective bargaining agreements also 403-4 Health and safety topics Responsible cover OHS issues. covered in formal agreements with business Detailed listing of trade unions conduct the topics not applicable, as it is not considered meaningful information. GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 404-1 Average hours of training per Training and year per employee education Various types of training can be offered in 404-2 Programs for upgrading Training and restructuring employee skills and transition education situations, however assistance programs specific actions are defined case by case. Employees’ classification by 404-3 Percentage of employees Training and gender and receiving regular performance and education employee category career development reviews will be studied and analysed in 2018. GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunities 2016 Employment 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies Diversity and and employees equal opportunity GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 97 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and Compliance corrective actions taken GRI 415: Public Policy 2016 415-1 Political contributions Compliance GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety Compliance impacts of products and services GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service Compliance information and labeling 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing Compliance communications GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer Compliance privacy and losses of customer data GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and Compliance economic area Anchor UN Sustainable Development Goals and Wärtsilä On 1 January 2016, the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) set by the United Nations (UN) entered into force. The SDGs are intended to address a range of issues, from gender inequality to climate change, with the overall goal of ending global poverty. The 17 goals and 169 targets, which are part of a wider 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, build on the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) set in 2000. Compared to the MDGS, the SDGs are broader in scope and are applied to all countries and actors. The role of businesses is seen as being vital to the delivery of innovative changes that can have significant influence. Sustainability forms the core of Wärtsilä’s business operations, products and solutions. Several of the SDGs deal with issues to which Wärtsilä already contributes in a positive way. Wärtsilä continues to develop such means that make a difference to its customers and partners and to the communities in which it operates. Respect for people Wärtsilä’s efforts to promote people’s health, safety and well-being covers employees, suppliers, customers and local communities. Its high standards in environmental, health and safety (EHS) matters are aimed at zero injuries among employees and contractors, and products and solutions that are safe and reliable to use. The company is also committed to continuous improvement in its environmental and social performance to avoid causing harm to the communities close to its operations. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 98 Wärtsilä supports the work-related rights defined by the International Labour Organization, and upholds the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. Wärtsilä promotes gender equality and is committed to include women in all aspects of its business, and to fight against gender discrimination. The company’s Diversity Initiative has been in place since 2012, fostering an inclusive corporate culture at all levels. Wärtsilä contributes to sustainable economic growth by promoting global corporate citizenship, an inclusive corporate culture, and local employment. Continuous learning and self-development are encouraged by offering a wide range of competence development options at all levels of the organisation. Sustainable and modern energy Wärtsilä plays an important role in helping to meet the world’s increasing demand for sustainable energy. The company’s Smart Power Generation power plants provide energy efficiency as well as fuel and operational flexibility, thus enabling the effective integration of wind and solar power into the grid. In addition, Wärtsilä's strong capabilities in offering energy storage, utility-scale solar PV power plants and hybrid solutions, including the most advanced software for energy management, enables the share of renewables into the energy mix to be maximised. This provides sustainable, reliable, and affordable power, particularly in countries and regions with isolated or weak electricity grids. Wärtsilä’s offering also includes Dry Flexicycle power plants, which can reduce water consumption almost entirely, making it possible to place power plants in water-stressed areas. Wärtsilä engages actively in an open dialogue with various stakeholders to provide expertise and support for enhancing clean energy technology and research on a global scale. Clean marine technologies Wärtsilä aims to deliver greater efficiency, a minimised environmental impact, and greater safety to the shipping industry, thereby enabling more sustainable, safe, and reliable operations for ship owners and operators around the world. By eliminating or reducing polluting discharges and emissions from its customers’ processes, Wärtsilä ensures that they can continue to operate in environmentally sensitive areas around the world. The company’s range of environmentally sound products and solutions includes systems for ballast water management, wastewater treatment, oily water systems, exhaust gas cleaning, and dual-fuel marine engines. In 2017, Wartsila launched the Wartsila HY, a fully integrated hybrid power module combining different power sources, an energy storage system, and power electronics optimised to work together through a newly developed energy management system. It is the marine sector’s first hybrid power module of this type produced, thereby establishing a new industry benchmark in marine hybrid propulsion and providing a lower environmental impact than conventional machinery solutions. Wärtsilä is also involved in numerous global and local partnerships, such as the IMO’s Global Industry Alliance, the Sustainable Shipping Initiative, and the Sustainable Marine Biofuel Initiative. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Sustainability 99 Responsible business conduct The company’s commitment to sustainability and responsible business is central to its purpose and strategy. Wärtsilä's values and Code of Conduct define common rules for all employees, and provide guidance on Wärtsilä's approach to responsible business practices. Wärtsilä's Code of Conduct and supporting policies expressly prohibit the company, its employees and suppliers from offering or accepting any kind of benefit considered a bribe, and from taking actions that could give rise to a conflict of interest or breach of loyalty. Wärtsilä complies with international good practices and anti-corruption laws of the countries in which Wärtsilä operates, and urges the reporting of any cases of corruption and bribery. The implementation of these policies is supported by an extensive training programme for all Wärtsilä employees. In 2017, Wärtsilä launched an externally hosted whistle blower channel for all employees to report concerns related to potential misconducts of the Code of Conduct or the company’s policies. Wärtsilä aims to contribute towards the well-being of local communities in which the company is present. Means for this include, for example, creating employment, paying taxes and social dues, providing training and education to employees, co-operating with local stakeholders, and supporting local development. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Governance 100 Governance Governance Corporate governance 101 Values and the control environment 120 Annual General Meeting 102 Business processes 120 Board of Directors 103 Guidelines and communication 120 Operations of the Board of Directors 106 Monitoring 121 Responsibilities of the Board of Directors 107 Audit 121 The Board's committees 108 Related party transactions 122 Board of Management 110 Insider management 122 The President & CEO and the Deputy CEO 113 Remuneration report 2017 123 Operations of the Board of Management 113 Risks and risk management 130 Corporate management 113 Risk profiles and responsibilities 141 Internal control 117 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Governance 101 Anchor Corporate governance Wärtsilä Corporation complies with the guidelines and provisions of its Articles of Association, the Finnish Limited Liability Companies Act, and the rules and regulations of Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd. Wärtsilä also applies the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and complies with the Finnish Corporate Governance Code 2015 (“Code”) issued by the Finnish Securities Market Association. The Code is publicly available on http://cgfinland.fi/en. Wärtsilä has not deviated from any of the Code's recommendations. Wärtsilä's Corporate Governance Statement, prepared in accordance with the recommendations of the Code, is published as a separate statement on Wärtsilä's website as well as in this Annual Report. The content of this Corporate Governance section corresponds fully to Wärtsilä's Corporate Governance Statement. Wärtsilä's Audit Committee has reviewed the Corporate Governance Statement, and the Company's external auditor has monitored the issuing of the statement and verified that the description of the main features of the internal control and risk management section, as related to the financial reporting process included in the statement, matches the Financial Statements. Governing bodies Wärtsilä implements a single-tier governance model, by which management of the Wärtsilä Group is the responsibility of the General Meeting of shareholders, the Board of Directors, and the President & CEO. Their duties are for the most part defined by the Finnish Companies Act. The General Meeting of shareholders elects the Board of Directors and auditor. The Board of Directors is responsible for the strategic management of the company, and is assisted in its work by the Board Committees. The Board appoints the President & CEO. He is in charge of the operative, day-to-day management of the company, with support from the Board of Management. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Governance 102 Anchor Annual General Meeting Wärtsilä's ultimate decision-making body is the General Meeting of shareholders. It resolves issues as defined for General Meetings in the Finnish Companies Act and the company's Articles of Association. Agenda items for the General Meeting of shareholders include the following: • approving the financial statements • deciding on the distribution of dividends • discharging the company's Board of Directors and President & CEO from liability for the financial year • electing the company's Board of Directors and auditor and deciding on their remuneration A General Meeting of Wärtsilä Corporation shareholders is held at least once a year, at a time no later than the end of June. If needed, the company may also hold Extraordinary General Meetings. An invitation to the General Meeting is published on the Company’s website or in not less than two daily newspapers, which are commonly distributed in Finland, as decided by the Board of Directors. The invitation shall be published no earlier than two months, and no later than three weeks, prior to the General Meeting. It shall, however, be published at least nine days prior to the shareholders' record date. Wärtsilä also publishes invitations to its General Meetings as stock exchange releases. The documents and draft resolutions to be submitted to the General Meeting can be found on Wärtsilä's website. Shareholders have the right to add items falling within the competence of the Annual General Meeting to the meeting's agenda. The request must be submitted to the Board of Directors in writing sufficiently in advance of the meeting so that the item can be added to the Notice of the General Meeting. Wärtsilä publishes on its website the date by which a shareholder must notify the company’s Board of Directors of an issue that he or she demands to be addressed at the General Meeting. This information is given no later than by the end of the financial period preceding the General Meeting, and includes the postal or email address to which the demand shall be sent. The demand is always deemed to have arrived in sufficient time if the Board has been notified of the demand at the latest four weeks before the delivery of the Notice of the General Meeting. All shareholders registered by the record date in the company's list of shareholders maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd have the right to attend the Annual General Meeting. Each share entitles the holders to one vote. The General Meeting is organised in such a manner that shareholders can participate in the meeting as extensively as possible. The Chairman of the Board of Directors, the members of the Board of Directors, and the President & CEO are present at the General Meeting. The auditor-in-charge also attends the Annual General Meeting. The director candidates shall also be present at the General Meeting that decides upon their election. Annual General Meeting 2017 Wärtsilä's Annual General Meeting was held on 2 March 2017. A total of 1,646 shareholders representing 113,297,157 votes participated in person or by proxy. The Annual General Meeting approved the financial statements and discharged the members of the Board of Directors and the company’s President & CEO from liability for the financial year 2016. The Meeting approved the Board of Directors’ proposal to pay a dividend of EUR 1.30 per share in two instalments. The first instalment of EUR 0.65 per share was paid on 13 March 2017, and the second instalment of EUR 0.65 per share was paid on 21 September 2017. The audit firm PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy was elected as the auditor of the Company for the year 2017, following a tendering process initiated by Wärtsilä’s Audit Committee. The Annual General Meeting authorised the Board of Directors to repurchase and/or distribute a maximum of 19,000,000 shares. All resolutions were taken without voting. The minutes of the meeting and other related documents can be found on Wärtsilä's website; www.wartsila.com > Investors > Governance. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Governance 103 Anchor Board of Directors Mikael Lilius Independent of the company and significant shareholders. Chairman of the Board of Wärtsilä Corporation. Born 1949, B.Sc. (Econ.). Member of the Board of Wärtsilä Corporation since 2010, Chairman of the Board since 2011. Primary working experience Fortum Oyj, President & CEO, 2000-2009; Gambro AB, President & CEO, 1998-2000; Incentive AB, President & CEO, 1991-1998; KF Industri AB (Nordico), President & CEO, 1989-1991 and Huhtamäki Oy, President of the Packing Division, 1986-1989. Other positions of trust Ahlström Capital Oy and Metso Corporation, Chairman of the Board; Evli Bank Ltd., Member of the Board; Ab Kelonia Oy, Member of the Supervisory Board. Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2017: 19,359 shares Tom Johnstone CBE Independent of the company, dependent of significant shareholders. Born 1955, Master of Arts, Honorary Doctorate in Business Administration and Honorary Doctorate in Science. Member of the Board of Wärtsilä Corporation since 2015, Deputy Chairman of the Board since 2017. Primary working experience Several management posts within the SKF Group, the latest as President and CEO of AB SKF, 2003-2014. Other positions of trust British Swedish Chamber of Commerce, Combient AB and Husqvarna AB, Chairman of the Board; Investor AB and Volvo Cars, Member of the Board. Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2017: 2,069 shares Maarit Aarni-Sirviö Independent of the company and significant shareholders. Born 1953, M.Sc. (Tech.), eMBA. Secretary General of Directors' Institute Finland – Hallitusammattilaiset ry; Managing Director of Boardview Oy; Senior Adviser at Eera Oy. Member of the Board of Wärtsilä Corporation since 2007. Primary working experience Mint of Finland Ltd., President and CEO, 2008-2010; Borealis Group, 1994-2008, several senior positions of which the most recent was Vice President BU Phenol, 2001-2008, Vice President BU Olefins, 1997-2001 in Copenhagen, Denmark and Neste Oyj 1977-1994. Other positions of trust Directors' Institute Finland – Hallitusammattilaiset ry and ecoDa (The European Confederation of Directors’ Associations), Member of the Board. Finland National Committee for UN Women, Chairman of the Board. Relevant prior positions of trust Board memberships: Berendsen plc, 2014-2017; Rautaruukki Oyj, 2005-2012; Ponsse Oyj, 2007-2010 and Vattenfall AB, Sweden, 2004-2007. Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2017: 10,282 shares This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Governance 104 Kaj-Gustaf Bergh Independent of the company and significant shareholders. Born 1955, B.Sc., LL.M. Managing Director of Föreningen Konstsamfundet r.f. Member of the Board of Wärtsilä Corporation since 2008. Primary working experience Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken, Member of management, 2000-2001; SEB Asset Management, Director, 1998-2001; Ane Gyllenberg Ab, Chief Executive Officer, 1986-1998; Oy Bensow Ab, Director, Executive Vice President, 1985-1986; Ane Gyllenberg Ab, Administrative manager, 1984-1985 and Ky von Konow & Co, Administrative manager, 1982-1983. Other positions of trust Julius Tallberg Oy Ab, Mercator Invest Ab and KSF Media Holding Ab, Chairman of the Board; Stockmann plc, Ramirent Group and JM AB, Member of the Board. Relevant prior positions of trust Board chairmanships: Sponda Oyj 2013-2017; Stockmann plc 2014-2016; Fiskars Corporation 2006-2014; Ålandsbanken Abp 2011-2013 and Aktia Abp 2005-2009. Board memberships: Fiskars Corporation 2014-2015 and Stockmann plc 2007-2013. Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2017: 9,504 shares Karin Falk Independent of the company and significant shareholders. Born 1965, B.Sc. (Econ.). Senior Vice President Volvo Trucks Services & Customer Quality. Member of the Board of Wärtsilä Corporation since 2017. Primary working experience Volvo Group, Executive Vice President, Corporate Strategy & Brand Portfolio 2012-2016; Volvo Group, President, Non-Automotive Purchasing 2008-2012. Volvo Car Corporation, Vice President, Volvo Car Customer Service 2006-2008; Volvo Car Corporation, President, Volvo Car Special Vehicles 2001-2006; Various positions within Volvo Cars and Volvo Group 1988-2001. Other positions of trust Volvo Group Venture Capital, Member of the Board. Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2017: 472 shares Johan Forssell Independent of the company, dependent of significant shareholders. Born 1971, M.Sc. (Economics and Business Administration). President and CEO of Investor AB. Member of the Board of Wärtsilä Corporation since 2017. Primary working experience Investor AB, Head of Core Investments and Member of the Management Group, 2006-2015; Investor AB, Project Director, 2014; Aleris AB, Head of Research, 2003-2006; Investor AB, Head of Capital Goods and Healthcare sector, 2001-2003; Investor AB, Head of Capital Goods sector and Analyst, 1995-1999. Other positions of trust Atlas Copco, EQT AB, Epiroc AB and Patricia Industries, Member of the Board. Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2017: 472 shares This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Governance 105 Risto Murto Independent of the company and significant shareholders. Born 1963, Ph.D. (Econ.). President & CEO of Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company. Member of the Board of Wärtsilä Corporation since 2014. Primary working experience Investments, Varma, Executive Vice President, 2010-2013; Investments, Varma, Chief Investment Officer, 2006-2010; Opstock Ltd, Managing Director, 2000-2005; Opstock Ltd, Director, 1997-2000. Other positions of trust University of Oulu and The Finnish Pension Alliance TELA, Chairman of the Board; Sampo plc, Member of the Board. Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2017: 2,452 shares Markus Rauramo Independent of the company and significant shareholders. Born 1968, M.Sc. (Econ. and Pol. Hist.). Chief Financial Officer and Member of the Fortum Executive Management Team. Member of the Board of Wärtsilä Corporation since 2011. Primary working experience Fortum Corporation, Executive Vice President, City Solutions Division 2016-2017; Fortum Corporation, Executive Vice President, Heat, Electricity Sales and Solutions Division, 2014-2016; Fortum Corporation, Chief Financial Officer, 2012-2014; Stora Enso Oyj Helsinki, CFO and Member of the GET, 2008-2012; Stora Enso International London, SVP Group Treasurer, 2004-2008; Stora Enso Oyj Helsinki, VP Strategy and Investments, 2001-2004; Stora Enso Financial Services Brussels, VP Head of Funding, 1999-2001 and Enso Oyj Helsinki, several financial tasks, 1993-1999. Other positions of trust Teollisuuden Voima Oyj, Member of the Board. Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2017: 5,006 shares This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Governance 106 Anchor Operations of the Board of Directors Responsibility for the management of the company and the proper organisation of its operations is invested in the company's Board of Directors, which is composed of five to ten members. Board members serve for one year at a time and are elected by the General Meeting. According to the Corporate Governance Code's recommendation 10, the majority of Board members shall be independent of the company and at least two of the members representing this majority shall be independent of significant shareholders of the company. The Board evaluates the independence of the members annually and re-evaluates as necessary. The Nomination Committee prepares the proposal for the General Meeting regarding the election of the directors for the Board, and communicates with significant shareholders, when required, on matters pertaining to the proposal. The proposal for the composition of the Board is included in the Notice of the General Meeting. The same applies to a proposal for the composition of the Board made by shareholders with at least 10% of the votes carried by the company shares, provided that the candidates have given their consent to the election and the company has received information on the proposal sufficiently in advance as to be included in the Notice of the General Meeting. The candidates proposed shall be disclosed separately in corresponding order. Wärtsilä publishes the biographical details of the candidates for the Board on its website in connection with publication of the Notice of the General Meeting. The Board elects a chairman and a deputy chairman from among its members. The Board steers and supervises the company's operations, and decides on policies, goals, and strategies of major importance. The principles applied by the Board to its regular work are set out in the Board Charter. The Board also approves the rules of procedure applied by the Board's committees setting out their main tasks and working principles. In addition to matters requiring its decision, the Board is also given updates at its meetings on the Group's operations, financial position and risks. The Board conducts an annual self-evaluation of its operations and working methods. The purpose of this evaluation is to assess how the Board has executed its tasks during the year and to act as a basis for developing Board functions. The Board of Directors convenes 8-11 times a year following a pre-determined schedule. In addition to these meetings, the Board convenes as necessary. All board meetings are documented. Diversity principles In order for the Board of Directors to discharge its duties in the most effective manner, the Board must be highly qualified and sufficiently diverse. When preparing its proposal for the Board’s composition, the Nomination Committee takes into account the educational and professional background of the individual candidates, as well as international experience so that the composition of the Board represents a wide variety of competencies and qualifications. The Nomination Committee also takes into account the candidates’ age, as having different seniority levels on the Board is considered beneficial in terms of ensuring mutually complementing experience. Wärtsilä’s principle with regard to gender is to have members of both genders represented on the Board. In December 2017, Wärtsilä had two female board members out of eight members in total. The objective of the Company is to achieve over time a more balanced representation of both genders on the Wärtsilä Board. The Nomination Committee assesses the potential candidates not only in terms of their individual qualifications and characteristics, but also in terms of their ability to effectively work together and jointly support and challenge the company management in a proactive and constructive way. Board of Directors in 2017 As of 2 March 2017, the Board consisted of the following eight members: Ms Maarit Aarni-Sirviö, Mr Kaj-Gustaf Bergh, Ms Karin Falk, Mr Johan Forssell, Mr Tom Johnstone (deputy chairman), Mr Mikael Lilius (chairman), Mr Risto Murto, and Mr Markus Rauramo. All eight Board members were determined to be independent of the company and six members were determined to be independent of significant shareholders. Mr Tom Johnstone was determined to be dependent of significant shareholders, due to This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Governance 107 his position on the board of Investor AB. Mr Johan Forssell was determined to be dependent of significant shareholders, due to his position as the President and CEO of Investor AB. Until 2 March 2017, the Board consisted of the following eight members: Ms Maarit Aarni-Sirviö, Mr Kaj-Gustaf Bergh, Mr Sune Carlsson (deputy chairman), Mr Tom Johnstone, Mr Mikael Lilius (chairman), Mr Risto Murto, Ms Gunilla Nordström and Mr Markus Rauramo. During 2017, Wärtsilä's Board of Directors held nine meetings. The average attendance of all directors was 100%. The financial and strategic development of Wärtsilä and its position in the markets, its growth opportunities, and the general further development of the Company have been, among others, the major items on the Board's agenda. People matters are also an important and continuous part of the Board’s work, as they contribute to Wärtsilä’s long-term success. During 2017, areas of particular focus included the digital strategy of the Group, business development in Asia as well as the acquisition of Greensmith Energy Management Systems Inc. Board member meeting participation in 2017 Number of meetings % of meetings Mikael Lilius, Chairman 9/9 100 Tom Johnstone, Deputy Chairman 9/9 100 Maarit Aarni-Sirviö 9/9 100 Kaj-Gustaf Bergh 9/9 100 Karin Falk 8/8 100 Johan Forssell 8/8 100 Risto Murto 9/9 100 Markus Rauramo 9/9 100 Until 2 March 2017 Sune Carlsson 2/2 100 Gunilla Nordström 2/2 100 Anchor Responsibilities of the Board of Directors The Board considers all matters stipulated to be the responsibility of a board of directors by legislation, other regulations, and the company's Articles of Association. The most important of these are: • the annual and interim financial statements • matters to be put before the General Meetings of shareholders • the appointment of the President & CEO, the Executive Vice Presidents and the CEO's deputy, if any • the organisation of financial supervision within the company The Board is also responsible for considering any matters that are so far-reaching with respect to the area of the Group's operations, that they cannot be considered to fall within the scope of the Group's day-to-day administration. Examples of such matters include: • approval of the long-term goals of the Group and its businesses, as well as the strategies to achieve them • monitoring the developments, opportunities and threats in the external environment, and their impact on goals and strategy • approval of the annual business plan and target setting for the Group • approval of risk management principles This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Governance 108 • monitoring and assessing the performance of the President & CEO • approval of the remuneration and pension benefits of the President & CEO, the Executive Vice Presidents and the CEO's deputy • approval of the corporate governance principles • overseeing that the Company complies with legal and regulatory requirements and its Code of Conduct and other established values and ethical principles in its operations • discussing and monitoring the R&D and product development plans of the Company • the appointing of the Board committees • the granting of charitable donations • approval of other matters that are strategically or financially important, such as significant investments, acquisitions or divestments. Anchor The Board's committees The Board of Directors appoints annually an Audit Committee, a Nomination Committee, and a Remuneration Committee, and may also nominate other committees if considered necessary in its constitutive meeting following the Annual General Meeting. The Board appoints the members of these committees, and their chairmen, taking into consideration the expertise and experience required for the duties of the committee. The Board also has the right to remove a member from a committee. The members of each committee are appointed for the same term of office as the Board itself. In addition to the committee members, other Board members may participate in committee meetings, if they so wish. The purpose of the Board's committees is to prepare matters to be put before the Board for its decision. The committees have no decision-making authority of their own. The Audit Committee The Board of Directors appoints an Audit Committee to assist it in the performance of its supervisory duties. The Board appoints from among its members at least three members to the Committee. These members shall have the qualifications necessary to perform the responsibilities of the Audit Committee. The majority of the members of the Audit Committee shall be independent of the company and at least one member shall be independent of the company’s significant shareholders. The Board defines the duties of the Audit Committee in the charter confirmed for the Committee. The Audit Committee monitors the reporting process of financial statements, supervises the financial reporting process, and monitors the efficiency of the internal control, internal audit and risk management systems. Furthermore, the Committee reviews the description of the main features of the internal control and risk management systems pertaining to the financial reporting process, monitors the statutory audit of the financial statements and consolidated financial statements, evaluates the independence of the statutory audit firm, and prepares the proposal for resolution on the election of the auditor. Other duties of the Audit Committee include reviewing the accounting principles of the company and approving any amendments to them, reviewing the interim and financial statements of the company and the reports prepared by the auditor for the Audit Committee, as well as evaluating the processes aimed at ensuring compliance with laws and regulations and monitoring the company’s credit position and taxation. The Audit Committee also reviews the company’s Corporate Governance Statements and reviews and resolves any special issues raised by the Board of Directors that fall within the competence of the Audit Committee. The Chairman of the Audit Committee convenes the Committee as required. The Chairman also reports the Committee's proposals to the Board of Directors and regularly reports to the Board on the Committee's meetings. Audit Committee in 2017 Chairman Markus Rauramo, members Maarit Aarni-Sirviö and Risto Murto. All members are independent of the company and significant shareholders. The Audit Committee met five times in 2017. The average attendance of all Committee members was 100%. The Nomination Committee The Board of Directors appoints a Nomination Committee to assist it in its work. The Board appoints at least three of its members to serve on the Committee. The majority of the members of the Committee shall be independent of the company. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Governance 109 The Board defines the duties of the Nomination Committee in the charter confirmed for the Committee. The Nomination Committee prepares the proposal to be put before the General Meeting regarding the election of the directors for the Board. The Committee communicates, when required, with major shareholders in matters pertaining to the election of the directors for the Board. The Nomination Committee prepares matters concerning the remuneration applying to Board members. The Nomination Committee monitors and reports to the Board of Directors the achievement related to the Board’s diversity objectives on a yearly basis, and, if needed, the Committee proposes adjustments to the Diversity Policy for the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Nomination Committee convenes the Committee as required. He also reports the Committee's proposals to the Board of Directors and regularly reports to the Board on the Committee's meetings. Nomination Committee in 2017 Chairman Mikael Lilius, members Kaj-Gustaf Bergh, Johan Forssell and Risto Murto. All members are independent of the company and three are independent of significant shareholders. The Nomination Committee met two times in 2017. The average attendance of all Committee members was 100%. The Remuneration Committee The Board appoints a Remuneration Committee to assist it in its work. The Board appoints at least three of its members to sit on the Committee. The majority of the members of the Committee shall be independent of the company. The Board defines the duties of the Remuneration Committee in the charter confirmed for the Committee. The Remuneration Committee prepares, as necessary, matters concerning the appointment of the President & CEO, the CEO's deputy and other Board of Management members for the Board of Directors. The Committee prepares proposals for the Board of Directors concerning the remuneration principles, incentive schemes and remuneration that apply to the President & CEO and the Board of Management members. External consultants used by the committee are independent of the company and management. The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee convenes the Committee as required. He also reports the Committee's proposals to the Board of Directors and regularly reports to the Board on the Committee's meetings. Remuneration Committee in 2017 Chairman Mikael Lilius, members Maarit Aarni-Sirviö and Tom Johnstone. All members are independent of the company and two are independent of significant shareholders. The Remuneration Committee met three times in 2017. The average attendance of all Committee members was 100%. Board member committee meeting participation in 2017 Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Mikael Lilius 2/2 3/3 Tom Johnstone 3/3 Maarit Aarni-Sirviö 5/5 3/3 Kaj-Gustaf Bergh 2/2 Karin Falk Johan Forssell 2/2 Risto Murto 5/5 2/2 Markus Rauramo 5/5 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Governance 110 Anchor Board of Management Jaakko Eskola President & CEO of Wärtsilä Corporation since 2015. Born 1958, M.Sc. (Eng.). Joined the company in 1998. Primary working experience Wärtsilä Corporation, Senior Executive Vice President and Deputy to the CEO, 2013-2015; President, Marine Solutions, 2006-2015; Vice President, Power Plants Sales & Marketing, 2005-2006; Wärtsilä Development & Financial Services Oy, President, 1998-2005; PCA Corporate Finance, Executive Director, 1997-1998; Kansallis-Osake Pankki, various managerial positions in international project finance, 1986-1997; Industrialization Fund of Finland, Corporate Analyst, 1984-1986; VTT Technical Research Centre of Finland, Researcher, 1983-1984. Positions of trust The Federation of Finnish Technology Industries and The Finnish Foundation for Share Promotion, Member of the Board. Relevant prior positions of trust European Marine Equipment Council (EMEC), President, 2008-2011. Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2017: 8,481 shares Pierpaolo Barbone Deputy to the CEO since 2015 and President, Services & Executive Vice President, Wärtsilä Corporation, since 2013. Born 1957, M.Sc. (Eng.). Joined the company in 1996. Primary working experience Wärtsilä Corporation, Vice President Services, South Europe & Africa, 2013; Wärtsilä Corporation, Vice President Services, Middle East & Asia, 2010-2013; Wärtsilä Italia S.p.A., Executive Vice President, 2000-2003; Ciserv Group, President, 2001-2006; Wärtsilä Corporation, Vice President Field Service, 1997-2009; Wärtsilä Italia S.p.A., Vice President Services, 1997-2003; Fincantieri C.N.I. S.p.A., Isotta Fraschini diesel engines business unit, Sales manager, 1989-1996. Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2017: 7,277 shares Päivi Castrén Executive Vice President, Human Resources since 2012. Born 1958, M.Sc. (Soc. Sc.). Joined the company in 2005. Primary working experience Wärtsilä Corporation, Vice President, Human Resources, 2005-2011; Nokia Corporation, Director, Human Resources, Nokia Finland, 2002-2005; Nokia Networks, HR Director, 2000-2002; Nokia Networks, Networks Systems division, HR Director, 1999-2000; Nokia Networks, HR manager, 1995-1998; Valmet Paper Machinery, HR manager, 1988-1995. Positions of trust The Federation of Finnish Technology Industries, Chairman of the Committee of Education and Employment; Wilhelm Wahlforss Foundation, Chairman of the Board; Member of the IMD Executive Education Advisory Council. Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2017: 4,933 shares This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Governance 111 Javier Cavada Camino President, Energy Solutions & Executive Vice President, Wärtsilä Corporation, since 2015. Born 1975, PhD (Eng.). Joined the company in 2002. Primary working experience Wärtsilä Corporation, Vice President, Services South Europe and Africa, 2013-2015; Vice President, Propulsion Services, 2015; Wärtsilä Propulsion, Director, Quality & Operational Development, 2012-2013; Wärtsilä Propulsion Wuxi Co., Ltd., Managing Director, 2011-2013; Cedervall Zhangjiagang Marine Components Co., Ltd., Managing Director, 2011-2013; Wärtsilä CME Zhenjiang Propeller Co. Ltd., Technical Director, 2009-2011; Professor at University of Cantabria, Spain, 2007-2009; Wärtsilä Propulsion Spain, S.A., Director, Delivery Centre, 2008-2009; Production Manager, 2002-2007; Robert Bosch Spain, S.A., Production Manager, Starter Motor, 1999-2002; Technical Manager, Production lines, 1997-2002. Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2017: no shares Kari Hietanen Executive Vice President, Corporate Relations and Legal Affairs since 2012, Company Secretary since 2002. Born 1963, LL.M. Joined the company in 1989. Primary working experience Wärtsilä Corporation, Executive Vice President, Human Resources and Legal Affairs, 2002-2011; Wärtsilä Power Divisions, Group General Counsel, 2000-2002; Wärtsilä Diesel Group, General Counsel, 1994-1999; Metra Corporation and Wärtsilä Diesel Group, Legal Counsel, 1989-1994. Positions of trust European Engine Power Plants Association, EUGINE, President; German-Finnish Chamber of Commerce, Member of the Board; Finnish-Russian Intergovernmental Economic Commission, II Deputy Chairman; Finnish-Korean Trade Association, Deputy Chairman of the Board; East Office of Finnish Industries Ltd, Member of the Board; Confederation of Finnish Industries (EK), Chairman of the Trade Policy Committee; International Trade Committee, Finland Chamber of Commerce / ICC Advisory Board, ICC Finland, member. Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2017: 5,211 shares Roger Holm President, Marine Solutions and Executive Vice President, Wärtsilä Corporation, since 2015. Born 1972, M.Sc. (Econ.). Joined the company in 1997. Primary working experience Wärtsilä Corporation: Senior Vice President, Engines, 2013-2015; Vice President Seals & Bearings, 2011-2013; Vice President Solutions Management, Services, 2010-2011; Vice President Business Development, Services, 2008-2010; Chief Information Officer, 2006-2008; Program Director, Global ERP Program, 2002-2006; Corporate Controller, 2001-2002; Wärtsilä Finland Oy & Wärtsilä NSD Finland Oy: various managerial positions, 1997-2001. Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2017: no shares This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Governance 112 Atte Palomäki Executive Vice President, Communications & Branding, since 2008. Born 1965, M.Sc. (Pol.). Joined the company in 2008. Primary working experience Nordea Bank AB (publ.), Group Chief Press Officer, 2007-2008 and Chief Communication Officer, Finland, 2005-2006; Kauppalehti, Senior Business Correspondent, 2002-2005; MTV3, Senior Economic Correspondent, 2000-2002, News Producer, 1995-2000 and News Anchor, 1993-1995. Positions of trust Taloudellinen Tiedotustoimisto TAT (Economic Information Office), European Association of Communication Directors (EACD) and Management Group of the Finland Promotion Board, Member of the Board. Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2017: 4,831 shares Marco Ryan Executive Vice President and Chief Digital Officer since 2016. Born 1966, BSc (IM). Joined the company in 2016. Primary working experience Flint Group, Interim Chief Digital Officer, 2016; Thomas Cook Group, Chief Digital Officer, 2013-2015; Thomas Cook Touristik GMbH, Managing Director Omnichannel, 2013-2014; Accenture Interactive, Managing Director (ASEAN), 2011-2013; Premier Farnell Plc, Senior Vice President eCommerce and Digital, 2006-2011; Capgemini Consulting, Executive Consultant, 2001-2006; Interactive Collector Plc, VP Interactive Services, 1999-2001; Telematix and Keyhaven Ltd, Managing Director, 1997-1999; British Army, Officer with various management and operational roles, 1985-1997. Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2017: no shares Marco Wirén Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since 2013. Born 1966, M.Sc. (Econ.). Joined the company in 2013. Primary working experience SSAB, Executive Vice President and CFO, 2008-2013; SSAB, Vice President Business control, 2007-2008; Eltel Networks, CFO and VP Business Development, 2002-2007; NCC, VP Business Development and Group Controller, 1995-2001. Positions of trust Neste Corporation, Member of the Board. Holdings in Wärtsilä Corporation on 31.12.2017: 4,905 shares This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Governance 113 Anchor The President & CEO and the Deputy CEO The Board of Directors appoints a President for the Group who is also its Chief Executive Officer. The President & CEO is in charge of the day-to-day management of the company and its administration, in accordance with the company's Articles of Association, the Finnish Companies Act, and the instructions of the Board of Directors. He is assisted in this work by the Board of Management. The President & CEO's service terms and conditions are specified in writing in his service contract. The President & CEO of the company is Mr Jaakko Eskola. The deputy to the President & CEO is Mr Pierpaolo Barbone, President, Services. Anchor Operations of the Board of Management The company's Board of Management comprises nine members: the President & CEO, the Chief Financial Officer, the Executive Vice Presidents heading the Energy Solutions, Marine Solutions and Services businesses, the Chief Digital Officer and the Executive Vice Presidents heading the Communications & Branding, the Corporate Relations & Legal Affairs, and the Human Resources functions. Board of Management members are appointed by the company's Board of Directors, which also approves their remuneration and other terms of their employment. The Board of Management is chaired by the President & CEO. It considers strategic issues related to the Group and its businesses, as well as investments, product policy, the Group's structure and corporate steering systems, and it supervises the company's operations. The Chief Financial Officer's main areas of responsibility include group control, treasury (including project and customer financing), taxation and process development, and corporate planning. The Executive Vice Presidents heading the businesses are each responsible for the sales volumes and profitability of their respective global businesses, employing the services of the Group's worldwide subsidiaries. The Chief Digital Officer leads the Information Management organisation and is responsible for developing and executing Wärtsilä’s digital strategy, and related digital governance in close collaboration with the CEO and the Board of Management. The main areas of responsibility of the Executive Vice President, Corporate Relations & Legal are corporate relations and legal affairs, intellectual asset management and sustainability, as well as environmental and occupational health and safety. The Executive Vice President, Human Resources is responsible for people related processes. The main areas of responsibility of the Executive Vice President, Communications & Branding are external and internal communications, as well as branding. Information on the members of the Board of Management and their areas of responsibility and holdings can be found in the Board of Management CVs. The Board of Management in 2017 In 2017, the Board of Management met 14 times. The main issues addressed by the Board of Management included market development and business strategy, new growth areas, and the profitability of the company, as well as issues relating to developments regarding competitiveness, costs and Wärtsilä's organisational structure. Digitalisation and security, in particular cybersecurity, were also high on the agenda, as was occupational health and safety and operational excellence. Carrying out the acquisition of Greensmith Energy Management Systems Inc., and planning and implementing the integration process was another important area of focus. Furthermore, the Board of Management continuously addresses the development of the regulatory operating environment, order intake and production capacity, as well as supplier and other stakeholder relationships. Anchor Corporate management The company's Corporate Management includes, in addition to the Board of Management, the following directors responsible for corporate functions: Juha Hiekkanen Vice President, Financial Controlling Born 1978, M.Sc. (Econ.) This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Governance 114 Riitta Hovi Deputy General Counsel, Corporate Legal Affairs Born 1960, LL.M., MBA Anu Hämäläinen Vice President, Group Treasury and Financial Services & Support Born 1965, M.Sc. (Econ.) Tom Unnérus Vice President, Corporate Internal Audit Born 1972, M.Sc. (Eng.) Sari Kolu Director, Compliance Born 1967, Master of Laws, Executive MBA Jukka Kumpulainen Vice President, Chief Information Officer (CIO) Born 1968, M.Sc. (Eng.) Antti Kuokkanen Vice President, M&A, Business Control & Analysis Born 1977, M.Sc. (Econ.), M.Sc. (Eng.) Vesa Riihimäki Vice President, Quality Born 1966, M.Sc. (Eng.) Marko Vainikka Director, Corporate Relations and Sustainability Born 1970, M.Sc. (Eng.) Natalia Valtasaari Director, Investor & Media Relations Born 1984, M.Sc. (Econ.) Business Management teams Each business head is supported by a Business Management team. Energy Solutions Javier Cavada Camino President, Energy Solutions Born 1975, PhD (Eng.) Alexandre Eykerman Vice President, LNG Solutions Born 1972, M.Sc. (Mech. Eng. & Shipping), MBA (Supply Management) John Jung CEO & President, Greensmith Energy, Vice President, Energy Storage and Integration Born 1967, B.Sc. (Econ.), MBA (Strategy & Finance) This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Governance 115 Senja Koivusalo Vice President, Human Resources Born 1979, BBA, MBA Melle Kruisdijk Vice President, Europe and Acting Vice President, Africa Born 1971, M.Sc. (Mech. Eng.) Antti Kämi Vice President, Engine Power Plants Born 1964, M.Sc. (Civil Eng.) Sushil Purohit Vice President, Middle East, Asia & Australia Born 1972, B.Sc. (Eng.), MBA Tomas Rönn Vice President, Americas Born 1961, B.Sc. (Electrical & Electronics Eng.) Laura Susi-Gamba Vice President, Legal Affairs Born 1963, LL.M. Ossi Ylinen Vice President, Finance and Control Born 1976, M.Sc. (Econ.) Marine Solutions Roger Holm President, Marine Solutions Born 1972, M.Sc. (Econ.) Arjen Berends Vice President, Finance & Control Born 1968, MBA Aaron Bresnahan Vice President, Sales Born 1969, MBA & MA (Strategic Studies) Sinikka Ilveskoski Vice President, Legal & Contract Management Born 1967, LL.M. Timo Koponen Vice President, Flow & Gas Solutions Born 1969, M.Sc. (Econ.) Stephan Kuhn Vice President, Electrical & Automation, until December 2017 Born 1962, MBA This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Governance 116 Juha Kytölä Vice President, Environmental Solutions Born 1964, Ph.D (Dr. Eng) Arto Lehtinen Vice President, Propulsion Born 1971, M.Sc. (Eng.) Annika Parkkonen Vice President, Human Resources Born 1971, M.Sc. (Politics) Stefan Wiik Vice President, Engines Born 1971, B.Sc. (Eng.) Services Pierpaolo Barbone President, Services & Deputy to the CEO Born 1957, M.Sc. (Min. Eng.) Guido Barbazza Vice President, Emerging Business Born 1960, M.Sc. (Mech. Eng.) Serge Begue Vice President, Area South Europe & Africa Born 1954, Mech. Eng. Peter Bjurs Vice President, Finance & Control Born 1965, M.Sc. (Econ.) Henri van Boxtel Vice President, Area Middle East & Asia Born 1959, B.Sc. (Econ.), Nautical degree Henrik Dahl Vice President, Services 4.0 Born 1978, B.Sc. (Tech.) Tamara de Gruyter Vice President, Propulsion System Services Born 1972, B.Sc., Shipbuilding Engineering Kai Kamila Vice President, Human Resources Born 1960, M.Ed. (Master of Education) Ralf Lindbäck Vice President, Legal Affairs Born 1958, LL.M. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Governance 117 Stefan Nysjö Vice President, Area North Europe Born 1970, B.Sc. (Mech.) Walter Reggente Vice President, Area Americas Born 1965, Chief Marine Engineer Vesa Riihimäki Vice President, Quality Born 1966, M.Sc. (Eng.) Managing Directors of the subsidiaries The Managing Directors of the Group's subsidiaries are responsible for ensuring that the local resources are correctly dimensioned to meet the needs of the businesses and that the subsidiary's personnel development needs are met. The Managing Directors are also responsible for ensuring that the subsidiary's operations fulfil the requirements stipulated in the Group processes, including the quality system, that these operations comply with the respective country's legal requirements and with good business practices, and that communication within the subsidiary is conducted according to the targets of the Group. Anchor Internal control Wärtsilä has defined its objectives for internal control according to the international COSO framework. Wärtsilä defines internal control as a process implemented by Wärtsilä's Board of Directors, the Management, the Boards of Directors of Group companies, and other personnel, which is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the achievement of objectives. Internal control covers all the policies, processes, procedures and organisational structures within Wärtsilä that help management, and ultimately the Board, to ensure that Wärtsilä is achieving its objectives, that the business conduct is ethical and in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, that the company's assets, including its brand, are safeguarded, and that its financial reporting is correct. Internal control is not a separate process or set of activities, but is embedded within Wärtsilä's operations. The system of internal control operates at all levels of Wärtsilä. Wärtsilä maintains and develops its internal control system with the ultimate aim of improving its business performance and, at the same time, of complying with laws and regulations in countries where it operates. Performance management Planning and target setting, an integral part of performance management in Wärtsilä, is a regular management activity and not part of Wärtsilä's internal control system. The establishment of objectives, however, is an important pre-requisite for internal control. Through the performance management process, financial and non-financial targets are set for Wärtsilä annually at the Group level. These Group level targets are then translated into targets for the Businesses, Group companies, and eventually for individuals. The achievement of the annual targets is monitored through monthly management reporting. The performance of the Businesses and the achievement of the annual targets are reviewed on a monthly basis in the respective Management team meetings. The performance relating to the targets set by the Group and the different Businesses are reviewed on a monthly basis by the Board of Management. The respective management teams and the Board of Management also address the reliability of Wärtsilä's financial reporting. Wärtsilä's financial reporting is carried out in a harmonised way in all major Group companies, using a single instance ERP system and a common chart of accounts. The International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) are applied throughout the entire Group. Wärtsilä's finance and control process is essential for the functioning of internal control. Adequate controls in the financial management and accounting processes are needed to ensure the reliability of financial reporting. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Governance 118 The Board of Directors regularly assesses the adequacy and effectiveness of Wärtsilä's internal controls and risk management. It is also responsible for ensuring that the internal control of accounting and financial administration is arranged appropriately. The Audit Committee of Wärtsilä’s Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing the financial reporting process. The Group Business Control function is responsible for notifying relevant levels of management regarding deviations from plans, analysing the underlying reasons, and suggesting corrective actions. Group Business Control supports the Businesses in decision-making and analyses to ensure the attainment of financial targets. It maintains and develops the company's performance management processes, so that the management at different levels of the organisation is able to receive timely, reliable, and adequate information regarding the achievement of the organisation's objectives. In addition, it is responsible for developing the financial reporting processes and respective controls. Legal and compliance management Legal and compliance management practices and processes occupy a central role in Wärtsilä's system of internal control. Wärtsilä's policy is to act in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations in all countries where it operates. Legal and compliance management acts predominantly in a proactive manner. Legal Affairs supports the President & CEO and the businesses in analysing and making decisions on matters involving contract policy, risk management, and regulatory considerations. Other key activities are to lead compliance management, and to strengthen and ensure the culture of appropriate conduct and behaviour, both internally and in external business transactions. Compliance management is based on the Code of Conduct and relevant group level policies and directives. Company-wide control mechanisms and processes are a part of the overall internal control system. HR management Human resource management practices and processes play an active role in Wärtsilä's system of internal control. Wärtsilä's main human resource management processes with respect to internal control are; compensation and benefits, HR development, recruitment and resourcing management, individual performance management, as well as processes for collecting employee feedback. The HR function is responsible for maintaining and developing Wärtsilä's people related processes to enable effective internal control, also at the individual level. Other management systems The Board of Management is responsible for developing and implementing Wärtsilä's management system, continuously improving its performance, and ensuring that it operates effectively. The Wärtsilä management system covers all global processes and management procedures within Wärtsilä related to fulfilling customer requirements. The proper functioning of the management systems highlighted below ensures, for their part, the attainment of Wärtsilä's internal control objectives. Quality The quality of Wärtsilä's solutions, and thus quality management, is a top priority for Wärtsilä. Compliance with Wärtsilä's Quality Management System ISO 9001:2000 is compulsory throughout the Group, and compliance with the system is rigorously monitored. Sustainability Wärtsilä is strongly committed to sustainability. Wärtsilä's purpose and values, together with a solid financial performance, form the basis for sustainable development within Wärtsilä. Wärtsilä applies global guiding principles, such as the Quality, Environmental, Health & Safety policy (QEHS policy) and the Code of Conduct, which, together with the company's values, ensure a harmonised way of working towards sustainable development. In addition to the aforementioned, the Corporate Manual includes other policies and directives, a description of the company's operating procedures, responsibilities, and the management system structure. Wärtsilä's Board of Management has overall responsibility for sustainability performance. The Board of Management approves the guiding principles and reviews the content on a regular basis. The Board of Management defines sustainability targets and monitors performance against these set targets. Performance is reviewed in connection with the management reviews at both Wärtsilä's Board of Management and Business Management Team levels. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Governance 119 The Board of Directors reviews major sustainability issues on an annual basis. In addition, the Board of Management identifies major critical concerns and, when necessary, communicates such concerns to the Board of Directors. Wärtsilä's sustainability function is responsible for providing the necessary information to management, identifying development needs, as well as for coordinating sustainability programmes and preparing instructions. The function cooperates closely with the Businesses and the supporting functions, such as Human Resources, Legal Affairs, Compliance and Quality. It also collects and consolidates sustainability data from the subsidiaries. Wärtsilä has clearly defined responsibilities, which are supported by necessary instructions and training. This training covers, for example, the Code of Conduct, anti-corruption, as well as environmental and occupational health and safety issues. Wärtsilä monitors its sustainability performance by utilising the information provided by various sustainability tools and activities, such as internal audits and compliance processes. Risk management Internal control within Wärtsilä is designed to support the company in achieving its targets. The risks related to the achievement of targets need to be identified and evaluated in order for them to be managed. Thus, the identification and assessment of risks is a pre-requisite for internal control within Wärtsilä. Wärtsilä's internal control mechanisms and procedures provide management assurance that risk management actions are carried out as planned. Wärtsilä has defined and implemented entity level and process level control activities, as well as information system controls. Control activities at different levels are needed to directly mitigate risks at the respective levels. Wärtsilä's risk management processes consist of Group-wide risk assessment and management processes, as well as project-specific risk assessments and project risk management. The Group-wide risk assessment process results in the creation of action plans for the identified and prioritised risks. Each Business reports its main risks to Wärtsilä's Board of Management, which reviews the execution of the defined risk management action plans on a regular basis. Wärtsilä's Board of Directors is responsible for defining the Group's overall level of risk tolerance, and for ensuring that Wärtsilä has adequate tools and resources for managing risks. The Board reviews the risk profile regularly. The President & CEO, with the assistance of the Board of Management, is responsible for organising and ensuring risk management in all of Wärtsilä's operations. Business management is responsible for defining action plans for managing the most important risks. Wärtsilä's most important strategic, operative and financial risks can be found in the Risks and risk management section of this report. Information management Information management plays a key role in Wärtsilä's internal control system. Information systems are critical for effective internal control as many of the control activities are programmed controls. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Governance 120 Anchor Values and the control environment The foundation of Wärtsilä's internal control system is its values: Energy, Excellence and Excitement. Wärtsilä's values are reflected in its day-to-day relations with its suppliers, customers and investors, and in internal guidelines, policies, manuals, processes and practices. The control environment sets the tone for internal control within Wärtsilä and influences the control awareness of its people. It provides discipline and structure for all the other components of internal control. The elements of Wärtsilä's control environment are included in the corporate culture, the integrity, ethical values and competence of Wärtsilä's personnel, as well as in the attention and direction provided to the personnel by the Board of Directors of Wärtsilä. Wärtsilä's values and control environment provide Wärtsilä's Board of Directors and Management with the basis for reasonable assurance regarding the achievement of the objectives for internal control. The President & CEO and the Board of Management define Wärtsilä's values and ethical principles, which are reflected in the Code of Conduct, and set an example for the corporate culture, which in combination create the basis for the control environment. They are, together with Business management, responsible for communicating Wärtsilä's values to the organisation. Anchor Business processes The controls embedded in Wärtsilä's business processes play a key role in ensuring effective internal control within the company. Controls in the business processes help ensure the achievement of all the objectives of internal control within Wärtsilä, especially those related to the efficiency of operations and the safeguarding of the company's profitability and reputation. Business management is responsible for ensuring that within its area of responsibility, the defined Group level processes and controls are implemented and complied with. Where no Group level processes and controls exist, Business management is responsible for ensuring that efficient Business level processes with adequate controls have been described and implemented. Anchor Guidelines and communication Guidelines and manuals The components of Wärtsilä's internal control system, including for example, corporate governance, the management system, the performance management process, as well as the business and other processes, are described in various guidelines and manuals. The essential Group level policies and guidelines are compiled in Wärtsilä's Corporate Manual. Wärtsilä's Group level Accounting Manual contains instructions and guidance on accounting and financial reporting to be applied in all Wärtsilä Group This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Governance 121 companies. The manual supports the achievement of the objectives regarding the reliability of Wärtsilä's financial reporting. Wärtsilä's Group level policies, and any changes to them, shall be approved by a member of the Board of Management. In addition to the Group level guidelines and manuals, the Businesses have issued related guidelines and instructions for their own, specific purposes. The Business level guidelines and manuals are aligned with, and do not contradict, the Group level guidelines and manuals. Information and communication An effective internal control system needs sufficient, timely and reliable information to enable the management to assess the achievement of the company's objectives. Both financial and non-financial information is needed, relating to both internal and external events and activities. Informal means by which employees can provide feedback to management, and to communicate suspected misconduct (e.g. directly to the Compliance, Legal Affairs or Internal Audit function) are used. All external communications are carried out in accordance with the Group Communications Policy. Anchor Monitoring Monitoring is a process that assesses the quality of Wärtsilä's system of internal control and its performance over time. Monitoring within Wärtsilä is performed both on an ongoing basis, and through separate evaluations that include internal, external and quality audits. Business management is responsible for ensuring that all relevant laws and regulations are complied with in their respective responsibility areas. Wärtsilä's management in turn performs monitoring as part of its regular supervisory activities. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors assesses and assures the adequacy and effectiveness of Wärtsilä's internal controls and risk management. The Internal Audit function assists the Audit Committee in assessing and assuring the adequacy and effectiveness of Wärtsilä's internal controls and risk management by performing regular audits of Group legal entities and support functions according to its annual plan. Wärtsilä's external auditor and other assurance providers, such as quality auditors, conduct evaluations of Wärtsilä's internal controls. The Group Finance & Control function oversees the financial reporting processes and controls to ensure that they are being followed. It also monitors the correctness of all external and internal financial reporting. The Legal and Compliance function monitors adherence to the compliance policies of the group. The external auditors verify the correctness of the external annual financial reports. Anchor Audit Internal The Group's internal audit is handled by its Internal Audit unit, which reports to the President & CEO. The purpose of the Internal Audit is to analyse the company's operations and processes, as well as the effectiveness and quality of its supervision mechanisms. The internal auditor also participates, if necessary, in audits undertaken in conjunction with acquisitions and carries out special tasks when needed. The Internal Audit function covers all of the company's organisational levels and subsidiaries. An internal audit is undertaken in the main subsidiaries on an annual basis, and in network companies at three-year intervals. The Internal Audit function prepares an annual plan under which they independently audit different parts of the company, but it is also empowered to carry out special audits. The annual plan is approved by the Audit Committee, to which the Internal Audit function also reports at regular intervals. If required, the auditors also have the possibility to take direct contact with the Audit Committee or members of the Board of Directors. External The company has one auditor, which shall be an audit firm. The auditor is elected by the Annual General Meeting to audit the accounts for the ongoing financial year, and its duties cease at the close of the subsequent Annual General Meeting. The auditor is This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Governance 122 responsible for auditing the consolidated and parent company financial statements and accounting records, and the administration of the parent company. Following the closing of the annual accounts, the external auditor submits the statutory auditor's report to the company's shareholders and reports regularly also its findings to the Board of Directors' Audit Committee. An auditor, in addition to fulfilling general competency requirements, must also comply with certain legal independence requirements guaranteeing the execution of an independent and reliable audit. Auditor in 2017 The Annual General Meeting appointed the audit firm PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy (PwC) as Wärtsilä Corporation's auditor for the year 2017. The auditor-in-charge was Mr Tomi Hyryläinen. Auditing fees paid to PwC amounted to EUR 2.9 million in 2017. Consultancy fees unrelated to auditing duties totalled EUR 0.3 million. These latter fees mainly concerned consultation on taxation matters. Anchor Related party transactions Wärtsilä’s related parties comprise the Board of Directors, the President & CEO, the Board of Management, as well as the associated companies and joint ventures. The Group Finance and Control function evaluates and monitors transactions concluded between the company and its related parties to ensure that any conflicts of interest are taken into account appropriately in Wärtsilä’s decision-making process. Anchor Insider management Wärtsilä manages inside information and insiders in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations regarding insiders and insider trading. The most important statutory provisions are contained in the Market Abuse Regulation (EU) 596/2014 (“MAR”). Wärtsilä also follows the Insider Guidelines of Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd., and Wärtsilä’s Insider Policy. The company draws up insider lists for projects containing inside information. Insiders are given written notification of their status as insiders and instructions on the obligations that apply to insiders. Members of Wärtsilä’s Board of Directors and Board of Management and certain other Wärtsilä personnel are prohibited from trading of the Wärtsilä financial instruments during the 30 days prior to publication of the financial statements bulletin or interim report. Wärtsilä publishes notifications on transactions conducted by persons discharging managerial responsibilities, and persons closely associated with them in accordance with the provisions of the MAR. Persons discharging managerial responsibilities refer exclusively to the members of the Board of Directors and the Board of Management of Wärtsilä. These notifications are available on Wärtsilä’s webpage. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Governance 123 Anchor Remuneration report 2017 Dear Shareholders This report sets out the remuneration for the Board of Directors and Board of Management for 2017. With this report, we endeavour to provide greater clarity and transparency on the remuneration arrangements at Wärtsilä. Remuneration at Wärtsilä is guided by our rewarding principles. These principles are used to structure the approach to reward throughout the organisation, and are designed to align employee rewards with the interests of the company and its shareholders. The remuneration policy for the President & CEO and other members of the Board of Management has been developed taking these principles into account. The short-term incentive awards for the Board of Management were based on profitability (EBIT) and cash-flow targets. The target award opportunity was unchanged from 2016 but the maximum award opportunity was increased. Wärtsilä's long-term incentive scheme is based on share price development. The share price performance in recent years will result in the 2014 scheme paying out at the maximum of EUR 10.60 per bonus right in February 2018. We believe in a consistent approach to reward at Wärtsilä. The remuneration arrangements for the Board of Management, which also cascade down to other members of the senior management team, have operated broadly unchanged for the last few years. The Committee considers that the current schemes remain appropriate and no significant changes are planned for 2018. Mikael Lilius Chairman of the Remuneration Committee This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Governance 124 Remuneration principles for the Board of Management Wärtsilä's remuneration policy is designed to attract, retain and motivate executives by providing compensation solutions that reward them for their performance in delivering business results. The remuneration arrangements for the Board of Management consist of fixed and variable, performance related, pay as follows: Fixed pay The fixed remuneration paid to the President & CEO and to the other members of the Board of Management consists of a monthly base salary and fringe benefits. Base salaries are reviewed annually taking into account company and individual performance and market conditions. Benefits include a company car, private medical insurance and participation in a company pension scheme. The President & CEO and members of the Board of Management participate in company specific pension schemes in addition to any statutory requirements. The nature of the supplementary pension schemes and retirement ages vary and are generally based on the retirement scheme of the national social security system to which the person in question belongs, and are either defined benefit or defined contribution based. The President & CEO participates in a defined contribution based system with a company contribution comprising 20% of the salary. Variable pay The Board of Directors determines the incentive schemes for the Board of Management and the principles underlying them. The Board of Directors also decides on other possible long-term incentive schemes for senior management, unless they are by law determined by the Annual General Meeting. The Board of Management decides on bonus schemes for other directors and managers. Short-term incentive schemes The Group operates a bonus scheme, which is implemented globally and is designed to provide incentives for achievement of and reward for delivery of the short-term business plan. The bonus is based on the Group's profitability and agreed personal targets. Around 3,000 directors and managers are covered by this scheme. For the President & CEO and the Board of Management, performance is based on the achievement of the company's profitability and other financial targets for the financial year, as set by the Board of Directors. The short-term incentive opportunity is capped at 100% of the annual base salary for the President & CEO, and 65% of the annual base salary for the other members of the Board of Management. Bonuses are paid in cash shortly following the year-end. Wärtsilä's employees also participate in bonus or profit-based incentive schemes. These are applied in the majority of countries where Wärtsilä operates according to that country's legislation, or they take the form of local bonus or profit-sharing schemes. All in all, 80% of the company's employees are covered by the Group's bonus schemes and various other performance-related incentive schemes. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Governance 125 Long-term incentive scheme Around 100 senior managers, including the President & CEO and the Board of Management, participate in Wärtsilä's long-term incentive scheme. The objective of the long-term incentive scheme is to align the interests of senior management with those of Wärtsilä’s shareholders by creating a long-term equity-related interest for the participants. In so doing this promotes shareholder value creation and drives a long-term performance culture in Wärtsilä. The long-term incentive scheme has a three year performance period. Under the scheme, participants are awarded bonus rights . The value of a bonus right at the end of the performance period is based on the growth in value of the share price between the three month period immediately preceding the performance period and the last three months of the performance period. The end share price may include a value for part or all of the normal and extraordinary dividends paid by the Wärtsilä Corporation during the performance period. Valuation of the bonus rights: To ensure an appropriate level of reward, an upper limit is set for each award cycle, capping the maximum value for each bonus right. The bonus rights are paid-out in cash, but the President & CEO and the Board of Management members are expected to acquire Wärtsilä shares with 50% of the net value received until they have achieved their required share ownership level. Share ownership policy Each Board of Management member is expected to accumulate and, once achieved, maintain a share ownership in Wärtsilä that at least corresponds to the individual’s annual gross base salary. Contractual terms for the President & CEO The base salary of the President & CEO is EUR 785,000 p.a. He is entitled to participate in the shortand long-term incentives schemes according to the terms and conditions described above. The President & CEO is eligible to take retirement upon reaching the age of sixty-three (63). His pension scheme is determined according to a defined contribution based system. The retirement pension contribution is equivalent to 20% of the annual salary. Remuneration paid to the President & CEO if dismissed by the company corresponds to 18 months’ salary plus a six months’ period of notice salary. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Governance 126 Remuneration of the Board of Management Board of Management's total remuneration in 2017 TEUR Salary and short-term Pension Short-term Long-term Board of Management benefits contributions incentives1 incentives2 Total Jaakko Eskola, President & CEO 785 156 295 410 1 645 Pierpaolo Barbone, President, Services and Deputy to the CEO 425 88 105 410 1 028 Other members of the Board of Management 2 162 493 441 1 587 4 863 1 Relates to the annual bonus for 2016 performance, which was paid in 2017 2 Relates to the 2013 long-term incentive cycle, which was paid in 2017 Short-term incentive schemes Board of Management's performance target structure for the short-term incentives is as follows: A sliding scale of targets was set for each measure. Short-term incentive for 2016 performance Performance against the group targets was as follows: The bonus paid-out, on average, at 50% of the maximum for the Board of Management, and 50% of the maximum for the President & CEO. Short-term incentive for 2017 performance The same performance measures and weightings apply to the annual bonus for 2017 performance, which will be paid in 2018. Performance against the group targets was as follows: This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Governance 127 Bonuses for 2017 will pay-out, on average, at 35% of the maximum for the Board of Management, and 31% of the maximum for the President & CEO. The bonuses will be paid in March 2018. Short-term incentive for 2018 performance There are no proposed changes to the operation of the short-term incentive plan for 2018. The performance measures, weightings and maximum limits will be the same as those applying in 2017. Long-term incentive schemes The table below sets out details of the realised and outstanding awards under Wärtsilä's long-term incentive scheme. The scheme applies to Wärtsilä’s senior management, consisting of approximately 100 directors, including the Board of Management. The value delivered is based on the share price development during the three-year performance period. Performance period 2014-2016 2015-2017 2016-2018 2017-2019 Number of bonus rights granted 1 846 000 2 076 000 1 962 000 2 139 000 Starting share price, EUR 37.05 44.25 47.47 48.57 Measurement period for comparison Q4 2016 + 50% of Q4 2017 + 100% of Q4 2018 + 100% of Q4 2019 + 100% of share price dividends paid dividends paid dividends paid dividends paid Maximum value per bonus right, EUR 10.00 10.60 13.84 18.21 Final comparison share price, EUR 42.17 60.10 Final value per bonus right, EUR 5.12 10.60 Payment date February 2017 February 2018 February 2019 February 2020 The bonus rights are paid-out in cash, but the President & CEO and the Board of Management members are expected to acquire Wärtsilä shares with 50% of the net value received until they have achieved their required share ownership level. In January 2018, the Board of Directors decided on the long-term incentive plan for 2018-2020. The plan operates according to the same principles as in the previous years. Board of Management's share ownership in Wärtsilä on 31 December 2017 Board of Management No. of shares Jaakko Eskola 8 481 Change in 2017 2 061 Pierpaolo Barbone 7 277 Change in 2017 1 677 Päivi Castrén 4 933 Change in 2017 963 Javier Cavada Camino 0 Change in 2017 0 Kari Hietanen 5 211 Change in 2017 937 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Governance 128 Roger Holm 0 Change in 2017 0 Atte Palomäki 4 831 Change in 2017 962 Marco Ryan 0 Change in 2017 0 Marco Wirén 4 905 Change in 2017 1 265 Evaluation The Board of Directors monitors the Group’s shortand long-term incentive schemes and evaluates the achievement of the targets on which they are based. The incentive schemes for 2017 were found to be well balanced and in accordance with market practices. The Board of Directors was satisfied that the rewards paid during the year were appropriate given the company's performance. Remuneration of the Board of Directors The Annual General Meeting decides annually on the fees to be paid to the members of the Board of Directors for one term of office at a time. The Annual General Meeting approved the following fees to the members of the Board of Directors for 2017: • to the ordinary members EUR 66,000/year • to the deputy chairman EUR 99,000/year • to the chairman EUR 132,000/year Approximately 40% of the annual fee is paid in Wärtsilä shares. In addition, each member will be paid EUR 600 per board meeting attended, the chairman's meeting fee being double this amount. Each member of the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee will be paid EUR 700 per committee meeting attended and each member of the Audit Committee will be paid EUR 1,200 per committee meeting attended, the chairman's meeting fee being double these amounts. The members of Wärtsilä's Board of Directors were paid altogether EUR 718 thousand for the financial period that ended on 31 December 2017. The Board's members were not covered by the company's incentive schemes. Fees paid to the Board of Directors TEUR Attendance fees Yearly fees Total Board of Directors 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Mikael Lilius, Chairman 21 23 132 132 153 155 Tom Johnstone, Deputy Chairman 9 11 99 66 108 77 Maarit Aarni-Sirviö 12 16 66 66 78 82 Kaj-Gustaf Bergh 8 8 66 66 74 74 Karin Falk 5 66 71 Johan Forssell 6 66 72 Risto Murto 13 15 66 66 79 81 Markus Rauramo 15 20 66 66 81 86 Until 2 March 2017 Sune Carlsson 1 8 99 1 107 Gunilla Nordström 1 8 66 1 86 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Governance 129 Fees paid in Wärtsilä shares in 2017 Board of Directors No. of shares Mikael Lilius, Chairman 945 Tom Johnstone, Deputy Chairman 709 Maarit Aarni-Sirviö 472 Kaj-Gustaf Bergh 472 Karin Falk 472 Johan Forssell 472 Risto Murto 472 Markus Rauramo 472 Board of Directors' share ownership in Wärtsilä on 31 December 2017 Board of Directors No. of shares Mikael Lilius, Chairman 19 359 Change in 2017 945 Tom Johnstone, Deputy Chairman 2 069 Change in 2017 709 Maarit Aarni-Sirviö 10 282 Change in 2017 472 Kaj-Gustaf Bergh 9 504 Change in 2017 472 Karin Falk 472 Change in 2017 472 Johan Forssell 472 Change in 2017 472 Risto Murto 2 452 Change in 2017 472 Markus Rauramo 5 006 Change in 2017 472 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Governance 130 Anchor Risks and risk management The aim and principles of risk management Wärtsilä, like any other company, is exposed to various risks through the normal course of its activities. No business can be conducted without accepting a certain level of risk, and any expected gains from business activities are to be assessed against the involved risks. The purpose of risk management is to ensure that Wärtsilä is able to effectively execute its strategies and to reach its targets, in the short term as well as over the long run. The key is to identify the risks that have the potential to restrain the company from reaching its goals, and to determine whether those risks are at an acceptable level. By definition, risk is the effect of uncertainty on objectives. An effect is a deviation from the expected — positive or negative; in other words either a threat or an opportunity. Actions need to be taken to avoid, mitigate, transfer, or monitor identified risks, or to capture and utilise the opportunities. Wärtsilä's structured risk management process offers a set of reactive, proactive, protective, and preventive tools that are used not only to protect it against threats, but also to turn some of the risks into opportunities. Risks can only be managed if they are identified and understood in advance, if risk treatment plans for managing them are made, and if a process of continuous follow-up is in place for the related controls. Therefore, risk management is a central part of Wärtsilä's strategic and operational management. Risk management at Wärtsilä is a continuous process of analysing and managing all the opportunities and threats faced by the company in its efforts to achieve its goals, and to ensure the continuity of the business. The basis for risk management is the lifecycle quality of Wärtsilä’s operations and products, and the continuous, systematic loss prevention efforts at all levels of the Group, not only as an integrated part of management systems, but as part of every employee’s daily work. In the long-term, this is the only means for reducing the overall risk related costs. Risk management policy and process Wärtsilä has a corporate level risk management policy which defines and formalises the Businesses’ risk management and reporting procedures. The document acts as a risk management guideline generating a common understanding over risk related concepts. It harmonises and structures the way of working with respect to risk management within the group in order to achieve a process whereby the risks identified are measurable and possible to consolidate. The policy brings consistency to risk management practice, provides a structure for the organisation and Businesses to handle day-to-day risk management tasks in accordance with the agreed processes, and provides a unified vocabulary to provide further guidance with respect to generic terms and definitions relating to risk management. The Businesses are responsible for the risks and rewards, and thus managing risks is in the responsibility of business management teams and individual managers. The risk management process controls exposures to risk by using systematic mapping, assessment, treatment, reporting, monitoring and control of risks, including the reporting of residual risks. Wärtsilä’s risk management process is based upon the ISO 31000 Risk Management Guidelines and Principles, and the vocabulary of ISO 31000 has been adopted in order to streamline risk related communication within the Group. The risk management process at Wärtsilä is embedded in Wärtsilä’s culture and practices, and tailored to fit the business functions and processes of the organisation. The process can be seen as a continuous loop consisting of the repetitive steps of context establishment, risk assessment, risk treatment, communication and consultation, and finally monitoring and review. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Governance 131 Implementation The Board of Directors and the Board of Management decide and set the guidelines on strategic matters. Each Business is responsible for achieving its set strategic goals, and for mitigating and managing its risks. The Corporate Risk Management function is part of Group Treasury, which reports to the Chief Financial Officer. The function is responsible for the risk reporting process, and for conducting risk assessments with the Businesses and their underlying organisations. It co-ordinates all risk management activities within the Group, reviews the business risk profile, and cooperates with the Businesses in the implementation of risk mitigation work. It is also responsible for maintaining the Group risk management policy, and for describing the current way of working in relation to risk reporting. Furthermore, the Risk Management function develops and manages global and local insurance schemes for insurable risks. The Audit Committee reviews and assesses the adequacy of risk management, and the Internal Audit function is responsible for reviewing the risk management process on an annual basis. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Governance 132 Risk mitigation actions are decided in the normal course of business. At its meetings, the Board of Management conducts annual Management Reviews for each Business and certain main support functions, addressing also their risks and risk mitigation. The identified risks are labelled as either internal or external; they are quantified in euro, and their probabilities are estimated. The Group risk report is then prepared and presented to the Board of Directors. Risk management is part of the Businesses’ management process and has been integrated into the Business Management teams’ agenda. The Businesses are accountable for organising and reporting on risk management from their underlying geographical business areas, business lines, organisations, and product centres. All follow-up actions are also the Businesses’ responsibility. Risk categories The relevant risks for Wärtsilä have been classified under four categories; strategic, operational, hazard and compliance, and financial risks. The potential loss expectancy is highest with strategic and operational risks and lowest with hazard and financial risks. The risks in most of the categories can have both upside and downside impacts. In this regard, hazard risks are an exception, since for them only a negative effect is possible. Risk radars are used to map the main risks within the risk categories in the annual risk assessment workshops between the Businesses and the Corporate Risk Management function. During the recent years a similar risk mapping process has been adopted also with certain main support functions such as HR and the Group Treasury. Business or function specific risk radars are generated for the use and evaluation of the Business Management teams, and are reviewed and updated by them on a regular basis. The Business specific radars are consolidated into a single Group Risk Radar, which is presented to the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee once a year. The purpose is to facilitate the discussion on risk and to give a quick overview of where priorities should lie in terms of risk management. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Governance 133 Strategic risks Strategic risk assessment is part of the strategic planning process within the Group. At Wärtsilä, a risk is defined as strategic if it has the potential for imposing a long-term impact on the business. Business environment risks Business cycles in the global economy, and in customer industries, influence the demand for Wärtsilä's products, as well as its financial condition and operating result. The flexible manufacturing model based on capacity outsourcing, together with a stable business mix with a large share of sales deriving from Services, provides Wärtsilä with a certain level of stability in a cyclical market. Important economic matters that indirectly affect Wärtsilä, its clients, and suppliers include inter alia, the liquidity and solvency of financial institutions, and thus not only their capability but also their willingness to extend credit, the counter cyclical stimulus programmes adopted by governments – especially in the power and infrastructure sectors, the enhanced activities of multilateral institutions, such as the International Finance Corporation, the availability of export credit schemes and guarantees, and other such factors. However, Wärtsilä’s relatively large order book gives the company time to adapt to changes in market conditions. The implementation of more stringent environmental regulations is important for Wärtsilä’s future growth potential, since the company’s comprehensive portfolio of products and services allows customers to meet such stricter requirements. A delay in legislation implementation may present a risk to Wärtsilä, and possible changes in the legislation timeline and scope are, therefore, actively monitored. Energy storage is emerging as disruptive technology to change the paradigm of power systems and Wärtsilä is strongly participating in the new market developments through the acquisition of Greensmith. Rapid deployment of new technologies can create new risks related to managing complex hybrid installations in an optimal way. Greensmith Energy Management System (GEMS) is proven to be an efficient and stable software to control and operate complex systems, which gives Wärtsilä a competitive advantage in managing the related risks. Market and customer risks Wärtsilä Services’ midand long-term activities are expected to grow in line with the development of the existing installed base and general global economic developments. Therefore, a slowdown in global growth represent the primary risk for demand development in the Services business. Wärtsilä Services has more than 12,000 individual customers engaging in service and spare part sales annually, and the current active base of installed Wärtsilä engines is approximately 180,000 MW. Thus, dependency on any single customer or customer segment is limited. In the Energy Solutions business, the same challenges that impacted the market in 2016 continued in 2017, but not as strongly. Fragile economic growth and slow decision-making represent the primary risks for demand development. Geopolitical tensions and significant currency fluctuations can result in investment decisions being postponed in certain countries. Low oil prices have a This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Governance 134 similar impact in the oil and gas producing countries. Price pressure resulting from the challenging competitive environment remains a risk. Orders have been received from all geographic regions, thus limiting the risk of dependence on one particular market. Energy Solutions’ three customer segments, namely industrial customers, IPPs (Independent Power Producers), and utilities, were also all represented in the order intake. Wärtsilä is well represented in all the major shipbuilding markets, and is active in all the main vessel segments. This, along with the large product portfolio, mitigates both geographical and single customer risks. Conditions in the marine markets improved somewhat in 2017. However, challenges resulting from the uncertainty in the shipping and shipbuilding business environment continued to affect markets. The consolidation in the market continued in 2017 leading to a decreasing number of major shipbuilding customers. Order book levels remained on the lower side in 2017. Despite positive development in the cruise and ferry segment and slight improvement in the merchant industry, the gas carrier and offshore segments continued to suffer from overcapacity and low freight rates. The importance of fuel efficiency and environmental regulations are clearly visible, driving interest in environmental solutions, gas as a marine fuel, as well as electric/hybrid solutions. Digitalisation became increasingly important for the shipping industry’s business and operating models during 2017. The shipbuilding market continued to be dominated by Asian yards, notably China and South Korea, but with good activity also in Europe thanks to activity in the cruise and special vessel segments. Competitive situation and price risks In the Services business, Wärtsilä has no direct competitors capable of offering a similar portfolio of services from a single source. Excluding the networks of other engine manufacturers, there are few global players in the service market. The continued focus of customers on optimising operating expenditures can lead to an increase in competition for services where price is more important than quality. The main action for mitigating this risk is to promote the value based offering. In Energy Solutions’ larger gas-fired projects, Wärtsilä faces competition from gas turbine manufacturers, such as GE and Siemens. In smaller gas power plant projects, and in the liquid fuel power plant market, the competitors are mainly other combustion engine suppliers, such as MAN Diesel & Turbo, GE Jenbacher, Caterpillar (MAK), and Rolls-Royce. Price pressure resulting from the prevailing competitive environment remains a risk. In Wärtsilä’s addressable market, i.e. the market for installations of up to 500 MW, orders for natural gas and liquid fuel power plants totalled 25.2 GW during the twelve months ending in September. Wärtsilä’s market share was 15%. Wärtsilä’s success in the market can be attributed to its flexible power generation solution, which can be used in a wide range of different applications and power plant sizes. For Marine Solutions, the competitive landscape remained largely unchanged in 2017. The most significant competitors in the main engine markets are MAN Diesel & Turbo and Caterpillar (MAK). Wärtsilä has a strong position in medium-speed main engines with a 47% market share in 2017. In auxiliary engines, Wärtsilä’s market share was 10%. In propulsion equipment, the competition is more fragmented and varies by product category. One of the main competitors for these products is Rolls-Royce. In environmental solutions, as well as in flow and gas products, the markets are very fragmented. Alfa Laval and Evac are two of the main competitors in environmental solutions, while in the Electrical and Automation segment Wärtsilä faces competition from companies like Kongsberg, GE and Siemens. Price competition has continued to be intense in the marine markets. The strategic move of becoming a systems integrator with automation and ship design capability has proven to be important in the competition for new projects with larger and more value added scopes. The concept of selling packaged solutions reduces price volatility. Political and legislative risks Wärtsilä is present in over 200 locations in more than 80 countries and has delivered power plants to 177 countries. Political developments and changes in legislation can have a significant impact on Wärtsilä’s business. Wärtsilä actively monitors political and legal developments in its markets, and engages in dialogue with various official bodies on projects of importance to its operations and intellectual property rights. Much of this engagement takes place through interest groups and trade organisations. The company monitors political and legislative changes at both the corporate and subsidiary levels. In recent years, there has been increased regulatory activity by different governments worldwide, which has led to the need for emphasising due internal processes to ensure compliance. As an example, the continuing and changing trade sanctions were complied with and closely monitored during 2017. This has required increased internal efforts to ensure that adequate procedures are in place. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Governance 135 Climate change and sustainability risks Wärtsilä has assessed its sustainability risks, including climate change risks, in both its strategic and operative risk assessments. However, the risks were not found to be significant. The potential business risks related to sustainability, climate change, and Wärtsilä's products are in the areas of regulatory emission restrictions and changes in customer attitudes to using combustion engines and fossil fuels. The risks in environmental legislation changes are related to the complexity of the overall field of different emissions, the balance between commercially available fuels and their resulting emissions, available abatement technologies, the impact on overall energy efficiency, and the resulting financial feasibility of the various alternative ways to meet regulatory demands. Being at the forefront of technological developments mitigates sustainability risks and gives Wärtsilä many opportunities arising from tightening environmental regulations. Over the years, Wärtsilä has worked continuously to improve the efficiency of its products, while at the same time seeking ways to reduce emissions. The fuel flexibility of Wärtsilä's products enables the utilisation of various fuels, including gas and those from renewable sources, while their operational flexibility enables the installation of large capacity based wind and solar energy systems without hampering the reliability of the electricity grid. Wärtsilä recently entered both the solar energy and energy storage businesses; a further step in providing our customers with sustainable innovations that reduce carbon emissions. Wärtsilä's technology also enables energy to be generated with a minimum use of water. The lack of fresh water is expected to be one of the major challenges facing the world in the future. In shipping, Wärtsilä can reduce the carbon footprint of vessels through optimised ship design, and optimal propulsion solutions. Environmental solutions offer alternative technologies to reduce SOx emissions and to treat waste and ballast water. In Energy Solutions, Wärtsilä's Smart Power Generation concept supports the increase in low carbon power generation, including wind, solar, and natural gas fired plants. Wärtsilä offers several retrofit solutions for the after-sales market to reduce emissions and to increase fuel efficiency. For more information, please see the Sustainability section in this annual report. Technology risks Wärtsilä aims to increase the competitiveness of its solutions and manage technology risks through solid R&D efforts and innovation. The development of new products is based on the strategic view of optimising lifecycle value for customers with modern and sustainable power solutions through, for example, gas solutions, environmental technologies, ship design, and electrical & automation solutions. As a technology leader, Wärtsilä places strong emphasis on emissions control, enhancing efficiency, and maintaining the cost competitiveness of its products. Connectivity and the utilization of data to further optimize efficiency and unlock new customer values is becoming an increasingly important element of Wärtsilä’s development roadmap. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Governance 136 Operational risks Operational risk management is part of the daily work of the Businesses. Opportunities and risks are identified, assessed, and managed on a daily basis and reported to, and managed by, the appropriate management level. The status of these opportunities and threats are reviewed on a periodic basis and appropriate further actions are taken. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Governance 137 Manufacturing risk Wärtsilä constantly analyses its manufacturing footprint and capacity costs, including costs related to the supply chain. Risk assessments have been made for all the main delivery centres, and significant safety and risk mitigation investments have been completed. Risk identification, assessment and mitigation actions are executed on a regular basis as part of operational management. Management systems for quality, environmental, occupational health and safety, and other systems are utilised to improve productivity, while safety and business continuity plans have been implemented for the key delivery centres. Supplier and sub-contractor risk Wärtsilä’s supply management is integrated within the business lines. The aim is to work in partnership with the supplier base to create value for Wärtsilä’s customers by ensuring quality, on-time delivery and the lowest total cost. In order to ensure coordinated interfaces and synergies for the cross-divisional supplier base, a category management structure has been in place since 2007. Indirect Purchasing remains a centralised function responsible for managing strategic sourcing activities for indirect materials and services in all businesses and support functions. The supply management units have a unified process for managing and controlling Wärtsilä’s supplier network, and for verifying that the suppliers’ performance meets Wärtsilä’s expectations. Supplier performance is, therefore, continuously measured. A key activity in managing business continuity planning is the regular assessment of business interruption risks, which is carried out in cooperation with the company’s suppliers. Several supplier risk audits have been completed jointly with the insurer as one means of mitigating risk. These audits are now one of the regular tasks for the supply category managers and the Risk Management function. Wärtsilä has developed its supply related activities by creating close collaboration and long-term relationships with its main suppliers. This cooperation creates a common view towards values and goals, which in turn supports the management of Wärtsilä’s strategic risks. To further mitigate supplier and sub-contractor risks, a comprehensive follow-up of suppliers’ credit worthiness has been established. Supplier related risks for key components are mitigated by establishing dualor multi-sourcing. Lifecycle quality of products and product liability risk The launching of new products always involves risks. In the R&D process, several risk management techniques are applied, including the risk elimination tool FMEA (Failure Modes and Effects Analysis) and in-house validation testing. Wärtsilä seeks to This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Governance 138 control quality risks by monitoring the incoming quality of the supply chain, and by designing and manufacturing its products with all due care. Wärtsilä applies a GATE model in order to control the product development process. Initially, only a limited release of new products is allowed, and via the gate approach, full release authority is given to the sales organisations only after testing and further validation has been completed. As part of the on-going digital transformation, a so-called Agile way of working is being adopted in the Digital organisation, which allows Wärtsilä to test new ideas and business models quickly in order to promptly adapt to changing market needs. This approach is used for conceptualisation to avoid the risk of losing business opportunities, while products continue to go through the established GATE development. Thereby, the two models complement each other and are used in different context within the organisation. Wärtsilä seeks to control its manufacturing quality risks by applying several assurance and quality control principles. The level of quality assurance and control requirements are determined based on component criticality, and they are applied throughout the delivery chain. The 5S (sort, shine, set, standardise, and sustain) philosophy is implemented at all production sites to increase quality levels, and to support lean operations. Both Services and the business lines are responsible for supporting customers in all warranty issues. This offers a feedback loop from the field to production and R&D, while taking care of customers’ installations throughout their lifecycle. The company makes warranty provisions to cover any costs that may arise after product delivery. The company’s product liability insurance covers unexpected damages. Wärtsilä seeks to continuously improve the quality of its products and services through the adoption of best industry practices and good governance. Management at all levels is responsible for the quality of output from their organisations, and is accountable for ensuring that appropriate review and feedback mechanisms are in place. The centralised Wärtsilä Quality function is responsible for coordinating quality activities across the businesses, and for ensuring that senior governance mechanisms are in place and effective. Contractual risks Wärtsilä’s non-service sales include projects and equipment supply deliveries of various sizes. The most substantial orders concern turnkey power plants. However, in relation to the total volume of business, the risks from individual projects do not reach significant levels. The lifecycle quality of the products and work, starting from the initial design, throughout all stages of the production process, to the eventual field service work, plus the use of standard sales contracts, including the establishment of a contract review process, together reduce the risk of product liability claims. In the Services business, the contractual risk is related mainly to long-term agreements and service projects, such as engine upgrades, retrofits or modifications. These offerings represent approximately 25% of the total Services business, but the risks connected to individual contracts do not reach significant levels since the business between the various customers and countries is broadly spread. In addition, both offerings follow a well-defined sales process, thereby bringing multiple control points to observe embedded risks and to plan their control, both in contractual measures as well as in execution. Risk of non-compliance, corruption and fraud Wärtsilä complies with the law and its own internal policies and procedures everywhere the company does business. Wärtsilä's Code of Conduct is the key guideline for all employees globally. Wärtsilä is committed to high ethical standards and integrity in its Businesses, and to preventing corruption and violations of the principles set forth in the Code of Conduct, as well as in Wärtsilä's Anti-Corruption and Compliance Reporting policies. Compliance processes are embedded in all of the Businesses, and the responsibility for compliance and awareness of ethics and integrity is that of all Wärtsilä employees. Wärtsilä is fully committed to compliance with the anti-corruption laws and statutes. Wärtsilä's Anti-Corruption Policy absolutely forbids any kind of corruption and bribery, and the top management of the company has a zero-tolerance policy regarding corruption and fraud. The Compliance function promotes Group wide compliance and continuously strives to raise awareness of the risk of corruption and bribery and other misconduct. It is primarily responsible for creating and enforcing Group level policies and procedures, training programmes, internal compliance investigations, managing the consequences of misconduct, and reporting. The continuous development of Wärtsilä's compliance programme and nurturing the company’s commendable ethical culture are pivotal tasks for the Compliance function. Moreover, Compliance supports and cooperates with the Businesses and other This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Governance 139 corporate functions in their risk management efforts. Wärtsilä has a Group-wide programme for strengthening its Code of Conduct which aims to increase employees’ understanding on how the Code of Conduct impacts the everyday work at all Wärtsilä locations wherever Wärtsilä operates. While Wärtsilä is aware of the risk of being subject to fraud by external business parties, and that the risk of corruption and fraud is heightened in many markets where the company operates, Wärtsilä maintains its highly ethical practices at all times. Full compliance with its stringent anti-corruption regime, including policies to prevent the corruption and bribery risk of third parties, is demanded by Wärtsilä. Cyber & information security related risks Wärtsilä has an internal organisation dedicated to cyber security governance and management. This organisation, in cooperation with Wärtsilä’s divisional business management, is responsible for Wärtsilä’s cyber security governance and management in connection with its customer offerings and internal operations. The Wärtsilä cyber security governance model ties together traditional safety and security functions with cyber security operations. Information security risks related to Wärtsilä’s internal operations are continuously identified and evaluated. The mitigation activities are executed in Wärtsilä networks, endpoints and services. The Wärtsilä Security Operations Centre monitors the internal threat exposure level and provides a coordinated response to identified information security incidents. At Wärtsilä the businesses are responsible for monitoring the regulatory developments in the maritime and energy production sectors, thus securing that the company's offerings are compliant with the applicable regulations now and in the future. In context with cyber related regulation, the businesses are supported by the Cyber Security function. Commodity price risk Oil The direct effect of oil price changes on Wärtsilä's production is limited, with their impact being mainly demand related. Higher oil prices represent a risk for global economic growth and increase operating costs, especially in the shipping markets. However, they also stimulate investments in exploration and production for oil and gas, both on land and offshore. Furthermore, high oil prices increase investments in gas carriers, gas-based power plants and, increasingly, also in gas-fuelled vessels. Low oil prices can delay investment decisions in oil producing countries and regions, as well as in the offshore industry. Wärtsilä is a global company involved in different shipping and power plant segments where oil price changes can have an opposing impact on demand drivers. This position is further diversified by the increasing importance of natural gas in Wärtsilä's business. Metals Metal prices have an indirect effect on the component costs of Wärtsilä’s products. Furthermore, some key components are sourced with long-term contracts, and thus raw material price volatility is limited. Electricity Electricity prices have no substantial impact on Wärtsilä’s production costs. In the Energy Solutions business, high electricity prices support investments in new capacity by utility customers. Lower grid electricity prices do not favour investments in their own generating capacity by industrial customers. Hazard risks Occupational health and safety systems, travel safety instructions, and crisis management guidelines are aimed at protecting Wärtsilä employees. Appropriate insurances are in place for the personnel, and to emphasise the importance of employee safety, the Board of Management has decided on a corporate level target of zero lost-time injuries. A specific Zero Injury project exists for this purpose, and the target is a part of the company’s sustainability programme. During 2017, the near-miss reporting system, WeCare, has been actively used worldwide in order to manage information related to incidents that can threaten the safety, health and security of the company’s employees and operations, as well as the environment. This IT solution provides a guide for identifying the causes of incidents, and for taking all appropriate actions in a systematic way. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Governance 140 Environmental management systems are in place to mitigate environmental hazard risks. Wärtsilä maintains a register of all properties used and gives guidelines for the purchase, sale, rental and security of premises, and uses external advisors for environmental audits. None of Wärtsilä’s major facilities are located in natural disaster areas. Catastrophic peril related scenarios are identified and, where necessary, exposures are mitigated by, for example, elevating sites above the flood risk level or by constructing flood dikes. For Wärtsilä’s main sites, business impact analyses have been conducted and continuity plans created to cover both property and business interruption risks. The risks that Wärtsilä is unable to influence through its own efforts are transferred whenever possible to insurance companies. Wärtsilä uses appropriate insurance policies to cover indemnity risks related to its personnel, assets, and business interruptions; including supplier triggered interruptions, as well as third-party and product liability. Wärtsilä has established its own captive insurance company, Vulcan Insurance PCC Ltd, as a risk management tool. The company is located on Guernsey for insurance technical reasons, and it insures only Wärtsilä’s own property. Vulcan Insurance PCC Ltd is subject to normal taxation in Finland. Financial risks Wärtsilä's financial risks are presented in the notes to the financial statements, Note 29. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Governance 141 Anchor Risk profiles and responsibilities Risks Risk profile Policy or other guideline Responsible body Strategic Wärtsilä's strategy and business Wärtsilä's Board of Directors risks plans (BoD), Board of Management (BoM) and Businesses Business Wärtsilä's strategy and business BoM and Businesses environment plans risk Market and Wärtsilä's strategy and business BoM and Businesses customer risk plans Competitive Wärtsilä's strategy and business BoM and Businesses situation and plans price risk Political and Various guidelines and risk Businesses, R&D, Risk legislative risk management policy management (RM) and Legal functions Climate QHSE policy, Code of Conduct, Businesses, R&D and change and management systems (ISO 14001 Sustainability function sustainability & OHSAS 18001) risk Technology Patents and industrial rights, Businesses and R&D risk product guarantees Operational Wärtsilä's strategy and business BoM and Businesses risks plans Manufacturing Production systems, Business Manufacturing and risk Continuity Plan Businesses Supplier and Supplier requirement and supplier Businesses and Supply subcontractor management system, Business Management risk Continuity Plan Lifecycle Management systems (ISO 9001), Manufacturing, R&D, quality of safety instruction and manuals, Businesses, RM, Quality and products and risk management policy, R&D risk Legal functions product elimination instructions liability risk Contractual Standard contracts, Corporate Legal function and risks Sales Contracting Policy Businesses Commodity Production cost control Businesses and Treasury price risk function This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Governance 142 Data security Data security principles and Cyber Businesses and IM function risk Security Strategy NonCode of Conduct, Anti-corruption Businesses and Compliance compliance policy, Compliance policy, Whistlefunction risk blowing channel Hazard risks Risk management policy and Businesses and RM function guidelines Personnel risk Management system (OHSAS Businesses, Human 18001), travel safety instructions, Resources, RM, EHS and crisis management guidelines, security functions near misses reporting and premises safety plans Natural Crisis management guidelines, Businesses and RM function catastrophes Business Continuity Plan Fire, cargo Management systems (ISO 14001 Businesses, RM and Real and other & OHSAS 18001), premises Estate functions accidents safety plan Financial Wärtsilä's strategy and business Businesses and Treasury risks plans function Foreign Treasury policy Businesses and Treasury exchange risk function Interest rate Treasury policy Businesses and Treasury risk function Liquidity and Treasury policy Businesses and Treasury refinancing function risk Credit risk Credit and Treasury policy Businesses and Treasury function Low High This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Investors 143 Investors Investors Shares 144 Analysts 151 Shareholders 146 Information for shareholders 152 Wärtsilä on the capital markets 149 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Investors 144 Anchor Shares Wärtsilä Corporation's shares are listed on the Nasdaq Helsinki Large Cap list under the trading code WRT1V. At the end of the financial period 2017, the number of Wärtsilä shares totalled 197,241,130 and the share capital entered in the trade register was EUR 336,002,138.50. Wärtsilä has one share series with each share entitling its holder to one vote at the General Meeting and to an equal dividend. Key figures for the Wärtsilä share 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Earnings per share (EPS) EUR 1.95 1.79 2.25 1.76 1.98 Book-value of equity per share EUR 12.02 11.60 11.16 9.94 9.35 Dividend per share EUR 1.381 1.30 1.20 1.15 1.05 1 Dividend per earnings % 70.8 72.8 53.3 65.4 53.0 1 Dividend yield % 2.6 3.0 2.8 3.1 2.9 Price per earnings (P/E) 27.0 23.8 18.8 21.1 18.1 Price to book-value (P/BV) 4.4 3.7 3.8 3.7 3.8 Adjusted number of shares x 1 000 End of financial year 197 241 197 241 197 241 197 241 197 241 On average 197 241 197 241 197 241 197 241 197 241 1 Proposal of the Board of Directors. Wärtsilä shares on Nasdaq Helsinki Wärtsilä's share price increased by 23.2% during 2017, while the OMX Helsinki Cap index increased by 7.3%. The highest quoted price for Wärtsilä's share during the financial period was EUR 62.30 and the lowest EUR 41.90. The closing price on 31 December 2017 was EUR 52.60 and the volume weighted average price for the year was EUR 53.70. At year-end, Wärtsilä's market capitalisation was EUR 10,375 million. The volume of trades on Nasdaq Helsinki was 89,407,327 shares, equivalent to a turnover of EUR 4,800 million. Wärtsilä's shares are also traded on alternative exchanges, including Turquoise, BATS CXE and BATS BXE. The total trading volume on these alternative exchanges was 60,463,921 shares. Further information on the company’s share price development can be found on Wärtsilä’s IR pages at www.wartsila.com/investors. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Investors 145 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Investors 146 Wärtsilä shares on Nasdaq Helsinki 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Trading volume MEUR 4 800 3 826 4 529 5 114 3 328 Number of traded shares x 1 000 89 407 98 870 113 737 132 525 95 127 Stock turnover % 45.3 50.1 80.0 67.2 48.2 Share price, high EUR 62.30 43.44 44.97 43.82 39.00 Share price, low EUR 41.90 33.90 33.22 31.85 30.66 Average share price EUR 53.70 38.68 39.83 38.09 35.00 Share price at year-end EUR 52.60 42.68 42.15 37.09 35.77 Year-end market capitalisation MEUR 10 375 8 418 8 314 7 315 7 055 Anchor Shareholders Wärtsilä had approximately 39,900 shareholders at the end of the financial period 2017. Foreign shareholding, including nomineeregistered shares, represented 55.9% (55.0) at the end of the period, and Finnish retail investors held 17.7% of the share capital (18.4). The largest shareholder was Investor AB with 34,866,544 shares or 17.7% of the share capital. Further information concerning shareholder base development can be found on the Wärtsilä IR pages at www.wartsila.com/investors. Ownership structure on 31 December 2017 Group Number of shareholders % Number of shares % Private corporations 1 401 3.5 15 278 487 7.7 Banks and insurance companies 60 0.2 4 333 981 2.2 Public sector entities 44 0.1 20 075 089 10.2 Non-profit organisations 834 2.1 12 423 031 6.3 Households 37 212 93.4 34 829 847 17.7 Outside Finland 310 0.8 36 898 320 18.7 Nominee registered 73 402 375 37.2 Total 39 861 100.0 197 241 130 100.0 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Investors 147 Division of shares on 31 December 2017 Number of shares Number of shareholders % Number of shares % 1-100 13 505 33.9 675 507 0.3 101-1 000 19 013 47.7 7 582 922 3.8 1 001-10 000 6 666 16.7 18 238 762 9.2 10 001-100 000 606 1.5 14 488 730 7.3 100 001-1 000 000 61 0.2 15 321 812 7.8 1 000 001-10 000 000 7 0.0 11 522 523 5.8 10 000 0013 0.0 56 008 499 28.4 Nominee registered 73 402 375 37.2 Total 39 861 100.0 197 241 130 100.0 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Investors 148 Wärtsilä's 50 major shareholders on 31 December 2017, excluding nominee registered Owner Shares % 1 Invaw Invest AB, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Investor AB 34 866 544 17.68 2 Fiskars Corporation 10 881 781 5.52 3 Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company 10 260 174 5.20 4 Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company 2 984 934 1.51 5 The Social Insurance Institution of Finland 1 935 910 0.98 6 Elo Mutual Pension Insurance Company 1 505 000 0.76 7 Svenska Litteratur-sällskapet i Finland rf 1 495 784 0.76 8 State Pension Fund 1 480 000 0.75 9 Keva 1 107 327 0.56 10 Sijoitusrahasto Nordea Pro Suomi 1 013 568 0.51 11 The Finnish Cultural Foundation 973 480 0.49 12 Jenny and Antti Wihuri Foundation 900 000 0.46 13 Sigrid Jusélius Foundation 866 475 0.44 14 Schweizerische Nationalbank 658 661 0.33 15 Savox Investments S.a. 570 000 0.29 16 Oy Ingman Finance Ab 560 000 0.28 17 Rantanen Tuula Anneli 505 066 0.26 18 The Signe and Ane Gyllenberg foundation 497 888 0.25 19 Samfundet Folkhälsan i Svenska Finland rf 478 200 0.24 20 Louise och Göran Ehrnrooth Stiftelse sr 352 630 0.18 21 Livränteanstalten Hereditas Ab 334 690 0.17 22 Blåberg Olli Edvard 320 000 0.16 23 Folkhälsan i Svenska Finland rf Inez och Julius Polins Fond 279 600 0.14 24 Sijoitusrahasto Nordea Suomi 276 160 0.14 25 Fromond Elsa Margaretha Louise 275 500 0.14 26 Sijoitusrahasto Nordea Pohjoismaat 272 814 0.14 27 Stockmann Marita 271 226 0.14 28 William Thurings Stiftelse sr 269 650 0.14 29 Holding Manutas Oy 255 000 0.13 30 Sijoitusrahasto Seligson & Co 252 261 0.13 31 Sijoitusrahasto Aktia Capital 250 000 0.13 32 Von Fieandt Berndt Johan 235 382 0.12 33 Åbo Akademi Foundation 218 610 0.11 34 Brita Maria Renlund Foundation 213 600 0.11 35 Mandatum Henkivakuutus-osakeyhtiö 208 064 0.11 36 Sijoitusrahasto Nordea Suomi Indeksirahasto 205 198 0.10 37 Holdix Oy Ab 204 050 0.10 38 Sr Danske Invest Suomi Yhteisöosake 201 912 0.10 39 Seb Finlandia Sijoitusrahasto 193 078 0.10 40 Markkola Leena 172 500 0.09 41 Folkhälsans Forskningsstiftelse Kansanterveyden tutkimussäätiö 172 068 0.09 42 Barry Staines Linoleum Oy 166 570 0.08 43 Perceval Ann-Marie Caussin De 166 280 0.08 44 Karlsson Anne Christine 160 000 0.08 45 Suomen Kauppayhtiöt Oy 158 400 0.08 46 Etera Mutual Pension Ins. Company 154 679 0.08 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Investors 149 47 Sijoitusrahasto Evli Suomi Select 152 500 0.08 48 Brotherus Pia Monica 151 002 0.08 49 Odin Finland 141 505 0.07 50 Ella and Georg Ehrnrooth Foundation 141 500 0.07 Total 80 367 221 40.75 Changes in ownership – flagging notifications Under the provisions of the Finnish Securities Markets Act, shareholders of listed companies have an obligation to notify both the Finnish Financial Supervision Authority and the listed company of changes in their holdings. The table below summarises the flagging notifications received by Wärtsilä during 2017, further information can be found on Wärtsilä’s webpage. Release date Transaction date Shareholder Threshold Direct holding, % Total holding, % 23.11.2017 22.11.2017 BlackRock Investment Above 5% 4.63 5.05 Management (UK) Limited 30.11.2017 29.11.2017 BlackRock Investment Above 5% 5.10 5.47 Management (UK) Limited Management holdings The members of the Board of Directors, the President & CEO, the CEO's deputy, and the corporations under their control, owned altogether 65,374 shares in Wärtsilä Corporation at the end of 2017, which represents 0.03% of the stock and voting rights. Further details on the Board of Directors' and Board of Management’s ownership of shares can be found in the Corporate Governance section. Authorisations granted to the Board of Directors The Annual General Meeting, held on 2 March 2017, authorised the Board of Directors to resolve to repurchase a maximum of 19,000,000 of the Company's own shares. The authorisation to repurchase the Company’s own shares shall be valid until the close of the next Annual General Meeting, however for no longer than 18 months from the authorisation of the shareholders’ meeting. The Board of Directors was authorised to resolve to distribute a maximum of 19,000,000 of the Company’s own shares. The authorisation for the Board of Directors to distribute the Company’s own shares shall be valid for three years from the authorisation of the shareholders’ meeting and it cancels the authorisation given by the General Meeting on 3 March 2016. The Board of Directors is authorised to resolve to whom and in which order the Company’s own shares will be distributed. The Board of Directors is authorised to decide on the distribution of the Company’s own shares other than in proportion to the existing preemptive right of the shareholders to purchase the Company’s own shares. The Board of Directors' dividend proposal The Board of Directors proposes that a dividend of 1.38 euro per share be paid for the financial year 2017. The dividend will be paid in two instalments. Anchor Wärtsilä on the capital markets Wärtsilä’s Investor Relations (IR) team, consisting of the CEO, CFO, IR Director, and IR Officer, participated in approximately 300 investor meetings during 2017. The team also maintained regular contact with equity research analysts throughout the year. Meetings were conducted in North America, the United Kingdom, continental Europe, and in the Nordic countries. The IR team also attended seven institutional investor conferences in Finland and abroad. In addition to one-on-one and group meetings, Wärtsilä hosted visits to its manufacturing sites in Trieste and Vaasa. During the year, Wärtsilä's foreign ownership represented This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Investors 150 55.9% (55.0) of the total shareholder base. Investors in Sweden, the United Kingdom and the United States held the largest percentage of foreign shares. During the year, Wärtsilä gave presentations at events aimed at domestic private investors. Such events included one hosted by the Finnish Foundation for Share Promotion and one for Helsingin Osakesäästäjät. In 2017, retail investors accounted for approximately 17.7% (18.4) of Wärtsilä's shareholder base. Wärtsilä's Investor Relations policy The ultimate objective of Wärtsilä's Investor Relations is to produce accurate, sufficient, and up-to-date information regarding the development of Wärtsilä's business operations, strategy, markets, and financial position. This is to ensure that the capital markets have the relevant information concerning Wärtsilä in order to determine the fair value of the Company's shares. To achieve this objective, Wärtsilä publishes annually two interim reports, a half-year financial report, a financial statements bulletin, an annual report, and stock exchange releases. Furthermore, Wärtsilä's management conducts regular discussions with analysts and investors, both in Finland and abroad. Wärtsilä's web pages serve as an archive for all current and historical data on factors affecting the value of its shares. Prospects Guidance on Wärtsilä's prospects is published in the financial statements bulletin, in the half-year financial report, and in the interim reports. The most recently published prospects statement is repeated in the annual report. The published prospects consist of expectations regarding demand development in Wärtsilä's markets, which are approved by the Board of Directors. Wärtsilä does not publish quarterly result forecasts. Should there be a change in business circumstances that could affect the prospects, Wärtsilä will publish changes to the prospects in accordance with prevailing regulations. Analyst reports Wärtsilä will review, upon request by an analyst, his or her earnings model or report only for factual accuracy, or information that is in the public domain. Wärtsilä does not comment on, or take any responsibility for, estimates or forecasts published by capital market representatives. Silent period Wärtsilä observes a three-week silent period preceding the publication of its results to prevent the revealing of unpublished financial information. During this period, the Company's representatives do not meet with investors or analysts or comment on its financial position. Disclosure policy and financial communications Wärtsilä discloses information on its goals, financial position, and business operations in an open, timely, truthful, and systematic manner so as to enable stakeholders to form a true and fair view of the Company. Wärtsilä publishes stock exchange releases, press releases, and trade press releases. Wärtsilä’s subsidiaries publish press releases with local relevance. Matters that contain inside information and may have a material impact on the value of the Company’s financial instruments are published as stock exchange releases. Press releases contain information on events relating to Wärtsilä’s normal business operations, which are assessed to be of general interest for investors and media. Releases to the trade press provide more detailed information on Wärtsilä’s products and technologies. All stock exchange releases are published in Finnish, Swedish, and English. Press releases are published in English and can also be published in Finnish and Swedish. Trade press releases are published in English, and local releases in the local language. All releases are available on Wärtsilä's website immediately following publication. Contacts Relations with the Company's investors and analysts are handled by IR Director Natalia Valtasaari, together with the IR team. General enquiries can be sent to investor.relations@wartsila.com. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Investors 151 Natalia Valtasaari Director, Investor & Media Relations Tel. +358 10 709 5637 natalia.valtasaari@wartsila.com Mari Hamarila IR Officer Tel. +358 50 364 3413 mari.hamarila@wartsila.com Wärtsilä's corporate communications are the responsibility of Atte Palomäki, Executive Vice President, Communications & Branding. Atte Palomäki Executive Vice President, Communications & Branding Tel. +358 10 709 5599 atte.palomaki@wartsila.com Anchor Analysts To the best of Wärtsilä’s knowledge, the below listed brokers and financial analysts, and possibly others, follow the Company’s development on their own initiative. They have analysed Wärtsilä and drawn up reports and comments. As a result, they are able to evaluate the Company as an investment target. Wärtsilä takes no responsibility for the opinions expressed. Company Analyst Contact ABG Sundal Collier AB Anders Idborg anders.idborg@abgsc.se +46 8 566 286 74 Bank of America Merrill Alex Virgo alexander.virgo@baml.com Lynch +44 20 7996 1221 Carnegie Investment Tom Skogman tom.skogman@carnegie.fi Bank AB, Finland +358 9 6187 1234 Branch Citi Edward Maravanyika edward.maravanyika@citi.com +44 20 7986 4071 Credit Suisse Max Yates max.yates@credit-suisse.com +44 20 7883 8501 Danske Bank A/S, Antti Suttelin antti.suttelin@danskebank.com Helsinki Branch +358 10 236 4708 DNB Bank ASA Christer Magnergård christer.magnergard@dnb.no +46 8 473 48 44 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Investors 152 Goldman Sachs Jonathan Hanks jonathan.hanks@gs.com International +44 20 7051 0928 Handelsbanken Capital Timo Heinonen tihe03@handelsbanken.fi Markets +358 10 444 2483 HSBC Bank plc Sean McLoughlin sean.mcloughlin@hsbcib.com +44 20 7991 3464 Inderes Erkki Vesola erkki.vesola@inderes.com +358 50 5495 512 Jefferies International Peter Reilly peter.reilly@jefferies.com +44 20 7029 8632 JPMorgan Cazenove Glen Liddy glen.liddy@jpmorgan.com +44 20 7134 4570 Kepler Cheuvreux Johan Eliason jeliason@keplercheuvreux.com +46 8 723 5100 Morgan Stanley Peter Murdoch Peter.Murdoch@morganstanley.com +44 20 7425 2044 Nordea Markets Manu Rimpelä manu.rimpela@nordea.com +358 9 530 05172 Pareto Öhman Anders Roslund anders.roslund@paretosec.com +46 8 402 5288 OP Financial Group Pekka Spolander pekka.spolander@op.fi +358 10 252 4351 SEB, Helsinki Branch Tomi Railo tomi.railo@seb.fi +358 9 6162 8727 UBS Deutschland AG Sven Weier sven.weier@ubs.com +49 69 1369 8278 Anchor Information for shareholders Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of Wärtsilä Corporation will take place on Thursday, 8 March 2018, beginning at 3 p.m., in the Congress Wing of the Helsinki Fair Center, address: Messuaukio 1, 00520 Helsinki, Finland. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Investors 153 Right to attend Shareholders registered no later than 26 February 2018 in the Company's list of shareholders maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd have the right to attend the Annual General Meeting. Notification of attendees Shareholders wishing to attend the Annual General Meeting are required to inform the Company thereof no later than 4 p.m. on 5 March 2018 either by e-mail, on the Company’s website www.wartsila.com/agm_register, by telephone or by regular mail. Letters and e-mails informing of participation must reach the Company before the notification period expires at 4 p.m. on 5 March 2018. Letters authorising a proxy to exercise a shareholder's voting right at the Annual General Meeting should also reach the Company before the notification period expires. Registration: Wärtsilä Corporation Share Register P.O. Box 196 FI-00531 Helsinki Finland Telephone: +358 10 709 5282, between 9 a.m. and 12 p.m. (noon) on weekdays E-mail: yk@wartsila.com Internet: www.wartsila.com/agm_register Payment of dividend The Board of Directors proposes that a dividend of EUR 1.38 per share be paid for the financial year 2017. The dividend will be paid in two instalments. The first instalment of 0.69 euro per share will be paid to shareholders who are registered in the list of shareholders maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd on the record date 12 March 2018. The payment date proposed by the Board for this instalment is 19 March 2018. The second instalment of the dividend shall be paid in September 2018. If the Board’s proposal concerning a share issue without payment ('share split') is approved, the second instalment will be divided between one old and two new shares so that EUR 0.23 will be paid for each share. If the general meeting does not approve the share issue without payment proposed by the Board, the second instalment will be paid in the same manner as the first, i.e. EUR 0.69 per share. The second dividend instalment will be paid to shareholders who are registered in the list of shareholders maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd on the dividend record day, which, together with the payment day, shall be decided by the Board of Directors in its meeting scheduled for 18 September 2018. The dividend record day for the second instalment as per the current rules of the Finnish book-entry system would be 20 September 2018 and the dividend payment day 27 September 2018. Stock exchange releases Wärtsilä's stock exchange releases are available in English, Finnish, and Swedish on Wärtsilä's website. Financial calendar 2018 Annual Report 2017 The electronic Annual Report 2017 is published in English, Finnish, and Swedish at www.wartsilareports.com and is also available on Wärtsilä's website, www.wartsila.com. Interim Reports, Half-year Report and Financial Statements Bulletin 2018 • Interim Report January-March on Tuesday, 24 April 2018 • Half-year Financial Report January-June on Thursday, 19 July 2018 • Interim Report January-September on Tuesday, 23 October 2018 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Investors 154 • Financial Statements Bulletin January-December on Wednesday, 30 January 2019 Interim reports, half-year reports and financial statements bulletins are available in English, Finnish, and Swedish on Wärtsilä's website, www.wartsila.com. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 155 Financial review Financial review Board of Directors' report 157 8. Depreciation, amortisation and 202 Business model 157 impairment Strategy 157 9. Other operating expenses 203 The year 2017 158 10. Financial income and expenses 203 Prospects for 2018 170 11. Income taxes 204 Dividend proposal 170 12. Earnings per share 204 Five years in figures 172 13. Intangible assets 205 Quarterly figures 173 14. Property, plant & equipment 207 Calculations of financial ratios 174 15. Investments in associates and 208 joint ventures Financial statements 177 16. Financial assets and liabilities by 210 Consolidated financial statements 177 measurement category Consolidated statement of income 177 17. Inventories 212 Consolidated statement of 178 18. Other receivables 212 comprehensive income 19. Cash and cash equivalents 213 Consolidated statement of financial 179 position 20. Deferred taxes 213 Consolidated statement of cash flows 180 21. Pension obligations 214 Consolidated statement of changes in 182 22. Equity 217 equity 23. Provisions 218 Accounting principles for the 183 24. Financial liabilities 219 consolidated financial statements 25. Other liabilities 220 Notes to the consolidated financial 195 26. Derivative financial instruments 220 statements 27. Collateral, contingent liabilities 221 1. Segment information 195 and other commitments 2. Acquisitions 196 28. Related party disclosures 222 3. Disposals 200 29. Financial risks 223 4. Long-term construction contracts 201 30. Auditors' fees and services 228 and operating and maintenance 31. Exchange rates 229 agreements 32. Subsidiaries 229 5. Other operating income 201 33. Events after the balance sheet 232 6. Material and services 201 date 7. Employee benefit expenses 202 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 156 Parent company financial statements 233 9. Prepaid expenses and accrued 242 Parent company income statement 233 income Parent company balance sheet 234 10. Shareholders' equity 243 Parent company cash flow statement 236 11. Liabilities 243 Accounting principles for the parent 238 12. Accrued expenses and deferred 244 company income Notes to the parent company financial 239 13. Liabilities to Group companies 244 statements 14. Financial assets and liabilities by 244 1. Other operating income 239 measurement category 2. Personnel expenses 239 15. Derivative financial instruments 246 3. Depreciation and amortisation 239 16. Financial risks 247 4. Financial income and expenses 240 17. Collateral, contingent liabilities 247 and other commitments 5. Income taxes 240 18. Related party loans and other 247 6. Fixed assets 241 commitments 7. Non-current receivables 242 19. Auditors' fees and services 248 8. Current receivables from Group 242 Proposal of the Board 249 companies Auditor's report 250 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 157 Anchor Board of Directors' report Anchor Business model Wärtsilä provides the marine and energy markets smart technologies and optimised lifecycle services. In the energy industry, Wärtsilä is a global systems integrator offering engine, solar, and storage technologies, as well as software solutions, on an equipment only or turnkey delivery basis. The marine offering consists of power, propulsion, electrical and automation solutions, as well as processing equipment, such as gas systems and environmental solutions. Wärtsilä has the capabilities to combine its marine products into larger integrated systems and solutions. Wärtsilä’s portfolio of services ranges from spare parts and technical expertise, to ensuring a maximised installation lifetime, increased efficiency, and guaranteed performance. The company aims at maximising environmental and economic performance by emphasising sustainable, data-driven innovation and total efficiency. To support its geographically dispersed customer base, Wärtsilä’s sales and service network covers more than 200 locations in more than 80 countries around the world. Wärtsilä operates primarily through its subsidiaries and strategic joint ventures. The company’s manufacturing model is assembly based, emphasising the importance of developing long-term relationships with its global network of suppliers, which consists of approximately 1,120 key direct suppliers in Europe and Asia, and which represent 93% of Wärtsilä’s total supplier spend. Wärtsilä’s personnel is made up of approximately 18,000 employees representing over 130 nationalities. By recruiting and retaining the best talent, Wärtsilä is able to be the most valued business partner of its customers, and the employer of choice for current and future employees. Wärtsilä is committed to conducting its business in a responsible manner, and promotes responsible practices throughout its value chain. Anchor Strategy Wärtsilä’s purpose is to enable sustainable societies with smart technology. The demand for clean and flexible energy and the need for efficient and safe transportation are increasingly affecting the way that customers operate. This forms the basis for Wärtsilä’s offering of smart solutions to the marine and energy markets. With an integrated portfolio of services, systems and products, the company is well positioned to respond to the demand for energy efficient and innovative solutions. The emphasis is placed on optimising installation performance throughout the lifecycle, using data analytics and artificial intelligence to support customers’ business decisions. Wärtsilä’s digital transformation will provide increased customer value through a new era of collaboration and knowledge sharing. A strong presence in key markets and a superior global service network support the company’s profitable growth ambitions. With its flexible production and supply chain management, Wärtsilä constantly seeks new ways to maintain high quality and cost efficiency – often in co-operation with customers and leading industrial partners. The investments in R&D and the focus on digitalisation create a strong foundation for securing and strengthening a position at the forefront of market innovation. This innovative culture, together with a constant emphasis on safety, diversity, and high ethical standards, attracts skilled and committed people and creates the basis for a high performing organisation. The implementation of operational excellence ensures that Wärtsilä is easy to do business with, and drives increased productivity and efficiency throughout the lifecycle. Strategy implementation in 2017 Wärtsilä introduced several new concepts and solutions during 2017, all of which support the realisation of its strategy. These include the launch of the marine hybrid power module Wärtsilä HY, the strengthening of capabilities for remote vessel operation, the introduction of performance-based service concepts, and the expansion into energy storage and related software solutions through the acquisition of Greensmith. The introduction of a gas fuelled version of the Wärtsilä 31 engine in response to the rapidly evolving need for greater flexibility and better efficiency in power generation was another key initiative. The focus on digitalising Wärtsilä’s operations and customer offering continued throughout the year. To support this strategy, the first digital acceleration centre was launched with the aim of developing promising ideas and co-creating them into service concepts and products together with customers and partners. The acquisition of Guidance Marine represents another important This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 158 step in Wärtsilä’s digital transformation. Being a technology leader in sensor solutions relating to dynamic positioning and other vessel control systems, such as collision avoidance and remote control operations, Guidance Marine enhances Wärtsilä’s frontrunner position in intelligent shipping technologies. To promote a high performance culture, Wärtsilä has continued its leadership development programmes in many areas. During the year, more than 100 company managers attended the Operational Excellence Senior Leadership Academy, which was established in 2016 to ensure that continuous improvement becomes an integrated part of the company culture and way of working. The success of Wärtsilä’s first Growth Lab programme, which aims at developing future leaders through action-based learning, resulted in its continuation in 2017. To support the company’s objective of fostering an inclusive corporate culture, Wärtsilä’s local entities have taken a number of actions related to promoting diversity during the year. The health and safety of personnel is a priority for Wärtsilä, and for a number of years the company has moved steadily closer to its on-going target of zero lost-time injuries. In 2017, the lost-time injury frequency was 2.48 (2.59), which represents a decrease of 4% compared to the previous year. During the year, Wärtsilä arranged its third global Safety Day under the theme ‘Stop and Care’, addressing the importance of intervening when unsafe acts are seen. Wärtsilä also launched a Zero Mindset training programme, with the aim of strengthening safety leadership within the company. Financial targets Wärtsilä’s long-term financial target is to grow faster than global GDP, and to maintain its operating profit margin between 14% at the peak of the cycle and 10% at the trough. Furthermore, the target is to maintain gearing below 0.50, and to pay a dividend of at least 50% of earnings per share over the cycle. Wärtsilä’s performance in 2017 was in line with its long-term targets. Net sales increased by 3%, bringing Wärtsilä’s 10-year compound annual growth rate to 2.7%. The global real GDP is estimated to have increased by 3.7% in 2017, giving a 10-year compound annual growth rate of 3.2%. The comparable operating result was 12.0% of net sales. Gearing was 0.10 and the Board of Directors' proposed dividend of EUR 1.38 per share represents 70.8% of operational earnings. Long-term financial targets Target Development in 2017 Development in 2016 Net sales growth faster than global GDP 3% increase 5% decline Comparable operating result margin between 10% and 12.0% 12.1% 14% Gearing below 0.50 0.10 0.07 Dividend payment at least 50% of earnings per share over the cycle 70.8%1 72.8% 1 Proposal of the Board of Directors. Anchor The year 2017 Market environment Steady development in the service markets Service market activity was solid during 2017. In the marine industry, low freight rates affected merchant customers’ appetite for service investments. The offshore service markets remained challenging throughout 2017, although increased oil prices led to some recovery in sentiment towards the end of the year. The cruise segment developed positively, largely due to increased demand for long-term agreements especially in the first part of the year. The demand for power plant related services was steady, supported by the growth in long-term service agreements in Asia. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 159 Power generation markets shifting towards smart and flexible technologies The demand for Wärtsilä’s energy solutions was strong in 2017. The continued decline in renewable energy prices have made solar and wind power especially competitive in many markets and utilities globally are assessing how to integrate such energy sources into their asset base. The first steps are already being taken in the USA, Australia and the Middle East, where market conditions are the most favourable. This, in turn, is increasing the need for flexible power capacity. Demand was also strong in the emerging markets, where countries are investing in new power generation capacity to support economic growth and alleviate power shortages. Energy Solutions’ market share For the twelve months ending in September, global orders for natural gas and liquid fuel power plants of up to 500 MW amounted to 25.2 GW (24.8 GW at the end of June). Wärtsilä's market share was 15% (14). Global orders include all gas turbine and Wärtsilä orders with prime movers over 5 MW in size. Vessel contracting supported by improved sentiment During 2017, 1,037 contracts for new vessels were registered (916, including late contracting). Conditions in the merchant and gas carrier markets improved towards the end of the year along with economic growth. However, large order books and scheduled newbuilding deliveries continue to limit utilisation levels and rates in the gas carrier segment. FSRU contracting was healthy, supported by growing LNG demand from the emerging markets and long-term fundamentals. Contracting activity was on a good level also in the cruise, ferry and Ro-Ro segments due to higher earnings, ageing fleets, planned regulatory developments, and attractive newbuilding prices. Despite some recovery in oil and gas prices towards the end of the year, overcapacity continued to limit newbuild investments in the offshore industry. In terms of compensated gross tonnage, China and South Korea remain the largest shipbuilding nations with 40% and 27% of all confirmed contracts respectively. Japan and Italy accounted for 8% and 5% of the global total respectively. Marine Solutions market shares Wärtsilä is well positioned in key product and solution areas, such as electrical & automation and gas systems. In the mediumspeed main engine market, Wärtsilä’s share was 47% (43% at the end of the previous quarter). The market share in auxiliary engines was 10% (13% at the end of the previous quarter). Order intake Wärtsilä’s order intake for the financial period January-December 2017 increased by 15% to EUR 5,644 million (4,927). The bookto-bill ratio was 1.15 (1.03). Services’ order intake increased by 13% to EUR 2,481 million (2,194), thanks to higher demand for long-term service agreements in both the marine and energy markets. The highlight of the year was the strategic performance-based partnership with Carnival Corporation. According to the agreement, Wärtsilä will handle all engine maintenance and monitoring work for 79 Carnival vessels. A strategically interesting order was the contract with Belize Electric Company Limited (BECOL) for a plant upgrade with high quality hydroelectric solutions and technical support, which expands the business of American Hydro, a Wärtsilä company, to Central America. Energy Solutions’ order intake was EUR 1,685 million (1,448), which represents an increase of 16% from the previous year. Asia was the most active region in terms of ordering activity. Demand was particularly good in growing economies, such as Indonesia, and in Bangladesh, where the government is making a strong effort to increase the number of households having access to electricity. In the developed markets, Wärtsilä received orders for two 50 MW power plants from the UK and contracts exceeding 500 MW to support the expansion of renewable energy in the USA. Other noteworthy orders included the first solar PV plant contracts from Burkina Faso and Jordan. In addition to power generation solutions, Wärtsilä received orders for energy storage and software projects in the USA, Singapore, and Portugal, and a turnkey liquefied natural gas (LNG) receiving terminal to be built in Hamina. Marine Solutions’ order intake increased by 15% to EUR 1,478 million (1,285). Expectations for growth in cruise tourism supported demand in the cruise and ferry segment, which represented 31% of Marine Solutions’ order intake. Significant orders This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 160 included a contract to supply the main engines and exhaust gas cleaning systems to Norwegian Cruise Line’s four new generation cruise ships being built by Fincantieri. The gas carriers’ share of the order intake was 25%, largely due to improved demand for FSRUs. Orders received within this segment included a contract to equip two new vessels being built for Höegh LNG at the Samsung Heavy Industries and Hyundai Heavy Industries shipyards in Korea, with dual-fuel main engines and regasification technology. In the conventional merchant segment, which represented 23% of order intake, Wärtsilä received a sizeable order for four shuttle tankers from TEEKAY, of which two were included in the order intake for 2017. The vessels will feature a wide range of Wärtsilä’s latest technology innovations, which enables them to reach a new level of economic and ecological performance. With regards to the remaining segments, special vessels represented 8% of order intake, navy 7%, and offshore 3%. Other orders accounted for 4%. Order intake in joint ventures Order intake in the Wärtsilä Hyundai Engine Company Ltd joint venture in South Korea, and in the Wärtsilä Qiyao Diesel Company Ltd and CSSC Wärtsilä Engine Company Ltd. joint ventures in China totalled EUR 70 million (62) during the financial period January-December 2017. The results of these companies are reported as a share of the result of associates and joint ventures. Order book The total order book at the end of the financial period amounted to EUR 5,064 million (4,696), an increase of 8%. The Services order book totalled EUR 1,171 million (999), which is 17% higher than at the same time last year thanks to the increased demand for long-term service agreements. The Energy Solutions order book increased by 11%, totalling EUR 1,871 million (1,680), while the Marine Solutions order book was stable at EUR 2,023 million (2,017). Net sales Wärtsilä’s net sales for January-December 2017 amounted to EUR 4,923 million (4,801), an increase of 3% over the corresponding period last year. Net sales from the Services business was solid at EUR 2,215 million (2,190). Increased revenues from long-term service agreements offset low volumes from service projects. Net sales for Energy Solutions totalled EUR 1,401 million (943), an increase of 48%. Marine Solutions’ net sales decreased by 22% to EUR 1,307 million (1,667). Of the total net sales, Services accounted for 45%, Energy Solutions for 28%, and Marine Solutions for 27%. Of Wärtsilä’s net sales for January-December 2017, approximately 69% was EUR denominated, 18% USD denominated, with the remainder being split between several currencies. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 161 Megawatts delivered 2017 2016 Change % Energy Solutions engines 3 119 2 189 42% Marine Solutions engines 1 203 1 649 -27% Wärtsilä total 4 322 3 838 13% By joint ventures 601 657 -9% Engine deliveries total 4 923 4 495 10% Operating result and profitability The operating result for the financial period January-December 2017 was EUR 552 million (532), which represents 11.2% of net sales (11.1). The comparable operating result was EUR 590 million (583), or 12.0% of net sales (12.1). Items affecting comparability amounted to EUR 37 million (51), of which EUR 36 million (48) was related to restructuring programmes and EUR 2 million (3) to acquisitions and other costs. The comparable adjusted EBITA was EUR 626 million (618), or 12.7% of net sales (12.9). Purchase price allocation amortisation amounted to EUR 36 million (35). Wärtsilä’s operating result was affected by a provision of EUR 40 million (5) related to long-term incentive schemes. The provision covers all three ongoing programmes. Wärtsilä’s three-year long-term incentive schemes are tied to the development of the company's share price, and they apply to approximately 100 company executives. Financial items amounted to EUR -47 million (-53). Financial items include exchange rate losses related to terminated hedges. Net interest totalled EUR -8 million (-11). Profit before taxes amounted to EUR 506 million (479). Taxes amounted to EUR 122 million (123), implying an effective tax rate of 24.2% (25.6). The profit for the financial period amounted to EUR 383 million (357). Earnings per share were 1.95 euro (1.79) and the equity per share was 12.02 euro (11.60). The return on investments (ROI) was 18.9% (17.1), while return on equity (ROE) was 16.3% (15.6). Measures of profit and items affecting comparability MEUR 2017 2016 Comparable adjusted EBITA 626 618 Purchase price allocation amortisation -36 -35 Comparable operating result 590 583 Items affecting comparability: Social plan costs -10 -22 Impairment and write-downs -18 -22 Transfer costs -3 Other restructuring costs -7 -7 Items affecting comparability, total -37 -51 Operating result 552 532 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 162 Balance sheet, financing and cash flow Wärtsilä’s operating cash flow totalled EUR 430 million (613) in the financial period January-December 2017. Cash flow was negatively impacted by the increase in receivables. At the end of the period, working capital totalled EUR 591 million (490), a decrease of EUR 66 million from the end of September. Advances received at the end of the period totalled EUR 522 million (516). At the end of September, advances totalled EUR 495 million. Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period amounted to EUR 379 million (472). Unutilised Committed Credit Facilities totalled EUR 765 million (640), which includes a signed EUR 125 million long-term loan available for disbursement as of 31 December 2017. Wärtsilä had interest-bearing debt totalling EUR 619 million (629) at the end of December 2017. The total amount of short-term debt maturing within the next 12 months was EUR 102 million. Long-term loans amounted to EUR 517 million. Net interestbearing debt totalled EUR 234 million (150) and gearing was 0.10 (0.07). Liquidity preparedness MEUR 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Cash and cash equivalents 379 472 1 Unutilised committed credit facilities 765 640 Liquidity preparedness 1 144 1 112 % of net sales (rolling 12 months) 23 23 Less Commercial Papers Liquidity preparedness excluding Commercial Papers 1 144 1 112 % of net sales (rolling 12 months) 23 23 On 31 December 2017, the average maturity of the total loan portfolio was 43 months and the average maturity of the long-term debt was 44 months. 1 Includes a EUR 125 million EIB loan that remains undrawn. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 163 Capital expenditure Capital expenditure related to intangible assets and property, plant, and equipment amounted to EUR 64 million (55) during the financial period January-December 2017. Capital expenditure related to acquisitions and investments in joint ventures totalled EUR 191 million (91). The figure for 2017 includes the acquisitions of Guidance Marine Limited, Puregas Solutions, and Greensmith Energy Management Systems Inc. Depreciation, amortisation, and impairment for the financial period amounted to EUR 134 million (138). In 2018, capital expenditure related to intangible assets and property, plant, and equipment is expected to be below depreciation and amortisation. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 164 Strategic projects, acquisitions, and joint ventures In July, Wärtsilä completed the acquisition of Greensmith Energy Management Systems Inc., a market leader in grid-scale energy storage software and integrated solutions. The acquisition will enable Wärtsilä to rapidly expand its footprint in the global energy storage market, and position itself as a premier energy systems integrator. In 2016, Greensmith’s revenues were USD 32 million with over 40 employees. The integration of Greensmith is proceeding according to plan. In August, Wärtsilä and ABB signed an agreement to expand their co-operation in lifecycle service offerings. ABB granted Wärtsilä Authorized Service Provider status for the standard maintenance of ABB turbochargers installed with Wärtsilä 4-stroke engines. In September, Wärtsilä added wave power technology to its capabilities as an energy systems integrator through its partnership with AW-Energy. The co-operation is based on AW-Energy’s patented and certified wave energy technology and Wärtsilä’s global project execution, services, and integration capabilities. In October, Wärtsilä announced the acquisitions of Puregas Solutions and Guidance Marine. Puregas Solutions is a Sweden based leader in turnkey biogas upgrading solutions. The acquisition complements Wärtsilä’s existing position in the biogas liquefaction market. In 2016, Puregas Solutions had approximately 40 employees and a turnover of SEK 200 million. Guidance Marine Limited, a UK based privately owned company, is a technology leader in the marine industry for sensor solutions relating to dynamic positioning and other vessel control systems. The acquisition enhances Wärtsilä’s capabilities in the areas of situational awareness and near-field measurement, both essential for more intelligent vessel navigation. In 2016, Guidance Marine employed more than 50 people worldwide and had a turnover of GBP 6 million. In December, Wärtsilä and GTT, the designer of cryogenic membrane containment solutions for liquefied gases, finalised a cooperation agreement to explore potential business opportunities in the marine sector in relation to LNG storage, fuel gas supply systems, and associated services that will benefit both shipyards and vessel owners. Wärtsilä also signed a 10-year service partnership agreement with Winterthur Gas & Diesel Ltd. (WinGD). According to the agreement, Wärtsilä will continue to provide extensive customer support and services to the end users of WinGD’s products, to WinGD, as well as to licensed engine builders. The agreement includes service work conducted for any 2-stroke engines delivered under the Wärtsilä, Sulzer, and WinGD brands. Towards the end of the year, Wärtsilä announced the opening of the CSSC Wartsila Electrical & Automation Co Ltd (CWE&A) joint venture between Wärtsilä and China State Shipbuilding Corporation (CSSC), and the acquisition of Trident B.V., a Netherlands based company specialised in underwater ship maintenance, inspection, and repair services. The acquisition of Trident enables Wärtsilä to become a leading global operator in the underwater services market. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 165 Research and development, product launches Wärtsilä continued to invest in product and solution innovation during 2017. The R&D related expenditure totalled EUR 141 million (131), which represents 2.9% of net sales (2.7). The key focus areas included digitalisation, efficiency improvement, fuel flexibility, and the reduction of environmental impact. In March, Wärtsilä launched SmartPredict, a system designed to provide safer and more efficient operations for all vessel types with the help of advanced motion prediction. In May, Wärtsilä introduced the Wärtsilä HY, a fully integrated hybrid power module combining engines, an energy storage system, and power electronics optimised to work together through a newly developed energy management system. Wärtsilä also announced its decision to invest in expanding its capability to service turbochargers at more than 20 service workshops globally. With this investment, Wärtsilä is able to offer customers global turbocharger services coupled with engine know-how in flexible cooperation with other Wärtsilä service centres. Eniram, a Wärtsilä company, launched an update to the SkyLight performance monitoring system, adding nautical maps, weather layers, and route importation to make predictive analysis and proactive planning more available. In August, Wärtsilä successfully tested its automatic wireless induction charging system on a hybrid powered coastal ferry, owned by Norled, one of Norway’s largest ferry operators. Wärtsilä also took a further step in developing its Smart Marine capabilities by successfully testing the remote control of ship operations in collaboration with the U.S. based operator Gulfmark Offshore. The testing involved driving a vessel through a sequence of manoeuvres using a combination of dynamic positioning and manual joystick control via standard bandwidth onboard satellite communication. Product launches in November included EnergoFlow, a solution for reducing the power losses that occur in a ship’s propeller slipstream by providing an optimised inflow, thereby bringing cost savings in the form of fuel efficiency. A gas-fuelled version of the successful Wärtsilä 31 engine was also launched. The defining feature of the Wärtsilä 31SG is its ability to achieve simple-cycle efficiency levels in excess of 50%, which enables reduced emissions and offers the potential for considerable cost savings to power producers. Another benefit is the provision of increased flexibility, which enables a rapid response to continuously changing load patterns, especially in systems with a notable share of solar and wind energy. In December, Wärtsilä introduced its Voyage Emissions Reduction system, which reduces environmental impact and increases oil tanker revenues by effectively eliminating the problem of volatile organic compound emissions during voyages, as well as Linesafe, a new simplified bearing design that enhances flexibility and lowers lifecycle costs for customers. At the end of the year, the European Investment Bank (EIB) and Wärtsilä signed a EUR 125 million loan agreement to support the research and development of more environmentally friendly and efficient ship engines and power plants. This fifth loan to support Wärtsilä’s Research, Development and Innovation (RDI) will further solidify the successful co-operation with the EIB, which has resulted in tangible improvements in European engine technology since the first loan was signed in 2003. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 166 Restructuring programmes Wärtsilä’s aim is to continuously pursue more cost-efficient ways of operating and align its operations to market conditions. The incremental savings from local actions within Marine Solutions and restructuring measures initiated in previous years amounted to approximately EUR 55 million in 2017, while the related costs totalled EUR 36 million. The remaining savings of EUR 15-20 million are expected to materialise in 2018. Personnel Wärtsilä had 18,065 (18,011) employees at the end of December 2017. On average, the number of personnel for JanuaryDecember 2017 totalled 17,866 (18,332). Services employed 10,624 (10,567) people, Energy Solutions 1,038 (903), and Marine Solutions 5,845 (6,074). Of Wärtsilä’s total number of employees, 20% (19) were located in Finland and 38% (39) elsewhere in Europe. Personnel employed in Asia represented 27% (28) of the total, personnel in the Americas 11% (11), and personnel in other countries 4% (4). This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 167 Non-financial report Increasing environmental awareness is resulting in fundamental changes in both the marine and energy industries. Thanks to its various technologies and specialised services, Wärtsilä is well positioned to reduce exhaust emissions and the use of natural resources, and to support its customers in preparing for new regulatory requirements. R&D efforts continue to focus on the development of advanced environmental technologies and solutions. Wärtsilä emphasises responsible business conduct, and is committed to supporting the UN Global Compact and its principles with respect to human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Responsible business conduct The Wärtsilä Code of Conduct defines common rules for all employees, and provides guidance on Wärtsilä’s approach to responsible business practices. The Code of Conduct is complemented by group-wide policies, including the Quality, Environmental, Health and Safety Policy, the corporate policy on equal opportunities and fair employment practices, as well as policies related to anti-corruption, compliance reporting, and sourcing and purchasing. Wärtsilä takes an active approach to the application of the Code of Conduct and promotes its implementation through the effective communication of its contents to its employees. Wärtsilä monitors the application of the Code internally to ensure understanding and commitment throughout the organisation. At the end of 2017, 16,137 employees, covering 89% of the total number of employees, had participated in the Code of Conduct training programme. Suppliers and business partners are an integral part of the total value chain of the products and services of Wärtsilä. They are expected to conduct their businesses in compliance with the same high legal and ethical standards and business practices as Wärtsilä. Information on Wärtsilä’s requirements is included in supplier agreement templates. Environmental performance Wärtsilä’s main contribution to improved environmental performance lies in providing its customers with reliable and safe technologies and services, which, in addition to enabling environmental compliance, support the sustainable development of the marine and energy industries. Wärtsilä’s products and solutions are designed to operate for up to 30 years. Therefore, focusing R&D efforts on improving the product or system level performance is crucial, as is adopting a lifecycle approach to performance optimisation. In addition to improving the environmental performance of its product and solutions, Wärtsilä also continuously monitors the impact caused by its own activities and targets reduced energy consumption in its facilities. Wärtsilä's Quality, Environmental, Health and Safety Policy sets principles for managing the environmental impacts of Wärtsilä’s products and services. The potential risks related to environmental matters and climate change are in the areas of regulatory emission restrictions and changes in customer attitudes to using combustion engines and fossil fuels. Risks are managed by focusing on product efficiency improvement and emission reduction in R&D activities, as well as by developing a wide product offering, including technologies related to waste reduction, noise abatement, and effluent and ballast water treatment. During 2017, R&D investments totalled EUR 141 million, which represents 2.9% of net sales. The majority of these investments targeted improved environmental performance. Significant achievements related to sustainable innovation included the introduction of Wärtsilä 31SG, a gas fuelled version of the highly efficient Wärtsilä 31 engine for the energy industry, and the introduction of the Wärtsilä HY, the marine sector’s first integrated hybrid power module. Social and employee matters Wärtsilä is a responsible employer, offering employees a workplace where openness, respect, trust, equal opportunities, and scope for personal development prevail. Wärtsilä is a signatory of the UN Global Compact initiative and supports the work-related rights defined by the International Labour Organization (ILO). Wärtsilä's corporate policy on equal opportunities and fair employment practices creates a common framework for employee practices in all Wärtsilä companies. People management processes, tools, and ways of working are developed to ensure consistency across national and organisational boundaries. Wärtsilä has a global job grading system and rewarding principles to ensure transparency and fairness for all employees, which are followed by all the entities in Wärtsilä globally. The objective of Wärtsilä’s people management strategy is to ensure that the businesses have the required resources, and skilled and motivated people at their disposal. In order to develop their competences, employees are offered a wide variety of internal training courses, including topics like technology, health and safety, language and culture, project management, environment, security, and leadership. The average number of learning days was 2.2 per employee in 2017. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 168 Wärtsilä aims at offering employees and contractors a hazard-free working environment, and at minimising the health and safety risks associated with the use of its products and services. The company’s occupational health and safety principles are defined in the Code of Conduct, the quality, environmental, health and safety (QEHS) policy, and in the directive on environment, health, and safety (EHS). Wärtsilä's units are required to have a management system in place that conforms to the QEHS Policy and the EHS directive. In addition to the management system, Wärtsilä companies apply occupational health and safety programmes as required by local legislation. Wärtsilä’s aim is to reach a long-term goal of zero injuries. In 2017, the corporate lost-time injury frequency rate was 2.48 (2.59). To further emphasise the importance of safety within the organisation, Wärtsilä started the ZeroMindset leaders’ occupational health and safety programme during the year. Respect for human rights Wärtsilä supports and respects basic human values as outlined in the UN's Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Wärtsilä is also a signatory of the UN Global Compact and is thereby committed to its principles with respect to human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. No employee is allowed to take any action that violates these human rights principles, either directly or indirectly. Wärtsilä does not accept the use of forced labour or child labour in any form. Human and Labour rights are a part of the Code of Conduct training material, and are included in Wärtsilä’s policy on equal opportunities and fair employment practices as well as in the company’s supplier handbook. Anti-corruption and bribery matters Wärtsilä's Code of Conduct, Anti-Corruption Policy, and Broker Directive expressly prohibit the company and its employees from offering or accepting any kind of benefit considered a bribe and from taking actions that could give rise to a conflict of interest or breach of loyalty. The instructions make it compulsory to comply with anti-corruption laws of all the countries in which Wärtsilä does or intends to do business and urge the reporting of any cases of corruption and bribery. Wärtsilä is aware of the risk of being subject to fraud by external business parties, and that the risk of corruption and fraud is heightened in many markets where the company operates. Therefore, full compliance with a stringent anti-corruption regime is required of all employees. An extensive training programme is in place for personnel on anti-corruption principles and applicable legislation as well as the relevant company policies and procedures. By the end of 2017, 92% of Wärtsilä’s employees have participated in anti-corruption trainings. Employees are encouraged to provide feedback and communicate suspected misconduct to line management or directly to the Compliance, Legal Affairs or Internal Audit function. Wärtsilä also has a dedicated tool, which was taken into use during 2017, through which employees can report infringements. Shares and shareholders During January-December 2017, the volume of trades on Nasdaq Helsinki was 89,407,327 shares, equivalent to a turnover of EUR 4,800 million. Wärtsilä's shares are also traded on alternative exchanges, such as Turquoise, BATS CXE, and BATS BXE. The total trading volume on these alternative exchanges was 60,463,921 shares. Shares on Nasdaq Helsinki Number of Number of shares traded 31.12.2017 shares and votes 1-12/2017 WRT1V 197 241 130 89 407 327 1.1. 31.12.2017 High Low Average1 Close Share price 62.30 41.90 53.70 52.60 ¹ Trade-weighted average price Market capitalisation 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 MEUR 10 375 8 418 Foreign shareholders 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 % 55.9 55.0 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 169 Flagging notifications During the financial period January-December 2017, BlackRock Inc. informed Wärtsilä of the changes in ownership summarised in the table below. The total number of shares held by BlackRock, Inc. remained above 5% of Wärtsilä’s share capital and total votes throughout the period. Release date Transaction date Shareholder Threshold Direct holding, % Total holding, % 23.11.2017 22.11.2017 BlackRock Investment Above 5% 4.63 5.05 Management (UK) Limited 30.11.2017 29.11.2017 BlackRock Investment Above 5% 5.10 5.47 Management (UK) Limited Decisions taken by the Annual General Meeting Wärtsilä’s Annual General Meeting held on 2 March 2017 approved the financial statements and discharged the members of the Board of Directors and the company’s President & CEO from liability for the financial year 2016. The Annual General Meeting decided that the Board of Directors shall have eight members. The following were elected to the Board: Maarit Aarni-Sirviö, Kaj-Gustaf Bergh, Karin Falk, Johan Forssell, Tom Johnstone, Mikael Lilius, Risto Murto and Markus Rauramo. The audit firm PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy was elected as the auditor of the Company for the year 2017. Dividend distribution The Annual General Meeting approved the Board of Directors’ proposal to pay a dividend of EUR 1.30 per share in two instalments. The first instalment of EUR 0.65 per share was paid on 13 March 2017, and the second instalment of EUR 0.65 per share was paid on 21 September 2017. Authorisation to repurchase and distribute the Company’s own shares The Board of Directors was authorised to resolve to repurchase a maximum of 19,000,000 of the Company’s own shares. The authorisation to repurchase the Company’s own shares shall be valid until the close of the next Annual General Meeting, however no longer than for 18 months from the authorisation of the shareholders’ meeting. The Board of Directors was authorised to resolve to distribute a maximum of 19,000,000 of the Company’s own shares. The authorisation for the Board of Directors to distribute the Company’s own shares shall be valid for three years from the authorisation of the shareholders’ meeting and it cancels the authorisation given by the General Meeting on 3 March 2016. The Board of Directors was authorised to resolve to whom and in which order the Company’s own shares will be distributed. The Board of Directors was authorised to decide on the distribution of the Company’s own shares otherwise than in proportion to the existing pre-emptive right of the shareholders to purchase the Company’s own shares. Organisation of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors of Wärtsilä Corporation elected Mikael Lilius as its chairman and Tom Johnstone as the deputy chairman. The Board decided to establish an Audit Committee, a Nomination Committee and a Remuneration Committee. The Board appointed from among its members the following members to the Committees: Audit Committee: Chairman Markus Rauramo, Maarit Aarni-Sirviö, Risto Murto Nomination Committee: Chairman Mikael Lilius, Kaj-Gustaf Bergh, Johan Forssell, Risto Murto Remuneration Committee: Chairman Mikael Lilius, Maarit Aarni-Sirviö, Tom Johnstone Risks and business uncertainties In the Services business, slow economic growth and political instability in specific regions are the main risks for demand development. The challenging conditions in the offshore and conventional merchant segments are also seen as a potential risk. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 170 In the power generation markets, fragile economic growth and slow decision-making continue to be the primary risks for demand development. Geopolitical tensions and significant currency fluctuations can result in investment decisions being postponed in certain countries. Low oil prices have a similar impact in the oil and gas producing countries. Price pressure resulting from the prevailing competitive environment remains a risk. Economic and political uncertainty, as well as new emerging technologies and innovations, will challenge current business models and trade patterns in the marine industry. Reduced capital expenditure from oil companies continues to limit offshore investments, and offshore production is facing increasing competition from low cost onshore and shale production. In addition, increasing energy efficiency and the substitution of other energy sources, will challenge crude oil demand growth. The enforcement of environmental regulations and potential new regulations remain as a source of uncertainty. Climate change continues to create pressure for reducing greenhouse gas emissions within the shipping industry. Wärtsilä places great emphasis on the integration of cyber and physical systems to ensure a holistic security solution is in place for its internal operations and customer offerings. The Wärtsilä cyber security team conducts operations, governance and compliance activities in line with IEC62443 and ISO 27k. Activities include cyber assurance, risk management, detection, securing the software development lifecycle, training, endpoint protection, network security, and cyber advisory services. The Group is a defendant in a number of legal cases that have arisen out of, or are incidental to, the ordinary course of its business. These lawsuits mainly concern issues such as contractual and other liability, labour relations, property damage, and regulatory matters. The Group receives from time to time claims of different amounts and with varying degrees of substantiation. There is currently one unusually sizeable claim. It is the Group’s policy to provide for amounts related to the claims, as well as for litigation and arbitration matters, when an unfavourable outcome is probable, and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. The Risks and risk management section of this Annual Report contains a more detailed description of Wärtsilä’s risks and business uncertainties. Anchor Prospects for 2018 The demand for Wärtsilä’s services and solutions in 2018 is expected to improve somewhat from the previous year. Demand by business area is anticipated to be as follows: • Good in Services thanks to growth opportunities in selected regions and segments. • Good in Energy Solutions. The global shift towards renewable energy sources and increasing electricity demand in the emerging markets support the need for distributed and flexible power capacity, including gas-fired generation, energy storage, and smart integration technology. • Solid in Marine Solutions. Despite improving sentiment, the marine market environment remains challenging due to overcapacity and lack of financing. Wärtsilä’s current order book for 2018 deliveries is EUR 3,171 million (3,143), which mainly comprises equipment deliveries. Services’ business is largely transactional, with only around 30% of annual net sales coming from the order book. Anchor Dividend proposal The Board of Directors proposes that a dividend of EUR 1.38 per share be paid for the financial year 2017. The parent company’s distributable funds total EUR 1,002,092,268.56, which includes EUR 161,085,555.55 in net profit for the year. There are 197,241,130 shares with dividend rights. The dividend will be paid in two instalments. The first instalment of 0.69 euro per share will be paid to shareholders who are registered in the list of shareholders maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd on the record date 12 March 2018. The payment date proposed by the Board for this instalment is 19 March 2018. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 171 The second instalment of the dividend shall be paid in September 2018. f the Board’s proposal concerning a share issue without payment ('share split') is approved, the second instalment will be divided between one old and two new shares so that EUR 0.23 will be paid for each share. If the general meeting does not approve the share issue without payment proposed by the Board, the second instalment will be paid in the same manner as the first, i.e. EUR 0.69 per share. The second dividend instalment will be paid to shareholders who are registered in the list of shareholders maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd on the dividend record day, which, together with the payment day, shall be decided by the Board of Directors in its meeting scheduled for 18 September 2018. The dividend record day for the second instalment as per the current rules of the Finnish book-entry system would be 20 September 2018 and the dividend payment day 27 September 2018. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 172 Anchor Five years in figures Restated MEUR 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013* Net sales 4 923 4 801 5 029 4 779 4 607 of which outside Finland % 97.7 97.5 97.8 98.9 99.0 Exports from Finland 1 954 1 804 1 936 2 280 2 306 Personnel on average 17 866 18 332 18 565 18 042 18 339 of which in Finland 3 521 3 482 3 580 3 582 3 662 Order book 5 064 4 696 4 882 4 530 4 311 From the consolidated statement of income Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 134 138 124 115 120 Share of result of associates and joint ventures 13 14 17 26 28 Comparable operating result 590 583 612 569 557 as a percentage of net sales % 12.0 12.1 12.2 11.9 12.1 Operating result 552 532 587 522 537 as a percentage of net sales % 11.2 11.1 11.7 10.9 11.7 Comparable adjusted EBITA 626 618 643 594 589 as a percentage of net sales % 12.7 12.9 12.8 12.4 12.8 Financial income and expenses -47 -53 -34 -28 -19 Net income from other investments 25 Profit before taxes 506 479 553 494 544 as a percentage of net sales % 10.3 10.0 11.0 10.3 11.8 Profit for the financial period from the continuing operations 383 357 429 389 425 Profit/loss for the financial period from the discontinued operations 22 -37 -31 Net profit for the financial period 383 357 451 351 393 as a percentage of net sales % 7.8 7.4 9.0 7.4 8.5 From the consolidated statement of financial position Non-current assets 2 277 2 116 2 215 1 884 1 935 Current assets 3 331 3 275 3 374 3 294 3 274 Assets held for sale 102 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company 2 371 2 288 2 201 1 960 1 844 Non-controlling interests 24 34 41 45 40 Interest-bearing debt 619 629 724 666 665 Non-interest-bearing liabilities 2 593 2 441 2 623 2 554 2 660 Liabilities directly attributable to assets held for sale 55 Total equity and liabilities 5 607 5 391 5 589 5 280 5 209 From the consolidated statement of cash flows Cash flow from operating activities 430 613 255 452 578 Cash flow from investing activities -235 -126 -288 -71 -79 Cash flow from financing activities -278 -339 -210 -210 -324 Gross capital expenditure 255 146 346 101 134 as a percentage of net sales % 5.2 3.0 6.9 2.1 2.9 Research and development expenditure 141 131 132 139 138 as a percentage of net sales % 2.9 2.7 2.6 2.9 3.0 Dividends paid 272** 256 237 227 207 Financial ratios Earnings per share (EPS), basic and diluted EUR 1.95 1.79 2.25 1.76 1.98 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 173 Dividend per share EUR 1.38** 1.30 1.20 1.15 1.05 Dividend per earnings % 70.8** 72.8 53.3 65.4 53.0 Interest coverage 11.8 18.6 15.9 15.9 18.1 Return on investment (ROI) % 18.7 21.2 Return on investment (ROI), continuing operations % 18.9 17.1 21.0 20.3 22.6 Return on equity (ROE) % 18.0 21.4 Return on equity (ROE), continuing operations % 16.3 15.6 20.2 20.0 23.1 Solvency ratio % 47.1 47.6 44.6 43.5 43.9 Gearing 0.10 0.07 0.17 0.05 0.15 Equity per share EUR 12.02 11.60 11.16 9.94 9.35 Working capital (WCAP) EUR 591 490 543 251 313 * Figures related to the statement of income in the comparison period 2013 have been restated during year 2014 due to the two-stroke business being classified as discontinued operations. ** Proposal of the Board of Directors. Anchor Quarterly figures 10–12/ 7–9/ 4–6/ 1–3/ 10–12/ 7–9/ 4–6/ 1–3/ MEUR 2017 2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 2016 Order intake Services 646 550 599 686 565 522 527 580 Energy Solutions 501 418 361 405 501 330 304 312 Marine Solutions 366 387 403 322 258 287 362 379 Total 1 514 1 354 1 363 1 413 1 324 1 139 1 194 1 271 Order book at the end of the financial period Services 1 171 1 194 1 193 1 187 999 1 031 1 048 1 017 Energy Solutions 1 871 1 839 1 764 1 847 1 680 1 676 1 547 1 491 Marine Solutions 2 023 2 042 2 108 2 062 2 017 2 317 2 488 2 595 Total 5 064 5 075 5 065 5 096 4 696 5 024 5 083 5 103 Net sales Services 654 526 546 490 636 512 542 500 Energy Solutions 425 324 412 239 414 177 220 132 Marine Solutions 366 328 334 279 509 390 433 335 Total 1 445 1 178 1 292 1 007 1 559 1 079 1 196 967 Share of result of associates and joint ventures 6 3 3 1 5 2 4 3 Comparable adjusted EBITA 254 144 134 94 262 132 131 93 as a percentage of net sales 17.5 12.2 10.4 9.4 16.8 12.3 10.9 9.6 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment -42 -30 -30 -33 -34 -31 -42 -31 Purchase price allocation amortisation -10 -9 -9 -9 -9 -9 -9 -9 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 174 Comparable operating result 244 135 126 86 253 123 122 84 as a percentage of net sales 16.9 11.4 9.7 8.5 16.3 11.4 10.2 8.7 Items affecting comparability, total -19 -4 -8 -6 -22 -2 -26 -1 Operating result 225 130 117 80 231 122 96 83 as a percentage of net sales 15.6 11.1 9.1 7.9 14.8 11.3 8.0 8.6 Financial income and expenses -10 -17 -14 -5 -5 -7 -38 -3 Profit before taxes 215 114 103 74 226 115 58 80 Income taxes -48 -29 -27 -17 -55 -31 -17 -20 Profit for the financial period 167 85 76 57 172 84 41 60 Earnings per share (EPS), basic and diluted, EUR 0.86 0.43 0.38 0.28 0.87 0.43 0.19 0.30 Gross capital expenditure 79 156 11 9 20 55 60 11 Investments in securities and acquisitions 45 145 1 42 49 Cash flow from operating activities 276 150 2 2 235 189 202 -13 Working capital (WCAP) at the end of the financial period 591 658 680 580 490 540 602 709 Personnel at the end of the financial period Services 10 624 10 528 10 455 10 464 10 567 10 648 10 575 10 331 Energy Solutions 1 038 1 017 928 913 903 920 945 958 Marine Solutions 5 845 5 774 5 861 5 920 6 074 6 305 6 443 6 681 Other 559 540 539 533 467 464 465 457 Total 18 065 17 859 17 783 17 832 18 011 18 337 18 428 18 427 Anchor Calculations of financial ratios Return on investment (ROI) Profit before taxes + interest and other financial expenses x 100 Total equity and liabilities – non-interest-bearing liabilities – provisions, average over the financial period Return on equity (ROE) Profit for the financial period x 100 Equity, average over the financial period This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 175 Interest coverage Profit before taxes + depreciation, amortisation and impairment + interest and other financial expenses Interest and other financial expenses Solvency ratio Equity x 100 Total equity and liabilities – advances received Gearing Interest-bearing liabilities – cash and cash equivalents Equity Earnings per share (EPS), basic and diluted Profit for the financial period attributable to equity holders of the parent company Adjusted number of shares, average over the financial period Equity per share Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company Adjusted number of shares at the end of the financial period Dividend per share Dividends paid for the financial period Adjusted number of shares at the end of the financial period Dividend per earnings Dividend per share x 100 Earnings per share (EPS), basic and diluted Effective dividend yield Dividend per share x 100 Adjusted share price at the end of the financial period Price/earnings (P/E) Adjusted share price at the end of the financial period Earnings per share (EPS), basic and diluted Price/carrying amount per share (P/BV) Adjusted share price at the end of the financial period Equity per share Working capital (WCAP) (Inventories + trade receivables + current tax receivables + other non-interest-bearing receivables) – (trade payables + advances received + pension obligations + provisions + current tax liabilities + other non-interest-bearing liabilities – dividend payable) Comparable adjusted EBITA Operating result – items affecting comparability – purchase price allocation amortisation This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 176 Comparable operating result Operating result – items affecting comparability Items affecting comparability Items affecting comparability are related to restructuring measures and one-time charges for events or activities, which are not part of the normal business operations This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 177 Anchor Financial statements Anchor Consolidated financial statements Anchor Consolidated statement of income MEUR 2017 2016 Note Net sales 4 923 4 801 1 4 Change in inventories of finished goods & work in progress 28 -134 Work performed by the Group and capitalised 12 2 Other operating income 60 55 5 Material and services -2 558 -2 353 6 Employee benefit expenses -1 214 -1 159 7 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment -134 -138 8 Other operating expenses -577 -556 9 Share of result of associates and joint ventures 13 14 15 Operating result 552 532 as a percentage of net sales 11.2 11.1 Financial income 12 19 10 Financial expenses -59 -72 10 Profit before taxes 506 479 Income taxes -122 -123 11 Profit for the financial period 383 357 Attributable to: equity holders of the parent company 384 352 12 non-controlling interests -1 4 383 357 Earnings per share attributable to equity holders of the parent company (basic and diluted): Earnings per share (EPS), basic and diluted, EUR 1.95 1.79 The notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 178 Anchor Consolidated statement of comprehensive income MEUR 2017 2016 Profit for the financial period 383 357 Other comprehensive income, net of taxes: Items that will not be reclassified to the statement of income Remeasurements of defined benefit liabilities 7 -12 Tax on items that will not be reclassified to the statement of income 3 Total items that will not be reclassified to the statement of income 7 -9 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to the statement of income Exchange rate differences on translating foreign operations for equity holders of the parent company -74 -52 for non-controlling interests -2 -1 Associates and joint ventures, share of other comprehensive income -1 1 Cash flow hedges measured at fair value 1 -16 transferred to the statement of income 36 58 Tax on items that may be reclassified to the statement of income Cash flow hedges measured at fair value -1 4 transferred to the statement of income -8 -14 Total items that may be reclassified to the statement of income -50 -21 Other comprehensive income for the financial period, net of taxes -43 -30 Total comprehensive income for the financial period 341 327 Total comprehensive income attributable to: equity holders of the parent company 344 323 non-controlling interests -3 3 341 327 The notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 179 Anchor Consolidated statement of financial position MEUR 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Note Assets Non-current assets Goodwill 1 237 1 112 13 Intangible assets 340 322 13 Property, plant and equipment 338 394 14 Investment properties 11 12 14 Investments in associates and joint ventures 83 84 15 Other investments 13 15 16 Interest-bearing investments 5 6 16 Deferred tax assets 123 141 20 Trade receivables 109 13 16 Other receivables 18 18 18 Total non-current assets 2 277 2 116 Current assets Inventories 1 051 1 042 17 Trade receivables 1 307 1 220 16 Current tax receivables 53 46 Other receivables 539 494 18 Cash and cash equivalents 379 472 19 Total current assets 3 331 3 275 Total assets 5 607 5 391 Equity and liabilities Equity Share capital 336 336 22 Share premium 61 61 22 Translation differences -133 -57 22 Fair value reserve -10 -39 22 Remeasurements of defined benefit liabilities -38 -45 21 Retained earnings 2 156 2 032 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company 2 371 2 288 Non-controlling interests 24 34 Total equity 2 396 2 321 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 180 Liabilities Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing debt 517 520 16 24 Deferred tax liabilities 102 93 20 Pension obligations 154 168 21 Provisions 52 44 23 Advances received 64 58 Other liabilities 1 1 25 Total non-current liabilities 889 884 Current liabilities Interest-bearing debt 102 108 16 24 Provisions 209 206 23 Advances received 459 458 Trade payables 539 502 16 24 Current tax liabilities 83 78 Other liabilities 931 833 25 Total current liabilities 2 323 2 186 Total liabilities 3 212 3 070 Total equity and liabilities 5 607 5 391 The notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Anchor Consolidated statement of cash flows MEUR 2017 2016 Note Cash flow from operating activities: Profit for the financial period 383 357 Adjustments for: Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 134 138 8 Financial income and expenses 47 53 10 Gains and losses on sale of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment and other changes -17 -6 Share of result of associates and joint ventures -13 -14 15 Income taxes 122 123 11 Cash flow before changes in working capital 657 650 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 181 Changes in working capital: Receivables, non-interest-bearing, increase (-) / decrease (+) -264 89 Inventories, increase (-) / decrease (+) -27 162 17 Liabilities, non-interest-bearing, increase (+) / decrease (-) 189 -167 Changes in working capital -102 84 Cash flow from operating activities before financial items and taxes 555 734 Financial items and taxes: Interest income 1 Interest expenses -6 -13 Other financial income and expenses -2 19 Income taxes paid -119 -127 Financial items and paid taxes -126 -121 Cash flow from operating activities 430 613 Cash flow from investing activities: Acquisitions -191 -81 2 Investments in associates and joint ventures -9 15 Investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets -64 -55 13 14 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 17 18 Proceeds from sale of other investments 2 1 16 Loan receivables, increase (-) / decrease (+), and other changes 1 Cash flow from investing activities -235 -126 Cash flow after investing activities 195 487 Cash flow from financing activities: Proceeds from non-current debt 90 131 Repayments and other changes in non-current debt -101 -91 24 Loan receivables, increase (-) / decrease (+) 2 -4 Current loans, increase (+) / decrease (-) -5 -125 Dividends paid -264 -250 Cash flow from financing activities -278 -339 Change in cash and cash equivalents, increase (+) / decrease (-) -83 148 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the financial period 472 334 Exchange rate changes -10 -9 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the financial period 379 472 The notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 182 Anchor Consolidated statement of changes in equity Noncontrolling Total Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company interests equity Remeasurements Transof lation Fair defined Share Share differvalue benefit Retained MEUR capital premium ence reserve liabilities earnings Total Equity on 1 January 2016 336 61 -6 -70 -36 1 916 2 201 41 2 242 Translation differences -51 -51 -1 -52 Cash flow hedges net change in fair value, net of taxes -13 -13 -13 transferred to the statement of income, net of taxes 44 44 44 Defined benefit plans -9 -9 -9 Other comprehensive income -51 31 -9 -29 -1 -30 Profit for the financial period 352 352 4 357 Total comprehensive income for the financial period -51 31 -9 352 323 3 327 Total transactions with the owners of the company dividends paid -237 -237 -11 -247 Equity on 31 December 2016 336 61 -57 -39 -45 2 032 2 288 34 2 321 Noncontrolling Total Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company interests equity Remeasurements Transof lation Fair defined Share Share differvalue benefit Retained MEUR capital premium ence reserve liabilities earnings Total Equity on 31 December 2016 336 61 -57 -39 -45 2 032 2 288 34 2 321 Restatement due to IFRS 9 -3 -3 -3 Equity on 1 January 2017 336 61 -57 -39 -45 2 028 2 284 34 2 318 Translation differences -76 -76 -2 -78 Cash flow hedges transferred to the statement of income, net of taxes 28 28 28 Defined benefit plans 7 7 7 Other comprehensive income -76 28 7 -41 -2 -43 Profit for the financial period 384 384 -1 383 Total comprehensive income for the financial period -76 28 7 384 343 -3 340 Total transactions with the owners of the company dividends paid -256 -256 -6 -263 Equity on 31 December 2017 336 61 -133 -10 -38 2 156 2 371 24 2 396 Additional information on share capital, share premium, translation difference and fair value reserve is presented in Note 22. Equity. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 183 Anchor Accounting principles for the consolidated financial statements Basic information Wärtsilä Corporation is a Finnish listed company organised under the laws of Finland and domiciled in Helsinki. The address of its registered office is John Stenbergin ranta 2, 00530 Helsinki. Wärtsilä Corporation is the parent company in Wärtsilä Group. Wärtsilä is a global leader in smart technologies and complete lifecycle solutions for the marine and energy markets. By emphasising sustainable innovation, total efficiency and data analytics, Wärtsilä maximises the environmental and economic performance of the vessels and power plants of its customers. In 2017, Wärtsilä’s net sales totalled EUR 4.9 billion with approximately 18,000 employees. The company has operations in over 200 locations in more than 80 countries around the world. Wärtsilä is listed on Nasdaq Helsinki. These consolidated financial statements were authorised for release by the Board of Directors of Wärtsilä Corporation on 30 January 2018, after which, in accordance with the Finnish Corporate Act, the shareholders have a right to approve or reject the financial statements in the Annual General Meeting. The Annual General Meeting also has a possibility to decide upon changes in the financial statements. Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) by applying IAS and IFRS standards and their SIC and IFRIC interpretations, which were in force on 31 December 2017. International Financial Reporting Standards refer to the standards, and their interpretations, approved for application in the EU in accordance with the procedures stipulated in the EU’s regulation (EC) No. 1606/2002 and embodied in Finnish accounting legislation and the statutes enacted under it. The notes to the consolidated financial statements also comply with the Finnish accounting and corporate legislation. Reporting is based on the historical cost convention. Exceptions are the financial assets and liabilities at fair value through the statement of income, hedged items under fair value hedging, and the cash-settled share-based payment transactions which are measured at fair value. The figures are in millions of euros. IFRS amendments In 2017, the Group has adopted the following new and amended standards issued by the IASB. New IFRS 9 Financial Instruments replaces the existing guidance in IAS 39 Financial Instruments Recognition and Measurement. IFRS 9 includes revised guidance on the classification and measurement of financial instruments, including new general hedge accounting requirements and a new expected credit loss model for calculating impairment on financial assets. It also carries forward the guidance on recognition and derecognition of financial instruments from IAS 39. Adoption of IFRS 9 led to some changes in the hedging processes and presentation. The new model aligns the accounting treatment with risk management activities and allows net hedging, from which the gains or losses will be presented on a separate line in the consolidated statement of income. Regarding impairment of financial assets, the change mainly concerns trade receivables where the credit losses will be recognised based on the expected lifetime credit losses. The restatement impact on equity and trade receivables was EUR -3 million. Figures in the comparison period have not been restated. On the date of initial application, 1 January 2017, the financial instruments of the Group were as follows, with any reclassifications noted. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 184 Carrying Carrying amount amount Reclassifications of Measurement Measurement in in financial instruments category category MEUR MEUR on adoption of IFRS 9 IAS 39 IFRS 9 IAS 39 IFRS 9 Change Non-current financial assets Fair value through Available-for-sale the statement of Other investments (shares) financial assets income 15 15 Fair value through the statement of Interest-bearing investments Loans and receivables income 6 6 Other receivables Loans and receivables Amortised cost 6 6 Current financial assets Trade receivables Loans and receivables Amortised cost 1 220 1 214 -6 Investments in commercial papers Loans and receivables Amortised cost Other receivables Loans and receivables Amortised cost 10 10 Cash flow hedges (at fair value through Fair value through Derivatives included in other comprehensive other comprehedge accounting income) hensive income 9 9 Financial assets at fair value Fair value through Derivatives, no hedge through the the statement of accounting statement of income income Fair value through the statement of Trade receivables for sale Loans and receivables income 3 3 Fair value through the statement of Cash and cash equivalents Loans and receivables income 472 472 Current financial liabilities Cash flow hedges (at fair value through Fair value through Derivatives included in other comprehensive other comprehedge accounting income) hensive income 31 31 Financial liabilities at fair value Fair value through Derivatives, no hedge through the statement the statement of accounting of income income 13 13 Financial liabilities measured Other liabilities at amortised cost Amortised cost 6 6 Amendments to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows Disclosure Initiative clarify IAS 7 to improve information provided to users of financial statements about an entity's financing activities e.g. by providing a reconciliation between the opening and closing balances in the statement of financial position for liabilities arising from financing activities (separately from changes in other assets and liabilities). The amendments had an impact on the notes of the consolidated financial statements. Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses clarify the requirements on recognition of deferred tax assets for debt instruments measured at fair value. The amendments had no impact on consolidated financial statements. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 185 Management judgement and use of estimates The preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the valuation of the reported assets and liabilities and other information, such as contingent assets and liabilities and the recognition of income and expenses in the statement of income. Although these estimates and assumptions are based on management’s best knowledge of current events and actions, actual results may differ from the estimates. The most important items in the consolidated statements, which require management’s judgements and which may include uncertainty, consist of the following: Sales revenue is typically recognised when the product or service has been delivered, its value has been determined, and it is probable that the trade receivable will be collected. These estimates affect the amount of sales revenue recognised. Revenue from long-term projects and long-term operations and maintenance agreements is recognised according to their percentage of completion when the profit on the project or agreement can be reliably determined. The percentage of completion and the profit are based on management’s estimates as to the realisation of the project or agreement. These estimates are reviewed regularly. Recognised sales revenue and costs recorded are adjusted during the project when assumptions concerning the outcome of the entire project are updated. Changes in assumptions relate to changes in the project’s or agreement’s schedule, scope of supply, technology, costs, and any other relevant factors. Warranty provisions are recorded on the recognition of sales revenue. The provision is based on the accumulated experience of the level of warranty needed to manage future and current cost claims. Products can contain new and complex technology that can affect warranty estimates with the result that earlier recognised provisions are not always sufficient. The Group is a defendant in several legal cases arising from its business operations. A provision for a court case is recorded when an unfavourable result is probable and the loss can be determined with reasonable certainty. The final result can differ from these estimates. The recoverable amounts of goodwill are determined for all cash-generating units annually, or more often if there is an indication of an impairment, where its value in use is determined. The value in use is determined using estimates of future market development, such as growth and profitability, as well as other significant factors. The most important factors underlying such estimates are the net sales growth in the market area, the operating margin, the useful life of the assets, future investment needs and the discount rate. Changes in these assumptions can significantly affect the expected future cash flows. Estimates of pension obligations regarding defined benefit plans are based on actuarial estimates of factors including future salary increases, discount rates and return on plan assets. Changes in these assumptions can significantly affect the Group’s pension obligations and pension costs. Principles of consolidation Subsidiaries The consolidated financial statements include the parent company Wärtsilä Corporation and all subsidiaries in which the parent company directly or indirectly holds more than 50% of the voting rights or in which Wärtsilä is otherwise in control on the reporting date. Being in control means the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the company to obtain benefits from its activities. Acquired and established companies are accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. Accordingly, the purchase price and the acquired company’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are measured at fair value on the date of acquisition. In the acquisition of additional interest, where the Group already has control, the non-controlling interest is measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests’ proportionate share of the identifiable net assets. The difference between the purchase price, possible equity belonging to the non-controlling interests and the acquired company’s net identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities measured at fair value is goodwill. Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. The purchase price includes the consideration paid, measured at fair value. The consideration does not include transaction costs, which are recognised in the statement of income. The transaction costs are expensed in the same financial period in which they occur, except the costs resulting from issued debt or equity instruments. Any contingent consideration (additional purchase price) related to the combination of businesses is measured at fair value on the date of acquisition. It is classified either as a liability or equity. Contingent consideration classified as a liability is measured at fair This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 186 value on the last day of each financial period, and the resulting loss or gain is recognised through profit or loss. Contingent consideration classified as equity is not remeasured. For the acquisitions which occurred before 1 January 2010, the accounting principles valid at the time of the acquisition have been applied. The acquired subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the day the Group has control, and disposed subsidiaries until the control ends. All intragroup transactions, dividend distributions, receivables and liabilities as well as unrealised margins are eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. In the consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income, non-controlling interests have been separated from the profit and the total comprehensive income for the financial period. In the consolidated statement of financial position, non-controlling interests are shown as a separate item under equity. Associated companies and joint ventures Companies, in which the Group has a significant influence are consolidated as associated companies. Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee, but it is not control or joint control over those policies. A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net asset of the joint venture. Joint control is established by contractual agreement. Associated companies and joint ventures are included in the consolidated financial statements using the equity method from the date the Group’s significant influence or joint control commences until the date it ceases. The Group’s share of the associated company’s or joint venture’s profit for the financial period are shown as a separate item before the Group’s operating result, on the line Share of result of associates and joint ventures. The Group’s share of the associated company’s or joint venture’s changes recorded in other comprehensive income is recorded in the Group’s other comprehensive income. Wärtsilä’s proportion of the associated company’s or joint venture’s post-acquisition accumulated equity is included in the Group’s equity. If the Group’s share of the associated company's or joint venture's losses exceeds its interest in the company, the carrying amount is written down to zero. After this, losses are only recognised if the Group has incurred obligations from the associated company or joint venture. Assets held for sale and discontinued operations Non-current assets and assets and liabilities related to discontinued operations are classified as held for sale if their carrying amounts are expected to be recovered primarily through sale rather than through continuing use. Classification as held for sale requires that the following criteria are met; the sale is highly probable, the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition subject to usual and customary terms, the management is committed to the sale, and the sale is expected to be completed within one year from the date of classification. Prior to classification as held for sale, the assets or assets and liabilities related to a disposal group in question are measured according to the respective IFRS standards. From the date of classification, non-current assets held for sale are measured at the lower of the carrying amount and the fair value less costs to sell, and the recognition of depreciation and amortization is discontinued. A discontinued operation is a component of an entity that either has been disposed of, or is classified as held for sale, and represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations, is part of a single coordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale. The result from the discontinued operations is shown separately in the consolidated statement of income and the comparison figures are restated accordingly. Non-current assets held for sale are presented in the statement of financial position separately from other items. The comparison figures for the statement of financial position are not restated. Translating the transactions in foreign currencies The items included in the financial statements are initially recognised in the functional currency, which is defined for each group company based on its primary economic environment. The presentation currency of the consolidated financial statements is the euro, which is also the functional and presentation currency of Wärtsilä Corporation. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 187 Foreign subsidiaries The income and expenses for statements of income and statements of comprehensive income of foreign subsidiaries are translated into euros at the quarterly average exchange rates. Statements of financial position are translated into euros at the exchange rates prevailing at the end of the financial period. The translation of the profit for the financial period and other comprehensive income using different exchange rates in the statement of comprehensive income and the statement of financial position causes translation differences, which are recognised in equity and in other comprehensive income as change. Translation differences of foreign subsidiaries’ acquisition cost eliminations and post-acquisition profits and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income and are presented as a separate item in equity. The goodwill generated in the acquisition of foreign entities and their fair value adjustments of assets and liabilities are considered as assets and liabilities of foreign entities, which are translated into euros using the exchange rates prevailing at the end of the financial period. Transactions in foreign currencies Transactions denominated in a foreign currency are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rate prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Receivables and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate prevailing at the end of the financial period. Exchange rate gains and losses related to trade receivables and liabilities are reported on the applicable line in the statement of income and are included in operating result. Exchange rate differences related to financial assets and financial liabilities are reported as financial items in the statement of income, except exchange rate differences related to non-current debt that is part of the Group's net investment in a subsidiary. Those are recognised in other comprehensive income and reported in translation differences in equity. Net sales and revenue recognition Sales are presented net of indirect sales taxes and discounts. Sales are recognised when the significant risks and rewards connected with ownership have been transferred to the buyer. This typically means that revenue recognition occurs when a product or service is delivered to the customer in accordance with the terms of delivery. Revenue from long-term construction contracts and long-term operating and maintenance agreements is recognised in accordance with the percentage of completion method when the outcome of the contract can be estimated reliably. The percentage of completion is usually based on the ratio of costs incurred to total estimated costs to date for long-term construction contracts. In some gas solution projects where the key value drivers are engineering, procurement and project management, and where the manufacturing is outsourced, the percentage of completion is assessed with reference to surveys of work performed. For long-term operating and maintenance agreements the percentage of completion is calculated on the basis of the proportion of the contracted services performed. When the final outcome of a long-term project cannot be reliably determined, the costs arising from the project are expensed in the same financial period in which they occur, but the revenue from the project is recorded only to the extent that the company will receive an amount corresponding to actual costs. Any losses due to projects are expensed immediately. Employee benefits Pension and other long-term employee benefits Pension plans Group companies in different countries have various pension plans in accordance with local conditions and practices. These pension plans are classified either as defined contribution or defined benefit plans. The fixed contributions to the defined contribution plans are expensed in the year to which they relate. The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay employee benefits. All other plans are defined benefit plans. Defined benefit plans are funded through contributions to pension funds or pension insurance companies. Defined benefit plans may be unfunded or wholly or partly funded. The present value of the obligation arising from the defined benefit plans is determined per each plan using actuarial techniques, the projected unit credit method. The Group recognises the defined benefit obligation net of fair value of the plan assets at the end of the financial period. Actuarial gains and losses and other remeasurements of the net defined benefit obligation are recognised immediately in the statement of other comprehensive income. Current service cost is the present value of the post employment benefit, which is earned by the employees during the year. The Group determines the net interest expense on the net defined benefit plan by This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 188 applying the discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation. Service cost is recognised in employee benefit expenses and the net interest in financial expenses. The defined benefit plans are calculated by qualified actuaries. Other long-term employee benefits In addition to defined benefit plans, Wärtsilä has other long-term employee benefits. They are presented separately from the defined benefit plans. Similarly to the accounting for a defined benefit plan, for any other long-term benefit the Group recognises a liability for the obligation net of the fair value of plan assets, if any. Changes in other long-term employee benefits are recognised in the statement of income. Share-based payments The company’s bonus scheme, which is tied to the price development of the company’s share during a pre-determined timeframe, is measured at the fair value of the share on the reporting date and reported in the statement of income for the termto-maturity of the bonus scheme. An upper limit is set for the bonus. When a bonus scheme ends and the employment requirement is fulfilled, the bonus is settled in cash. Goodwill and other intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill is the difference between the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the acquirer’s share of the company’s net identifiable assets and liabilities measured at fair value on the acquisition date. The consideration transferred is measured at fair value, including also the acquirer’s previously held equity interest. Research and development costs Research costs are expensed in the financial period during which they occur. Development costs are capitalised when it is probable that the development project will generate future economic benefits for the Group and when the related criteria, including commercial and technological feasibility, have been met. These projects involve the development of new or significantly improved products or production processes. Earlier expensed development costs are not capitalised. Capitalised development costs are measured at cost less accumulated amortisations and impairment. Capitalised development costs are amortised and the cost of buildings, machinery and facilities for development depreciated on a straight-line basis over their expected useful lives, 5-10 years. Amortisations are started when the asset is finished and can be taken into use. Before that, the asset is tested for impairment annually. Grants received for research and development are reported as other operating income. Grants related to capitalised development costs are netted with the costs occurred before the capitalisation. Other intangible assets Other intangible assets are recorded at cost if the cost is reliably measurable and the future economic benefits for the Group are probable. Wärtsilä’s other intangible assets include patents, licenses, software, customer relations and other intellectual property rights that can be transferred to a third party. These are measured at cost, except for intangible assets identified in connection with acquisitions, which are measured at the fair value at the acquisition date. The cost of intangible assets comprises the purchase price and all costs that can be directly attributed to preparing an asset for its intended use. Other intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. Intangible assets, for which the time limit for the right of use is agreed, are amortised over the life of the contract. Intangible assets identified in connection with acquisitions are amortised over their delivery times or estimated useful lives. The general guidelines for scheduled amortisation are: • Software 3-7 years • Development expenses 5-10 years • Other intangible assets 5-20 years This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 189 The estimated useful lives and the residual values are reviewed at least at the end of each financial period, and if they differ significantly from previous estimates, amortisation periods are adjusted accordingly. Amortisation of intangible assets is stopped when an item is classified as held for sale. A gain or loss arising from the sale of intangible assets is recognised in other operating income or other operating expenses in the statement of income. Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment acquired by the Group are measured in the statement of financial position at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. The cost of an asset includes costs directly attributed to preparing an asset for its intended use. Grants received are reported as a reduction in costs. The property, plant and equipment of acquired subsidiaries are measured at their fair value at the acquisition date. The borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the asset acquisition, construction or production and to completion of the asset for its intended use or sale requiring necessarily a considerable length of time will be capitalised in the statement of financial position as part of the cost of the asset. Other than directly attributable borrowing costs are expensed in the period in which they are incurred. Subsequent expenditure is included in the cost of an asset only if the future economic benefits for the Group are probable and the costs are reliably measurable. Expenditure related to regular, extensive inspections and maintenance is treated as an investment, capitalised and depreciated during the useful life. All other expenditure such as ordinary maintenance and repairs is recognised in the statement of income as an expense as incurred. Depreciation is based on the following estimated useful lives: • Buildings 10-40 years • Machinery and equipment 5-20 years • Other tangible assets 3-10 years Depreciation is charged to the statement of income on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Land is not depreciated, as its useful life is considered as infinite. The estimated useful lives and the residual values are reviewed at least at the end of each financial period, and if they differ significantly from previous estimates, depreciation periods are adjusted accordingly. Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is stopped when an item is classified as held for sale. A gain or loss arising from the sale of property, plant and equipment is recognised in other operating income or other operating expenses in the statement of income. Impairment of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment The carrying amounts of assets are reviewed regularly for signs of possible impairment. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated. The recoverable amount is estimated annually also for the goodwill whether or not there are signs of impairment. In order to define a possible impairment, the Group’s assets are divided up into the smallest possible cash-generating units which are mainly independent of other units and the cash flows of which are separately identifiable and to a large extent independent of the cash flows of other similar units. An impairment loss is recorded when the carrying amount of an asset is greater than its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. The value in use is based on the expected discounted future net cash flows resulting from the asset or cash-generating unit. A pre-tax rate which reflects the markets’ position on the time value of money and asset-specific risks is used as the discount rate. An impairment loss is recognised immediately in the statement of income. In connection with the recognition of the impairment loss, the useful life of the amortisable/depreciable asset is reassessed. An earlier impairment loss recognised for an asset other than goodwill is reversed if the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount change. However, reversal of impairment shall not exceed the asset’s carrying amount less impairment loss. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed under any circumstances. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 190 Determination of the fair value of assets acquired through business combinations In significant business combinations, the Group has used external advisors when estimating the fair values of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets. For property, plant and equipment, comparisons have been made of the market prices of similar assets, and the depreciation of the acquired assets due to aging, wear and other similar factors has been estimated. The fair value measurement of intangible assets is based on estimates of the future cash flows associated with the assets. The acquired identifiable intangible assets include typically technology, customer relationships, and trademarks. Investment properties Properties that are not used in the Group’s operating activities or that are held to earn rental income or for capital appreciation, or both, are classified as investment properties. Investment properties are presented in the statement of financial position on a separate line in non-current assets and measured at cost less accumulated depreciations and impairment. A gain or loss arising from the sale of investment properties is recognised in other operating income or other operating expenses in the statement of income. Leases Leases related to property, plant and equipment in which all material rewards and risks of ownership have been transferred to the Group are classified as finance leases. Assets acquired under a finance lease are recognised as property, plant and equipment at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the estimated present value of the underlying lease payments. The corresponding rental obligation, net of finance charge, is included in interest-bearing debt with the interest element of the finance charge being recognised in the statement of income over the lease period. Assets acquired under a finance lease are depreciated over their estimated useful lives in accordance with the same principles that apply to the Group’s other similar property, plant and equipment. The shorter alternative of the following is selected: either the useful life of the leased asset or the lease term. Leases in which the rewards and risks of ownership have not been transferred to the Group are classified as operating leases. Rental payments under operating leases are charged in the statement of income on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Inventories Inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Costs include allocated purchasing and manufacturing overhead costs in addition to direct manufacturing costs. Inventory valuation is primarily based on the weighted average cost. Financial assets and liabilities Financial assets Financial assets are classified into the following categories: financial assets measured at amortised cost, financial assets at fair value through the statement of income and financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income. Financial assets are classified according to their cash flow characteristics and the business model they are managed in and accounted for at settlement date. Financial assets at amortised cost Trade receivables, other receivables and investments in commercial papers are recognised at their anticipated realisable value, which is the original invoiced amount less an estimated valuation allowance for impairment. The Group assesses possible increase in the credit risk for financial assets measured at amortised cost at the end of each reporting period individually. The methodology applied depends on whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk. The loss allowance is estimated at an amount equal to 12-month expected credit losses at the current reporting date, if there has not been significant increase in credit risk. For trade receivables and receivables from revenue recognition in accordance with percentage of completion method, simplified approach is used and the loss allowance is measured at the estimate of the lifetime expected credit losses. Receivables from revenue recognition in accordance with percentage of completion method should be covered with advance payments collected from customers so recognising credit losses based on the lifetime expected loss amounts mainly concerns trade receivables. Examples of events giving rise to impairment include a debtor’s serious financial problems, a debtor’s probable bankruptcy or other financial arrangement. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 191 The Group may sell undivided interests in trade receivables on an ongoing and one-time basis to other lending institutions. Financial assets sold under these arrangements are excluded from trade receivables in the Group’s consolidated statement of financial position at the time of payment from acquirer, considering that substantially all risks and rewards have been transferred. If acquirer has not settled the payment to the extent that the ownership, risk and control over the receivable have been substantially transferred then such financial assets sold are re-recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position at the end of the reporting period. Financial assets at fair value through the statement of income Interest-bearing investments are measured at fair value through the statement of income and they include loans and receivables, which are non-derivative financial assets that have fixed or determinable payments and that are not quoted on active markets. They arise when the Group provides a loan or delivers products and services directly to a debtor. They are included in non-current receivables, unless they have a maturity of less than 12 months from the reporting date. Such items are classified as current receivables. Other investments include Wärtsilä’s investments in other companies (both listed and unlisted shares) and they are classified as financial assets at fair value through the statement of income. The fair value for listed shares is based on their market value. Gains and losses from fair valuation and disposal and impairments of shares that are attributable to operating activities are included in operating income, while gains and losses from fair valuation and disposal and impairments of other shares are included in financial income and expenses. The category includes also derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting and are not financial guarantee agreements, nonderivative financial assets, cash and cash equivalents as well as other financial assets recognised at fair value through the statement of income, which are financial assets held for trading. Derivatives are initially recognised at cost in the statement of financial position and are thereafter measured at their fair value at the end of each reporting period. Realised and unrealised gains and losses from changes in fair values are recognised in the statement of income in the period in which they have arisen. Derivatives held for trading, as well as financial assets maturing within 12 months after the end of financial period, are included in current assets. Non-derivative financial assets are included in noncurrent assets unless the Group intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months from the reporting date. Cash comprise cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks and similar investments. Cash equivalents comprise short-term highly liquid investments that are subject to only minor fluctuations in value. Cash equivalents have a maturity of up to three months on the date of acquisition. Credit accounts related to Group cash pool accounts are included in current financial liabilities. Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income Derivatives are measured at fair value and gains and losses from fair value measurement are treated as determined by the purpose of the derivatives. The effects on results of changes in the value of derivatives that are eligible for hedge accounting and that are effective hedging instruments are presented consistent with the hedged item. Derivatives eligible for hedge accounting are classified as financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income. For derivatives included in hedge accounting, the Group documents the relationship between each hedging instrument and the hedged asset upon entering into a hedging arrangement, along with the risk management objective and the strategy applied. Through this process, the hedging instrument is linked to the relevant assets and liabilities, projected business transactions or binding contracts. The Group also documents its ongoing assessment of the effectiveness of the hedge as regards the relationship between a change in the derivative’s fair value and a change in the value of the hedged cash flows or transactions. Financial liabilities The Group’s financial liabilities are classified either into financial liabilities recognised at amortised cost or financial liabilities recognised at fair value through the statement of income. Financial liabilities are classified as current unless the Group has the unconditional right to defer the payment of the debt to at least 12 months from the end of the financial period. Financial liabilities (or parts thereof) are only derecognised once the debt has extinguished, i.e. once the contractually specified obligation is discharged, cancelled or expires. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 192 Financial liabilities recognised at amortised cost The loans raised by the Group are included in financial liabilities recognised at amortised cost. They are measured at their initial recognition at fair value using the effective interest rate method. After the initial recognition, loans are measured at amortised cost. Interests on loans are expensed through the statement of income over the maturity of the debt using the effective interest rate method. Financial liabilities recognised at fair value through the statement of income In the Wärtsilä Group, financial liabilities recognised at fair value through the statement of income include derivatives that are not eligible for hedge accounting. Realised and unrealised gains and losses from changes in fair values of derivatives are recognised in the statement of income in the period in which they have arisen. Derivatives and hedge accounting Derivatives are measured at fair value. Gains and losses from fair value measurement are treated as determined by the purpose of the derivatives. The effects on results of changes in the value of derivatives that are eligible for hedge accounting and that are effective hedging instruments are presented consistently with the hedged item. The effective portion of the change in the fair value is deferred into the cash flow reserve through OCI and will be recognised in profit or loss when the hedged item affects profit or loss. Impact from ineffective hedging instruments is recognised in financial income and expenses immediately. For derivatives eligible for hedge accounting, the Group documents the relationship between each hedging instrument and the hedged asset upon entering into a hedging arrangement, along with the risk management objective and the strategy applied. Through this process, the hedging instrument is linked to the relevant assets and liabilities, projected business transactions or binding contracts. The Group also documents its ongoing assessment of the effectiveness of the hedge regarding the relationship between a change in the derivative’s fair value and a change in the value of the hedged cash flows or transactions. Hedging of sales and purchases Wärtsilä hedges its sales and purchases in foreign currencies with foreign exchange derivatives or currency options. Certain foreign exchange derivatives are eligible for hedge accounting. Changes in the fair value of derivative contracts designated to hedge future cash flows are recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the fair value reserve in equity, provided that the hedging is effective. The ineffective portion is immediately recognised in the statement of income in the financial period. Changes in fair value due to interest rate differences are recognised in the statement of income. Any gain or loss in the fair value reserve accumulated through other comprehensive income is reported as an adjustment to net sales or material and services in the same period as any transactions relating to the hedged obligations or estimates. Currency forwards are measured at forward rates at the end of the financial period and currency options at their market value at the end of the financial period. Derivatives not included in hedge accounting For derivatives not included in hedge accounting, changes in fair value are immediately recognised in financial income or expenses in the statement of income. For example, interest rate swap hedges belong to this group. The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated by discounting the future cash flows. Fair value hierarchy Financial instruments measured at fair value are classified according to the following fair value hierarchy: instruments measured using quoted prices in active markets (level 1), instruments measured using inputs other than quoted prices included in level 1 observable either directly or indirectly (level 2), and instruments measured using inputs that are not based on observable market data (level 3). Financial instruments measured at fair value include financial assets and liabilities at fair value through the statement of income. Provisions and contingent liabilities Provisions are recognised in the statement of financial position when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Provisions can arise, for example, from warranties, environmental risks, litigation, foreseeable losses on projects and restructuring costs. The amount to be recognised as provisions corresponds to the management’s best estimate of the expenses that will be necessary to meet the existing obligation at the end of the financial period. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 193 Estimated future warranty costs relating to products delivered are recorded as provisions. The amount of future warranty costs is based on accumulated experience. Provisions for restructuring costs are made once the restructuring plan has been approved and the implementation started or the personnel concerned have been informed of the terms. The plan must indicate which activities and personnel will be affected and the timing and cost of implementation. Contingent liabilities are possible obligations resulting from previous events, the existence of which will only be ascertained once the uncertain event that is beyond the Group’s control materialises. Existing obligations that are not likely to require the fulfilment of a payment obligation or the amount of which cannot be reliably determined are also considered contingent liabilities. Contingent liabilities are presented in the notes. Income taxes The statement of income includes taxes on the Group’s consolidated taxable income for the financial period in accordance with local tax regulations, tax adjustments for previous financial periods and changes in deferred taxes. Tax effects related to transactions recognised through the statement of income and other events are recognised in the statement of income. Tax effects related to transactions or other events to be presented as components of other comprehensive income or directly in equity are also recognised, respectively, in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are calculated on temporary differences arising from the difference between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and the carrying values using the enacted tax rates at the end of the financial period. The statement of financial position includes deferred tax liabilities in their entirety and deferred tax assets at their estimated probable amount. Dividends The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is deducted from distributable equity when approved by the company’s Annual General Meeting. Adoption of new and updated IFRS standards In 2018, the Group will adopt the following new and amended standards and interpretations issued by the IASB. New IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018): IFRS 15 establishes a new five-step model that will apply to revenue arising from contracts with customers. It replaces existing revenue guidance, including IAS 18 Revenue, and IAS 11 Construction Contracts. IFRS 15 is based on the principle that revenue is recognized when control of a good or service transfers to a customer. When applying the new standard, the entity needs to assess whether the revenue will be recognised over time or at a point in time. The effect of variable considerations and the time value of money on transaction price need to be assessed. In addition, IFRS 15 requires quantitative and qualitative disclosures about the entity’s contracts with customers, performance obligations in the contracts and significant judgements to be made. The Group is adopting the new standard on the required effective date using the full retrospective method. In product delivery, short-term service orders, and short-term projects the management expects to identify mostly one performance obligation in a contract under the new standard, and revenue is typically recognised at a point in time when transfer of control occurs. In long-term service agreements, and long-term projects the management expects to recognise mostly one performance obligation in a contract, and revenue is recognised at a point in time. When applying IFRS 15, the revenue recognition method is changed in two business lines: long-term service and maintenance agreements, and gas solutions related construction contracts. In long-term service and maintenance agreements the customer value is created over time during the contract period. The revenue recognition method changes from an output method (percentage of completion based on the proportion of the contracted services performed) to an input method (percentage of completion based on costs incurred). Due to the standard maintenance schedules, this typically delays the revenue recognition in a contract. In construction contracts related to gas solutions, the key value drivers are engineering, procurement, and project management, and the manufacturing is usually outsourced. The revenue recognition method changes from an output method (percentage of completion based on the progress measured by surveys of work performed) to an input method (percentage of completion based on costs incurred). This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 194 The two business lines together represent, depending on the year, approximately 10-15% of the group’s net sales. However, the impact on Group net sales is in large extend mitigated with wide portfolio of projects and agreements in different stages of lifetime. The combined restatement impact on equity on 1 January 2017 is EUR -10 million. In project business the contracts usually have clauses for liquidated damages, which were previously accounted as provisions for cost when their probability was more likely than not to occur. Liquidated damages are treated as variable consideration in IFRS 15, and they are required to be estimated at contract inception. According to analyses, this will reduce the Group’s recognised revenue to some extent as the penalties accounted as costs are deducted from sales according to IFRS 15. Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment Payment* Clarification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions (effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018). The amendments are intended to eliminate the diversity in the classification and measurement of particular share-based payment transactions (accounting for cash-settled share-based payment transactions that include a performance condition, share-based payments in which the manner of settlement is contingent on future events, share-based payments settled net of tax withholdings and modification of share-based payment transactions from cash-settled to equity-settled). The amendments will have no impact on consolidated financial statements. Amendments to IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts (effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018): Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4. The amendments bring certainty to insurers on whether, and how, they should apply IFRS 9 before they apply the forthcoming insurance contracts standard. The amendments will have no impact on consolidated financial statements. IFRIC 22: Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration Consideration* (effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018). The interpretation considers how to determine the date of the transaction when applying the standard on foreign currency transactions IAS 21. The guidance aims to reduce diversity in practice. The interpretation will have no impact on consolidated financial statements. The following new standard already issued by the IASB will be adopted in 2018 or later, depending on the effective date. New IFRS 16 Leases (effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019): IFRS 16 changes the accounting for operating leases by requiring companies to recognise lease assets and lease liabilities in the balance sheet, initially measured at the present value of unavoidable future lease payments, and to depreciate those assets and interest on lease liabilities in the statement of income over the lease term. Whether a contract contains a lease is determined on the basis of whether the customer has the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time. When adapting IFRS 16, the portion of the lease payments currently included in other operating expenses in the consolidated statement of income will be transferred to depreciations and amortisations and the interest portion to financial expenses. The standard will affect primarily the accounting for the Group´s operating leases increasing the balance sheet totals and leading to some changes in key figures. At the reporting date, the Group has non-cancellable operating lease commitments of 182 MEUR, see note 28. The Group is assessing the impact of IFRS 16. At this stage, the Group does not intend to adopt the standard before its effective date. * Not yet endorsed for use by the European Union as of 31 December 2017. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 195 Anchor Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1. Segment information Wärtsilä´s highest operative decision maker (CODM, Chief Operating Decision Maker) is the President and CEO with the support of the Board of Management and in some cases the Board of Directors. The President and CEO assesses the Group´s profitability, financial position and development as a whole. Consequently to the management approach by the Chief Operating Decision Maker, Wärtsilä is one operating segment. The operating segment is subdivided into two mutually supportive market areas, Marine Solutions and Energy Solutions, which are supported by Services. Wärtsilä provides advanced technologies and lifecycle solutions to its marine and energy market customers. These technologies and solutions are sold and delivered globally by the same Wärtsilä companies. Manufacturing supplies products to both Energy Solutions and Marine Solutions from the same assembly lines, allowing for synergies in the production process and in research and development. Also sourcing function supports both market areas and Services. Due to the business model, integrated operations, and governance structure, the Group is reported as one segment. However, to enable better understanding of the different market areas’ development and the business cycles, Wärtsilä discloses the net sales by market areas and Services. Net sales by market areas and Services MEUR 2017 2016 Energy Solutions 1 401 943 Marine Solutions 1 307 1 667 Services 2 215 2 190 Total 4 923 4 801 As geographical information, Wärtsilä reports the geographical areas Finland, Other European countries, Asia, the Americas and other continents. In the geographical information net sales are split by customer´s destination and non-current assets by origin. During the financial period 1 January 31 December 2017 and 1 January 31 December 2016 Wärtsilä did not have any individual significant customers or countries. Geographical information 2017 2016 NonNoncurrent current MEUR Net sales assets* Net sales assets* Finland 115 249 121 264 Other European countries 1 412 1 378 1 460 1 388 Asia 1 948 112 1 774 134 The Americas 1 113 265 1 039 131 Other 335 5 407 6 Total 4 923 2 009 4 801 1 923 * Non-current assets consist of goodwill, intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, investment properties and investments in associates and joint ventures. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 196 2. Acquisitions Acquisitions 2017 Greensmith Energy Management Systems Inc. On 3 July 2017, Wärtsilä acquired 100% of Greensmith Energy Management Systems Inc. Greensmith Energy Management Systems Inc. is a market leader in grid-scale energy storage software and integrated solutions. The acquisition of Greensmith enables Wärtsilä to rapidly expand its footprint in the energy storage market globally and position as a premier energy system integrator. The following tables summarise the preliminary amounts for the consideration paid for Greensmith, the cash flow from the acquisition and the amounts of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed recognised at the acquisition date. Preliminary consideration MEUR Consideration transferred 144 Total consideration transferred 144 Preliminary cash flow from the acquisition MEUR Consideration paid in cash 144 Total cash flow from the acquisition 144 Provisional values of the assets and liabilities arising from the acquisition MEUR Intangible assets 42 Trade and other receivables 5 Deferred tax assets 4 Total assets 51 Provisions 5 Trade payables and other liabilities 5 Deferred tax liabilities 17 Total liabilities 27 Total net assets 24 Preliminary goodwill 120 The preliminary fair values of acquired identifiable intangible assets at the date of acquisition (including trademark and tehcnology related IP) amounted to EUR 42 million. The fair value of current trade receivables and other receivables is approximately EUR 5 million. The fair value of trade receivables does not include any significant risk. The preliminary goodwill of EUR 120 million reflects the value of know-how and expertise in grid-scale energy storage and integrated solutions. Wärtsilä foresees that the acquisition will strengthen its position as an energy system integrator as well as support its growth strategy by improving Wärtsilä's offering and services towards customers. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 197 During 2017 the Group incurred acquisition-related costs of EUR 1 million related to external legal fees and due diligence costs. The costs have been included in the other operating expenses in the consolidated statement of income. Pro Forma If the Greensmith acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2017, management estimates that consolidated net sales would have been EUR 4,928 million. The impact in the consolidated operating result would not have been significant. In determining these amounts, management has assumed that the fair value adjustments, which arose on the date of acquisition would have been the same if the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2017. Other acquisitions In October, Wärtsilä acquired 100% of Puregas Solutions Ab and Guidance Navigation Holdings Limited. Puregas Solutions is a Sweden based leader in turnkey biogas upgrading solutions. The acquisition complements Wärtsilä’s existing position in the biogas liquefaction market. Guidance Navigation Holdings Limited is a UK based privately owned company. The company is a technology leader in the marine industry for sensor solutions relating to dynamic positioning and other vessel control systems. The acquisition enhances Wärtsilä’s capabilities in the areas of situational awareness and near-field measurement, both essential for more intelligent vessel navigation. The following tables summarise the preliminary amounts for the consideration paid, the cash flow from the acquisitions and the amounts of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed recognised at the acquisition dates. Preliminary consideration MEUR Consideration transferred 63 Total consideration transferred 63 Preliminary cash flow from the acquisitions MEUR Consideration paid in cash 53 Contingent consideration 9 Cash and cash equivalents of the acquired companies -10 Total cash flow from the acquisitions 52 Provisional values of the assets and liabilities arising from the acquisitions MEUR Intangible assets 17 Inventories 1 Trade and other receivables 14 Cash and cash equivalents 10 Total assets 43 Provisions 1 Trade payables and other liabilities 9 Advances received 4 Deferred tax liabilities 4 Total liabilities 17 Total net assets 26 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 198 Preliminary goodwill 37 The preliminary fair values of acquired identifiable intangible assets at the date of acquisitions (including customer relations, technology and trade marks) amounted to EUR 17 million. The fair value of current trade receivables and other receivables is approximately EUR 14 million. The fair value of trade receivables does not include any significant risk. The preliminary goodwill of EUR 37 million reflects the value of know-how and expertise in turnkey biogas upgrading solutions and more intelligent vessel navigation. Wärtsilä foresees that acquisition of Puregas Solutions Ab will strengthen and complement its position in the biogas liquefaction market as well as improve Wärtsilä's offering and reach in the gas value chain. The acquisition of Guidance Navigation Holdings Limited enhances Wärtsilä’s capabilities in the areas of situational awareness and near-field measurement, both essential for more intelligent vessel navigation. During 2017, the Group incurred acquisition-related costs of EUR 1 million related to external legal fees and due diligence costs. The costs have been included in the other operating expenses in the consolidated statement of income. Pro forma If the other acquisitions had occurred on 1 January 2017, management estimates that consolidated net sales would have been EUR 4,940 million. The impact in the consolidated operating result would not have been significant. In determining these amounts, management has assumed that the fair value adjustments, which arose on the dates of acquisitions would have been the same if the acquisitions had occurred on 1 January 2017. Acquisitions 2016 American Hydro Corporation On 30 June 2016, Wärtsilä acquired 100% of a USAand Canada-based company, American Hydro Corporation, from the Weir Group plc. American Hydro is a leading supplier and installer of large equipment upgrades and servicing for the hydroelectric and water distribution industries, specialising in consultancy, design and precision performance enhancements for hydro-turbines and pumps. This acquisition will enable Wärtsilä to grow and expand its existing global Hydro and Industrial service offering. The following tables summarise the amounts for the consideration paid for American Hydro, the cash flow from the acquisition, and the amounts of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed recognised at the acquisition date. Total consideration MEUR Consideration transferred 46 Total consideration transferred 46 Cash flow from the acquisition MEUR Consideration paid in cash 45 Contingent consideration 1 Cash and cash equivalents of the acquired companies -4 Total cash flow from the acquisition 42 The assets and liabilities arising from the acquisition at fair value MEUR Intangible assets 5 Property, plant and equipment 14 Inventories 1 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 199 Trade and other receivables 8 Cash and cash equivalents 4 Total assets 33 Provisions 1 Trade payables and other liabilities 7 Total liabilities 8 Total net assets 24 Goodwill 22 The fair values of acquired identifiable intangible assets at the date of acquisition (including customer relationships and order book) amounted to EUR 5 million. The fair value of current trade receivables and other receivables is approximately EUR 8 million. The fair value of trade receivables does not include any significant risk. The goodwill of EUR 22 million reflects the value of know-how and expertise in hydroelectric and water distribution industries. Wärtsilä foresees that the acquisition will strengthen its presence in hydro and industrial services as well as support the growth strategy and expansion in renewables, improving Wärtsilä's offering and services towards customers. The goodwill recognised for American Hydro is expected to be mainly tax deductible. During 2016, the Group incurred acquisition-related costs of EUR 1 million related to external legal fees and due diligence costs. The costs have been included in the other operating expenses in the consolidated statement of income. Eniram Group On 30 June 2016, Wärtsilä signed an agreement to acquire Eniram, a Finland-based technology company providing the marine industry with energy management and analytics solutions. 100% ownership of the company transferred to Wärtsilä with effect from 1 July 2016. Eniram provides the maritime industry with energy management technology to reduce fuel consumption and emissions. Eniram’s solutions range from single onboard applications for trim, speed and engine optimisation to comprehensive fleet analysis. The company’s solutions are installed in over 270 vessels; saving fuel, increasing profitability and reducing harmful emissions. Eniram is headquartered in Helsinki, Finland and has subsidiaries in the UK, the USA, Germany and Singapore. The acquisition of Eniram will enable Wärtsilä to grow and strengthen its existing digital offering and in-house capabilities, specifically in data analytics, modelling and performance optimisation. The following tables summarise the amounts for the consideration paid for Eniram Group, the cash flow from the acquisition, and the amounts of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed recognised at the acquisition date. Total consideration MEUR Consideration transferred 41 Total consideration transferred 41 Cash flow from the acquisition MEUR Consideration paid in cash 41 Cash and cash equivalents of the acquired companies -1 Total cash flow from the acquisition 40 The assets and liabilities arising from the acquisition at fair value MEUR Intangible assets 11 Trade and other receivables 3 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 200 Cash and cash equivalents 1 Total assets 14 Provisions 2 Trade payables and other liabilities 4 Deferred tax liabilities 2 Total liabilities 8 Total net assets 7 Goodwill 34 The fair values of acquired identifiable intangible assets at the date of acquisition (including technology) amounted to EUR 11 million. The fair value of current trade receivables and other receivables is approximately EUR 3 million. The fair value of trade receivables does not include any significant risk. The goodwill of EUR 34 million reflects the value of know-how and expertise in energy management technology. Wärtsilä foresees that the acquisition will enable customers to optimise their assets and improve predictability, as well as support them with real-time analytics. Through this acquisition Wärtsilä takes a solid lead in marine digitalisation. During 2016 the Group incurred acquisition-related costs of EUR 1 million related to external legal fees and due diligence costs. The costs have been included in the other operating expenses in the consolidated statement of income. Pro forma If the acquisitions had occurred on 1 January 2016, management estimates that consolidated net sales would have been EUR 4,826 million. The impact in the consolidated operating result would not have been significant. In determining these amounts, management has assumed that the fair value adjustments, which arose on the date of acquisitions would have been the same if the acquisitions had occurred on 1 January 2016. 3. Disposals Disposals 2017 In 2017, there were no disposals. Disposals 2016 On 30 June 2016, Wärtsilä sold its majority interest in Wärtsilä Ship Design Serbia doo to the operative management of the company. The consideration received and the impact on profit for the financial period were not significant. On 31 October 2016, Wärtsilä divested its power drives business to Finland-based The Switch. The consideration paid and the impact on profit for the financial period were not significant. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 201 4. Long-term construction contracts and operating and maintenance agreements MEUR 2017 2016 Net sales recognised for the financial period From long-term construction contracts 980 813 From long-term operating and maintenance agreements 392 331 Long-term construction contracts in progress Aggregated amount of costs incurred and recognised profits 2 592 2 213 Advances received at 31 December 2 213 1 965 Receivables from the revenue recognition netted with the advances received at 31 December 379 249 Revenue from long-term construction contracts and long-term operating and maintenance agreements is recognised in accordance with the percentage of completion method. The percentage of completion is usually based on the ratio of costs incurred to total estimated costs to date for long-term construction contracts. In some gas solution projects where the key value drivers are engineering, procurement and project management, and where the manufacturing is outsourced, the percentage of completion is assessed with reference to surveys of work performed. For long-term operating and maintenance agreements the percentage of completion is calculated on the basis of the proportion of the contracted services performed. 5. Other operating income MEUR 2017 2016 Capital gains 18 7 Government grants 10 8 Sale of scrapped material 3 3 Income related to cancelled orders* 6 9 Insurance indemnities 4 7 Other 20 21 Total 60 55 * Expenses related to cancelled orders are recorded on respective expense accounts. 6. Material and services MEUR 2017 2016 Purchases during the financial period -1 415 -1 207 Change in inventories 1 -27 External services -1 144 -1 119 Total -2 558 -2 353 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 202 7. Employee benefit expenses MEUR 2017 2016 Wages and salaries 1 000 939 Pension costs Defined benefit plans 9 10 Defined contribution plans 66 63 Other compulsory personnel costs 139 147 Total 1 214 1 159 Management remuneration is specified in Note 28. Related party disclosures. Long-term incentive schemes Wages and salaries include a provision for expenses arising from bonus schemes 2014, 2015 and 2016, totalling EUR 40 million (5). The provision is recognised at fair value. The bonus schemes are tied to the price development of the Company’s share during a pre-determined timeframe, and an upper limit is set for the bonus. When a bonus scheme ends and the employment requirement is fulfilled, the bonus is settled in cash. Board of Management members shall acquire Wärtsilä shares with 50% of the net bonuses received, until the share ownership corresponding to the individuals' annual gross base salary level has been achieved. The bonus payment for bonus schemes is based on the share price development during a three-year period. The 2014 bonus scheme comprises 1,805,000 bonus rights, the 2015 bonus scheme 1,843,000 bonus rights and the 2016 bonus scheme 2,047,000 bonus rights. For the bonus scheme 2014 the basis of a share price is EUR 44.25, for the bonus scheme 2015 EUR 47.47 and for the bonus scheme 2016 EUR 48.57. The bonus schemes take into account 100% of dividends paid, and the paid bonus cannot exceed EUR 10.60 per bonus right in the 2014 bonus scheme, EUR 13.84 in the 2015 bonus scheme or EUR 18.21 in the 2016 bonus scheme. 2017 2016 Personnel on average 17 866 18 332 Personnel at the end of the financial period 18 065 18 011 8. Depreciation, amortisation and impairment MEUR 2017 2016 Development expenses 12 9 Purchase price allocation amortisation 36 35 Other intangible assets 12 15 Buildings and structures 15 15 Machinery and equipment 45 46 Other tangible assets 1 1 Impairments 14 17 Total 134 138 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 203 9. Other operating expenses MEUR 2017 2016 Travel costs 138 128 Rental costs 90 93 Legal and consultancy costs 71 54 Information technology costs 55 55 Other personnel related costs 51 56 Other 173 171 Total 577 556 10. Financial income and expenses MEUR 2017 2016 Interest income on loans and receivables 2 2 Interest income on financial assets at fair value through the statement of income 9 5 Exchange rate differences* 8 Other financial income 2 4 Total financial income 12 19 Interest expenses on financial liabilities recognised at amortised cost -10 -13 Interest expenses on financial liabilities at fair value through the statement of income -14 -11 Net interest from defined benefit plans -3 -3 Changes in fair values of financial assets/liabilities at fair value through the statement of income 1 Write-down of financial receivables -36 Exchange rate differences* -27 Fee expenses -1 Other financial expenses -4 -8 Total financial expenses -59 -72 Total -47 -53 * In 2017, the result from the ineffective portion of cash flow hedges related to cancelled orders, EUR -15 million (-8) and exchange rate differences from unhedged internal loans, EUR -7 million (14) were included in exchange rate differences in the consolidated statement of income. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 204 11. Income taxes MEUR 2017 2016 Income taxes for the financial period -121 -121 for prior financial periods -2 Change in deferred tax origination and reversal of temporary differences -4 -1 changes in tax rates 4 Total -122 -123 Reconciliation of effective tax rate: Profit before taxes 506 479 Tax calculated at the domestic corporate tax rate 20.0% -101 -96 Effect of changed tax rates 4 -3 Effect of different tax rates in foreign subsidiaries 4 2 Effect of income not subject to tax and non-deductible expenses -3 -7 Effect of share of result of associates and joint ventures 3 3 Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses carried forward 4 1 Unrecognised taxes on losses carried forward -14 -6 Other taxes* -14 -12 Other temporary differences -2 -4 Income taxes for prior financial periods -2 Tax charge in the consolidated statement of income -122 -123 Effective tax rate (%) 24.2 25.6 * Other taxes consist mainly of witholding taxes not utilised and taxes not directly based on taxable income. Income taxes related to other comprehensive income are presented in Consolidated statement of comprehensive income. Changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities are presented in Note 20. Deferred taxes. Wärtsilä is subject to tax audits in some countries, which can result in tax reassessment decisions and obligations to pay additional taxes and related payments. 12. Earnings per share Earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the financial period attributable to equity holders of the parent company by the weighted average number of shares outstanding. During the financial periods there were no programmes with dilutive effect. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 205 MEUR 2017 2016 Profit for the financial period attributable to equity holders of the parent company 384 352 Thousands of shares weighted average number of shares outstanding* 197 241 197 241 Earnings per share attributable to equity holders of the parent company (basic and diluted): Earnings per share (EPS), basic and diluted, EUR 1.95 1.79 * Additional information on the number of shares is presented in Note 22. Equity. 13. Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill allocation Goodwill arising from business acquisitions is allocated to the Group cash-generating unit (CGU) that is the Group´s operating segment. The operating segment represents the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored. The companies acquired during the financial period are integrated to the Group CGU at the acquisition date. Previously separately presented CGU’s have also been integrated to the Group CGU during the financial period. The goodwill is presented in the table below: Goodwill/Cash Generating Unit MEUR 2017 2016 American Hydro Corporation 23 Eniram Group 34 Wärtsilä, other 1 056 Wärtsilä 1 237 1 112 Impairment testing of goodwill The Group performs its annual impairment testing of goodwill on 30 September. Impairment of goodwill is also carried out when changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The recoverable amount from the CGU is determined based on value-in-use calculation. The calculation is made on a discounted cash flow method basis, derived from the order book and five-year cash flow projections from management approved strategic plans. The estimated cash flow of CGU is based on utilisation of the existing property, plant and equipment in their current condition with normal maintenance capital expenditure, excluding any potential future acquisitions. Cash flow beyond the five-year period is calculated using the terminal value method. The terminal growth rate used in projections is based on management’s assessment on conservative long-term growth. The terminal growth rate used is 2%. The key driver for the valuation is the growth in the global economy and in particular the development of the global power market, the global shipbuilding industry and the demand for related services. The projected development of total costs in the market affects the profitability, whereas no single cost item is considered to have a material impact. The valuation driver for the new equipment sales is the growth in the global economy, whereas for after sales the drivers are also the demand for related services and the projected development in labour cost. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 206 The applied discount rate is the weighted average pre-tax cost of capital (WACC) as defined by Wärtsilä. The components of the WACC are riskfree rate, market risk premium, industry specific beta, cost of debt and debt equity ratio. When defining the WACC for 2017, it has been considered that the general interest rate is currently on a lower level. Wärtsilä has used a WACC of 9.4% (9.6) in the calculations. As a result of the impairment test, no impairment loss for the CGU was recognised for the financial periods ended 31 December 2017 and 2016 respectively. The recoverable amount from the CGU exceeded its carrying value remarkably. Sensitivity analysis The management has assessed that no reasonable possible changes in the key assumptions would cause the CGU´s carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount. Sensitivity analysis have been carried out for the valuation of the recoverable amount for the CGU by changing the assumptions used in the calculation. A change in an assumption that would cause the recoverable amount to equal the carrying amount is presented in the table below. Change Pre-tax discount rate increase more than 21 percentage points Terminal growth rate decrease more than 54 percentage points Profitability decrease more than 84 percentage In management’s opinion, the changes in the basic assumptions shall not be seen as an indication that these factors are likely to materialise. The sensitivity analyses are hypothetical and should therefore be treated with caution. 2017 Construction in progress Developand Other ment advances intangible MEUR expenses paid assets Goodwill Total Cost on 1 January 2017 107 41 743 1 118 2 008 Changes in exchange rates -15 -33 -49 Acquisitions 61 157 217 Additions 1 19 5 25 Disposals and other changes -12 1 -12 Reclassifications 34 -39 5 Cost on 31 December 2017 142 21 783 1 243 2 189 Accumulated amortisation and impairment on 1 January 2017 -73 -495 -5 -574 Changes in exchange rates 9 10 Accumulated amortisation on disposals and other changes 12 12 Amortisation during the financial period -12 -48 -60 Impairments -1 -1 Accumulated amortisation and impairment on 31 December 2017 -85 -521 -6 -612 Carrying amount on 31 December 2017 57 21 262 1 237 1 577 Development costs for internally generated assets capitalised during the financial period amounted to EUR 16 million (6). The carrying amount was EUR 73 million (68). Purchase price allocation amortisation amounted to EUR 36 million (35) and the carrying amount was EUR 227 million (209). This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 207 2016 Construction in progress Developand Other ment advances intangible MEUR expenses paid assets Goodwill Total Cost on 1 January 2016 114 33 730 1 108 1 986 Changes in exchange rates 1 -15 -46 -60 Acquisitions 16 55 71 Additions 11 5 16 Disposals -8 1 -8 Reclassifications -3 5 2 Cost on 31 December 2016 107 41 743 1 118 2 008 Accumulated amortisation and impairment on 1 January 2016 -66 -450 -5 -522 Changes in exchange rates 8 8 Accumulated amortisation on disposals and other changes 4 -2 2 Amortisation during the financial period -9 -50 -59 Impairments -3 -3 Accumulated amortisation and impairment on 31 December 2016 -73 -495 -5 -574 Carrying amount on 31 December 2016 33 41 248 1 112 1 434 14. Property, plant & equipment 2017 ConstrucBuildMachintion in ings ery progress InvestLand and and and Other ment and strucequipadvances tangible properMEUR water tures ment paid assets ties Total Cost on 1 January 2017 34 349 834 12 25 12 1 266 Changes in exchange rates -1 -10 -18 -30 Additions 2 20 17 39 Disposals -1 -22 -45 -1 -69 Reclassifications -6 -5 -11 -1 -22 Cost on 31 December 2017 31 313 787 18 23 11 1 185 Accumulated depreciation and impairment on 1 January 2017 -1 -179 -660 -21 -861 Changes in exchange rates 4 13 18 Accumulated depreciation on disposals 15 44 59 Depreciation during the financial period -15 -45 -1 -61 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 208 Impairments -6 -7 -13 Reclassifications 9 13 1 22 Accumulated depreciation and impairment on 31 December 2017 -2 -172 -642 -20 -835 Carrying amount on 31 December 2017 30 142 146 18 3 11 349 Value of finance-leased assets included in carrying amount 1 Investment properties include land areas not used by the Group. Their estimated fair value is around EUR 18 million (21). During the financial period, investment properties were sold totalling EUR 1 million (1) generating no significant gain (1). 2016 ConstrucBuildMachintion in ings ery progress InvestLand and and and Other ment and strucequipadvances tangible properMEUR water tures ment paid assets ties Total Cost on 1 January 2016 32 343 800 33 24 13 1 246 Changes in exchange rates 5 7 13 Acquisitions 1 6 6 14 Additions 3 28 7 38 Disposals -9 -28 -1 -38 Reclassifications 23 -29 -5 Cost on 31 December 2016 34 349 834 12 25 12 1 266 Accumulated depreciation and impairment on 1 January 2016 -1 -162 -630 -20 -815 Changes in exchange rates -2 -5 -8 Accumulated depreciation on disposals 8 26 33 Depreciation during the financial period -15 -46 -1 -62 Impairments -8 -6 -14 Reclassifications 1 1 4 Accumulated depreciation and impairment on 31 December 2016 -1 -179 -660 -21 -861 Carrying amount on 31 December 2016 33 170 174 12 4 12 405 Value of finance-leased assets included in carrying amount 1 15. Investments in associates and joint ventures MEUR 2017 2016 Carrying amount on 1 January 84 89 Investments 9 Share of result 13 14 Dividends -12 -29 Translation differences -1 1 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 209 Disposal of shares -1 Carrying amount on 31 December 83 84 In 2016, Wärtsilä invested EUR 9 million in the joint venture CSSC Wärtsilä Engine (Shanghai) Co., Ltd and sold its 40% share in the China-based associated company Cosco-Shipyard Total Automation Co Ltd. The consideration received and the impact on profit for the financial period were not significant. Summary of financial information (100%): 2017 Profit for the Holding LiabilNet financial MEUR % Assets Equity ities sales period Joint ventures Wärtsilä Qiyao Diesel Company Ltd. China 50.0 25 19 7 13 South Wärtsilä Hyundai Engine Co Ltd. Korea 50.0 192 122 70 176 34 CSSC Wärtsilä Engine (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. China 49.0 62 22 40 26 -9 Repropel Sociedad de reparacao de helices Portugal 50.0 1 1 1 1 Associated companies Wärtsilä Land & Sea Academy, Inc. Philippines 40.0 -2 2 Neptun Maritime AS Norway 40.0 1 1 1 CSSC Wärtsilä Engine (Shanghai) Co., Ltd factory is manufacturing medium and large bore medium speed diesel and dual-fuel engines at Lingang, Shanghai. Wärtsilä Hyundai Engine Co Ltd. manufactures Wärtsilä 50DF dual-fuel engines for LNG carriers and other marine application in Mokpo, South Korea. Wärtsilä Qiyao Diesel Company Ltd. manufactures marine auxiliary engines in Shanghai, China. 2016 Profit for the Holding LiabilNet financial MEUR % Assets Equity ities sales period Joint ventures Wärtsilä Qiyao Diesel Company Ltd. China 50.0 30 21 9 19 South Wärtsilä Hyundai Engine Co Ltd. Korea 50.0 232 111 122 221 32 CSSC Wärtsilä Engine (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. China 49.0 52 32 20 -4 Repropel Sociedad de reparacao de helices Portugal 50.0 1 1 2 Associated companies Wärtsilä Land & Sea Academy, Inc. Philippines 40.0 -2 2 Neptun Maritime AS Norway 40.0 1 1 1 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 210 16. Financial assets and liabilities by measurement category 2017 At fair Carrying At fair value amounts value through of the Measured through other statement at the compreof financial amortised statement hensive position Fair MEUR cost of income income items value Non-current financial assets Interest-bearing investments 5 5 5 Other investments 13 13 13 Other receivables 3 3 3 Current financial assets Trade receivables 1 306 1 306 1 306 Trade receivables for sale 1 1 1 Derivatives 15 14 28 28 Other receivables 4 4 4 Cash and cash equivalents 6 373 379 379 Carrying amount by measurement category 1 319 407 14 1 740 1 740 Non-current financial liabilities Interest-bearing debt 517 517 524 Current financial liabilities Interest-bearing debt 102 102 102 Trade payables 539 539 539 Derivatives 31 10 41 41 Other liabilities 11 11 11 Carrying amount by measurement category 1 169 31 10 1 211 1 218 2016 At fair Carrying At fair value amounts value through of the Measured through other statement at the compreof financial amortised statement hensive position Fair MEUR cost of income income items value Non-current financial assets Interest-bearing investments 6 6 6 Other investments 15 15 15 Other receivables 6 6 6 Current financial assets Trade receivables 1 220 1 220 1 220 Derivatives 9 9 9 Other receivables 10 10 10 Cash and cash equivalents 472 472 472 Carrying amount by measurement category 1 714 24 1 738 1 738 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 211 Non-current financial liabilities Interest-bearing debt 520 520 531 Current financial liabilities Interest-bearing debt 108 108 108 Trade payables 502 502 502 Derivatives 13 31 45 45 Other liabilities 6 6 6 Carrying amount by measurement category 1 136 13 31 1 181 1 192 Fair value hierarchy Financial instruments measured at fair value are classified according to the following fair value hierarchy: instruments measured using quoted prices in active markets (level 1), instruments measured using inputs other than quoted prices included in level 1 observable either directly or indirectly (level 2), and instruments measured using inputs that are not based on observable market data (level 3). Financial instruments measured at fair value include financial assets and liabilities at fair value through the statement of income. Due to the short nature of the current receivables, their carrying amount is considered to be same as their fair value. Specific valuation techniques used to value financial instruments include: • the fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined by using forward rates at the closing date • the fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows based on observable yield curves • the use of quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments 2017 2016 MEUR Level 2 Level 3 Level 2 Level 3 Financial assets Other investments 13 15 Interest-bearing investments, non-current 5 6 Other receivables, non-current 3 6 Derivatives 28 9 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing debt, non-current 524 531 Derivatives 41 45 Additional information on financial liabilities is presented in Note 24. Financial liabilities. Other investments Other investments include unlisted shares carried at fair value. These investments are valued using certain DCF models where critical assumptions relate to WACC level and expected cash flows from future dividends. However, the results from different scenarios vary a lot. Thus, the management considers that the valuation at amortised cost is the best estimate of fair value. MEUR 2017 2016 Carrying amount on 1 January 15 15 Disposal of shares -1 Impairment -1 Carrying amount on 31 December 13 15 In 2017, the cost for other unlisted shares (level 3) was EUR 13 million (15), and the market value of them was EUR 13 million (15). This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 212 Interest-bearing debt MEUR 2017 2016 Carrying amount on 1 January 629 724 Cash flows -3 -98 Exchange rate differences -7 Acquisitions and disposals 2 Carrying amount on 31 December 619 629 17. Inventories MEUR 2017 2016 Materials and consumables 432 432 Work in progress 557 532 Finished products 27 36 Advances paid 36 42 Total 1 051 1 042 In 2017, EUR 4 million (17) impairment for obsolete inventories has been recognised in the consolidated statement of income. Acquisition-related increase in inventories is EUR 1 million (1). 18. Other receivables MEUR 2017 2016 Derivatives 28 9 Interest and other financial items 4 10 Insurance receivables 3 10 Rental accruals 4 5 Project accruals 63 10 Accruals from long-term contracts 256 295 Other accruals 46 47 Loan receivables 3 6 Defined benefit plans 1 1 VAT receivables 97 71 Other* 52 49 Total 557 512 Non-current 18 18 Current 539 494 * Includes payroll related tax receivables of EUR 10 million (11) in Brazil, which cannot be utilised within a year. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 213 19. Cash and cash equivalents MEUR 2017 2016 Cash and bank balances* 359 450 Cash equivalents 20 22 Total 379 472 * EUR 122 million (132) of cash and bank balances relate to cash in countries where repatriation is limited due to local regulation and consequently the cash is not immediately available to the parent company. 20. Deferred taxes Changes in deferred taxes during 2017 Recognised in the conOther 1 solidated compreTranslaAcquisi31 January statement hensive tion diftions and December MEUR 2017 of income income ferences disposals 2017 Deferred tax assets Tax loss carry-forwards 19 -1 -1 2 18 Pension obligations 25 -2 -1 23 Provisions 32 -2 -2 2 30 Elimination of intragroup margin in inventories 9 -3 5 Fair value reserve 12 -6 -1 6 Other temporary differences 44 -3 -3 41 Total 141 -11 -6 -7 4 123 Deferred tax liabilities Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 59 -19 -1 21 57 Fair value reserve 1 2 2 Other temporary differences 35 8 -3 42 Total 93 -10 2 -3 21 102 Net deferred tax assets/liabilities 48 -8 -4 -17 21 On 31 December 2017, the Group had temporary differences on which no deferred tax assets were booked totalling EUR 47 million (45), as it is uncertain if they will be realised. Most of the unrecognised deferred tax assets are related to cumulative tax losses. Of these, EUR 8 million (12) will expire within the next five years and the rest will expire later or never. The cumulative tax losses on which deferred tax assets have been booked will never expire. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 214 Changes in deferred taxes during 2016 Recognised in the conOther 1 solidated compreTranslaAcquisi31 January statement hensive tion diftions and December MEUR 2016 of income income ferences disposals 2016 Deferred tax assets Tax loss carry-forwards 26 -8 1 19 Pension obligations 23 -1 3 25 Provisions 32 1 32 Elimination of intragroup margin in inventories 10 -2 9 Fair value reserve 24 -11 1 12 Other temporary differences 42 1 1 44 Total 157 -9 -8 3 141 Deferred tax liabilities Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 64 -7 2 59 Fair value reserve 1 1 Other temporary differences 36 -1 35 Total 102 -8 2 93 Net deferred tax assets/liabilities 55 -1 -8 3 -2 48 21. Pension obligations MEUR 2017 2016 Net defined benefit liabilities on 31 December 154 168 Liability for other long term employee benefits on 31 December 11 10 Wärtsilä has defined benefit plans for its employees mainly in Europe and Asia. The major plans are located in Switzerland, Germany, Great Britain and Sweden. The Swiss defined benefit plan accounts for 28% of the Group's total defined benefit obligations and 52% of the plans' assets. Most of the plans provide a lifetime pension to the members at the normal retirement age but there are also plans, which provide a lump sum payment at the retirement date. Most of these defined benefit pension plans are managed by pension funds. Their assets are not included in the Group's assets. The plans' assets are typically invested according to the investment strategies approved by the funds' Board of Trustees, or in some cases they are completely administered by insurance companies. Wärtsilä's subsidiaries make their payments to pension funds in accordance with the local legislation and practice. Authorised actuaries in each country have performed the actuarial calculations required for the defined benefit plans. The Swiss Plan Wärtsilä operates a defined benefit plan in Switzerland in accordance with the local pension laws and regulations. The plan provides benefits to the members in the form of a pension payable after retirement. The level of benefits provided depends on the accrued retirement savings capital, which is a result of contributions paid up to retirement plus respective interest. The plan is run as a pension fund by the Board of Trustees separately from the company. Contributions to the plan are paid both by the employees as well as by the employers based on a percentage of the insured salary as defined in the pension fund regulations. Contributions by the employers vary depending on the age of the employee and cover on average two thirds of the total contributions. The investment strategy for a pension fund's asset is the responsibility of the Board of Trustees. Assets are invested in accordance with the This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 215 strategy and the corridors for different investment categories as defined by local laws. Other risks of the plan are longevity of plan members as well as death or disability of employees before their retirement. The pension plan is reinsured for the risk of death and disability until 31 December 2017. Inflationary increases for pensions in payment are at the discretion of the Board of Trustees as benefits paid by the plan are exceeding the minimum level required by law. The German Plans Wärtsilä operates defined benefit plans in Germany in accordance with the local pension laws and regulations. The plans provide benefits to the members in the form of a pension payable after retirement. The level of benefits provided depends on the accrued retirement savings capital, which is a result of contributions paid up to retirement plus respective interest. The plans vary from unfunded plans to a plan run as a pension fund. In some of the plans, contributions are paid to the plan both by the employees and the employers based on a percentage of the insured salary as defined in the pension fund regulations. However, in some plans only the employer is obliged to make the payments. Contributions by the employers vary depending on the age of the employee, the duration of the employment and also on the position of the employee. The main risks of the plans are longevity of plan members and death or disability of employees before their retirement. In a funded plan, also the investment strategy chosen includes certain risk. Inflationary increases for pensions in payment are valuated on a yearly basis. MEUR 2017 2016 Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligations 111 119 Present value of funded defined benefit obligations 197 206 Fair value of plan assets -154 -156 Net liability in the statement of financial position 154 168 Present value of Fair defined value benefit of plan % obligations assets Switzerland 28 52 Germany 23 5 Other Europe 41 33 Asia 8 10 Total 100 100 Present value of Fair Net defined value defined benefit of plan benefit MEUR obligation assets liability Balance on 1 January 2016 313 -152 161 Changes in exchange rates -4 2 -2 Recognised in the statement of income: Current service cost 9 10 Gains (-) / losses (+) on curtailments and settlements -1 1 Interest cost (+) / interest income (-) 6 -2 3 Remeasurements recognised in other comprehensive income: Return on plan assets, excluding interest income -10 -10 Experience adjustments -1 -1 Changes in financial assumptions 24 24 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 216 Contribution paid by the plan members 1 -1 Contribution paid by the employer -10 -10 Benefits paid -24 16 -8 Balance on 31 December 2016 323 -156 168 Balance on 1 January 2017 323 -156 168 Changes in exchange rates -14 10 -4 Other adjustments 4 4 Recognised in the statement of income: Current service cost 8 9 Interest cost (+) / interest income (-) 5 -2 3 Remeasurements recognised in other comprehensive income: Return on plan assets, excluding interest income -3 -3 Experience adjustments 8 8 Changes in demographic assumptions -1 -1 Changes in financial assumptions -10 -10 Contribution paid by the plan members 1 -1 Contribution paid by the employer -10 -10 Benefits paid -19 10 -9 Balance on 31 December 2017 307 -154 154 Plan assets invested in: % 2017 2016 Shares and other equity instruments 26 23 Bonds and other debt instruments 35 31 Property 16 15 Other assets 23 30 The main actuarial assumptions at the end of the financial period are (expressed as weighted averages): % 2017 2016 Discount rate 1.65 1.51 Future salary growth 2.15 2.05 Future pension growth 1.14 1.17 On 31 December 2017, the weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation was 12 years. The Group expects to contribute EUR 10 million to the plans during the next financial period. Assumptions regarding future mortality are set based on actuarial advice in accordance with the published statistics and experience in each country. These assumptions translate into a weighted average life expectancy in years for a pensioner at the retirement age as follows: 2017 2016 Plan participants retiring at the end of the financial period: Male 17.7 17.2 Female 19.6 19.4 Plan participants retiring 20 years after the end of the financial period: Male 19.5 18.2 Female 21.9 20.2 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 217 The following table presents a sensitivity analysis for each significant actuarial assumption showing how the defined benefit obligation would have been affected by changes in the relevant actuarial assumption that were reasonably possible at the end of the financial period. This sensitivity analysis applies to the defined benefit obligation only and not to the net defined benefit pension liability in its entirety. Sensitivity analysis Effect to defined benefit obligation, MEUR Change in assumption 2017 2016 Discount rate increase 1% -36 -35 Discount rate decrease 1% 44 47 Future salary growth increase 1% 13 13 Future salary growth decrease 1% -10 -7 Future pension growth increase 1% 28 30 Future pension growth decrease 1% -15 -16 22. Equity Equity consists of share capital, share premium, translation differences, fair value reserve, remeasurements of defined benefit liabilities and retained earnings. Share capital and number of shares MEUR Number of shares Share Share Share capital and votes capital premium Total 1 January 2016 197 241 130 336 61 397 31 December 2016 197 241 130 336 61 397 31 December 2017 197 241 130 336 61 397 Wärtsilä's share does not have a nominal value. Share Capital The subscription price of a share received by the Company in connection with share issues is credited to the share capital, unless it is provided in the share issue decision that a part of the subscription price is to be recorded in the fund for invested non-restricted equity. Share Premium Share premium is restricted equity. It may be reduced in accordance with the rules applying to decreasing share capital in accordance with Finnish Limited Liability Companies Act. It can also be used to increase the share capital. Translation differences Translating foreign subsidiaries' financial statements by using different exchange rates in the statement of comprehensive income and in the statement of financial position causes translation differences, which are recognised in equity. Translation differences of foreign subsidiaries’ This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 218 acquisition cost eliminations and post acquisition gains and losses are also presented in equity. The change in translation differences is recognised in other comprehensive income. Fair value reserve Fair value reserve includes the changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments, if the hedging is effective and eligible for hedge accounting. The changes in items included in fair value reserve are recognised in other comprehensive income. Cash flow MEUR hedges Difference between fair value and carrying amount on 1 January 2016 -91 Taxes related to fair value adjustments 22 Fair value reserve on 1 January 2016 -70 Transferred to the statement of income, net of taxes 44 Fair value adjustments -16 Taxes related to fair value adjustments 4 Fair value reserve on 31 December 2016 -39 Transferred to the statement of income, net of taxes 28 Fair value adjustments 1 Taxes related to fair value adjustments -1 Fair value reserve on 31 December 2017 -10 Parent company's distributable funds After the balance sheet date, the Board of Directors proposed that a dividend of EUR 1.38 per share be paid for the financial period 2017, total dividend payable being EUR 272 million. The remaining part of the retained profits will be carried further in the unrestricted equity. For the profit for the financial period 2016, a dividend of EUR 1.30 per share was distributed, totalling EUR 256 million, and the rest of the retained profits were carried further in the unrestricted equity. Additional information on equity is presented in Notes to the parent company financial statements, in Note 10. Shareholders' equity. 23. Provisions 2017 Onerous RestrucOther MEUR Litigation Warranties contracts turing provisions Total Provisions on 1 January 2017 17 170 17 18 29 250 Changes in exchange rates -2 -1 -1 -4 Acquisitions 1 5 6 Additions 10 57 18 6 11 102 Used provisions -2 -52 -9 -17 -3 -83 Released provisions -6 -3 -1 -10 Provisions on 31 December 2017 19 173 27 6 35 261 Non-current 52 Current 209 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 219 2016 Onerous RestrucOther MEUR Litigation Warranties contracts turing provisions Total Provisions on 1 January 2016 15 187 17 15 35 269 Changes in exchange rates 1 1 Additions 6 48 10 22 7 94 Used provisions -1 -66 -9 -18 -8 -103 Released provisions -2 -2 -2 -5 -11 Provisions on 31 December 2016 17 170 17 18 29 250 Non-current 44 Current 206 Warranty provisions include estimated future warranty costs relating to products delivered. The amount of future warranty costs is based on accumulated historical experience. The standard warranty period is one year from the delivery onwards. The Group is a defendant in a number of legal cases which arise out of, or are incidental to, the ordinary course of its business. These lawsuits concern mainly issues such as contractual and other liability, labour relations, property damage and regulatory matters. The Group receives from time to time claims of different amounts and with varying degrees of substantiation. There is currently one unusually sizeable claim, but it is highly unlikely that the outcome of it would be unfavourable. The claim is treated as a contingent liability as it is the Group’s policy to provide for amounts related to the claims as well as for the litigation and arbitration matters when an unfavourable outcome is probable and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. 24. Financial liabilities 2017 NonCurrent current MEUR < 1 year 1–3 years 3–5 years > 5 years Total Loans from pension insurance companies* 8 8 Loans from other financial institutions* 90 112 237 166 605 Finance lease liabilities* 1 1 Other interest-bearing debt* 4 4 Trade payables 539 539 Derivatives 23 1 17 41 Other liabilities 11 11 Total 676 114 255 166 1 211 * Estimated interest expenses, total 7 12 10 5 34 Estimated contractual cash flows 683 126 265 171 1 245 2016 NonCurrent current MEUR < 1 year 1–3 years 3–5 years > 5 years Total Loans from pension insurance companies* 10 8 18 Loans from other financial institutions* 95 137 187 186 606 Finance lease liabilities* 1 1 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 220 Other interest-bearing debt* 3 4 Trade payables 502 502 Derivatives 45 45 Other liabilities 6 6 Total 662 145 187 186 1 181 * Estimated interest expenses, total 8 12 10 5 34 Estimated contractual cash flows 670 157 197 191 1 215 Interest expenses for long term loans are calculated by using average interest rate prevailing on 31 December 2017. Fair values of financial liabilities are presented in Note 16. Financial assets and liabilities by measurement category. 25. Other liabilities MEUR 2017 2016 Project costs 541 479 Personnel costs 191 158 Derivatives 41 45 Interest and other financial items 11 6 Other accruals 52 63 VAT liabilities 26 25 Other 70 58 Total 932 834 Non-current 1 1 Current 931 833 26. Derivative financial instruments The Group applies hedge accounting to significant foreign currency forward contracts. Detailed financial information is presented in Note 29. Financial risks. of which of which MEUR 2017 closed 2016 closed Nominal values of derivative financial instruments (level 2) Interest rate swaps 165 165 Cross currency swaps 74 81 Currency forwards, included in hedge accounting 814 312 1 468 252 Currency forwards, no hedge accounting 1 134 435 1 320 226 Total 2 187 746 3 034 478 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 221 Fair values of derivative financial instruments (level 2) Interest rate swaps -2 -4 Cross currency swaps -17 -10 Currency forwards, included in hedge accounting 2 -12 Currency forwards, no hedge accounting 3 -10 Total -13 -35 In addition, the Group had copper futures and swaps amounting to 254 tons valued at EUR 2 million. Foreign currency forward contracts are against transactional risks and fall due during the following 12 months (12). A currency forward is considered closed when there are offsetting cash flows in the same currency with the same value date. Interest rate swaps are denominated in euros and their average maturity is 18 months (26). The average maturity for cross currency swaps is 40 months (53). Normally all of the Groups' derivatives are done under International Swaps and Derivatives Association's Master Agreements (ISDA). In case of an event of default under these agreements the non-defaulting party may request early termination and set-off of all outstanding transactions. These agreements do not meet the criteria for offsetting in the statement of financial position. The following table sets out the carrying amounts of recognised financial instruments that are subject to the above agreements. MEUR 2017 2016 Gross fair values of derivative financial instruments subject to ISDAs Assets Currency forwards 28 9 Total 28 9 Liabilities Interest rate swaps -19 -13 Currency forwards -22 -31 Total -41 -44 Net fair values of derivative financial instruments subject to ISDAs Assets 12 3 Liabilities -27 -38 Total -16 -35 27. Collateral, contingent liabilities and other commitments 2017 2016 Debt in the Debt in the statement statement of financial of financial MEUR position Collateral position Collateral Mortgages given as collateral for liabilities and commitments Other commitments 16 10 19 10 Total 16 10 19 10 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 222 Chattel mortgages and other pledges and securities given as collateral for liabilities and commitments Loans from credit institutions 11 4 15 6 Other commitments 16 20 Total 11 19 15 26 MEUR 2017 2016 Guarantees and contingent liabilities on behalf of Group companies 737 921 Total 737 921 Nominal amounts of rents according to leasing contracts Payable within one year 35 34 Payable between one and five years 101 84 Payable later 48 30 Total 185 148 28. Related party disclosures Related parties comprise the Board of Directors, the President and CEO, the Board of Management, the associated companies, and joint ventures. Management remuneration Benefits recognised in the statement of income TEUR 2017 2016 President and CEO Salaries and other short-term benefits 785 781 Bonuses 234 179 Share based bonuses 3 438 216 Statutory pension costs 145 135 Voluntary pension costs 156 182 Deputy of President and CEO Salaries and other short-term benefits 425 386 Bonuses 80 114 Share based bonuses 1 719 216 Statutory pension costs 32 Voluntary pension costs 88 61 Other members of the Board of Management Salaries and other short-term benefits 2 153 1 878 Bonuses 456 366 Share based bonuses 9 896 836 Statutory pension costs 322 277 Voluntary pension costs 493 480 Total 20 389 6 141 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 223 Board of Directors on 31 December 2017 Mikael Lilius, Chairman 153 155 Tom Johnstone, Deputy Chairman 108 77 Maarit Aarni-Sirviö, member 78 82 Kaj-Gustaf Bergh, member 74 74 Karin Falk, member 71 Johan Forssell, member 72 Risto Murto, member 79 81 Markus Rauramo, member 81 86 Board of Directors, until 2 March 2017 Sune Carlsson, Deputy Chairman 1 107 Gunilla Nordström, member 1 74 Total 718 735 Management remuneration, total 21 107 6 876 The holdings of Wärtsilä shares of the President and CEO, and the members of the Board of Directors and Board of Management at the year end were 97,605 shares (88,529). The President and CEO is entitled to retire on reaching 63 years of age. The members of the Board of Management are entitled to retire on reaching the statutory retirement age. One member of the Board of Management is entitled to retire earlier, on reaching 60 years of age. The Group has no loan receivables from the executive management or the Board of Directors. No pledges or other commitments have been given on behalf of management or shareholders. Business transactions with the associated companies and joint ventures MEUR 2017 2016 Sales to the associates and joint ventures 49 42 Purchases from the associates and joint ventures 53 63 Receivables from the associates and joint ventures 14 7 Advances paid to the associates and joint ventures 11 19 Payables to the associates and joint ventures 8 12 Detailed financial information on the associated companies and joint ventures is presented in Note 15. Investments in associates and joint ventures. 29. Financial risks General Wärtsilä has a centralised Group Treasury with two main objectives: 1) to arrange adequate funding for the Group’s underlying operations on competitive terms and 2) to identify and evaluate the financial risks within the Group and implement the hedges for the Group companies. The objective is to hedge against unfavorable changes in the financial markets and to minimise the impact of foreign exchange, interest rate, credit and liquidity risks on the Group’s cash reserves, profits and shareholders’ equity. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 224 The Financial Risk Policy is approved by the Board of Directors. The Treasury employs only such instruments whose market value and risk profile can be reliably monitored. Foreign exchange risk Foreign exchange exposures are monitored at the Business level and then netted and hedged at Group level. All material fixed sales and purchase contracts are hedged. The estimated future commercial exposures are evaluated by the Businesses, and the level of hedging is decided by the Board of Management. Hedge accounting in accordance with IFRS is applied to most of the hedges of these exposures. The hedges cover such time periods that both the prices and costs can be adjusted to new exchange rates. These periods vary among Group companies from one month to two years. The Group also hedges its position of the statement of financial position, which includes receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies. The Group does not expect significant losses from foreign exchange rate changes in 2017. The cancellation of orders could lead to ineffective currency hedge. Approximately 69% (67) of sales and 63% (59) of operating costs in 2017 were denominated in euros, and approximately 18% (20) of sales and 7% (8) of operating costs were denominated in US dollars. The remainder were split between several currencies. The Group’s profits and competitiveness are also indirectly affected by the home currencies of its main competitors: USD, GBP, JPY and KRW. Usually fixed sales and purchase contracts are hedged by using foreign exchange forwards to offset currency rate related changes to the value of the underlying cash flows. As the aim is to hedge and apply hedge accounting (cash flow hedging) only to the foreign exchange risk all interest rate/hedge timing related gains/losses are booked directly into the financial items. As the underlying cash flows can have long maturities, the related hedges can be done with shorter maturities and they can be rolled over when needed, so that at the maturity the total currency rate related gains/losses from these hedges are expected to fully offset the related gains/losses from the underlying cash flows. A cancellation or reduction of sales/purchase value of an order can cause the related hedge to be (partially) ineffective. Any ineffectiveness will be immediately recognised and booked into the financial items. As hedges are typically done on short maturities (up to 1 year) and only high credit quality (Aminimum rating requirement) counterparties are utilised, counterparty credit risk is expected to have minimal effect on hedge valuations. Due to some underlying hedged cash flows having longer maturities than related hedges the change in present value of the hedge and underlying cash flow does not always fully offset each other during the lifetime of a hedge. This ineffectiveness is calculated on quarterly basis and will be booked on Group level in financial items. The instruments, and their nominal values, used to hedge the Group’s foreign exchange exposures are listed in Note 26. Derivative financial instruments. Some Group companies in countries whose currencies are not fully convertible like Brazil have unhedged, intercompany loans nominated either in EUR or USD. Total amount of the loans is EUR 132 million (109). Since Wärtsilä has subsidiaries and joint ventures outside the euro zone, the Group’s equity, goodwill and purchase price allocations are sensitive to exchange rate fluctuations. At the end of 2017, the net assets of Wärtsilä’s foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures outside the euro zone totalled EUR 1,011 million (1,071). In addition, goodwill and purchase price allocations from acquisitions nominated in foreign currencies amounted to EUR 825 million (613). In 2017, the translation differences recognised in OCI mainly come from changes in GBP exchange rate. In 2017, EUR 1 million (-16) fair value adjustments related to cash flow hedges were recognised in equity. EUR -36 million (-58) of the fair value adjustments were transferred from equity to the statement of income as net sales or operating expenses during 2017. In 2017, the result from ineffective portion of the cash flow hedges was EUR -15 million (-8), which was booked in financial items and specified in Note 10. Financial income and expenses. Currency forwards Fixed sales and purchase Net MEUR contracts loans Currency forwards USD 530 241 NOK 760 12 CHF 27 58 CNY 50 JPY 8 SGD 2 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 225 DKK 4 6 GBP 11 53 Other* 15 33 Total 1 397 413 * Other does not include any material single currencies. IFRS hedge accounting has been applied to EUR 1,962 million (1,468) currency forwards. A 5% change in the exhange rates would cause from these currency forwards an approximately EUR 38 million (55) impact on the equity. As all material fixed sales and purchase contracts are hedged, the profit and loss sensitivity of foreign exchange is considered immaterial. Gross Net Equity MEUR amount amount impact Currency forwards under hedge accounting* USD 899 340 17 NOK 875 294 15 CNY 56 53 3 JPY 38 3 GBP 35 26 1 CHF 29 18 1 Other 29 28 1 Total 1 962 762 38 * Intragroup transactions, on which the actual hedge accounting bookings are based. MEUR Currency forwards, under hedge accounting 31 December 2017 1 962 Hedged highly probable forecasted cash flows by year 2018 1 388 2019 296 2020 113 2021 27 2022138 Interest rate risk Wärtsilä is exposed to interest rate risk primarily through market value changes to the net debt portfolio (price risk) and also through changes in interest rates (re-fixing on rollovers). Wärtsilä hedges interest rate exposure by using derivative instruments such as interest rate swaps, futures and options. Changes in the market value of these derivatives are recognised directly in the statement of income. Interest rate risk is managed by constantly monitoring the market value of the financial instruments and by using sensitivity analysis. Interest-bearing loan capital at the end of 2017 totalled EUR 619 million (629). The average interest rate was 1.3% (1.3) and the average re-fixing time 23 months (25). At the end of 2017, a one percentage point parallel decrease/increase of the yield curve would have resulted in a EUR 13 million (15) increase/decrease in the value of the net debt portfolio, including derivatives. Loans Wärtsilä spreads its interest rate risk exposure by taking both fixed and floating rate loans. The share of floating rate loans as a proportion of the total debt can vary between 30–70%. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 226 MEUR 2017 2016 Fixed rate loans 330 329 Floating rate loans 289 300 Derivatives 105 105 Share of fixed rate loans of total loans (including derivatives), % 70 69 A one percentage point change in the interest level would cause a EUR 2 million (2) change in the following year’s interest expenses of the debt portfolio, including derivatives. Additional information related to loans can be found in Note 16. Financial assets and liabilities by measurement category and Note 24. Financial liabilities. Liquidity and refinancing risk Wärtsilä ensures sufficient liquidity at all times by efficient cash management and by maintaining sufficient committed and uncommitted credit lines available. Refinancing risk is managed by having a balanced and sufficiently long loan portfolio. The existing funding programmes include: • Committed Revolving Credit Facilities totalling EUR 640 million (640). • Finnish Commercial Paper programmes totalling EUR 800 million (800). The average maturity of the non-current debt is 44 months (43) and the average maturity of the confirmed credit lines is 28 months (33). Additional information in Note 24. Financial liabilities. At the year end, the Group had cash and cash equivalents totalling EUR 379 million (472) as well as EUR 640 million (640) non-utilised committed credit facilities. In addition a signed EUR 125 million long term loan was available for disbursement as of 31 December 2017. Commercial Paper Programmes were not utilised on 31 December 2017 nor on 31 December 2016. Committed Revolving Credit Facilities as well as the Parent Company's long term loans include a financial covenant (solvency ratio). Solvency ratio is expected to remain clearly over the covenant level for the foreseeable future. Revolving credit facilities MEUR Available (end of Year Maturing period) 2017 640 2018 160 480 2019 110 370 2020 110 260 2021 130 130 2022 130 Credit risk The responsibility for managing the credit risks associated with ordinary commercial activities lies with the Businesses and the Group companies. Major trade and project finance credit risks are minimised by transferring risks to banks, insurance companies and export credit organisations. The credit risks related to the placement of liquid funds and to trading in financial instruments are minimised by setting explicit limits for the counterparties and by making agreements only with the most reputable domestic and international banks and financial institutions. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 227 The Group companies deposit the maximum amount of their liquid financial assets with the centralised treasury when local laws and central bank regulations allow it. The Group’s funds are placed in instruments with sufficient liquidity (current bank deposits or Finnish Commercial Papers) and rating (at least single-A rated instruments or other instruments approved by the Group’s CFO). These placements are constantly monitored by the Group Treasury, and Wärtsilä does not expect any future defaults from the placements. The expected credit losses assiociated with investments carried at amortised cost are assessed on a forward looking basis based on investment maturity dates and counterparty credit risk on quraterly basis. As of 31 December 2017 the expected credit loss was not material. Aging of trade receivables For trade receivables and receivables from revenue recognition in accordance with percentage of completion method, simplified approach is used and the loss allowance is measured at the estimate of the lifetime expected credit losses. Receivables from revenue recognition in accordance with percentage of completion method are usually covered with advance payments collected from customers. Thus, recognising credit losses based on the lifetime expected loss amounts mainly concerns trade receivables. For trade receivables not due or maximum 359 days overdue, an impairment of 0.1%–2.0% is made, depending on the aging category and the origin of the receivable. In calculating the expected credit loss rates, the company considers historical loss rates for each category, and adjusts for forward looking macroeconomic data. In addition to that, trade receivables more than 360 days old are assessed for impairment individually. 2017 2016 Trade of which Trade of which MEUR receivables impaired receivables impaired Not past due 951 1 763 1 Past due 1–30 days 122 124 Past due 31–180 days 189 6 154 3 Past due 181–360 days 33 2 59 3 Past due 1 year 184 53 191 51 Total 1 478 62 1 291 58 In 2017, the result impact of write-offs was EUR -9 million (-10). Impairments MEUR 2017 2016 Impairment, beginning of period 58 63 Other movements -4 -14 Impairment during the period 9 10 Impairment, end of period 62 58 The Group sells trade receivables in an amount that is currently not significant compared to the trade receivables as a whole. Sold receivables have been de-recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position. Equity price risk Wärtsilä has equity investments totalling EUR 10 million (12) in power plant companies, most of which are located in developing countries and performing well according to expectations. Additional information in Note 16. Financial assets and liabilities by measurement category. Capital risk management Wärtsilä’s policy is to secure a strong capital base to keep the confidence of investors and creditors and for the future development of the business. The capital is defined as total equity including non-controlling interests and net interest-bearing debt. The target for Wärtsilä is to maintain gearing below 0.50 and to pay a dividend of at least 50% of earnings over the cycle. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 228 MEUR 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Interest-bearing liabilities, non-current 517 520 Interest-bearing liabilities, current 102 108 Cash and cash equivalents -379 -472 239 157 Loan receivables -5 -7 Net interest-bearing debt 234 150 Total equity 2 396 2 321 Gearing 0.10 0.07 In the capital management Wärtsilä also follows the gearing development: Equity and liabilities 5 607 5 391 Advances received -522 -516 5 085 4 874 Solvency ratio, % 47.1 47.6 30. Auditors' fees and services The following remuneration was paid to auditors and accounting firms for audit based on applicable legislation and for other services. In 2017, the AGM appointed the audit firm PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy as Wärtsilä Corporation's auditor. PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy has provided non-audit services to entities of Wärtsilä Group in total 110 thousand euros. These services included tax services (55 thousand euros) and other services (55 thousand euros). 2017 2016 MEUR PwC Others KPMG Others Audit 3.0 0.7 3.3 0.2 Tax advisory 0.1 0.3 0.9 0.2 Other services 0.1 0.1 0.4 0.1 Total 3.2 1.1 4.6 0.5 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 229 31. Exchange rates In the consolidated financial statements there are approximately 60 currencies consolidated. The most significant currencies are presented here. Closing rates Average rates 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 AED United Arab Emirates Dirham 4.40503 3.87108 4.14735 4.05145 BRL Brazil Real 3.97290 3.43050 3.60410 3.86195 CHF Switzerland Franc 1.17020 1.07390 1.11155 1.09018 CNY China Yuan Renminbi 7.80440 7.32020 7.62644 7.34958 DKK Danish krone 7.44490 7.43440 7.43865 7.44536 GBP United Kingdom Pound 0.88723 0.85618 0.87615 0.81890 INR India Rupee 76.60550 71.59350 73.49802 74.35528 JPY Japan Yen 135.01000 123.40000 126.65457 120.31377 NOK Norway Krone 9.84030 9.08630 9.32861 9.29269 SAR Saudi Arabian Riyal 4.49738 3.95361 4.23474 4.13639 SEK Sweden Krona 9.84380 9.55250 9.63687 9.46731 SGD Singapore Dollar 1.60240 1.52340 1.55822 1.52778 USD United States Dollar 1.19930 1.05410 1.12928 1.10660 32. Subsidiaries Geographical Share area Company name Location Activities % Europe Wärtsilä Cyprus Limited Cyprus Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Danmark A/S Denmark Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Lyngsø Marine A/S Denmark Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Svanehøj A/S Denmark Production, sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Puregas Solutions A/S Denmark Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä BLRT Estonia Oü Estonia Sales and services 51.7 Eniram Oy Finland Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Finland Oy Finland Production, sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Projects Oy Finland Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Solutions Oy Finland Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Technology Oy Ab Finland Holding 100.0 Wärtsilä France S.A.S. France Sales and services 100.0 Eniram Germany GmbH Germany Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Puregas Solutions GmbH Germany Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Deutschland GmbH Germany Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä ELAC Nautik GmbH Germany Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Funa International GmbH Germany Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä JOVYATLAS EUROATLAS GmbH Germany Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä SAM Electronics GmbH Germany Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä SAM Electronics Nederland B.V. Germany Sales and services 100.0 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 230 Wärtsilä Serck Como GmbH Germany Production, sales and services 100.0 Guidance Marine Ltd Great Britain Sales and services 100.0 Guidance Navigation Holdings Ltd Great Britain Holding 100.0 Wärtsilä Puregas Solutions Ltd Great Britain Sales and services 100.0 Vulcan Insurance PCC Limited Great Britain Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Hamworthy Ltd Great Britain Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä UK Ltd Great Britain Production, sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Valves Ltd Great Britain Production, sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Water Systems Ltd Great Britain Production, sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Greece S.A. Greece Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Hungary Kft Hungary Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä APSS Srl Italy Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Italia S.p.A. Italy Production, sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Moss AS Norway Production, sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Norway AS Norway Production, sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Oil & Gas Systems AS Norway Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Ship Design Norway AS Norway Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Valmarine AS Norway Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Baltic Design Centre Sp.z.o.o. Poland Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Polska Sp.z.o.o. Poland Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Ship Design Poland Sp.z.o.o. Poland Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Portugal Lda. Portugal Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Vostok, LLC Russia Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Ibérica S.A. Spain Production, sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Puregas Solutions AB Sweden Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Sweden AB Sweden Production, sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Services Switzerland AG Switzerland Sales and services 100.0 Quantiparts B.V. The Netherlands Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Kampen Real Estate B.V. The Netherlands Real estate 100.0 Wärtsilä Netherlands B.V. The Netherlands Production, sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Ukraine LLC Ukraine Sales and services 100.0 Antigua and The Americas Antigua Energy Operators Ltd Barbuda Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Argentina S.A. Argentina Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Brasil Ltda. Brazil Production, sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Canada Inc. Canada Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Chile Ltda. Chile Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Colombia S.A. Colombia Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Dominicana Inc. Dominican Republic Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Ecuador S.A. Ecuador Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Guatemala S.A. Guatemala Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Operations Guyana Inc. Guyana Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä de Mexico SA Mexico Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Panama Services S.A. Panama Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Peru S.A.C. Peru Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Caribbean, Inc. Puerto Rico Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Uruguay S.A. Uruguay Sales and services 100.0 American Hydro Corporation USA Sales and services 100.0 Greensmith Energy Management Systems Inc. USA Sales and services 100.0 Guidance Marine LLC USA Sales and services 100.0 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 231 Puregas Solutions LLC USA Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Defence Inc. USA Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Dynamic Positioning Inc. USA Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä North America, Inc. USA Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Venezuela, C.A. Venezuela Sales and services 100.0 Asia PT. Wärtsilä Indonesia Indonesia Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Azerbaijan LLC Azerbaijan Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Bangladesh Ltd. Bangladesh Sales and services 100.0 SAM Taihang Electronics Ltd. China Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Propulsion (Wuxi) Co. Ltd. China Production, sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Services (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. China Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Ship Design (Shanghai) Co., Ltd China Sales and services 95.0 Wärtsilä Suzhou Ltd. China Production, sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Yuchai Engine Co. Ltd. China Production, sales and services 50.0 Wärtsilä-CME Zhenjiang Propeller Co. Ltd. China Production, sales and services 55.0 Wärtsilä China Ltd. Hong Kong Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä India Ltd. India Production, sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Japan Ltd. Japan Production, sales and services 99.7 Wärtsilä (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd Malaysia Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Pakistan (Pvt.) Ltd. Pakistan Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Philippines Inc. Philippines Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Doha WLL Qatar Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Power Contracting Saudi Arabia Ltd. Saudi Arabia Sales and services 60.0 Guidance Marine Pte Ltd Singapore Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Pumps Pte. Ltd. Singapore Production, sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Ship Design Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Korea Ltd. South Korea Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Marine Systems Korea Co Ltd. South Korea Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Lanka Ltd. Sri Lanka Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Taiwan Ltd. Taiwan Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä-Enpa A.S. Turkey Sales and services 51.0 United Arab Wärtsilä Gulf FZE Emirates Sales and services 100.0 United Arab Wärtsilä Hamworthy Middle East (FZE) Emirates Sales and services 100.0 United Arab Wärtsilä LLC Emirates Sales and services 100.0 United Arab Wärtsilä Ships Repairing & Maintenance LLC Emirates Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Vietnam Co Ltd. Vietnam Sales and services 100.0 Other Wärtsilä Australia Pty Ltd. Australia Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Central Africa Ltd. Cameroon Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Egypt Power S.A.E Egypt Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Central Africa Gabon Gabon Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä West Africa Guinea Guinea Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Eastern Africa S.A. Kenya Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Mocambique LDA Mozambique Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä New Zealand Ltd New Zealand Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Marine & Power Services Nigeria Limited Nigeria Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä PNG Ltd Papua New Guinea Sales and services 100.0 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 232 Wärtsilä West Africa S.A. Senegal Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä South Africa (Pty) Ltd. South Africa Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Tanzania Ltd Tanzania Sales and services 100.0 Wärtsilä Uganda Ltd. Uganda Sales and services 100.0 Non-controlling interests are not significant in the Group's activities and cash flows in individual subsidiaries. The list excludes subsidiaries, which do not have an impact on the profit or assets of the Group. A complete list of shares and securities in accordance with the Finnish Accounting Ordinance is included in the official financial statements of the parent company prepared with the Finnish Accounting Standards (FAS). 33. Events after the balance sheet date Wärtsilä strengthens its service offering by acquiring Trident B.V., a Netherland based company specialised in underwater ship maintenance, inspection, and repair services. Through the acquisition Wärtsilä becomes the first global operator in the underwater services market as well as builds in-house competence, captures the full potential of services’ product synergies, and strengthens its position in the market. The enterprise value of the transaction is EUR 17.5 million and an additional EUR 3.5 million earn-out, based on the business performance in the coming years. The turnover of Trident is approximately EUR 9 million. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 233 Anchor Parent company financial statements Anchor Parent company income statement (FAS) MEUR 2017 2016 Note Other operating income 72 74 1 Personnel expenses -63 -33 2 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments -4 -6 3 Other operating expenses -91 -75 Operating result -87 -40 Financial income and expenses 4 Income from financial assets 146 286 Interest income and other financial income 41 39 Exchange gains and losses 1 2 Interest expenses and other financial expenses -38 -36 151 290 Result before appropriations and taxes 64 250 Change in depreciation difference 1 1 Group contribution 99 34 Result before taxes 164 286 Income taxes -3 -4 5 Result for the financial period 161 282 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 234 Anchor Parent company balance sheet (FAS) MEUR 2017 2016 Note ASSETS Fixed assets 6 Intangible assets Other long-term expenditure 6 9 Construction in progress 2 8 9 Tangible assets Land and water 7 7 Buildings and structures 1 1 Machinery, equipment and other tangible assets 2 1 9 9 Financial assets Shares in Group companies 950 950 Other shares and securities 1 2 951 951 Total fixed assets 968 969 Non-current receivables Receivables from Group companies 104 103 7 Loan receivables 1 1 105 104 Current receivables Receivables from Group companies 1 786 1 996 8 Other receivables 2 7 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 35 16 9 2 020 Cash and bank balances 195 304 Total current assets 2 123 2 428 Assets 3 090 3 398 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 235 MEUR 2017 2016 Note EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity 10 Share capital 336 336 Share premium reserve 61 61 Retained earnings 841 816 Result for the financial period 161 282 Total equity 1 399 1 494 Accumulated appropriations Depreciation difference 2 2 Provisions 16 19 Liabilities 11 Non-current Loans from credit institutions 508 500 Loans from pension insurance companies 8 508 508 Current Loans from credit institutions 75 88 Loans from pension insurance companies 8 10 Trade payables 10 6 Liabilities to Group companies 985 1 207 13 Other current liabilities 1 2 Accrued expenses and deferred income 85 62 12 1 165 1 374 Total liabilities 1 673 1 882 Equity and liabilities 3 090 3 398 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 236 Anchor Parent company cash flow statement (FAS) MEUR 2017 2016 Cash flow from operating activities: Result before appropriations and taxes 64 250 Adjustments for: Depreciation and amortisation 4 6 Gains and losses on sale of intangible and tangible assets -1 Financial income and expenses -151 -289 Cash flow before changes in working capital -82 -35 Changes in working capital: Assets, non-interest-bearing, increase (-) / decrease (+) -9 18 Liabilities, non-interest-bearing, increase (+) / decrease (-) 39 -27 30 -9 Cash flow from operating activities before financial items and taxes -52 -44 Interest and other financial expenses -37 -35 Dividends received from operating activities 146 286 Interest and other financial income from operating activities 41 39 Income taxes paid -3 9 148 298 Cash flow from operating activities 96 254 Cash flow from investing activities: Investments in tangible and intangible assets -3 -3 Proceeds from sale of other investments 1 Proceeds from sale of tangible and intangible assets 3 Cash flow from investing activities -2 1 Cash flow after investing activities 93 255 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 237 Cash flow from financing activities: Loans receivables, increase (-) / decrease (+) 270 130 Current loans, increase (+) / decrease (-) -242 -103 Proceeds from non-current borrowing 90 130 Repayments and other changes of non-current loans -99 -84 Group contributions 34 53 Dividends paid -256 -237 Cash flow from financing activities -203 -110 Change in cash and bank balances, increase (+) / decrease (-) -110 145 Cash and bank at beginning of period 304 159 Cash and bank at end of period 195 304 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 238 Anchor Accounting principles for the parent company The financial statements of the parent company, Wärtsilä Corporation, have been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Finnish Accounting Standards (FAS). The preparation of the financial statements requires management, in compliance with the regulations in force and good accounting practice, to make estimates and assumptions that affect the measurement and timing of the reported information. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Transactions denominated in foreign currencies and derivatives Business transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the transaction date. Receivables and payables on the balance sheet date are valued at the exchange rates prevailing on that date. Exchange gains and losses related to business operations are treated as adjustments to other operating income and operating expenses. Exchange gains and losses related to financing operations are entered under financial income and expenses. Derivatives are measured at fair value. Open currency derivatives, including interest components, are valued at the balance sheet date. The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated by discounting the future cash flows. Derivative changes in fair value are immediately recognised in financial income or expenses in the statement of income. Research and development costs Research and development costs are expensed in the financial period in which they occur. Receivables Receivables are valued to acquisition cost or to a lower probable value. Fixed assets and depreciation and amortisation Fixed assets are valued in the balance sheet at their direct acquisition cost less accumulated depreciation and amortisastion. Certain land areas also include revaluations. Depreciation and amortisation is based on the following useful lives: Other long-term expenditure 3–10 years Buildings 20–40 years Machinery and equipment 5–20 years Leasing Lease payments are treated as rentals. Provisions Provisions in the balance sheet comprise those items which the company is committed to covering either through agreements or otherwise, but which are not yet realized. Changes to provisions are included in the income statement. Income taxes Income taxes in the income statement include taxes calculated for the financial year based on Finnish tax provisions, as well as adjustments to taxes in prior years. Taxes allocated to extraordinary items are shown in the notes to the financial statements. Dividends Dividends proposed by the Board of Directors are not recorded in the financial statements until they have been approved by the Annual General Meeting. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 239 Anchor Notes to the parent company financial statements 1. Other operating income MEUR 2017 2016 Rental income 1 1 Services to Group companies 71 71 Profit on sales of fixed assets 1 Other 1 1 Total 72 74 2. Personnel expenses MEUR 2017 2016 Wages and salaries -57 -27 Pension costs -5 -4 Other compulsory personnel costs -1 -2 Total -63 -33 Salaries and remunerations paid to senior management The President and CEO and his deputy and members of the Board of Directors -3 -4 The President and CEO has the right to retire at the age of 63 years. The members of the Board of Management are entitled to retire on reaching the statutory retirement age. One member of the Board of Management is entitled to retire earlier, on reaching 60 years of age. The Company's Board of Directors decides the remunerations of the President and CEO and his immediate subordinates. Additional information about Management remuneration can be found in Consolidated Financial Statements Note 28. Personnel on average during the year 324 282 3. Depreciation and amortisation MEUR 2017 2016 Depreciation and amortisation according to plan Other long-term expenditure -4 -5 Total depreciation according to plan -4 -6 Tax depreciations -4 -5 Depreciation difference 1 1 Depreciation difference This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 240 Depreciation difference on 1 January 2 3 Change in the depreciation difference -1 -1 Depreciation difference on 31 December 2 2 4. Financial income and expenses MEUR 2017 2016 Dividend income From Group companies 146 286 Total 146 286 Other interest income From Group companies 22 23 From other companies 1 Total 22 23 Other financial income From Group companies 10 9 From other companies 9 6 Total 19 15 Exchange gains and losses 1 2 Interest expenses To Group companies -5 -5 To other companies -8 -9 Total -13 -14 Other financial expenses To Group companies -10 -7 To other companies -15 -16 Total -25 -22 Financial income and expenses, total 151 290 5. Income taxes MEUR 2017 2016 Income taxes For the financial period -3 -2 For prior financial periods -2 Total -3 -4 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 241 6. Fixed assets Intangible assets Other long-term Construction Total Total MEUR expenditures in progress 2017 2016 Acquisition cost at January 1 122 122 121 Additions 1 2 3 1 Disposals -1 -1 -1 Acquisition cost at December 31 121 2 123 122 Accumulated amortisation at January 1 -113 -113 -109 Accumulated amortisation on disposals and other changes 1 1 1 Amortisation during the financial period -4 -4 -5 Accumulated amortisation at December 31 -115 -115 -113 Carrying amount at 31 December 2017 6 2 8 Carrying amount at 31 December 2016 9 9 Tangible assets Machinery, equipment Land Buildings and other and and tangible Total Total MEUR water structures assets 2017 2016 Acquisition cost at January 1 7 2 4 13 14 Additions 1 1 1 Disposals -2 Acquisition cost at December 31 7 2 4 13 13 Accumulated depreciation at January 1 -2 -3 -4 -4 Accumulated depreciation at December 31 -2 -3 -5 -4 Carrying amount at 31 December 2017 7 1 2 9 Carrying amount at 31 December 2016 7 1 1 9 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 242 Shares and securities Shares in Shares in Group other Total Total MEUR companies companies 2017 2016 Acquisition cost at January 1 950 2 951 951 Disposals -1 -1 Acquisition cost at December 31 950 1 951 951 Carrying amount at 31 December 2017 950 1 951 Carrying amount at 31 December 2016 950 2 951 7. Non-current receivables MEUR 2017 2016 Receivables from Group companies Loan receivables 104 103 Total 104 103 8. Current receivables from Group companies MEUR 2017 2016 Trade receivables 6 7 Loan receivables 1 657 1 928 Derivatives 19 24 Other receivables 99 34 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 4 3 Total 1 786 1 996 9. Prepaid expenses and accrued income MEUR 2017 2016 Derivatives 32 11 Other financial items 1 1 Insurance receivables 1 Other 3 2 Total 35 16 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 243 10. Shareholders' equity MEUR 2017 2016 Share capital Share capital on January 1 336 336 Share capital on December 31 336 336 Share premium reserve Share premium reserve on January 1 61 61 Share premium reserve on December 31 61 61 Retained earnings Retained earnings on January 1 1 097 1 053 Dividends paid -256 -237 Result for the financial period 161 282 Retained earnings on December 31 1 002 1 097 Total shareholders' equity 1 399 1 494 Distributable equity 1 002 1 097 11. Liabilities MEUR 2017 2016 Non-current Interest-bearing 508 508 Total 508 508 Current Non-interest-bearing 133 84 Interest-bearing 1 032 1 290 Total 1 165 1 374 Debt with maturity profile 2017 Current Long-term MEUR <1 year 1-5 years >5 years Total Loans from financial institutions 75 342 166 583 Loans from pension institutions 8 8 Total 83 342 166 591 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 244 2016 Current Long-term MEUR <1 year 1-5 years >5 years Total Loans from financial institutions 88 314 185 588 Loans from pension institutions 10 8 18 Total 99 322 185 606 12. Accrued expenses and deferred income MEUR 2017 2016 Derivatives 45 44 Personnel costs 35 12 Interest and other financial items 3 3 Other 4 3 Total 85 62 13. Liabilities to Group companies MEUR 2017 2016 Trade payables 3 6 Other current liabilities 950 1 191 Derivatives 29 9 Accrued expenses and deferred income 3 1 Total 985 1 207 14. Financial assets and liabilities by measurement category 2017 Carrying At fair amounts value of the Measured through statement at the of financial amortised statement position Fair MEUR cost of income items value Non-current financial assets Interest-bearing receivables from Group companies 103 103 103 Other receivables 1 1 1 Current financial assets Interest-bearing receivables from Group companies 1 657 1 657 1 657 Trade receivables from Group companies 6 6 6 Derivatives 32 32 32 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 245 Derivatives from Group companies 19 19 19 Other receivables 2 2 2 Other receivables from Group companies 3 3 3 Cash equivalents 16 16 16 Cash and bank 179 179 179 Carrying amount by category 1 969 51 2 019 2 019 Non-current financial liabilities Interest-bearing debt 508 508 515 Current financial liabilities Interest-bearing debt 83 83 83 Interest-bearing debt to Group companies 950 950 950 Trade payables 10 10 10 Trade payables to Group companies 3 3 3 Derivatives 45 45 45 Derivatives to Group companies 29 29 29 Other liabilities 3 3 3 Other liabilities from Group companies 1 1 1 Carrying amount by category 1 557 74 1 631 1 639 Information about fair value hierarchy and valuation principle can be found in in Consolidated Financial Statements Note 16. 2016 Carrying At fair amounts value of the Measured through statement at the of financial amortised statement position Fair MEUR cost of income items value Non-current financial assets Interest-bearing receivables from Group companies 103 103 103 Other receivables 1 1 1 Current financial assets Interest-bearing receivables from Group companies 1 928 1 928 1 928 Trade receivables from Group companies 7 7 7 Derivatives 11 11 11 Derivatives from Group companies 24 24 24 Other receivables 8 8 8 Other receivables from Group companies 3 3 3 Cash equivalents 123 123 123 Cash and bank 181 181 181 Carrying amount by category 2 355 35 2 390 2 390 Non-current financial liabilities Interest-bearing debt 508 508 518 Current financial liabilities Interest-bearing debt 99 99 99 Interest-bearing debt to Group companies 1 191 1 191 1 191 Trade payables 6 6 6 Trade payables to Group companies 6 6 6 Derivatives 44 44 44 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 246 Derivatives to Group companies 9 9 9 Other liabilities 3 3 3 Carrying amount by category 1 812 53 1 865 1 876 Information about fair value hierarchy and valuation principle can be found in in Consolidated Financial Statements Note 16. 15. Derivative financial instruments With external financial With Group MEUR institutions companies Total 2017 Nominal values of derivative financial instruments Currency forwards, transaction risk 1 927 1 707 3 635 Interest rate swaps 165 165 Cross currency swaps 74 74 3 874 Fair values of derivative financial instruments Currency forwards, transaction risk 6 -10 -4 Interest rate swaps -2 -2 Cross currency swaps -17 -17 Total -23 With external financial With Group MEUR institutions companies Total 2016 Nominal values of derivative financial instruments Currency forwards, transaction risk 1 573 1 190 2 763 Interest rate swaps 165 165 Cross currency swaps 81 81 3 009 Fair values of derivative financial instruments Currency forwards, transaction risk -22 18 -4 Interest rate swaps -4 -4 Cross currency swaps -10 -10 Total -18 Foreign currency forward contracts are against transactional risks and are matched against the hedged cashflows. Interest rate swaps are denominated in euros and their average interest-bearing period is 18 (26) months. The average maturity for cross currency swaps is 40 (53) months. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 247 16. Financial risks General Wärtsilä has a centralised Group Treasury with two main objectives: 1) to arrange adequate funding for the Group’s underlying operations on competitive terms and 2) to identify and evaluate the financial risks within the Group and implement the hedges for the Group companies. Group Treasury is organizationally within the Parent Company. The details about the management of the Group's financial risks are in the Note 30 of the Consolidated Financial statements. As the Group's liquidity and interest rate risks are managed at the parent company level the group reporting applies fully to the Parent Company. Foreign exchange risk Operative foreign currency risks are followed and hedged at the subsidiary level. Group Treasury acts as a counterparty to these hedges, if that is allowed by local regulations. To enable netting of intragroup currency flows and to reduce the amount of external transactions Group Treasury is allowed to have minor unhedged exposures in different currencies. Any gains/losses from Group Treasury's operations are booked directly into the financial items and we do not expect any material foreign exchange gains/losses from Group Treasury's operations. 17. Collateral, contingent liabilities and other commitments 2017 2016 Debt in Debt in MEUR balance sheet balance sheet Guarantees and contingent liabilities On behalf of Group companies 737 921 Total 737 921 Future nominal lease payments Payable within one year 3 2 Payable after one year 36 13 Total 39 16 18. Related party loans and other commitments There are no loans receivables from senior management and the members of the Board of Directors. No pledges or other commitments were given on behalf of senior management or shareholders. In Note 28 in Consolidated Financial Statements, related party disclosures are specified. Related parties comprise the Board of Directors, the President and CEO, the Board of Management as well as the associated companies and joint ventures. In Notes 8 and 13 in Parent Company financial statement, receivables and liabilities from Group companies are specified. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 248 19. Auditors' fees and services The following fees were paid to auditors and accounting firms for audits and other services. In 2017, the AGM appointed the audit firm PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy as Wärtsilä Corporation's auditor. Auditors' fees TEUR 2017 2016 Audit 399 158 Tax advisory 200 Other services 85 116 Total 484 474 This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 249 Anchor Proposal of the Board The parent company’s distributable funds total EUR 1,002,092,268.56, which includes EUR 161,085,555.55 in net profit for the year. There are 197,241,130 shares with dividend rights. The Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting that the company’s distributable earnings be disposed of in the following way: EUR A dividend of EUR 1.38 per share be paid, making a total of 272 192 759.40 That the following sum be retained in shareholders’ equity 729 899 509.16 Totalling 1 002 092 268.56 The dividend shall be paid in two instalments. The first instalment, EUR 0.69 per share, shall be paid on 19 March 2018. The Board of Directors shall make a decision on the payment day of the second instalment in its meeting scheduled for 18 September 2018. As per the current rules of the Finnish book-entry system the payment day of the second instalment shall then be 27 September 2018. If the general meeting approves the Board’s proposal concerning a share issue without payment, the second instalment will be divided between one old and two new shares so that EUR 0.23 will be paid on each share. If the general meeting does not approve the share issue without payment proposed by the Board, the second instalment will be EUR 0.69 per share. No significant changes have taken place in the company’s financial position since the end of the financial year. The company’s liquidity is good and in the opinion of the Board of Directors the proposed dividend will not put the company’s solvency at risk. Helsinki, Finland, 30 January 2018 Mikael Lilius Tom Johnstone Maarit Aarni‑Sirviö Kaj‑Gustaf Bergh Karin Falk Johan Forssell Risto Murto Markus Rauramo Jaakko Eskola, President and CEO This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 250 Anchor Auditor’s Report (Translation of the Finnish Original) To the Annual General Meeting of Wärtsilä Corporation Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements Opinion In our opinion • the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the group’s financial position and financial performance and cash flows in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU • the financial statements give a true and fair view of the parent company’s financial performance and financial position in accordance with the laws and regulations governing the preparation of the financial statements in Finland and comply with statutory requirements. Our opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee. What we have audited We have audited the financial statements of Wärtsilä Corporation (business identity code 0128631-1) for the year ended 31 December 2017. The financial statements comprise: • the consolidated balance sheet, income statement, statement of comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity, statement of cash flows and notes, including a summary of significant accounting policies • the parent company’s balance sheet, income statement, statement of cash flows and notes. Basis for Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with good auditing practice in Finland. Our responsibilities under good auditing practice are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Independence We are independent of the parent company and of the group companies in accordance with the ethical requirements that are applicable in Finland and are relevant to our audit, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. To the best of our knowledge and belief, the non-audit services that we have provided to the parent company and to the group companies are in accordance with the applicable law and regulations in Finland and we have not provided non-audit services that are prohibited under Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014. The non-audit services that we have provided are disclosed in note 30 to the Financial Statements. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 251 Our Audit Approach Overview • We have applied an overall group materiality of € 24 million. • The group audit scope included Wärtsilä Corporation parent company and all significant operating companies, as well as a large number of smaller companies, covering the vast majority of revenues, assets and liabilities. • Revenue recognition of long-term contracts • Valuation of goodwill • Business combinations • Valuation of trade receivables As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, we considered where management made subjective judgements; for example, in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. An audit is designed to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered material if individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements. Based on our professional judgement, we determined certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the overall group materiality for the consolidated financial statements as set out in the table below. These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements on the financial statements as a whole. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 252 Overall group materiality € 24 million How we determined it 5 % of profit before tax Rationale for the materiality benchmark applied We chose profit before tax as the benchmark because, in our view, the performance of the Group is most commonly measured by using this criteria, and it is a generally accepted benchmark. How we tailored our group audit scope The group audit scope was tailored to take into account the structure of the Group and the size, complexity and risk of individual subsidiaries. Using this criteria we selected companies and accounts into our audit scope and at the same time ensured that we get sufficient coverage to our audit, in order to issue an audit opinion for the Group. Key Audit Matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including among other matters consideration of whether there was evidence of bias that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. Key audit matter in the audit of the group How our audit addressed the key audit matter Revenue recognition of long-term contracts Refer to accounting policies for the consolidated Our revenue testing included both testing of the financial statements and notes 1 and 4. company’s controls, as well as substantive audit The group has significant revenue from procedures targeted at selected major long-term construction contracts and long-term operating and projects. Our substantive testing focused on maintenance agreements. These long-term estimates applied by management in the contracts are often complex customised solutions accounting. and meet the definition of a construction contract Our procedures included, among others things, the (IAS 11). following: Revenue related to these construction contracts is • Ensured that the revenue recognition method recognised using the percentage of completion applied was appropriate based on the terms of the method, where progress is determined by arrangement; comparing actual costs incurred to date, with the • Agreed the total project revenue estimates to total estimated costs of the project. In some gas sales agreements, including amendments as solution projects the percentage of completion is appropriate; assessed with reference to surveys of work • We obtained an understanding of the processes performed. For long-term operating and and tested relevant controls, which impact the maintenance agreements the progress is measured revenue recognition; by the proportion of the contracted services performed. Revenue recognition for construction • We assessed the reliability of management’s contracts includes management judgment in a form estimates by comparing the actual results of of estimates, which are subject to management delivered projects to previous estimates; experience and expectations of future events. The This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 253 most important judgment relates to the estimated • We challenged the management estimates and total costs of the project. assumptions in projects, which were considered to Revenue recognition of long-term contracts is a key include specific risk factors; and audit matter in the audit due to the high level of • Recalculated the revenue based on the stage of management judgement involved in the project completion of the projects. Ensured that the stage estimates. of completion is correct by comparing actual costs per the company’s accounting records to the estimated total costs of the projects. When other methods were used to determine the stage of completion, we obtained appropriate evidence based on the circumstances to conclude whether it was appropriate. Valuation of goodwill Refer to accounting policies for the consolidated financial statements and note 13. Goodwill is one of the most significant balance sheet items and amounts to € 1 237 million. The determination on which cash generating unit level the goodwill is tested and whether an impairment charge is required involves significant management judgement, including estimating the future performance of the business and the discount rate applied to these future cash flows. Valuation of goodwill is a key audit matter in the audit due to the size of the goodwill balance and the high level of management judgement involved. Our audit focused on assessing the reasonableness of the determination of cash generating units, which forms the basis for the goodwill impairment testing and assessing the appropriateness of management’s judgments and estimates used in the goodwill impairment analysis. Our procedures relating to the impairment analysis included the following: • We tested the methodology applied in the goodwill impairment analysis as compared to the requirements of IAS 36, Impairment of Assets; • We evaluated the process by which the future cash flow forecasts were drawn up, including comparing them to the latest Board approved targets and long term plans; • We tested the key underlying assumptions for the cash flow forecasts, including sales and profitability forecasts, discount rate used and the implied growth rates beyond the forecasted period; • We compared the current year actual results included in the prior year impairment model to consider whether forecasts included assumptions that, with hindsight, had been optimistic; and • We considered whether the sensitivity analysis performed by the management around key assumptions of the cash flow forecast was appropriate by considering the likelihood of the movements of these key assumptions. Business combinations Refer to accounting policies for the consolidated financial statements and note 2. During 2017 Wärtsilä acquired Greensmith Energy Management Systems Inc. in the US for a total consideration of € 144 million. The acquisition is accounted for as a business combination (IFRS 3) and includes a number of significant and complex judgments in the determination of the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired. The primary element of the valuation and purchase price allocation process was to assess the fair value of intangible assets (€ 42 million) in the form of technology and trademark related intellectual property. Resulting goodwill amounted to € 120 million. The allocation also considered other assets and liabilities. The purchase price allocation is reported as preliminary in the consolidated financial statements. Business combinations is a key audit matter in the audit due to the high level of management judgement used in determining the fair value for the net assets acquired. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 254 For the intangible assets, we assessed the methodology adopted by management for calculating the fair value of technology and trademark related assets. We also audited the key assumptions in the valuation model, particularly in respect of the: • cash flow forecasts used in the valuation process; • royalty rates assumed for the acquired technology and trademark; • assumed useful lives of the technology and the trademark; and • discount rate applied in the fair valuations. Valuation of trade receivables Refer to accounting policies for the consolidated financial statements and notes 16 and 29. Net trade receivables amount to € 1 416 million, including an impairment provision of € 62 million. The trade receivables include € 109 million long-term trade receivables. Trade receivables are recognised at their anticipated realisable value, which is the original invoiced amount less an estimated valuation allowance. Valuation of trade receivables is a key audit matter in the audit due to the size of the trade receivable balance and the high level of management judgement used in determining the impairment provision. For trade receivables and the management’s estimations for trade receivables impairment provision, our key audit procedures included the following: • We obtained trade receivables balance confirmations; • We analysed the aging of trade receivables; and • We obtained a list of long outstanding receivables and assessed the recoverability of these through inquiry with management and by obtaining sufficient corroborative evidence to support the conclusions. We have no key audit matters to report with respect to our audit of the parent company financial statements. There are no significant risks of material misstatement referred to in Article 10(2c) of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 with respect to the consolidated financial statements or the parent company financial statements. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director for the Financial Statements The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the preparation of consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU, and of financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with the laws and regulations governing the preparation of financial statements in Finland and comply with statutory requirements. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial statements, the Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for assessing the parent company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters relating to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting. The financial statements are prepared using the going concern basis of accounting unless there is an intention to liquidate the parent company or the group or to cease operations, or there is no realistic alternative but to do so. Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with good auditing practice will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 255 individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. As part of an audit in accordance with good auditing practice, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also: • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the parent company’s or the group’s internal control. • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management. • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ and the Managing Director’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the parent company’s or the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the parent company or the group to cease to continue as a going concern. • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events so that the financial statements give a true and fair view. • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. Other Reporting Requirements Appointment We were first appointed as auditors by the annual general meeting on 2 March 2017. Other Information The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the report of the Board of Directors and the information included in the Annual Report, but does not include the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information. This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION Annual Report 2017 Financial review 256 In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. With respect to the report of the Board of Directors, our responsibility also includes considering whether the report of the Board of Directors has been prepared in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations. In our opinion • the information in the report of the Board of Directors is consistent with the information in the financial statements • the report of the Board of Directors has been prepared in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. Other Statements We support that the financial statements should be adopted. The proposal by the Board of Directors regarding the use of the distributable funds is in compliance with the Limited Liability Companies Act. We support that the Members of the Board of Directors and the President and CEO should be discharged from liability for the financial period audited by us. Helsinki 30 January 2018 PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy Authorised Public Accountants Tomi Hyryläinen Authorised Public Accountant (KHT) This pdf is composed of selected elements from Wärtsilä’s Annual Report and may deviate from other generated documents. To view the report in full, please visit www.wartsila.com/ar2017
