SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Year in Brief YEAR IN BRIEF ACQUISITION OF FACILITY IN SPAIN Recipharm commenced the supply of commercial products to Roche and completed the acquisition of the manufacturing facility located in Leganés, Spain. We are contin­uing to gain momentum in the CDMO market and this latest agree­ ment is another demon­stration of this. Thomas Eldered, CEO of Recipharm EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENTS MANUFACTURING IN SWEDEN CAPABILITIES ESTABLISHED Since 2015, Recipharm has been FOR NEW LIDDS PRODUCT implementing efficiency activities A manufacturing line was set up for in the Swedish part of the business LIDDS’ novel prostate cancer drug, segment known as Solids and Others. Liproca®Depot, at Recipharm in Solna, In November, Recipharm initiated a Sweden. The manufacturing line has process with the intention of disconbeen adapted for GMP production and tinuing manu­facturing operations at is industrialised according to a unique two facilities in Sweden in order to process invented by LIDDS, involving the optimise the overall business. installation of novel equipment that is new to the pharmaceutical industry. I am pleased we have completed this important CSR INITIATIVE IN INDIA In 2017, Recipharm extended its support acquisition. We are now in a position to offer to the local community in the Teppada our customers access to cost effective development Begur village in India, by working with the country-wide Swachh Bharat initiand manufacturing capabilities able to serve ative. Teppada Begur is located next to international markets including the US. our facility in Bengaluru. The Swachh Bharat campaign is a hygiene and cleanThomas Eldered, CEO of Recipharm liness drive, which ensures the village’s schools have toilet facilities and encourages ongoing knowledge sharing. STRATEGIC ACQUISITION IN INDIA COMPLETED Recipharm concluded the acquisition of Kemwell’s pharmaceutical businesses located in Bengaluru, India. The acquisition expands the position in emerging markets significantly, taking sales in these markets to more than SEK 800 million, dominated by sales directly to the fast-growing pharma market in India. 2 Recipharm Sustainability Report 2017 Introduction Market Strategy & targets Operations Sustainability Annual report AWARD FOR SERIALISATION LEADERGROWTH IN FRANCE SHIP CONTINUES KEY FIGURES Recipharm received recogRecipharm continued with its nition for its commitment proactive preparations for 2017 2016 to its French operations by new serialisation requireNet sales 5,332 4,678 the Swedish Chamber of ments and has now equipped EBITDA 730 749 Commerce in France. The nine of its facilities with seriOperating profit, adjusted 231 384 award acknowledges examalisation capabilities. To date, Net profit -160.0 196.6 ples of best practice in the the company has delivered Sales growth 14.0% 38.0% Franco-Swedish business over 1.3 million serialised EBITDA margin 13.7% 16.0% community. and aggregated packs to Operating margin, adjusted 4.3% 8.2% markets including China, Saudi Arabia, South Korea, Dividend per share 0 1.50 and Turkey. Net debt to equity 0.7 0.4 Earning per share, adjusted 1.10 3.32 Employees (FTE) 4,575 2,927 SALES SPLIT PER SEGMENT 2017 LAUNCH OF INTEGRATED FIRST IN HUMAN SERVICE Recipharm and Clinical Trial Consultants (CTC) partnered to launch a new service that delivers a clear, streamlined pathway to first in human milestones. Recipharm Pathway to Clinic® takes projects from early phase formulation development through to clinical trial implementation with patients, Sterile Liquids 39% helping companies, ranging Solids & Others 45% from small, virtual firms to Development & Technology 16% big pharma, quickly generate data and build value in their compound. EBITDA PER SEGMENT 2017 NEW GMP SUITE FOR CLINICAL TRIAL MATERIAL Recipharm opened a newly built GMP suite for clinical trial material manufacture at its facility in Research Triangle Park, Sterile Liquids 48% North Carolina, USA. With the introduction of the GMP suite, Solids & Others 28% Recipharm can now provide complete early development Development & Technology 24% services from this facility in Research Triangle Park, including process development and scale-up, CTM manufacturing and packaging, product release and stability programs. Recipharm Sustainability Report 2017 3 CEO statement CHALLENGING YEAR BUILDS FOR A BRIGHT FUTURE Through extensive integration activities of newly acquired businesses as well as important capacity and technology capital expansion projects, we laid the foundations for sustainable success and can look forward to the future with great optimism. INTEGRATING ACQUISITIONS tomers. Good progress has already been made in integrating AND SUPPLY AGREEMENTS the facility into the rest of Recipharm, and in transforming it During the year we completed our second Indian acquisition. into a prosperous operating company in our Group. Despite licensing delays that set us back several months, the business in Bengaluru has developed well– particularly in In terms of our strategy, I believe we can expect to enter terms of development services. We have already trialled the into more strategic supply arrangements of this kind and transfer of some analytical services from Europe to India, associated manufacturing facility acquisitions in the future, which is something we expect to do more of in 2018 for both along with more conventional acquisitions. There are plenty product development and manufacturing services. of good opportunities out there and we intend to continue to be a consolidator in the CDMO industry. We started to integrate the Indian units into our operations by finding value-creating synergies between our facilities. INVESTMENTS BEGINNING TO BEAR FRUIT There will be further opportunities following the acquisition Our short-term priority is to get our growth-driving expanof the remaining minority share in our first Indian acquisision investments up and running, and to consolidate the tion; Nitin Lifesciences Ltd. India continues to be a promising business that we have. The investments will start to genmarket, despite certain macro-economic volatility in the erate revenue and profit during 2018 but until then they domestic market. have impacted our profitability negatively. This is further due to some of our major growth-driving expansion investIn December, we were pleased to commence supply under ments which experienced delays in 2017. In total we have a new long-term arrangement with one of our customers – made approximately a SEK 1 billion acquisition investment Roche. In addition we acquired a manufacturing facility from in Bengaluru, which is just starting to deliver, and a furthem in Leganés, Spain, which we can also use for other custher SEK 1 billion in capital expenditures in lyophilisation, 4 Recipharm Sustainability Report 2017 Introduction Market Strategy & targets Operations Sustainability Annual report Blow-fill-seal and serialisation in Europe, which have not yet However, we have not lost any business during the year, started to generate revenue. Our lyophilisation investment and we are now in a much better position for future growth. in Germany for example was delayed by over six months due In fact, I think we will see significant growth in 2018 and to licensing taking longer than expected. Our serialisation beyond, particularly as our growth-driving expansion investinvestments are on track and we are very well positioned to ments start to pay off. support our customers and win more business as the 2019 European deadline approaches. Our large growth-driving The issues we experienced with our growth-driving expanexpansion investments will have sion investments in 2017 are now resolved and the investments will all start to make significant contributions to a material positive impact on our profitable growth throughout 2018 and 2019. business as they become operational ONE DEVELOPMENT and ramp up in 2018. During the year, we made preparations to reorganise our global development business into a new structure, which will MAKING PROGRESS ON SUSTAINABILITY be launched during Q2 2018. This new development organWe continued to make good progress in terms of sustain-­ isation will have a global presence with centres of excela­bility during the year, with one highlight being the ISO lence in Europe, US and India and it will enable us to better 14001 certification of our manufacturing sites in Italy. We combine our resources and identify value-creating synergies are a leading company in our industry in terms of sustainto manage complex development projects throughout the ability, which is greatly appreciated by our stakeholders. value chain for our customers. This is a clear example of how Customers appreciate our sustainability efforts – particularly Recipharm draws on its position as a leading global CDMO to as a means to mitigate risk in their supply chain. The princistrengthen its business and unique customer offering. ples of the UN Global Compact, which we have followed for many years, form the base for our global sustainability work. In the US, we continued to build up our development business for specialised technologies during the year. We Sustainability challenges we face include our strategy to experienced setbacks with two major projects being canapply the same standards throughout our business. For celled, and we still have some work to do, but during 2017 example, even though our Indian units are of very high qualwe have substantially improved our footprint in the space for ity, they operate under very different conditions to our other development services within the respiratory area, which will units. Nevertheless we apply the same standards throughout support our future business when looking at developing varthe Recipharm Group. The recruitment of suitably qualiious opportunities in the US market. Importantly, having a fied employees is also sometimes a challenge. In 2017, we presence in the US gives us local credibility and has already launched a new internship programme for recent graduhelped us win business in the country for our European units. ates as part of our long-term efforts to attract talent. We provided four young graduates with year-long internships, ENHANCING EFFICIENCY IN SWEDEN including two in Sweden, one in India and one in the UK. Due to competitive end-market conditions and declining sales for many mature products in Scandinavia affecting LOOKING FORWARD TO A primarily the Swedish operations of our Solids & Others PROMISING 2018 AND BEYOND segment, we took the difficult decision to discontinue our Despite pressure on our financial performance during the manufacturing units in Stockholm and Höganäs. This move year, we have a very strong underlying business that will is obviously regrettable in particular for the 280 employees become increasingly apparent in 2018 and beyond. Our affected, including people that have been with us for many growth-driving expansion investments will have a material years. But we will try to find good solutions for the affected positive impact on our business as they become operational employees, including opportunities at other Recipharm sites and ramp up in 2018 and 2019. We will continue to streamor elsewhere. line and integrate our units, as we increasingly draw on our global presence and value-creating synergies. We constantly From a business perspective, discontinuing our operations identify and evaluate opportunities for acquisitions and extenin Stockholm and Höganäs will give us a more efficient and sive customer supply arrangements. All in all, this will ensure streamlined organisation – ultimately making us more comthat we reach our overall growth and margin objectives and petitive. These measures are part of our Group-wide focus become one of the largest and leading CDMOs globally. on reducing our exposure to low-margin products. I would finally like to thank all our employees for their FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE efforts during the year. We have had a difficult year in many With delays in our growth-driving expansion investments, respects but the future looks very bright, as we build on the flat net sales and weak organic growth, 2017 was a tough excellent foundations we have laid in 2017. I look forward to year in terms of financial performance. Scheduled maintecontinuing our journey together as a leading CDMO with an nance and temporary shutdown in our manufacturing facilattractive and increasingly unique customer offering. ities also had a negative impact. Additionally, our European sterile liquids business was affected by an industry-wide irregular supply of an important Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient (API). In 2017, we achieved an EBITDA-margin of 14 per cent, which is lower than our ongoing target of at least 16 per cent each year. Thomas Eldered, CEO 5 Sustainability SUSTAINABILITY Recipharm takes responsibility for all aspects of our operations by mitigating negative impacts and taking advantage of opportunities and improvements. Recipharm's operations are based on the conviction that high ethical standards, accountability and good stakeholder relations create long-term benefits. This approach should be a guiding principle for all our decisions, policies and activities. CONTINUED FOCUS ON 3 The third focus area is economic value. Good corpo SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PRACTICES rate governance means that the company is managed In 2016, we began a process to improve our sustainability in accordance with the owners' interests, but also that work, leading to Recipharm’s first sustainability report in Recipharm shall deliver value for other stakeholders, 2017. In this years report we include the operations in India such as customers and employees. Effective managethat Recipharm acquired in 2016 and 2017. The report conment and control mechanisms influence external confisequently cover all operating companies in the Group, except dence in the company and ultimately its ability to deliver where explicitly stated. As a result of the growth in operagood business results. tions and scope, some indicators in the report has changed significantly between 2016 and 2017. Recipharm has assigned to United Nations Global Compact and acknowledges the ten principles concerning human In 2016, we conducted our sustainability materiality analysis, rights, anti-corruption, labour and environment. The ten including stakeholder dialogues, and identified three focus principles in UN Global Compact also serve as basis for idenareas going forward: tifying further improvement areas. 1 Long-term success requires Recipharm to use natural  resources in a sustainable manner and continuously About the sustainability report reduce our environmental impact. Our first focus area is Recipharm’s 2017 sustainability report has been prepared in accordance with the Swedish legal requirements concerning therefore to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, primarily Annual Accounts Act on sustainability reporting. The Statutory by working with energy consumption and transports. Sustainability report and Recipharm’s Sustainable Report, is found on pages 16, 20-29. Recipharm reports sustainability 2 The second focus area is supplier assessment and information in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative  (GRI) guidelines 4 – Core level. This report also serves as monitoring. Good relations with suppliers and other Recipharm's Communication on Progress Report to the UN business partners are important for Recipharm to be Global Compact. Recipharm’s GRI Appendix with GRI-index and able to operate successfully. This also involves ensuring associated reporting information is available on Recipharm's sustainable and ethical conduct among suppliers. website www.recipharm.com/sustainability/ FOCUS AREAS We have identified three focus areas going forward. More information about the rationale behind our priorities is included in our GRI Appendix. Reduced greenhouse Supplier assessment and Economic value gas emissions monitoring Long-term success requires Recipharm To be able to operate success­f ully, Good corporate governance in accordto use natural resources in a sustainit is important that Recipharm have ance with the owners' interests and able manner and continuously reduce good relations with business partners delivering value to our stakeholders, our environmental impact. and ensure sustainable and ethical such as customers and employees. conduct among suppliers. 6 Recipharm Sustainability Report 2017 Introduction Market Strategy & targets Operations Sustainability Annual report OBJECTIVES AND RESULTS 2017 During 2016, we carried out stakeholder dialogues on sustainability with our main shareholders, customers and employees. Together with a materiality analysis, these discussions were used as the basis for setting our objectives and priorities for 2017. The areas used for 2017 will remain as our key objective areas also for 2018. 1 Reduce Recipharm's environmental impact  The overall objective has been to reduce the amount of greenhouse gas emissions per employee. The greenhouse gas emissions increased in the year due to our growing organisation, and the addition of emissions from our plants in India. Initiatives to reduce the CO2 emissions in India have been taken, read more on page 27. A second objective for the year has been to continue developing Recipharm's environmental management system to gradually certify all operating companies according to ISO 14001. In 2017, the work for our operations in Italy has continued but the certification process was slightly delayed. 2017 also saw the start of a project for certifying our manufacturing operation in Uppsala, Sweden. The long term goal for reduction of environmental impact is to show continuous year-on-year improvements with clear connections to performed actions. 2 Supplier management  The objective has been to extend monitoring of suppliers’ compliance with the Supplier Code of Conduct, with a focus on the suppliers of API. In 2017, a total of 64 suppliers have been covered by audits, in connection to quality audits. Almost 300 suppliers have acknowledged the Supplier Code of Conduct in writing. 3 Develop internal governance  Recipharm’s internal control and business conduct Recipharm’s long-term goal for managing sustainability at guidelines have been developed around processes for suppliers, is to establish a clear overview of all suppliers in review, communication and training. Some progress scope with tangible and agreed action plans with suppliers has been achieved in 2017, but the objective remains where standards are not met. unchanged for 2018. OBJECTIVES 2018 As a summary, the objectives for 2017 have largely been met. We are now improving our process by setting tangible targets for the sustainability performance regarding environment and supplier management in 2018. Reduce Recipharm's Develop internal Supplier management environmental impact governance -4% To reduce the amount of green­house To have conducted 40 additional Guidelines will be further developed gas emissions per employee by at on-site reviews at suppliers in scope around processes for review, comleast 4 per cent. To achieve ISO 14001 for the Supplier Code of Conduct. munication and training. Procedures certification at Recipharm’s manufact­ for prevention of corruption will be uring operations in Uppsala, Masate and strengthened. Work to develop interBrescia and start working on ISO 14001 nal processes to align with UN Global for remaining operations in Italy and the Compact will continue. activities in India. Recipharm Sustainability Report 2017 7 Sustainability OUR COMPANY CULTURE As a decentralised company with relatively small Internal compliance to the Global Policy and the Code Group-level functions, Recipharm’s company-wide of Conduct is reviewed on an annual basis in a Letter of culture is reflected through its entrepreneurial spirit, Assurance process, where each General Manager has to local accountability and management model. confirm compliance to company policies and report any deviations during the year. ENTREPRENEURIAL SPIRIT AND LOCAL ACCOUNTABILITY STRENGTHENING OUR CULTURE THROUGH SYNERGIES Entrepreneurship is our core value that most differentiates We are increasingly drawing on synergies between our our company culture from other companies in the industry. growing number of operating companies around the world. We promote entrepreneurship through a culture of local This helps us to implement common ways of working that autonomy and accountability, and decentralised decisionadd value throughout the company, and contribute toward a making through flat managerial structures in many of our shared company culture. For example, we have established a operating companies. company-wide network in areas such as purchasing and Lean manufacturing to promote cooperation, share knowledge MANAGEMENT MODEL and spread best practices throughout the Group. We also Our Global Policy document sets out a clear management promote cross-unit employment opportunities with internal model and guidelines for operating companies, while apprejob advertisements. Employee competence and commitment ciating that one size does not fit all. This allows our operating are crucial to Recipharm's future success. We value the comcompanies to work in the best way to suit their needs and petence and collective industry experience of our employmarket conditions. ees, and we encourage personal development and initiatives for knowledge sharing. At Recipharm, the exchange of The Global Policy includes Recipharm’s vision, mission and professional skills and knowledge is similar to that of a small long-term objectives as well as the governing principles for company, but within an international network and brand. operating companies, including delegation of authorities. It also comprises a framework for other Group policies, such as Strategic competencies, positions and special areas critical for financial reporting, financial audits, purchasing and Code of Recipharm's success are identified. Employee development Conduct. This allows General Managers in operating comis therefore in line with the role and needs of the company. panies a high degree of managerial freedom within a clearly Individual performance and development reviews should gendefined framework. erally be carried out on an annual basis and adequate training and development of people is ensured at a local level. 8 Recipharm Sustainability Report 2017 Introduction Market Strategy & targets Operations Sustainability Annual report ACQUISITIONS – TRANSFERRING CULTURE During the year, a total of 182 (126) work-related accidents Newly acquired companies are quickly integrated into our were reported. Most involved minor injuries among manufacbusiness by working on three key areas – Reporting, Policy turing employees. The accident rate (number of accidents in and Management. Transferring our culture is also a natural relation to total number of scheduled working days) in 2017 phase of integrating new companies as part of a longer-term was 0.022 (0.023) per cent, which is considered to be low. All process. operating companies actively monitor work-related accidents and take corrective actions in the event accidents occur. Sick MAINTAINING OUR CULTURE leave amounted to 3.7 (4.7) per cent. Sick leave is relatively As we grow and become increasingly global, maintaining our evenly distributed between men and women and between culture of entrepreneurship, local accountability and manage groups. Follow up and possible actions are managed at agement model is an ongoing challenge – but is all the more local level. important. In a competitive industry increasingly focused on cost, our culture is what differentiates us, helps to attracts EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY and retain employees, and ultimately promotes the success To treat all employees, job applicants, customers and of our local operating companies and the Group as a whole. others equally is a prerequisite for our business behaviours. During 2017, employee turnover within Recipharm was 17 Recipharm's Code of Conduct states that discrimination based (13) per cent, almost half of the employee turnover was repon gender, gender identity or expression, ethnicity, religion resented in India where it is more common to change work or belief, disability, sexual orientation, or age must not occur. place more often. In recruitment and succession planning, we always aim to promote the best qualifications. At the same time we conEMPLOYEES HEALTH AND SAFETY sider diversity to ensure a good mix of backgrounds, experiRecipharm is a safe, healthy and pleasant workplace. All ence and perspectives in our teams. our companies have detailed employee and safety manuals to ensure we comply with the relevant labour and safety No cases of discrimination were reported in 2017. Of requirements. These are locally adopted to fit with applicaRecipharm’s 5,630 employees, 41 (49) per cent are women ble legislation and practices in the country of operation. All and 59 (51) per cent men. In management positions, 47 employees have the right to join trade unions, and we work (39) per cent are women and 53 (61) per cent are men. actively with unions on health and safety issues where they Recipharm promotes equal opportunities for men and are active. 61 per cent of Recipharm’s employees are curwomen. rently covered by collective bargaining agreements. Recipharm's facilities normally have an occupational health NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 2017 2016 and safety system certified according to OHSAS 18001. Permanent 4,589 3,207 Today, 10 operating companies out of 26 have this in place. Temporary 1,041 330 The exceptions are operating companies in France, where an equivalent system is applied, and where the implementation is not yet completed. 56 per cent of the total workforce is represented in formal joint management – worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. OUR EMPLOYEES Gender division Accident rate Sick leave 41% 59% Women Men 0.022% 3.7% 2016: 49% / 51% 2016: 0.023% 2016: 4.7% 9 Sustainability CASE STUDY: INTERVIEWS WITH EMPLOYEES PEDRO ROSÁRIO KIMBERLY JOYNER Production Supervisor at Recipharm in Lisbon Senior Chemist in the Formulation Development team at Recipharm in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, USA Why did you choose to work for Recipharm? It is more so that Recipharm chose me when it Tell us about working at Recipharm acquired Lusomedicamenta in 2014. Since then it has Recipharm is very important to the pharma industry been an amazing journey where I have been able to due to its expertise in development and technology, work with experts that are among the best in their its wide customer base and full-service offering. field, which is an opportunity you can only get at a Recipharm is truly committed to high industry standcompany such as Recipharm. ards for its regulatory requirements. Making sure that we provide high quality service to our customers is a What does a typical day at Recipharm look like? must. I also enjoy that Recipharm is a CDMO that can The best thing about my job is that it never gets open its capabilities to endless opportunities for our boring. Working with an extremely skilled and commitgrowth and financial success. ted team, and overcoming new challenges every day that none of us could have done by ourselves, is very How have you been able to grow at Recipharm? fulfilling. I am still amazed by some of the creative and Since my background is mostly in a scientific setting, innovative solutions we develop as a team. I have been able to build upon my skillset tremendously since being here at Recipharm. Having a great Can you give an example? director and manager is really important. They were Recently we had a customer on site for the manufacable to place me on projects to help build upon my ture of a new product to be tech transferred to the current skillset in Inhalations and Formulations, and Lisbon facility. Despite the preliminary meetings and to help me venture out into other areas inside our the hours spent on assessing every risk, the first manFormulations team here at the facility. ufactured batch failed people from production will know the feeling. However, we did not let this setback What characterises the Recipharm culture? affect our morale and with the help of a cross-discipliDefinitely the people. Having a great team to work nary team from Recipharm, together with the know­ with every day is such a great opportunity. You get to ledge from our customer, we learnt from the failure work with team members with different skillsets and and worked our way through three successful batches levels of expertise. This adds great value to the team by the end of that week. and to Recipharm’s culture. 10 Introduction Market Strategy & targets Operations Sustainability Annual report ENVIRONMENT Recipharm's greatest environmental impact is from India, where the availability of fresh water varies year on energy consumption, emissions and waste at its year. In India, Recipharm uses ground water which is premanufacturing and laboratory facilities. Emissions from treated on sites before use in manufacturing, thus impacting transports and travel also contribute to the company's the municipal fresh water as little as possible. environmental impact. Because most of our facilities handle final formulation and ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM packaging, with only a small number of chemical synthesis Recipharm's facilities have the relevant environmental permits operations, our emissions of solvents to the air are small. required by law in each country. All facilities are actively moniAll units comply with their respective environmental permits tored and no deviations were noted in 2017. We are committed by a wide margin. Solvent emissions in 2017 amounted to to ensuring that all our operating companies have environmen1,625 tonnes, with plants in Uppsala and Paderno Dugnano tal management systems certified to ISO 14001. Our goal is to accounting for most of the emissions. certify newly acquired facilities to ISO 14001 within two years of being incorporated into the Recipharm Group. In 2017, work ACQUISITIONS to achieve certification in Masate and Brescia has continued, Environmental due diligence is one of the most important but has been delayed. Certification is now expected in Q2 2018. activities when Recipharm is considering acquisition candidates. Due diligence reviews are primarily conducted A certification project has also been started for Recipharm’s through reviews of material provided by the seller, but when manufacturing operation in Uppsala. The aim is to achieve required more information is being collected through on-site ISO 14001 certification in Q3 2018. In 2018, initial work for investigations including sampling of soil, water and other the Indian operations in Bengaluru, Karnal and Paonta Sahib areas as relevant. Recipharm uses external expertise for will also be conducted. these investigations. ENERGY AND GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are Recipharm's most important environmental objectives. We report our GHG emissions and how we manage our climate impacts in the annual CDP Climate Change questionnaire. Responding to CDP supports further WATER AND WASTE improvements in our environmental and climate work, and provides us with feedback on our climate reporting and 2017 2016 actions. Recipharm’s CDP reporting in 2017 was graded at Water 1,949,297 m3 1,580,312 m3 level C. The CDP data for 2018 will be submitted in May 2018. Of which own sources 1,233,896 m3 969,814 m3 In 2017, Recipharm's direct and indirect carbon emissions The water used is municipal water and ground water from own sources. Most of the consumption is used in amounted to 66,495 (40,857) tonnes. This is equivalent to 14.5 production processes in one specific facility in Italy. (14.0) tonnes per employee. Direct emissions primarily result from heating of our manufacturing and development facilities, and from company owned vehicles. Our indirect emissions 2017 2016 result from energy use in our manufacturing and developWaste 7,468 tonnes 7,004 tonnes ment facilities, which mostly relates to electricity consumpOf which hazardous waste 5,245 tonnes 5,131 tonnes tion. Indirect GHG emissions also include transport emissions related to our suppliers and intercompany transportation. The table shows total amount of waste generated and waste defined as hazardous. The total amount of waste generated in 2016 has been corrected. The increase in total GHG emissions in 2017 primarily resulted from the company’s growth. Long-term, our most important measures to reduce GHG emissions will be related GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS to energy consumption in our facilities. Projects to reduce energy use have been introduced in several operating 70,000 14 companies. Tonnes CO2/SEKm sales 60,000 12 50,000 10 WATER AND WASTE Tonnes CO2e In 2016, we began to compile water and waste data for all 40,000 8 our manufacturing and development facilities. Our process 30,000 6 wastewater primarily results from cleaning of equipment. 20,000 4 The quantity of drug residues in our wastewater is small and 10,000 2 all Recipharm facilities are authorised to release wastewater into normal sewage systems for processing in treatment 0 0 2015 2016 2017 plants. The exception is India, where we operate our own Total emissions local water treatment plants and recirculate the water by Emissions per SEKm sales using it for irrigation. The table shows Recipharm's total amount of greenhouse gas emissions and emissions per SEKm of sales. The availability of fresh water is generally good in the locations where Recipharm operates. The exception is again 11 Sustainability RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Recipharm's operations affect people's lives and health. UN GLOBAL COMPACT This means that, in addition to complying with laws and Recipharm assigned to the United Nations Global Compact regulations, our business must also be conducted in a (UNGC) in 2016. This means that Recipharm is committed responsible and ethical manner. to promoting the UNGC's ten principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Our commitment GOVERNANCE AND BUSINESS ETHICS include support for all internationally recognised principles Ethics are managed by our ethical guidelines – our Code of on human rights, ILO core conventions, and we are commitConduct. The guidelines cover business ethics and relations ted to develop our work with these matters. with employees, customers, suppliers, authorities, competitors and other stakeholders. The Code of Conduct also SUPPLIER REQUIREMENTS covers Recipharm’s policies on anti-corruption and human Our suppliers provide active ingredients, raw materials, rights. Our guidelines explicitly prohibit any interference packaging materials as well as machine and laboratory that aims to create undue advantage for Recipharm, or for equipment. We also have agreements with service providers. individual employees. To enable us to keep our commitments with customers and other stakeholders, we place high standards on safety, qualDuring the year, none of Recipharm’s operating companies ity, price, performance and the ability to deliver. reported deviations from the Code of Conduct. Compliance to the code is reported and reviewed through a Letter of Recipharm’s Supplier Code of Conduct was launched in 2016, Assurance process. There were two whistleblowing cases in covering business ethics, labour practices, anti-corruption, 2017, leading to specific actions to rectify identified inapprohuman rights and environmental management. We strive to priate conditions and practices. ensure that suppliers actively endorse the requirements of the Supplier Code of Conduct, and we began the communicaAs part of our 2018 sustainability objectives, we will contion and follow-up of the code in 2016. tinue to develop the model for how we monitor our Code of Conduct. The focus will be on implementation, monitoring There are legal requirements for us to make regular qualand employee training. We also follow ongoing developments ity audits of our suppliers to verify they comply with the concerning anti-corruption legislation and will continue to pharmaceutical industry's quality system, GMP. In connecstrengthen the organisation and our competence to ensure tion with these audits, compliance with our Supplier Code of necessary adaptation. One example is to further develop our Conduct is reviewed. If necessary, specific audits focusing on internal process for whistleblowing. sustainability matters will be conducted. The code has been communicated to 358 suppliers, 293 of which have accepted the code. There have been 64 sustainability audits in connection to QA audits in 2017. Focus in the roll out of the Supplier Code of Conduct has been on suppliers of API, this focus will continue in 2018. OUR VALUES Tenacity Reliability Professionalism Entrepreneurship • We show commitment • We create trust by always • We maintain a high level • We are innovative and in everything we do delivering on promises of competence to deliver creative in finding ways • We are committed to • We deliver with quality a return on investment to to develop and improve reaching our goals and in time our stakeholders our business • We are persistent and • We are honest and • We are flexible, service • We are open to change we will not give up easily always follow our Code minded and always lookbut respect that it can • If we encounter an of Conduct ing for the best solutions take time to achieve obstacle, we try harder • We learn from our • We have a “can do” to find a solution mistakes attitude and always • We show respect – take on challenges with to customers, peers, a mindset that nothing partners and managers is too difficult 12 Introduction Market Strategy & targets Operations Sustainability Annual report OUR ROLE IN SOCIETY well as helping to create awareness among villagers about Recipharm companies engage in social initiatives relevant to various prevailing diseases, such as dengue and malaria, our operations and in response to local priorities within the and their causes which includes poor hygiene and unsanitary surrounding communities of our facilities. Our internal guidewater practices. A very small building is already in place, lines for ethical behaviour – the Code of Conduct – govern but it needs to be equipped with tables, beds, screens and which activities local companies can engage in. We take our partitions, lights and medical equipment. responsibility to operate within the framework of competition law in all our activities. Recipharm in Bengaluru already has an onsite doctor and moving forward, the plan is for him to spend at least 50 The Recipharm Code of Conduct complements this legislation per cent of his time in the new clinic. Together with the rest and prohibits partnerships or agreements with competiof the team he will be tasked with driving different health tors regarding price, terms or other areas. We operate in a awareness programs, including eye check-ups and diabetes strictly regulated market, where all our products and sertesting. vices are subject to regulation and requirements regarding ingredients, preparation and quality control. Recipharm takes advantage of funding opportunities from DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE local authorities in the countries in which it operates. In GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED 2017, Recipharm in collaboration with Business France introduced an internship program where we provide four French graduates with year-long internships, including two in Sweden, one in India and one in the UK. Recipharm supports local communities in India In 2017, Recipharm extended its support to the local community in the Teppada Begur village in India. The Teppada Begur village, which is located next to our facility in Bengaluru, has a population of around 5,000 people. Most of them are very poor and depend upon agriculture for their livelihood. Since our facility was established in 2001, many people have started working there and some of the local Operating costs 56% Employee wages and benefits 36% vendors, such as the laundry, local restaurants and farms, Payments to providers of capital 4% have had increased opportunities. Payments to government 3% Economic value retained 1% Money donated by Recipharm will be used to open a small clinic in Teppada Begur. Currently, villagers must travel long Net sales in 2017 totalled SEKm 5,332 (4,678). The diagram shows how much was reinvested distances when they are ill, and quite often they try to avoid and distributed to Recipharm's stakeholders. going at all as they cannot afford the doctors’ charges. This new initiative will give them fast and free healthcare as CASE: BENGALURU RECIPHARM IN BENGALURU SIGNS 10 YEAR SOLAR POWER SUPPLY AGREEMENT Solar power in India is developing fast. The 20 GW and will reduce the Bengaluru plant CO² emissions for capacity that the country had targeted for 2022 2018 by approximately 4,000 tonnes. The decrease will be reached by 2018, and the average price of will continue in 2019 when the change will take full solar electricity has dropped below its coal-fired effect. Electricity comprises approximately half of the alternative. plant’s energy use. The main usage is for ventilation systems required for keeping the controlled indoor Recipharm has decided to actively take part in this environment needed in a pharmaceutical plant. Heat growth by signing a 10 year supply agreement for generation, primarily for manufacturing processes, solar energy at the plant in Bengaluru, securing comprises the other half of energy use and is done around 70% of the electricity needed through solar by combustion of biomass pellets, thus creating a power. This change will be made effective in May 2018 sustainable energy profile for the site. 13 Sustainability CASE: ENVIRONMENTAL AWARD RECIPHARM'S TENTH INTERNATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL AWARD Recipharm grants the tenth International Environmental Award to Karen Kidd, Professor in Biology, and Geography & Earth Sciences at McMaster University in Hamilton, Ontario and Jarislowsky Chair in Environment and Health. Dr Kidd’s research was designed to improve the under­ standing of how human activities impact aquatic eco­systems, specifically how diverse effluents and contami­nants affect the abundance and health of aquatic organisms. Her lab conducts whole system experiments and studies to understand how pesticides, nutrients and other stressors can affect freshwater food webs. For over a decade, she led a groundbreaking whole-lake experiment at the IISD Experimental Lakes Area in Canada to improve understanding of the risks that hormone mimics pose to fish and their habitats and the timing and severity of impacts of synthetic estrogen on aquatic organisms. This research will no doubt be essential in building commitment towards environmental matters and provides valuable guidance for future actions in order to decrease or avoid the negative effects of chemical contamination. Lars Backsell, Chairman of the Board of Recipharm Risk analysis development laboratories depending on the extent of the Recipharm’s risks and management of environmental, development work being carried out. The operation also human rights and anti-corruption will be clarified in accordrequires local environmental permits the extent of these ance with new regulations on sustainability reporting. varies depending on the business and legislation in each country. Finally, all products require the necessary regulaA risk analysis of sustainability has been carried out to tory approvals in the countries in which they are to be sold. supplement the materiality analysis conducted in 2016. It is the Market Authorisation Holder, that is Recipharm's Sustainability related risks present both financial and customers, that are responsible for this, but Recipharm must reputational risks to the company and need to be managed. comply with the terms of the registrations. Most risks are believed to be in the manufacture and supply of products, where manufacturing interruptions may impact Recipharm actively works with quality systems within delivery performance and supply reliability. Manufacturing the framework of GMP and maintains Environmental and development operations are also associated with enviManagement Systems at the facilities. Recipharm today ronmental impact and the risk of accidents. meets all requirements associated with current permits. There have been no deviations during the fiscal year. Recipharm's operations are subject to regulatory approvals in several areas. According to legislation, all factories Risks associated with business ethics are also identified in must have a Manufacturing License to produce pharmathe risk analysis. Additionally, suppliers present risks, both ceuticals and the corresponding conditions are required for in terms of supply reliability and business ethics. 14 Introduction Market Strategy & targets Operations Sustainability Annual report Recipharm's responsibility in relation to stakeholders such as customers, owners and employees requires the company to manage its risks correctly. The risks vary between different geographies. As Recipharm continues to expand, the need for new knowledge and monitoring activities increases. Recipharm’s mitigation of sustainability risks includes the following: • Recipharm continuously work on supply interruption risks in the operating companies. In several cases, mitigation plans are also requested by and presented to customers. • Risks for environment and work safety are addressed within the ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 systems. • Suppliers are being managed within the framework of the Supplier Code of Conduct and quality audits. The scope of these reviews is continuously developed. • Risks regarding business ethics are addressed through adequate routines for communication, follow-up and ­control to ensure the correct implementation of and ­compliance with the company's Code of Conduct. We are a leading company in our industry in terms of sustainability, which is greatly appreciated by our stakeholders. Customers appreciate our sustainability efforts – particularly as a means to mitigate risk in their supply chain. Thomas Eldered, CEO of Recipharm THE AUDITOR’S REPORT ON THE STATUTORY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT To the general meeting of Recipharm AB (publ.), corporate, identity number 556498-8425 ENGAGEMENT AND RESPONSIBILITY The Board of Directors is responsible for the statuconducted in accordance with International Standards tory sustainability report for 2017 as defined above, on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards and that it has been prepared in accordance with the in Sweden. We believe that the examination has proAnnual Accounts Act. vided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. THE SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OPINION Our examination of the statutory sustainability report A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. has been conducted in accordance with FAR´s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor´s report on the Stockholm, April 11, 2018 statutory sustainability report. This means that our Ernst & Young AB examination of the statutory sustainability report is different and substantially less in scope than an audit Jennifer Rock-Baley 15 RECIPHARM GRI APPENDIX 2017 Recipharm’s sustainability report is in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) sustainability reporting guidelines G4, level Core. Our sustainability report is presented yearly as part of our annual report, and this document supplements the information provided in the annual report. No third party has audited the sustainability report and we will evaluate the need for external review. In this document, we present our GRI-index, describe our stakeholder dialogue and how we have selected our most material sustainability aspects. We also outline the underlying methods and assumptions used for the sustainability data. 16 GRI INDEX The following list references the GRI indicators that Recipharm has decided to report on. AR = Annual report; GRI = GRI Appendix; DMA = Disclosure on Management Approach Indicator Description Reference G4-1 CEO’s statement on the organisation’s sustainability strategy AR 4-5 G4-3 Name of the organisation AR 31 G4-4 Primary products and services AR 16-18 G4-5 Location of organisation’s headquarters AR 0 G4-6 Countries where operations are conducted AR 0 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form AR 92-93 G4-8 Markets served AR 0 G4-9 Scale of the organisation AR 0, 3, 39, 64 G4-10 Total number of employees GRI 4 G4-11 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements AR 23 G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain AR 6-8, 10 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period AR 2-3 G4-14 Organisation’s compliance with the precautionary principle GRI 4 G4-15 External initiatives that the organisation subscribes or endorses AR 20 G4-16 Memberships of associations GRI 3-4 G4-17 Entities included in the scope of the report AR 61-62, GRI 3 G4-18 Process for defining report content AR 20-21, GRI 3 G4-19 Material aspects of sustainability identified GRI 3 G4-20 Aspect boundaries within the organisation GRI 3 G4-21 Aspect boundaries outside the organisation GRI 3 G4-22 Restatements of information AR 20, 25 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reports AR 20 G4-24 Stakeholder groups with whom the organisation is engaged GRI 3 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders GRI 3 G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement GRI 3 G4-27 Topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement GRI 3 G4-28 Reporting period GRI 1 G4-29 Date of publication of most recent report April 2017 G4-30 Reporting cycle GRI 1 G4-31 Contact person for questions regarding the report GRI 4 G4-32 Reporting level and GRI Index GRI 1-2 G4-33 External audit GRI 1 G4-34 Governance structure for the company AR 26, 35-37 G4-56 The organisation’s values, codes of conduct etc. AR 26 DMA Economic performance AR 11-13, 27 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed AR 27 DMA Emissions AR 20-21, 25 EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) GRI 4 EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) GRI 4 DMA Supplier assessment for environment, labor practices, impacts on society and human rights AR 20-21, 26, GRI 3 EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken AR 26, GRI 3 LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken AR 26, GRI 3 HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken AR 26, GRI 3 SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken AR 26, GRI 3 DMA Occupational health and safety AR 23 LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender AR 23, GRI 4 Re ciph a rm GRI Appendi x 2 017 17 STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE Recipharm has identified employees, customers, owners, investors, analysts, suppliers and government agencies as key stakeholders. The company has an ongoing dialogue with all relevant stakeholders regarding important business topics, including sustainability. As part of preparing priorities and reporting, Recipharm has had specific meetings with the four largest institutional owners, carried out a survey with employees and conducted two workshops within the Group Management Team. Recipharm’s key stakeholders Forum for dialogue Key topics and Recipharm’s response Owners, investors and • Regular meetings • Scope and objectives analysts • Ongoing contact • Prioritized areas • Capital Market Day • Current performance • Annual general meeting • Planned activities • Annual Report Employees • Regular dialogue • Performance reviews • Performance reviews • Personal and team contribution to sustainability • Conferences • Wider input survey open for all employees Customers • Ongoing contact • Customer meetings addressing sustainability • Responding to several customers’ • Customers’ sustainability requirements sustainability surveys • Recipharm’s performance regarding sustainability Suppliers • Procurement requirements • Start of implementation of Recipharm’s Supplier Code of Conduct • Ongoing contact • Sustainability assessments included in supplier quality audits • Supplier audits Government agencies • Ongoing contact • No specific topics raised in 2017 The table shows Recipharm’s key stakeholders, the forum for dialogues and their Boundaries key topics and Recipharm’s response. Recipharm is also responding to the key Recipharm’s sustainability report covers the entire Group, unless other topics and concerns in the annual report and this GRI Appendix. is stated. The material sustainability aspects have impacts on our own business and our employees. Some of the aspects have impacts beyond Recipharm’s organizational MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES boundaries, such as assessment and monitoring of suppliers. In the Recipharm conducted a materiality analysis during 2016. The analysis sustainability report, we continuously describe the impact of each was based on Recipharm’s strategy, sustainability context and sustainability aspect, both within and outside the company. stakeholder expectations. Recipharm’s management team made the prioritizing of the most material sustainability topics. The table below lists the sustainability topics that have been defined as the GOVERNANCE most material to Recipharm. As a company listed on NASDAQ OMX Nordic Mid Cap Recipharm follows Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. Recipharm has developed a number of governing documents, such as the Code of Conduct and Material GRI G4 aspects Internal Control Standards. Auditing and monitoring are achieved with • Economic Performance the help of external resources and through self-evaluation. Self-evaluation includes monitoring of local companies’ compliance with Recipharm’s • Emissions Code of Conduct, Internal Control Standards and other rules and guidelines through a Letter of Assurance process. • Supplier Environmental Assessment • Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society Targets are monitored regularly and Recipharm’s operating companies • Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices are responsible for implementation and management. Overall control is • Supplier Human Rights Assessment carried out at the group with direct feedback to the CEO and the Board. • Occupational Health and Safety Recipharm applies an ISO 14001 certified environmental management system and a management system for health and safety, certified The table shows Recipharm’s material sustainability aspects. according to OSHAS 18001, across the majority of Operating Companies. Recipharm’s sustainability report focus on the material topics but also Internal governing document Global Policy was introduced 2005 and addresses other aspects of sustainability when relevant. Recipharm will complemented in 2008 with Recipharm’s Code of Conduct. Recipharm develop the sustainability work gradually and have an active dialogue became members of the UN Global Compact in 2016, a commitment with stakeholders for input on Recipharm’s priorities and improvements. to support the ten principles regarding human rights, anti-corruption, Re ciph a rm GRI Appendi x 2 017 18 labour and environment. Recipharm is taking the precautionary KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS approach into account in the company’s risk management processes. This section contains data on disclosures that are not fully reported in Work methods and processes are constantly adapted to external expectathe annual report. tions, requirements and legislation relevant to Recipharm. Recipharm is a member of the Swedish Life Science Industry Organization, SwedenBIO, Greenhouse gas emissions 2017 2016 2015 where Recipharm’s CEO is a member of the board. Scope 1 (Use of natural gas and oil in premises, and fuel in company vehicles) 16,328 15,379 12,442 BACKGROUND DATA FOR GHG CALCULATIONS Scope 2 (Electricity, district heating, All calculations are made according to the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol. cooling and steam) 49,233 24,807 17,517 Direct GHG emissions in Scope 1 includes combustion of natural gas and Scope 3 (Business travel by train and oil for our factories and premises and fuel for company vehicles. Energy airplane) 934 671 463 indirect GHG emissions in Scope 2 include consumption of electricity, Total 66,495 40,857 30,422 district heating, cooling and steam. Emissions of other indirect GHGs The table shows the total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions from the in Scope 3 include business travel by train and airplane. reported sources. Calculation of Number of Share of Share of Share of GHG emissions Source of data employees 2017 women 2016 women 2015 women Combustion of natural Conversion factor for natural gas and oil Total number gas and oil from Greenhouse Gas Protocol. of employees 5,630 41% 3,537 49 % 2,569 55 % Permanent Fuel from business Statistics on fuel consumed or distance contract 4,589 41% 3,207 49 % 2,314 56 % travel in company travelled gathered from employee expenvehicles ses. Assumptions of gasoline cars when Full time 4,350 38% 2,979 46 % 2,111 52 % unknown and conversion factors from Part time 239 92% 228 91 % 203 91 % Greenhouse gas protocol. Temporary contract 1,041 42% 330 52 % 255 53 % Electricity Country by country data for conversion factors from “Reliable Disclosure The table shows the total number of employees by employment contract Systems for Europe – Phase II” (RE-DISS and gender. II) project, which was supported by the European Commission through the Intelligent Energy Europe (IEE). When specific agreement for 100 % renewable energy, Health and safety 2017 2016 2015 zero emissions assumed. Injury rate (IR), number of injuries District heating, cooling Statistics from suppliers. per working day 0.00022 0.00023 0.00030 and steam Occupational diseases rate (ODR) rate based on number of occupational diseases Business travel Data on emissions from travel agencies per working day 0.00003 0.00004 0.00002 when possible, conversion factors from Lost day rate (LDR) rate based on number Greenhouse gas protocol when only disof lost days from injuries and occupatiotance travelled is known. nal diseases per working day 0.00221 0.00343 0.00185 Absentee rate (AR) rate based on number of days of absence per working day 0.03730 0.04745 0.05046 The table shows the rate of injuries, occupational diseases, lost days and absentee. No work-related fatalities in the reporting period. No information on independent contractors. Economic value generated and distributed 2017 2016 2015 Revenues 5,332 4,678 3,389 Operating costs -3,011 -2,459 -1,759 Employee wages and benefits -1,909 -1,551 -1,176 Payments to providers of capital -200 -119 -77 Payments to government -168 -200 133 Economic value retained 44 350 511 The table shows the direct economic value generated and distributed. Contact For questions regarding our sustainability report, contact Erik Haeffler, Head of CSR, erik.haeffler@recipharm.com. Re ciph a rm GRI Appendi x 2 017 19
