United Nations Global Compact 685 Third Avenue, FL 12 New York, NY 10017 07th February 2018 To all interested parties: I am pleased to announce that ASC Østlandske Rengjøring AS confirm its support for the principles laid down in the UN’s Global Compact in the areas human rights, labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption. In this Annual Communication on Progress we describe our efforts to ensure continuous improvement in the integration of Global Compact and the principles therein into our business strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. We have also committed ourselves to share this information with all interested parties who use our channels for communication. Best regards, ASC Østlandske Rengjøring AS Atle Sæther CEO Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights Our assessment of human rights in our country (Norway), where we operate, is that there is no major threat. Our policy is to monitor developments we shall continue to do so in the coming year. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, reduce Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. The company implements human rights in its training programme and when engaging new employees. ØR’s suppliers are made aware of our rules of conduct and other relevant guidelines when purchasing and entering into contracts. All suppliers are treated equally in accordance with the terms and conditions for public employment and our own ethical guidelines. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Human rights are monitored by senior management through the company’s management system. Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining: Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. Our personnel policy encompasses all employees. Our objective is to be an attractive employer and to recruit from our local labour markets. Employees shall be afforded the opportunity to participate in the development of the company, and all employees share the responsibility of ensuring that are services are of the best possible quality. It is a requirement that the personnel policy is practised in our day-to-day operations from executive level and to contact with our customers. Implementation Description of concrete action taken by your company to implement labour policies, reduce labour risks and respond to labour violations. All employees attend the ØR (Østlandske Rengjøring) school. The training includes a thorough introduction to employees’ rights and reporting routines if an employee should find that there are irregularities of any kind in the workplace. A risk assessment is implemented prior to the commencement of projects. In the case of special projects, for example construction projects, we arrange dedicated HES courses on site for our employees. We have elected representatives who monitor employees’ wages and working conditions. The company has tariff agreements under which all employees’ rights are incorporated. Non-union employees have the same rights as union members. Skills and expertise take priority over gender and ethnic background during the recruiting phase. All deviations are registered in our Register of Deviations. Plans are prepared to deal with and rectify deviations enabling deviations to be closed. We believe that communication between employees, labour organisations and the company is to the advantage of our common interests and business success in the longer term. The company has a Working Environment Committee (WEC), which deals with health, the environment and safety on behalf of the employees. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance The company’s own auditors and the auditors for major clients have right of inspection of the company to check on wages, employment contracts, timesheets and working conditions. Deviations are registered in our Register of Deviations and these are closely monitored. The objective is to ascertain whether deviations are recurrent. Deviations are monitored by the WEC and reported to the management. Please refer to the enclosed HES and WEC reports. Environmental Principles Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. ASC Østlandske Rengjøring AS prepares and implements cleaning services with the lowest possible environmental impact, and our environmental policy shall meet with the standards required by the respective authorities We shall think globally and act locally. ASC Østlandske Rengjøring AS is working to achieve a healthier environment for our employees and in the areas in which we operate. We shall manage our activities with care for the environment and shall at all times adhere to all applicable environmental legislation and other standards and requirements adopted by the society in which we work. Our responsibility for the environment demands cyclic thinking and regard for the environment by all employees in all decisions concerning our facilities and the use of cleansing agents. Our concrete objective is to work to achieve a good environmental performance by careful management of the organisation’s activities and services that have an effect on the local and global environment. We are certified to Svanemerke environmental standard, see the enclosed certificate and the company’s environmental programme. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, reduce environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. The company’s environmental management system was designed in accordance with Svanemerke in which amongst other things the requirements for the charting of environmental impact and risk are described. The company achieved certification to the said standard in 2013. All employees of ASC Østlandske Rengjøring AS have the duty and obligation to prevent accidents that impact on the environment to the best of their ability and to participate in our ongoing work to further reduce the company’s impact on the environment. With focus on a reduction in the use of chemicals and the use of cleansing materials bearing the environmental mark we are contributing to improved working conditions for our employees and our customers. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. In addition to environmental analyses, descriptions of functions, monitoring of legislation and regulations, the consumption of chemicals and return arrangements as described above, additional tools and methods are required. Measurements are based on the Swan Mark and are included in the Environmental Programme. The system enables proposals for corrective measures and initiatives to be proposed and implemented in accordance with a stipulated schedule. Anti-Corruption Principles Principles 10: Business should work against corruption all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption riskassessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. Norway is in 7th place, with approximately 3 % stating that they have paid bribes in connection with contact with public institutions and services during the course of the past year. The survey was conducted by the anti-corruption organisation Transparency International. Our risk assessment shows that we work in an area where there is a very low risk of corruption. Please refer to our Declaration of public commitments. The company’s stated objective: There shall be no corruption in connection with our operations. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, reduce anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. The company focuses on anti-corruption when recruiting and in internal courses. Anticorruption is monitored by the management review and the work carried out by the auditor. All payments must be counter-signed by two senior staff members. When selecting suppliers a minimum of two senior staff members decide jointly on the choice of supplier to the company. ØR strongly encourages all employees to report any matter worthy of criticism. If an employee suspects that a decision or act will be in conflict with ØR ‘s legal or ethical commitments, he or she has the duty and right to take the matter up and should contact his superior without delay. If this is difficult or impossible he or she should contact the CEO, elected representative or safety officer, who will function as an independent channel for reporting. No reports of this type were registered by the management in 2012. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. Anti-corruption is monitored and assessed as part of the management review.
