Le Pin en Mauges, 3rd sept 2018 Time period • October 2016 – Sept 2018 Format • Stand alone document – Basic COP Template Differentiation Level • This COP qualifies for the Global Compact Active level Self-assessment • Includes an explicit statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact and its ten principles • Description of actions or relevant policies related to Human Rights • Description of actions or relevant policies related to Labour • Description of actions or relevant policies related to Environment • Description of actions or relevant policies related to Anti-Corruption • Includes a measurement of outcomes • Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer • Statement of the company's chief executive (CEO or equivalent) expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing the company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. • To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that ALFI TECHNOLOGIES reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Yann JAUBERT President Human Rights • Assessment, policy and goals • Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. • • Protection of Internationally recognized principles including Human Rights is expressly part of ALFI TECHNOLOGIES Code of Ethics, which is distributed to all employees in the company. Business Partners and Suppliers are requested to adhere to this principle and to all those listed in the UN Global Compact, which are also part of the ALFI’s Suppliers Charter that suppliers are encouraged to implement. Business Partners such as agents or external consultants must undergone a screening on ethics. Siège social ALFI TECHNOLOGIES, ZAE LES CAMANDIERES 49110 LE PIN EN MAUGES www.alfi-technologies.com • Implementation • Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. • • Employees and third parties can use any tool to report potential claims, such as hierarchy, employee representatives, external auditors, public authority. The majority of suppliers assessed through the Ecovadis assessment are not located in countries which are identified as risky. ALFI Technologies regularly consult with Employees representatives. • Measurement of outcomes • Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. • • No claim regarding Human Rights was reported in the period covered by the COP. Labour • Assessment, policy and goals • Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. • Business Partners and Suppliers are requested to adhere to this principle and to all those listed in the UN Global Compact, which are also part of the ALFI’s Suppliers Charter that suppliers are encouraged to implement. Business Partners such as agents or external consultants must undergo a screening on ethics • Internal code of behavior integrates commitments for the respect of UN Principles. This code is delivered to every employee that must sign it when hired in the company. • Implementation • Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations. • • ALFI Technologies values good labor relations and ensure that a continuous communication with employee representatives exists. ALFI Technologies management regularly exchange with local employee representatives. ALFI Technologies also held various events to increase awareness about disabled employees and professional integration. • ALFI organized a survey for all its employees in June 2017 to measure the level of satisfaction and actions for improvement. • Measurement of outcomes • Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. • • No claim regarding breach of Human Rights was reported in the period covered by the COP • The results of the employees survey lead to implement an action plan. The next survey is planned in 2019 to measure the improvements and the results of actions. Environment • Assessment, policy and goals • Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. • ALFI Technologies ensures sustainability in the management of all its activities and is committed to minimize its impact on the environment. The direct impact of ALFI Technologies is limited to industrial activities mostly limited to design and assembling of mechanical parts of equipment. Siège social ALFI TECHNOLOGIES, ZAE LES CAMANDIERES 49110 LE PIN EN MAUGES www.alfi-technologies.com • The focus is made on innovative design and environmental friendly solutions. It is core of ALFI’s strategy : designed new equipment and lines aim at helping its clients to integrate measures to reduce carbon as part of their business model. • Implementation • Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. • • As examples of its “Green ambition”, ALFI Technologies went on implementing its actions towards greener data center, through virtualization of servers, cloud computing, reducing electricity consumption. ALFI Technologies has also adopted since 2013: a waste management policy ensuring that collection, storage, transportation and disposal of waste was properly managed and recycled as far as possible; remote conferencing technologies. a support of the NGO up2green which promotes the reforestation in the world new design of equipment succeeded in a energy consumtion reduction of 30% of plants with a collaborative development plan implanted with key suppliers. on going development on new equipment allows a reduction in raw materials and cement of 8%. these new developments actively participate towards a sustainable industry. New patented line of equipment to ensure depollution of old vehicles • Measurement of outcomes • Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. • • No claim regarding Environment was reported in the period covered by the COP. 400 trees will be planted in the world by ALFI employees and clients in 2018 with up2green to compensate carbone emissions of our commercial vehicules. Almost 80% of projects delivered to industries integrated innovative and low energy consumption solutions Siège social ALFI TECHNOLOGIES, ZAE LES CAMANDIERES 49110 LE PIN EN MAUGES www.alfi-technologies.com Anti-Corruption • Assessment, policy and goals • Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. • • Protection of Internationally recognized principles including combating corruption, is expressly part of ALFI Technologies Code of Ethics, which is distributed to all employees in the company. Business Partners and Suppliers are requested to adhere to this principle and to all those listed in the UN Global Compact, which are also part of the ALFI Technologies Suppliers Charter that suppliers are encouraged to implement. Business Partners such as agents or external consultants must undergone a screening on ethics which includes questions on potential links with political parties or place of payment for their services • Implementation • Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. • • No claim or request for monetary sanction for corruption was reported in the period covered by the COP. • Measurement of outcomes • Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. • • No claim or request for monetary sanction for corruption was reported in the period covered by the COP. Siège social ALFI TECHNOLOGIES, ZAE LES CAMANDIERES 49110 LE PIN EN MAUGES www.alfi-technologies.com -
