Communication on Progress report for the period July 2017 to June 2018 17 Projects 1. Mango cultivation Project – Commenced in June 2013 & is still and ongoing project covering the areas of Ampara, Padawiya, Polonaruwa, Vavuniya & Mahiyanganaya. Over 2000 trees now bearing fruits expecting to get the first commercial harvest during end of this year & middle of next year. 2. Volunteer undergraduate students from Leeds Beckett University UK, visiting Padaviya, Walikanda & Kdawathamaduwa in Polonnaruwa interacting with primary school children and imparting knowledge, confidence building and enhancing English language skills of children. In July 2017. 3. Supporting Home gardening & Banana cultivation in Wijayabahu Primary school in Okkampitiya, Buththala by providing technical guidance and water supply with water pump in August 2017. Over 600 school children will benefit. Also granting an allowance of Rs.6000 per month for the past 4 years and continuing up to now, to a volunteer teacher to teach Tamil language to Sinhala speaking students. 4. Wavinna Vidiyalaya (Secondary School up to year 11) – Wavinna, Ampara Total number of students 240 Opening of reconstructed school hall on 9th of September 2017, which had collapsed five years ago (in 2012), fortunately when the children were attending school assembly in the garden. The project was completed at cost of Sri Lankan Rupees 2.5 M. Wavinna Vidiyalaya The largest mango plantation of 120 trees is in this school Has the potential of earning over Rs. 1 million per year if maintained & looked after well by the school community. We are also paying an allowance of Rs. 5000 per month to a volunteer Lady teacher to maintain the library and develop the reading habits of children in this school. 5. Arunalu Pre-school – Providing toilet facilities and drinking water for 80 preschool children in Polwaththa, Ampara at a cost of Rs 250,000/= September 2017. 6. Opening ceremony of Community based organization (CBO) building in Usbima, Polwaththa, Ampara for women and community empowerment at a cost of Sri Lankan R 1.2 M 2017/09/10 7. Donated Dental equipment for Inginiyagala divisional hospital with funds raised by students of Health faculty Deakin University Melbourne Australia. Cost of Equipment Rs. 250 000/= Donated in October 2017. 8. Getting a full days training for our staff in the largest mango plantation in Sri Lanka, in Nelna Farm at Vandama, Buttala where 50,000 TomJC (TJC) mango trees are planted. This will help us to guide and support the 30 schools & 5 temples where we have more than 2000 mango trees which will come into harvest from now on, into the future. (March 2018) 9. Commenced 3 new mango cultivation projects in Pethiyagoda Maha Vidayala, Ritigaha Arawa Primary school & Mr.Senevirathna’s Land (Empowering a very low income earning family in Pethiyagoda & Ritigaha Arawa in Redimaliyadda March 2018 Pethiyagoda school – 50 mango plants Ritigaha Arawa school 50 mango plants Planting 100 mango trees in Mr.Senavirathna’s land Mr.Senavirathna & Family 10. Providing electricity for Wavinina School Hall in May 2018 11. Donating an electric organ to Arunalu Preschool in May 2018 12. Empowering women in Usbima, Ampara CBO (Community Based Organization) 13. First aid Training programme for students and teachers of 6 schools in Padaviya Area Conducted at Padavi Jayanthi Vidyalaya during 2 days in May 2018 Practical demonstration Donation of First Aid boxes to schools St. John’s Lecturer conducting a session Participants at the session The entire group of participants with the Principal of Padavi Jayanthi Maha Vidyalaya Lack of First Aid knowledge is a severe problem in rural schools. To bridge this gap in this area, AEF conducted First Aid training programmes for Teachers and Students. AEF has now trained 60 students and 12 teachers (male & female in equal numbers) from 06 Schools in Padaviya with the assistance of St. John Ambulance, Colombo. 14. Mr.Senavirathna‘s 100 tree mango plantation. Begin empowered with water supply scheme. In May 2018. Supplied water pump, water tank, pipes, sprinklers, pump room and part of labor expenses. Cost of project Rs, 125,000/= Part of labor was contributed by the Senavirathna family, neighbors and well-wishers. 15. Bringing back to life an abandoned class room block / hall, in Ilukkaputhenna Primary school, Ilukapathana, Bibile, which was unused for over 3 years due to Pigeons invading the building. (June 2018) As a result the students had to be confined to a very small building and all 5 classes was cramped up in this small building. Aspirations staff & volunteers at work the original state of the building. Wire mesh to prevent Pigeons from coming back The Building after the renovation ready for occupation 16. Donation of 5 beds and mattresses to set up First Aid rooms in five schools in Padaviya, in June 2018. 4 beds were donated by Nawaloka College of Higher Studies and one bed by Aspirations Education Foundation. This is the second step after the training programme conducted by St. John’s Ambulance in May 2018. The third step would be to fully train 12 teachers (training of trainerTOT) and thereafter to set up 6 St. John’s Brigades in each of the 6 schools. Principals of 5 schools with Aspirations staff (one school Principal was not present) The Principal of Padavi Jayanthi Vidyalaya Mr. Bandara, receiving the beds and mattresses from Chairman of Aspirations Education Foundation, Mr. Ajith Abeysekera 17. A half day workshop (morning session) conducted by Aspirations Education Foundation which to well qualified resourced persons (Ladies) in imparting knowledge to young mothers in rural and very remote areas of Padaviya, in guiding them how to bring up their children and support them in their studies and develop the children into useful and worthy citizens of the country. The session was conducted in Padavi Jayanthi Vidyalaya and over 300 parents (mainly young mothers and also fathers, to a lesser extent) participated. It was an extremely successful project and everyone thanked the organizers for conducting the programme. (In June 2018)
