sustainability report 2017/18 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 introduction At Kingfisher we believe a good home is a sustainable home. We want to make sustainability the easy choice for our customers and to become a truly sustainable company. This report shares some of our achievements to date and the challenges we’re still working on. Kingfisher at a glance 3 From our chief executive officer 5 An external perspective 6 Our sustainable growth plan 7 Performance summary 2017/18 11 2 Introduction Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 Kingfisher at a glance Kingfisher plc is a home improvement The ONE Kingfisher five year plan will Our stores company with nearly 1,300 stores in leverage the scale of the business by creating 10 countries across Europe. a unified company, where customer needs always come first. We employ 78,0001, 2 people and nearly six million customers shop in our stores and 1,280 Russia 20 through our websites and apps every week. Poland 76 Our ambition is to become the leading home improvement company. We believe everyone Stores1 Germany 19 should have a home they feel good about, so our purpose is to make home improvement UK & Ireland 873 3 78,000 accessible for everyone. There are seven actions we will do together to achieve our ambition: Colleagues1, 2 —— Think of customer needs first —— Design a seamless customer process —— Create a unique and leading offer with an integrated supply chain —— Create a leading customer experience in our stores —— Be a truly sustainable company France 223 4 —— Work as one —— Be low cost always Romania 38 5 Spain 28 Portugal 3 1 Turkey joint venture not consolidated. 2 Employees – total, not full-time equivalent. Turkey1 3 B&Q UK and Ireland 296, Screwfix 577. 4 Castorama 102, Brico Dépôt 121. 5 Brico Dépôt 15, Praktiker 23 (excludes 3 Praktiker Romania stores that will be closed). 3 Introduction Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 Geographic contribution Sales Retail profit £11.7bn Total sales 1 £849m Total retail profit 1, 2 19% 18% 43% 44% 38% 38% UK & Ireland £5,003m UK & Ireland £375m France £4,387m France £320m Other International £2,265m Other International £154m 1 Financial Key Performance Indicator (KPI). 2 Alternative Performance Measure (APM). 4 Introduction Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 from our chief executive officer It is two years since we started our journey think too hard about it. Our new kitchen taps, We are pleased with what we’ve achieved so to become the leading home improvement for example, help customers to save water far, but there is much more to do to reach our company. We chose to put our collective and are more durable, with longer guarantees. targets for 2020 and 2025. In the year ahead, energy behind one clear purpose: to create Our outdoor ranges are making it easier for we will continue to support our colleagues to good homes by making home improvement customers to grow their own food and create make sustainability part of their work, and to accessible for everyone. beautiful gardens that also support wildlife. collaborate with our suppliers and partners to achieve our goals. I look forward to updating To achieve this, we are transforming our Altogether, almost one-third of our sales in you on our progress again next year. business, placing customers at the heart of 2018 have come from our sustainable home everything we do, from the products on our products – taking us a step closer to achieving Véronique Laury shelves to the way we run our operations. our target of 50% by 2020. Chief Executive Officer Sustainability has been central to our We’ve made significant headway in our transformation from the start. We know that efforts to build sustainability into our a good home is a sustainable home – one business operations, too. We have cut that is resource and energy smart, clean and our carbon footprint by 16% since 2010/11 healthy, durable in quality and style and green through investment in energy efficiency outside and in. We have a great opportunity and renewables. We are exploring new to help our customers create the sustainable and good homes they deserve. approaches, like our redesigned Screwfix Trade Counter that will generate more energy than it consumes. 97% of wood and paper in “We have a great opportunity We recently launched our sustainable growth plan to help us do just that. Our plan our products is now responsibly sourced and we’re building on this – exploring sustainable to help our customers create is focused on the issues that matter most sourcing of other important raw materials too. to our customers. It builds on the work we have been doing for many years and includes We know that for people in difficult the sustainable and good homes they deserve.” ambitious new goals and targets to take us circumstances – those living in poverty even further on our journey to become a truly or who are isolated or vulnerable – having sustainable company. a good home can seem impossible. Over the past year, we launched strategic It is early days for our plan, but we’ve already partnerships with the Red Cross and Shelter achieved a huge amount as a business. Earlier that will help millions more people across this year, we launched unified product ranges Europe to improve their homes and provide that are designed to help our customers opportunities for our colleagues and create a sustainable home without having to customers to get involved. 5 Introduction Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 an external perspective Kingfisher is about to enter the third year of a connecting DIY experts with customers as well major business transformation programme, a as ambitious forest restoration schemes. programme designed in its reach and ambition to respond to the broader transformation of the For me, though, there is one feature of this global retail sector. This is a sector currently report that stands out more than most. And undergoing seismic shifts, a sector on the brink that’s the story of connectedness. Through of quite radical change, a change that could go its businesses Kingfisher wants to connect either way in terms of sustainability. meaningfully with its customers, helping them create good, sustainable homes. Through new There’s one possible future for retail where strategic partnerships with Shelter and the hyper-consumption continues, drawing Red Cross, Kingfisher wants to connect its down on rapidly depleting resources, where purpose with its wider societal partnerships, personalisation and digital access have simply creating a meaningful difference in vulnerable amplified the negative environmental and communities. Kingfisher is connecting social aspects of the current model. Equally, with nature, society and the economy in a there is a another alternative future, where thoughtful and deliberate way, and in our the circular economy has scaled, where new increasingly fragmented and polarised business models are delivering access to world, the kaleidoscope of connections that goods and services in ways that have positive Kingfisher is making could play an important environmental impact, with the actual goods role in driving the systemic change needed to and services delivering positive social impact. deliver the Sustainable Development Goals. This is Net Positive retail – and this is the version of retail I believe Kingfisher is striving In the meantime, performance is headed in the to deliver. right direction across Kingfisher’s target areas with the exception of waste, recycling and Kingfisher’s purpose, creating good homes resource use. Kingfisher should be applauded Dr Sally Uren OBE by making home improvement accessible to for its bold ambition, we all need and want Chief Executive, Forum for the Future everyone, is a purpose that lends itself well to homes and shelter, and by helping us make sustainability, and could set Kingfisher apart our homes sustainable, Kingfisher is enabling as a genuine pioneer in sustainable retail. millions of people to do their bit to create a There are flashes of this pioneering practice sustainable future. throughout this report; product ranges that help customers get more for less, customer take-back and recycling schemes, new business models featuring online platforms 6 Introduction Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 our sustainable Our four Big Goals growth plan with 12 targets (for 2025 unless stated) We believe everybody should We have a clear purpose – to create good homes by making home improvement be able to have a home they feel good about accessible for everyone. We know that a good home is a sustainable home and we will go all out to help our customers have the sustainable and good homes they deserve. Our sustainable growth plan is designed to achieve this by embedding sustainability into our products and services. It prioritises the issues that matter most to customers and will maximise Save money by Live smarter by Create a healthier Be part of a community our positive impact on their homes and lives. saving energy getting more from home and connect that helps millions and water less, reusing or with nature more people improve About our plan using longer their home Our sustainable growth plan has four big goals For Customers For Customers For Customers For Customers and 12 outcome-based targets focused on the Enable a 50% reduction 20 products or services that 20% of sales enable Help millions more sustainability issues of most importance for our in customer energy use help customers get more from customers to create safer, people tackle poor and unfit customers. It is our roadmap up to 2025 and will through our products, less, reuse or use longer. healthier homes and housing through strategic take us on the next stage of our journey towards services and advice. connect with nature. partnerships and local action being a net positive business. For Us in all our markets. Enable a 50% improvement For Us Ensure sustainable in customer water efficiency For Us management and efficient Achieve transparency of through our products, use of key resources (2025) harmful chemicals in key Support our colleagues services and advice. including 100% responsibly supply chains (2020), phase to have a home they can For Us sourced wood and paper and out the highest priority feel good about. peat-free bagged growing hazardous and high-risk Reduce absolute carbon chemicals of concern and Ensure suppliers meet our media (2020). emissions from buildings and introduce five green ethical and environmental transport by 25% from a Zero waste to landfill substances (2025). standards (2020) and 2010/11 baseline (2020). (2020) and 90% of waste establish strategic recycled (2025). community programmes to achieve positive change in key sourcing regions (2025). 50% of group sales from products that help create a more sustainable home (2020). 7 Introduction Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 The next stage for net positive Research with our customers and space, or simply through including more stakeholders natural materials in their homes. Our plan will help us progress towards our long-term net positive aspirations, which guide Our plan is based on extensive research with 4. Customers want healthy, toxin-free living – our approach to sustainable and restorative our customers and stakeholders. Our customer Customers are motivated by products that business. Our net positive aspirations for research covered five markets and included inare better for their health and wellbeing and 2050 are: depth interviews and visits to customer homes. that of their family. There is growing concern around issues such as air quality and —— Every Kingfisher product will enable a more The findings showed that while few customers chemicals in food, cosmetics and the home. sustainable and ultimately net positive use the term ‘sustainability’, there are many lifestyle. sustainability issues that connect with what As part of our research, we also spoke to a wide customers really care about. However, most range of expert stakeholders and colleagues to —— Every Kingfisher store and customer home people find it difficult to make sustainable learn from their insights. is zero carbon or generates more energy choices. Often, it feels too complicated or time than it consumes. consuming, particularly when they are grappling The research highlighted a number of with an already complex home improvement significant social and environmental trends —— Kingfisher creates more forest than it uses. project. Customers expect us to make it easy affecting our customers, our markets and our for them. Ideally they’d like to be able to buy business. These include urbanisation, rising —— Every Kingfisher store and location supports sustainably without having to think about it. This housing costs and delays in young people projects which build local communities or is our ambition. owning their first home, technological change, equip people with skills. the growth of the sharing economy, the Four common themes impact of climate change, natural resource Our sustainable growth plan retains many of the Four common themes emerged strongly from constraints and changing attitudes to the role targets we set in 2012 while also extending our our customer research and have guided the of business in society. focus to new and important areas such as health creation of our sustainable growth plan. and wellbeing, reflecting the results of our Stakeholders re-emphasised the importance research with customers and stakeholders. 1. Saving energy and water are top of mind of a value-chain approach to sustainability concerns – Energy bills are a major expense. – addressing impacts in the supply chain Yet planning and completing energy efficiency and our customers’ homes, as well as our projects can be complicated and expensive. operations. Environmental issues, including Some people don’t know which products climate change, water and waste, remain will save them energy. Water efficiency is a priorities. However, the research showed growing priority for many customers too. we also need to increase our emphasis on social issues, particularly the health, safety 2. A move to smarter and more thrifty and wellbeing of customers, colleagues and consumption is growing – Customers value workers in our supply chain. long-lasting products and dislike waste. There is growing interest in ‘upcycling’ – repairing, We also updated our materiality assessment restoring and customising old products. For focusing on our product sustainability impacts some customers, actual ownership is less from raw material extraction to consumer use. important – they are happy to share or rent These results also informed the development the tools they need. of our plan. See page 80 for more information. 3. Connecting to nature is a massive need – In every market, customers spoke passionately about their desire to connect with nature – whether through their own garden or window box, community green 8 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 Our four big goals focus on the sustainability issues that matter most to our customers. Save money by saving energy and water Live smarter by getting more from less, reusing or using longer Create a healthier home and connect with nature Be part of a community that helps millions more people improve their home 9 Introduction Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 Methodology The UN Sustainable Development Goals Our targets and methodologies have been We support the UN Sustainable Development developed with sustainability organisation, Goals that provide a framework for governments, Bioregional, who are experts in the development business and civil society to work together to of sustainable communities and in measuring end poverty, fight inequality and stop climate and monitoring sustainability performance. change by 2030. Our targets are based on research to identify We have reviewed our progress and plan against our most significant impacts and opportunities the United Nations Sustainable Development for improvement. For example, in setting Goals and have identified the priority Goals our product energy efficiency target we for our business, where we can have the most worked with Bioregional and the BRE (Building impact. These include Goal 11 – Sustainable Research Establishment) to understand the cities and Goal 12 – Responsible consumption energy saving potential in a typical home from and production. standard housing stock in France, Poland, Spain and the UK. Our target for sustainable We have signed up to the British Retail resource use prioritises the materials that Consortium (BRC) commitments on the goals account for over half of our supply chain carbon and we are a partner to the UK Stakeholders for footprint. Wherever possible, our targets reflect Sustainable Development network, which aims established frameworks such as the United to drive action on the SDGs in the UK. Nations Sustainable Development Goals. For more information see page 88. Further details of how our targets have been set are included in our sustainable growth plan launch report. Details on data scope and calculation methodologies are included in our data collection methodology. 10 Introduction Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 performance summary 2017/18 We launched our We are on track to reach our goal of 50% of sales from our sustainable home products, There was a small increase in waste diverted from landfill but a small decrease in recycling sustainable growth plan in with an increase in sales this year. Sustainability and we are not currently on track to meet is integrated into the design of our new Unified either target. While we have performed 2018, incorporating many and Unique product ranges and as further strongly in the UK and Poland, we have made of our existing targets. We ranges are launched over the next few years less progress in other markets. To address this will help us progress towards our goal. this, we are working to centralise our waste are making good progress We are also on track for our product-related management contracts for France. This will so far and are on track to targets for energy and water efficiency, products that help customers get more from enable us to work more closely with our waste management suppliers to increase recycling. meet our targets across less, reuse or use longer, and our products for a healthier home. We are not yet able to report progress against seven out of 12 key areas. our targets for chemicals, community and Our carbon footprint fell year-on-year due supporting our colleagues. Work is in progress to a reduction in our electricity consumption to develop KPIs for these targets and we and as a result of improvements in the expect to report against these next year. carbon intensity of the UK grid. We are on track to our target; however, this will remain challenging as our business grows and we make more home deliveries, increasing emissions from transport (currently around 17% of our carbon footprint). We have increased the use of responsibly sourced wood and paper in our products to 97%. However, we do not yet have data for our business in Russia. We also lack data on use of responsibly sourced timber in areas such as packaging and construction. For this reason, we are not on track towards our overall wood and paper target. There was a small decrease in the use of peat-free bagged growing media and further work is needed in this area to progress towards our target. 11 Introduction Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 Targets Progress in 2017/18 Progress against target* 50% of group sales from products that help create a more sustainable 32% of sales from sustainable home products. On track home (2020) and 10% of sales from best-in-class products. 7% of sales from best-in-class sustainable home products. Enable a 50% reduction in customer energy use through our 32% estimated reduction in home energy use enabled by our current energy saving products. On track products, services and advice. Enable a 50% improvement in customer water efficiency through our 45% improvement in home water efficiency enabled by our current water saving products. On track products, services and advice. Reduce absolute carbon emissions from buildings and transport by 16% reduction in our absolute carbon footprint. On track 25% from a 2010/11 baseline (2020). 20 products or services that help customers get more from less, 3 products and services launched so far (our easyGrow and ProGrow garden products and On track reuse or use longer. pallet reuse scheme). Ensure sustainable management and efficient use of key resources 97% sustainably sourced wood and paper in our products and 99% in our catalogues, customer Not on track (2025) including 100% responsibly sourced wood and paper and marketing materials and office paper. However data is not yet available for other wood and peat-free bagged growing media (2020). paper use. 67% peat-free bagged growing media. Roadmaps established for other key materials. Zero waste to landfill (2020) and 90% of waste recycled (2025). 14% waste to landfill. Not on track 72% of waste recycled. 20% of sales enable customers to create safer, healthier homes and 6% of sales from products that help customers create a healthier home or connect with nature. On track connect with nature. Achieve transparency of harmful chemicals in key supply chains Conducted a hot-spotting exercise to identify priority chemicals. Measurement methodology (2020), phase out the highest priority hazardous and high-risk not yet established chemicals of concern and introduce five green substances (2025). Developed a roadmap for phasing out priority chemical groups and identified several sustainable chemicals or manufacturing processes with the potential for use in our ranges. Help millions more people tackle poor and unfit housing through Strategic partnerships launched with Shelter and Red Cross. Measurement methodology strategic partnerships and local action in all our markets. not yet established Support our colleagues to have a home they can feel good about. We will be exploring opportunities during 2018. Measurement methodology not yet established Ensure suppliers meet our ethical and environmental standards 40% of suppliers now using Sedex. Continued rolling out ethical audits for high-risk On track (2020) and establish strategic community programmes to achieve production sites. positive change in key sourcing regions (2025). Visited key sourcing markets to explore how we can support supply chain communities. * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP. 12 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 32% 97% of sales from sustainable home products 16% sustainably sourced wood and paper in our products 6% reduction in our absolute carbon footprint of sales from products that help customers create a healthier home or connect with nature 13 Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 Our research showed that while few customers use the term ‘sustainability’, there are many sustainability issues that connect with what customers really care about. However, most people find it difficult to make sustainable choices. 14 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 sustainable homes for our customers A good home is a sustainable home 16 How we’re doing 17 Embedding sustainability in our ranges 18 Communicating with customers on sustainability 20 15 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 a good home is a sustainable home Our sustainable home products help Save money by saving Create a healthier home customers create the good homes they energy and water and connect with nature want. Homes that are well-insulated, energy efficient and affordable to run. Homes without ——Energy efficient ——Increases happiness ——Water efficient and wellbeing harmful chemicals. Homes that use sustainable ——Harnesses free natural ——Maximises light materials and beautiful, natural gardens that ——Clean air resources also welcome birds and wildlife. Homes that ——Supports a healthy lifestyle ——Comfortable – no draughts use fewer and more sustainable resources ——Provides the best ——Safe, especially for old and that are fitted out with quality, long-lasting economics possible and young products made in ways that are better for ——Connected and intelligent ——The right temperature all people and the planet. year round ——Resilient to changing weather Live smarter by getting With the right products and support, virtually ——Encourages growing plants more from less, reusing or and food every home improvement project has the using longer ——Maximises the use of inside potential to improve the sustainability of our and outside space customers’ homes. We aim for 50% of our ——Durable, quality materials sales to come from our sustainable home ——Is guilt free (well sourced products by 2020. materials) ——Low waste ——Low maintenance ——Reflects personality ——Up to date style – achieved in a low impact way ——Practical and useful ——Evolves with family needs ——Available to all (owners, renters, etc) 16 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 how we’re doing In 2017/18, sustainable 32% We encourage innovation to improve the sustainability of our products. Our home products – those best‑in‑class sustainable home products are the most innovative in our ranges and have that help customers create the biggest impact on the sustainability of of our sales from our sustainable home products good homes while having our customers’ homes. Examples include our peat-free compost, the most energy efficient a positive or much lower £3.8bn appliances, and taps, toilets and showers that impact on people and the meet best practice water efficiency standards. Best-in-class products made up 7% of sales in environment – made up 32% 2017/18 and our target is 10% by 2020. of our revenues are from of our sales (28% in 2016/17). sustainable home product sales This contributed £3.8 billion Sustainable home products 50% % of retail sales of our revenues (£3.1 billion in 2016/17). We aim for 50% Best-in-class sustainable home products 10% Other sustainable home products by 2020. 32% 28% 28% 7% 22% 6% 6% 20% 3% 4% 16% 19% 22% 22% 25% 40% 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18* 2020 Target * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP 17 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 embedding sustainability in our ranges We use our Sustainable As we unify our ranges, there are opportunities to further integrate sustainability across our Home Product Guidelines, product portfolio and to apply best practices across the group. Sustainability is also one developed with experts of the five design principles being used in the Bioregional, to improve development of our Unique ranges, alongside price, quality, form and function. performance across our ranges and to measure We have sustainability roadmaps for each of our seven range categories. These set out progress. These include short, medium and longer-term actions that will improve sustainability performance. Each detailed guidance and roadmap includes aspirations to develop criteria to help our product innovative new products and services to help our customers create sustainable homes. They developers and suppliers. also identify products that should be removed from our ranges over time because they cannot comply with our guidelines or policies, such as We update the guidelines very energyor carbon-intensive products. annually and publish them on We are looking holistically at sustainability our website: www.kingfisher. impacts across product categories in areas such as energy, water use, air quality, waste and com/shpguidelines. materials. For example, we are exploring how we can increase use of recycled plastic across our ranges. We have integrated sustainability into the training for our colleagues including our Home Improvement Academy, see page 71. We launched a new introductory e-learning module, ‘Sustainability & You’, for our colleagues in our Offer and Supply Chain function, which explores how sustainability is relevant in different roles. 18 Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 19 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 communicating with customers on sustainability We want to give customers During 2018/19, we will begin rolling out a consistent approach to product sustainability clear information about our communications across the Group. New ranges will now include information on the products to help them make sustainability features and benefits of each sustainable choices. product, integrated across our customer communications. We will also be working with our operating companies to ensure we communicate consistently on sustainability across our markets. There is great potential to use our digital platforms to promote sustainable products and services. Our sustainability and digital teams held a workshop during the year to identify how best to further integrate sustainability messages into our online communications and sales platforms. 20 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 Sustainability is one of the Engagement and advocacy We are exploring many new opportunities for product innovation that may help us improve the sustainability of our ranges. We value partnership and external engagement as a source of valuable new ideas and ways of design principles being used in the development thinking. Recent engagement has included: —— Innovation Gateway – We are partners to Innovation Gateway, a platform for of our Unique ranges. We crowdsourcing and testing innovation ideas to improve resource efficiency, focusing on areas such as energy, water and the built environment. —— Product Sustainability Roundtable – We participate in this group of global companies also have sustainability roadmaps for each of our and sustainability experts to share knowledge and insights to improve product sustainability. seven range categories, setting out the short, medium and longer-term actions that will improve performance. 21 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 save money by saving energy and water Energy saving products and services 24 Making water efficiency a priority 25 Saving energy in our business 27 22 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 We know customers are Targets motivated to save energy For our customers: —— Enable a 50% reduction in customer energy and water but the process use through our products, services and can be complicated. By advice by 2025. combining the best products —— Enable a 50% improvement in customer water with the right support and efficiency through our products, services and advice by 2025. information, we can help For our business: more customers improve —— Reduce absolute carbon emissions from efficiency, reduce costs and buildings and transport by 25% from a 2010/11 baseline by 2020. make their home a better place to live. We’re making savings in our operations too, investing in improving energy efficiency and cutting our carbon footprint. 23 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 energy saving products and services Customers want a To achieve our target, we will add new energy saving products to our ranges across energy saving products and services they purchase from us. We are in the process of comfortable home that our companies. We also aim to improve updating our methodology for calculating this performance across whole ranges. For figure and therefore have not included it in our can be kept at the right example, we are switching all light bulbs to reporting this year. We expect to include it in temperature without high LED, and reached 91% in 2017/18. Sales of LED future reports. products were worth over £200 million to energy bills. We offer a our business in 2017/18. LED is highly energy range of energy saving 32% efficient and durable, saving customers money over the life cycle of the product. products and services from We’re also developing services that make it insulation to light bulbs and easier to implement home energy efficiency estimated reduction in home energy use enabled by our products efficient appliances. projects. For example, Castorama France’s energy advisory service helps customers plan 91% projects, access subsidies and hire an installer. Altogether, the energy It has been launched in eleven stores. saving products in our We aim to increase sales of energy saving of the light bulbs we sell are LED products and services through customer ranges enable customers to communications and training our colleagues achieve an estimated 32% to provide the right support. reduction in energy use in We support government initiatives to help their homes (2016/17: 31%). people struggling to pay their energy bills. For example, Brico Dépôt France participates We are working towards in “Chèque Energie”, which helps cover the cost of heating bills for the 4 million people in 50% by 2025. France experiencing fuel poverty. Brico Dépôt has piloted the initiative since 2016, benefiting almost 180 households to date. It will be rolled out to all its stores in 2018. In previous years we have reported the total energy saving for our customers from the 24 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 making water efficiency a priority We are improving the water We aim to reduce the water consumption of the products we sell by expanding our ranges and New taps cut kitchen water use efficiency of our ranges increasing sales of water saving products. We A lot of water is used in the kitchen, will also be providing information and advice to including our taps, toilets customers on water efficiency. so redesigning our kitchen ranges provides a great opportunity to help and appliances. Our current customers save water. Our new unified During 2017, we rolled out our new unified range of kitchen taps, for example, water-using products ranges of kitchen taps which meet our water come fitted with a regulator limiting enable an estimated 45% efficiency best practice standards. During 2018, we will be focusing on our bathroom taps, toilets water flow to 8 litres per minute compared with up to 20 litres for taps improvement in home water and baths. We are also exploring new solutions without regulators. to help customers manage water use across the efficiency (2016/17: 44%). home, including products that can improve the We also worked closely with our suppliers on specifying and testing Our target is 50% by 2025. collection and storage of rainwater. the taps and their components. We are so confident in the quality of the Improving water efficiency can be challenging new range that we have guaranteed for some ranges, such as showers, where all Cooke and Lewis taps for 10 years, 45% customers often prefer high water flow compared with an average two years products for comfort. We are exploring for our previous ranges and for many other brands on the market. different solutions to address this. estimated reduction in home water use We’ve redesigned the packaging enabled by our products too, reducing materials use by 30% across the range and saving 45 tonnes of packaging material each year. This also means more taps can be transported in each load, reducing freight costs and fuel use. The packs are easy to open for our customers and widely recyclable. 25 26 Introduction Sustainable homes water Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 saving energy in our business 16% We have achieved a 16% reduction in our We are working to reduce absolute operational carbon footprint since energy use and carbon 2010/11 against our target of 25% by 2020. We have also reduced the energy intensity of emissions in our business our property portfolio by 20% and the carbon reduction in our absolute operational carbon footprint too – improving efficiency intensity by 32% over the same period. since 2010/11 in our stores, offices and We will publish a longer-term carbon reduction target during 2018 to take us even further and transport and investing in will develop an energy blueprint to guide the renewable and low carbon design and fit-out of future store openings. We aim to align our target with climate science energy sources. and we are engaging with the Science Based Absolute carbon footprint Targets initiative. Thousand tonnes CO2 equivalent We aim to align our reporting with the requirements of the Task Force on Climaterelated Financial Disclosures over time. See more on page 77. 405.4 374.8 397.1 394.9 405.2 402.8 366.1 341.1 304.0 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18* 2020 Target * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP 27 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 Energy efficiency Carbon footprint detail 2017/18* Property portfolio carbon intensity Thousand tonnes CO2 equivalent kg CO2 equivalent/m2 reported floor space We have reduced the energy intensity of our property portfolio by 20% since 2010/11 through improvements in building 3% management, fit-out and design. We have rolled out LED lighting to 56% of our property 17% estate (2016/17: 41%), with an investment of £26.5 million to date. Our target is 100% by 2020. Some operating companies have made even more progress, for example 86% of our stores in Poland now have LED. LED reduces store electricity consumption 54% by between 20 and 40%. Overall it reduced 26% our energy consumption by 30 million kWh last year, saving over £1 million. LED rollout is integrated into each operating company property plan and reviewed quarterly at property director meetings. 51.6 45.5 49.7 47.0 44.7 43.2 38.8 35.0 25.8 Building monitoring systems help us measure 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18* 2020 Target and reduce energy use, enabling store Property: purchased electricity and management to track energy use over time heat 185.0 * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP and to compare performance against other Property: gas and other fuels 89.7 stores and best practice. We are rolling these Haulage: dedicated store and home out in France and will review the impact with a deliveries 57.4 view to extending their use across the group. Business travel by road 9.0 Property portfolio energy intensity * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP kWh/m2 reported floor space We are reducing energy used for IT by using fewer and more energy efficient data centres, upgrading software and hardware platforms, and rolling out our UK managed print programme to the rest of the Group. 174.0 152.6 166.5 165.2 145.2 147.3 145.3 140.1 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18* * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP 28 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 Renewables and green energy Zero-energy Trade Counter We are investing in on‑site renewable at Screwfix generation across many of our locations. To Our first net zero-energy Trade date this includes solar PV panels on 16 stores, Counter store in Peterborough is offices and distribution centres and biomass expected to generate more energy boilers in two distribution centres and one than it consumes thanks to its air head office building. We’re also installing source heat pump powered by a solar a commercial battery system at one of our PV installation. The store is fitted out distribution centres. with LED lighting and has a battery storage system. The new design will Our investment in renewables is generating be rolled out to further stores. 7 million kWh per year and delivering over £1 million in financial benefit including energy Cribbs Causeway store B&Q cost reduction each year. Examples include: We’ve reduced electricity use by 53% Zero-energy Trade Counter at Screwfix, per year at our Cribbs Causeway store Swindon distribution centre, UK, Cribbs through the use of LED lighting and a Causeway store B&Q and Dax store, Brico solar PV installation. Dépôt France. Dax store, Brico Dépôt France We aim to negotiate green tariff electricity Brico Dépôt’s store at Dax has 100% contracts to encourage wider investment LED lighting, is highly insulated and in renewable energy and are reviewing uses highly efficient heating and air opportunities in all our markets as contracts conditioning systems. It also has an are renewed. During 2017 our UK operations energy monitoring system covering moved to 100% REGO-backed renewable 25 zones. During 2018, we will add electricity. We also purchase renewable power solar PV panels and be the first for our operations in Romania. We expect store in Europe to apply for Net Zero to extend this to other markets as contracts Energy certification. come up for renewal. Swindon distribution centre, UK Zero carbon renewable electricity accounted Our distribution centre at Swindon has for around 30% of total electricity purchased a solar PV installation and a biomass in 2017/18. boiler powered by waste wood from our stores. In 2018, we will be installing We currently calculate our scope 2 emissions a commercial battery storage system using the location-based methodology of the which enables us to harvest and use GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance. This means more of our solar PV power, releasing pressure on the grid at peak times. our reported footprint does not reflect the impact of purchasing green electricity. We We are one of the first organisations in have also calculated a ‘market-based’ scope 2 the UK to install such a system. In total emissions total. This shows that if green these measures have reduced the electricity was rated as zero emissions our site’s energy use by 42%. carbon footprint would be 285,304 tonnes, 30% lower than in 2010/111. See page 95 for our carbon footprint data. 1 Our 2010/11 footprint is calculated using the location based methodology. 29 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 Our distribution centre at Swindon has a solar PV installation and a biomass boiler powered by waste wood from our stores. These measures have reduced the site’s energy use by 42%. 30 Introduction Sustainable homes water Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 Greener transport and travel Carbon emissions direct haulage Thousand tonnes CO2 equivalent from dedicated store and home delivery fleets More parcels, less air in Transporting our products accounts for Screwfix deliveries around 17% of our carbon footprint. We Home deliveries Screwfix sends out 5.5 million parcels are working with our logistics partners to Store deliveries a year by mail to its customers. It’s reduce this, focusing on vehicle efficiency, invested in new packing machines at route planning, efficient loading and driver 58.1 57.3 57.4 55.7 55.9 its Stafford distribution centres to training. Achieving reductions can be 54.0 make sure products are packed and 51.6 52.0 challenging as our business grows and more loaded as efficiently as possible. With customers make purchases online. the new technology, packages have the same size base but the machine Direct haulage emissions (those from our folds the packaging to suit different products – reducing empty space. own dedicated delivery fleets and which are included in our carbon target) increased by 6% Better fitting packaging means less against our 2010/11 baseline. This included a product damage and more products 2% decrease in fuel use for store deliveries and transported on each lorry, saving fuel a 31% increase in fuel use for home deliveries. – reducing the need for around 700 trailers a year. Our indirect haulage emissions (from nondedicated delivery fleets, and some rail, sea and air transport) have increased by 25% since 2010/11 and also increased year on year. This 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18* reflects an increase in our data scope to include haulage data from more of our operating * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP companies and from rail freight. It also reflects an increase in emissions from sea and air freight. Unified sourcing increases emissions Carbon emissions direct and indirect haulage from sea and air freight as we transport more Thousand tonnes CO2 equivalent products ourselves that previously would have been transported by suppliers. Indirect Direct Our companies have introduced green travel 188.0 measures for colleagues such as: encouraging 172.1 171.2 170.2 employees to use video conferencing instead 158.5 157.8 of travelling to meetings; car sharing systems; 148.7 151.9 and subsidies for using public transport or cycling to work. For information on our approach to climate change governance, strategy and risk management see page 75. 2010/11 2011/12 2013/14 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18* * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP 31 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 Engagement and advocacy We are working with others to explore new solutions for improving energy efficiency and cutting carbon in our business and our customers’ homes. During 2017/18, this included: —— Science Based Targets initiative – we are committed to developing a longer-term climate target in line with climate science. We are engaging with the SBTi to help us develop this. —— ADEME, France’s Environment and Energy Management Agency – we engaged with ADEME on our approach to helping customers improve home energy efficiency. —— BRE (Building Research Establishment) – we worked with BRE and Bioregional to understand the energy saving potential in a typical home to help us establish our energy saving target. 32 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 live smarter by getting more from less, reusing or using longer Our circular products and services 35 Sustainable materials use 37 Wood and paper 38 Peat and horticulture 41 Towards zero waste to landfill 43 Packaging 45 33 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 Most people have never Targets heard of the circular For our customers: —— Create 20 product ranges or services that economy but they know help customers and our business get more they want quality products from less, reuse or use longer by 2025. that are long-lasting, For our business: create less waste and are —— Ensure sustainable management and efficient use of key resources by 2025 including 100% easy to recycle. responsibly sourced wood and paper and peat‑free bagged growing media by 2020. With this goal we are —— Zero waste to landfill by 2020 and 90% of waste recycled by 2025. focusing on the sustainable use of resources in our products, sourcing and business. 34 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 our circular products and services We have been integrating We now have three product ranges or services that help customers and our business get Principles for Circular Product Design Rental service helps professional circular economy principles more from less, reuse or use longer, against We use our Principles for Circular Product customers in Spain our target of 20 by 2025. These have been Design which were developed with sustainability into our product design assessed against our principles for circular experts Bioregional, to develop our ranges Brico Dépôt Iberia is partnering with Kiloutou, a materials rental company, for many years, working product design, see below. They are: and to identify circular products and services. to make it easier for trade customers These cover six impact areas, from materials with partners including —— easyGrow – our bedding plants that replace that are easily and widely recycled to design to rent professional machinery at affordable prices. Bioregional and the Ellen polystyrene with recyclable PET and peat with sustainable coir for longevity, low energy and carbon and working conditions in the supply chain. To count Since May 2017, customers of Brico MacArthur Foundation. towards our target, products and services Dépôt Parets, near Barcelona, have been able to rent large machinery —— Pro Grow – peat free compost made from must be assessed against these Principles. The for use on construction projects and garden waste collected from UK households assessment process is rigorous: products must the pilot has now been extended to a be widely available to customers, not in pilot second store. —— Green pallets – our initiative at B&Q which phase, and only products scoring bronze level reuses and recycles pallets used to deliver and above will count towards our target. The rental service includes our products construction equipment, ladders, We aim to share what we’ve learnt through platforms for painting, and sanding, easyGrow and Progrow generated sales the use of our Principles and our process for sawing and drilling tools, all available to customers within 24 hours. of £16.9 million in 2017/18, while our green assessing circular value chains. As a first step, pallets initiative resulted in £280,000 in we engaged with members of the CE100 at the Initial results are positive, with trade efficiency savings. Ellen MacArthur Foundation conference during customers reporting the service 2017. We presented our findings from using the helps to save them money they Often a service can be just as good or better tool and explored possibilities for collaboration would otherwise have to spend than a product for customers and have a lower with other businesses facing similar challenges. on purchasing and maintaining environmental impact. In working towards machinery. our goal, we are exploring new services and Durability and reliability business models such as product take-back schemes and rental and repair services. For One of the most important ways we can reduce example, Castorama Poland offers a product materials use is through designing high quality, repair service from 76 stores that customers long-lasting products. For example, many of can use both during and after a product’s our new kitchen taps now come with a 10-year guarantee period. Brico Dépôt Iberia has guarantee, see page 25. introduced tool rental services at several stores, see case study. 35 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 Durability is also a priority in the development and each job is covered by insurance. Over 120 of our unique product ranges such as our new stores are participating and, during 2017/18, Magnusson range of power tools, designed to over 3,700 projects were completed for Brico appeal to both domestic and trade customers. Dépôt France customers. We have extended the This includes products such as the Magnusson partnership to include Castorama France. tape measure, designed for ease of use and durability, including a tough nylon coating to We have Casto Labs in six stores in France and ensure a longer life. Poland where customers can learn DIY skills and use specialist tools and equipment to help Customer take-back and recycling with their projects. We encourage customers to get involved in Engagement and advocacy on recycling through take-back campaigns. This circular economy can reduce waste to landfill and enable more circular use of resources. Making progress on the circular economy often involves systems change so it is essential we Castorama France ran several take-back work with others to develop new solutions and campaigns during 2017/18 for customers to help stimulate wider change. In 2017/18, our return unwanted and used items including partnership included: paints, lightbulbs and electrical heating appliances. Customers who took part received —— Ellen MacArthur Foundation – We are a €3-30 voucher to spend in store, depending members of the Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s on the products returned. A similar initiative innovation programme, the Circular Economy will be introduced in Brico Dépôt France during 100 (CE100). 2018 for chemical products and waste electrical and electronic products. —— Green Alliance Circular Economy Task Force – We are members of this taskforce exploring Screwfix has a partnership with iForce to reduce policy solutions for promoting the transition waste from power tools returned by customers. to a circular economy. When the tools are used or damaged, iForce extract the parts, plastics and metals which are —— Aldersgate Group report on the circular sold for recycling. Returned power tools in good economy – We participated in the condition are repaired, cleaned and resold via an development of the report ‘Beyond the auction site. Circular Economy Package: maintaining momentum on resource efficiency’ which Sharing economy and new argues that EU institutions should continue business models to support the shift towards greater resource efficiency beyond the completion We are also exploring opportunities associated of the Circular Economy Package. with the sharing economy which can help to reduce resource use and make home —— Keeping Customer Connections report – improvement more accessible. We contributed to this report which examines how retailers can build customer In France, we are trialling a partnership with loyalty – and grow sales – by providing online platform Needelp.com. This connects opportunities to resell, recycle, and donate customers with ‘jobbers’, DIY experts who, for clothing and electronics. The report was a small fee, can help with tasks that may be developed by Cranfield University, Arizona too small for a professional tradesperson to State University, PA Consulting Group and undertake. Customers can access the services members of CE 100. via both the Brico Dépôt or Needelp websites 36 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 sustainable materials use Growing demand for Working with Bioregional, we have analysed our resource use and supply chain carbon resources is putting emissions. We identified six materials that account for over half of our supply chain carbon increasing strain on the footprint. These are: cement and concrete; environment and leading wood; paint; plastics; ceramics; and peat. to price rises and supply We already have a well-established approach chain volatility. for responsible sourcing of wood and peat which we will continue to develop. For the other materials, we are creating sustainability roadmaps to help us reduce impacts across the We want to play our part material and product life cycle from extraction in protecting natural to end of life. These will focus on areas such as responsible sourcing, embedding circular resources, aiming to use economy principles and design for recycling, materials efficiently and improving efficiency in manufacturing and transport, reducing chemicals use, local sustainably and to offer sourcing and substituting with sustainable alternative materials. Our approach will our customers products encourage product and materials innovation. with a lower environmental We are also focusing on a number of footprint. This is good for materials which are less significant for our our business too, helping to business but are associated with significant sustainability challenges and risks. These increase the resilience of include leather and some minerals. We will be further developing our approach to the our supply chain and protect sourcing of these materials. For example, we against price rises. encourage our leather suppliers to ensure tanneries are audited against industry best practice standards. 37 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 wood and paper Customers love to use wood 97% In 2017/18, 97% of wood and paper in our products was responsibly sourced (96% in their homes and this vital in 2016/17) – meaning the wood and paper is independently audited by recognised natural resource is found certification schemes, such as FSC and PEFC, of wood and paper in our products in around one-third of our as coming from well-managed forests or is was responsibly sourced recycled. B&Q has reached 100% responsibly products. For 25 years we’ve sourced wood and paper and a further five of been working to source wood our companies have reached over 90%1. and paper responsibly from Our commitment to responsible sourcing also covers the wood and paper we use in our well-managed forests. business including our packaging, catalogues, office paper and timber used in construction. Over 99% of the paper used in our catalogues, customer marketing materials and office paper Responsibly sourced wood and paper products was responsibly sourced in 2017/18. % of timber sold (by volume) responsibly sourced We are working to improve data collection for wood and paper used in construction and packaging. Training and engagement We train our buying teams and vendors on our approach to responsible sourcing of wood and paper. In 2017/18, this included training for buyers at Castorama Poland and training sessions for suppliers to our Romanian business run with WWF and FSC. 83 88 93 94 96 96 96 97 100 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18* 2020 Target 1 Our data does not yet cover our business in Russia. * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP 38 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 Protecting and restoring forests We cannot protect future wood supplies through responsible sourcing alone. We believe there is a need to go further and to play an active role in restoring forests. In Indonesia we’re supporting RSPB and their Birdlife International partner Burung Indonesia in an initiative to protect and restore the Harapan rainforest. This area of over-logged tropical forest is almost the size of Greater London and home to many endangered species such as the Sumatran tiger. We are donating cash and staff time to support the Harapan Rainforest and are sharing our commercial insights with the RSPB and partners to help them develop the programme to be economically viable in the long term. In the first two years, our support helped efforts to reduce the incidence of forest fires by 75%, to replant 135 hectares of cleared land, and to assist indigenous forest-based communities in the development of agroforestry plots to support their livelihoods. We hope to work with these Harapan communities to purchase sustainable rainforest bamboo and rattan products for sale in our stores, providing them with a new revenue stream. We funded feasibility studies during 2017 and one of our product developers visited Harapan to explore these opportunities. Closer to home, we’ve run projects in Spain, Poland and the UK that get our people involved in protecting woodland and forests. These have benefited 13,000 hectares of forest since 2013. For example, in 2017/18, staff from three Brico Dépôt Iberia stores spent a day working to protect a pine forest near Valencia in Spain from disease. 39 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 Engagement and advocacy —— Timber scorecard – B&Q and Kingfisher were rated among the top UK companies for We work with many partners on issues relating sustainable timber sourcing by WWF. to sustainable timber sourcing with the aim of accelerating progress in our sector and beyond. —— Transparent Forests – During 2017, we were advisory group members to this initiative —— British Retail Consortium – Through B&Q, we funded by the European Space Agency to chair the Timber Working Group of the British use satellite imagery to strengthen forest Retail Consortium. monitoring and certification. —— CDP Forests Program – We are a founding —— Value and Impact Analysis (VIA) initiative participant in the CDP Forests Program, – We helped found VIA which worked to an investor initiative which aims to improve develop a robust approach to quantifying understanding around how companies are and communicating the impacts of FSC addressing their exposure to deforestation certification. This has identified 20 statements risks. We were ranked in the leadership which companies can use to promote their category for Forests with an A-rating. products using FSC timber. VIA concluded in 2017 and its work is now being taken forward —— EuroCommerce – We are members of the by the ISEAL Alliance – the global membership Timber Working Group (TWG) within the association for sustainability standards. Non‑Food Committee of EuroCommerce. —— WWF GTFN – We are members of WWF’s —— Filling the FLEGT Information Gap – We are Global Forest and Trade Network. advisory group members to this initiative funded by the UK government Department —— Zoological Society of London – Technical for International Development (DFID) that Advisory Group member to ZSL’s work on the seeks to improve and share information on SPOTT Timber, Pulp & Paper initiative. illegal deforestation. —— Forum for the Future – In partnership with Forum for the Future and other businesses, we participated in a series of workshops exploring how business can support forest restoration. —— FSC – We are a founding partner of FSC via B&Q UK and a member in various countries. Representatives from Kingfisher have served as elected members to the FSC International Board of Directors. We are a Business Advisory Group member to FSC International’s work on ecosystem services. —— PEFC – We work with PEFC, the forest certification organisation, and currently serve on the Board of PEFC International and PEFC UK. 40 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 peat and horticulture We have been working with suppliers in the UK The use of peat in for several years to phase out peat from the horticulture contributes to compost, growing media and plants that we sell ahead of voluntary UK government targets. climate change and loss of B&Q accounts for around one quarter of the important habitats. UK growing media market, so phasing out peat from our ranges can have a significant impact on the use of peat in the UK. 67.4% In 2017/18, 67.4% of UK bagged growing media (by volume sold) was peat-free. This is a 0.7% decrease from 68.1% the previous year. This means there is still some way to go to reach of UK bagged growing media our target of 100% by 2020. 46.3% of growing (by volume sold) was peat-free media used by B&Q’s plant suppliers was peat free, down from 47.7% the previous year. 41 Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 B&Q accounts for around one quarter of the UK growing media market, so phasing out peat from our ranges can have a significant impact on the use of peat in the UK. 42 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 towards zero waste to landfill Waste is a cost to 72% In 2017/18, we generated 222,253 tonnes of waste, an increase of 8% year-on-year, our business and the compared to an increase in sales of 4%. Our recycling rate was 72% (2016/17: 73%) and environment. That’s why we diverted 86% of waste from landfill of our generated waste was recycled in 2017/18 we aim to achieve zero (2016/17: 85%)1. waste to landfill by 2020 We have made most progress in the UK with and to recycle 90% of our Screwfix sending zero waste to landfill and B&Q at 99% diversion from landfill. We also waste by 2025. performed well in Poland but made less progress in other markets. Waste diverted from landfill % of waste diverted We are now exploring ways to increase recycling including improving data on waste and recycling, and raising awareness among employees of the importance of segregating waste. We are working to centralise our waste management contracts for France. This will enable us to work more closely with our waste management suppliers to increase recycling and reduce waste to landfill. 78 81 80 85 86 100 1 We have changed how we calculate our waste generated and recycling figures and we no longer 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18* 2025 Target include waste that is reused. We have restated our data for 2016/17 to reflect this. * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP 43 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 Waste recycling and disposal 2017/18* Waste recycled 160,000 tonnes 1% Waste disposed to landfill 32,000 tonnes 13% Waste disposed to incineration with energy recovery 28,000 tonnes Waste disposed to incineration without energy recovery 2,000 tonnes * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP 14% 72% We have made most progress in the UK with Screwfix sending zero waste to landfill and B&Q at 99% diversion from landfill. 44 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 packaging Packaging plays an essential Our packaging team creates guidelines for suppliers to accompany each tender for our role in marketing our unified and unique ranges. These specify which materials must be used and include our products and protecting sustainability requirements such as responsibly them during transit and in sourced wood and paper. The team reviews proposed designs against our requirements. store. We aim to integrate sustainability into packaging During 2017/18, we launched our range of kitchen taps (see page 25), redesigning our development – designing it packaging to reduce materials use by 30% across the range and saving 45 tonnes of to work well and look good, packaging material each year. Thanks to the to use fewer resources, new design, more taps can be transported in each load, reducing freight costs and fuel use. to be more efficient to During 2018, we will be focusing on reducing transport and store, and single-use plastic and polystyrene packaging. to use materials which are In 2017/18, we used 10.8 tonnes of packaging/ £ million sales. This data covers Brico Dépôt responsibly sourced and France, Castorama France and Screwfix, easily recycled. which account for 51% of group turnover. Data was not available for our other operating companies and we are working to improve this. 30% reduction of packaging materials across our kitchen taps range 45 Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 46 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 create a healthier home and connect with nature Embedding wellbeing in our product ranges 49 Identifying and removing harmful chemicals 51 47 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 There is great potential Targets for homes and gardens to For our customers: —— 20% of sales from products that enable improve wellbeing. Our customers to create safer, healthier homes research shows a strong and connect with nature by 2025. desire among customers to For our business: connect with nature and to —— Achieve transparency of harmful chemicals in key supply chains by 2020, and phase out create a healthy, toxin-free the highest priority hazardous and high-risk chemicals of concern and introduce five home. Yet people often green substances by 2025. don’t know how to go about doing this. With this goal we will make it easier for our customers to enjoy a healthy, natural home. 48 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 embedding wellbeing in our product ranges We offer many products In 2017/18, 6% of our sales came from these products (2016/17: 5%) and we are aiming for that help customers live 20% by 2025. a healthier life at home One area of focus is products that can impact by reducing exposure to indoor air quality. During 2017, we reviewed our paint ranges and from 2018 our new unified pollutants, enabling more paint ranges will all be A+/ultra low emission independent living, and rated for VOC emissions. We have also carried out research with the Building Research protecting homes from Establishment (BRE) to identify which products have most impact on air quality in the home. climate change impacts. This will inform future product development. We are also integrating sustainability into the Our Connect to Nature development of our unified garden ranges, see case study. products encourage Our companies provide information to help customers to get outdoors, customers create healthier homes and connect produce their own food with nature. Castorama Poland, for example, has published information about air quality and support wildlife in and products that can help improve the air in their gardens. customer homes. B&Q published the Nature of Gardens Report in 2017, in collaboration with the Royal Horticultural Society, RSPB, Butterfly Conservation and Bioregional. Based on research 6% with 2,000 consumers and a review of 100 scientific papers, the report found that many people are unsure what they can do to support wildlife and included easy-to-follow tips to help of total sales came from our Connect to them act. The launch was accompanied by events Nature and Healthy Homes products in store and online. Media coverage reached over 11 million people. See www.diy.com/one-planethome/greener-gardens/the-nature-of-gardens. 49 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 Good gardens for people and wildlife Gardens and window boxes can play an important role in our customers’ wellbeing and provide a refuge for wildlife. As we develop our unified garden ranges, we aim to integrate sustainability, helping to create beautiful, natural gardens that are good for customers and nature. One priority is to switch to harm free chemicals. We removed neonicotinoid pesticides, thought to affect bee health, several years ago across all our markets. Now we are working with growers to make sure that from 2018, none of the flowering plants we sell in the UK have been treated with neonicotinoids. We are also launching our Safe by Nature plant food range. This natural organic plant food helps customers have a healthy garden with fewer chemicals. Growing your own vegetables can benefit health and wellbeing. Our new kitchen garden product makes it easier for customers to grow their own, even in a small space. The instant raised bed is designed to take up no more than one metre square and comes with a range of accessories such as easy to attach canes to support plants and a cover and netting to protect produce from birds and pests. 50 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 identifying and removing harmful chemicals Any of our products from We are building our chemicals strategy and supporting plan to help us manage the areas with our roadmap. We are engaging with suppliers and factories to communicate our paints and cleaning products of the supply chain that pose most risk. We do requirements for good chemicals management not yet have full information on chemicals in and to share best practices. to drills, hammers or our products so increasing transparency is a kitchen units may contain priority. It will take time to develop the tools and We also recognise the enormous potential in processes needed to achieve this. green chemistry, replacing potentially harmful chemical substances. Many substances with safer alternatives or materials. of these are regulated During 2017, using an expert third party, we conducted a hot-spotting exercise looking at all Our target is to introduce five “green chemical alternatives”, enabling customers to enjoy the under legislation such as EU our product ranges, to identify the chemicals same performance with fewer chemicals. During that are likely to be found in priority supply 2017, we have identified several sustainable REACH and the EU Biocides chains, materials and products. We looked at chemicals or manufacturing processes with the Regulations. There are many chemicals used in both manufacturing and potential for use in our ranges and we will be finished products and assessed the potential exploring these further during 2018. other substances which are exposure of customers, workers in our supply not regulated but could pose chain and the environment. In support of our strategy, we are working with organisations, such as the GC3 – Green a risk to consumers, workers We identified several priority chemical groups, Chemistry & Commerce Council, to identify and other lesser priority chemicals and we alternative substances and suppliers. making products, or the have developed a roadmap for phasing out environment. these substances or replacing them with better alternatives for the majority of our product categories. Examples of substances we will prioritise include: phthalates used in some PVC; perfluorinated compounds (PFCs); and Alkylphenols and Alkylphenol Ethoxylates (AP/APEOs), sometimes used in textile manufacturing. We are now working with our suppliers and product teams to map our supply chains in more detail, to understand where these substances are used and to develop an action plan for phasing them out in accordance 51 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 Engagement and advocacy We work with others on issues relating to healthy homes, natural gardening and chemicals. Our We recognise the enormous partnerships include: —— BRE – We are conducting research with the potential in green chemistry, replacing potentially Building Research Establishment on air quality in the home. —— Butterfly Conservation – B&Q is working with harmful substances with this NGO to encourage our customers to help protect butterflies and moths and become citizen scientists by taking part in the Garden Butterfly Survey. —— Royal Horticultural Society, RSPB, Butterfly Conservation and Bioregional – B&Q safer alternatives or materials. We are working collaborated with several partners to launch the Nature of Gardens Report. —— GC3 – Green Chemistry & Commerce Council – We are working with GC3 to identify alternative chemical substances and suppliers. with organisations, such as the GC3 – Green Chemistry & Commerce Council, to identify alternative substances and suppliers. 52 Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 We offer many products that help customers live a healthier life at home by reducing exposure to pollutants, enabling more independent living, and protecting homes from climate change impacts. 53 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 be part of a community that helps millions more people improve their home Our community investment 56 Ethical sourcing 61 Supporting sustainable livelihoods 66 54 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 Our business touches Targets many people’s lives, from For our customers: —— Help millions more people tackle poor and our customers and unfit housing through strategic partnerships colleagues to the workers and local action in all our markets by 2025. in our supply chain. For our business: —— Support our colleagues to have a home they can feel good about by 2025. With this goal, we will —— Ensure all suppliers meet our ethical and work with our partners to environmental standards by 2020 and help millions of people to establish strategic community programmes to achieve positive change in key sourcing improve their homes and regions by 2025. their lives. This includes providing funding and expertise to help tackle poor and unfit housing and working with our partners to ensure high standards in our supply chain. 55 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 our community investment We believe that everyone We have been working to improve homes for people in need through our charitable giving and New UK partnership improves should have a home they volunteering for many years. homes for those in need can feel good about. Yet Now we want to increase our impact by We’ve teamed up with Shelter, the UK’s leading housing charity, in a new for people in difficult establishing major new partnerships at a partnership to help people improve Group and local level. During 2017, we began by circumstances – those launching two strategic partnerships with the their homes and in the process improve their lives. living in poverty or who Red Cross in France, Poland and the UK, and with Shelter in the UK. Our donations fund specialist DIY are isolated or vulnerable skills advisers who help those settling in to a new home and support Further initiatives and partnerships will follow – having a good home can during 2018. them with making essential home improvements. We’ve also been seem impossible. funding Shelter’s other vital frontline and advice services. “I could go on and on about Shelter To date, our support has helped 240 families to create homes where and B&Q. They did so much for they can feel safe and comfortable. This includes teaching people basic DIY skills, such as how to put up me and I hope that they know that blinds or paint walls, in addition to carrying out essential jobs like fitting extra security locks. We’ve hosted I appreciate every single person DIY workshops for Shelter clients in-store, and our colleagues have carried out several home makeover who has helped me and my family.” projects to help those most in need. Since the partnership launched in summer 2017, we have donated Shelter service user, over £500,000 to Shelter through Dorset corporate donations and fundraising by our colleagues and customers. 56 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 “Elliot suffered really badly in the flat. He was constantly in hospital because the mould affected his chest. Shelter are the only people who have helped me, not just with getting a house but with every other problem I’ve had. It’s amazing to have their help with the DIY.” Laura, Shelter client Laura’s son Elliot has serious health conditions and was being frequently admitted to hospital as a result of mould and damp in their council flat. Shelter helped Laura move into a new, more suitable home which she is decorating with the support of Steve, a DIY Skills Adviser. “[The DIY Skills Adviser] was so friendly and skilful. The colour is fabulous and I like it so much, especially because the previous colour was so bad and reminds me of my sad time.” Fatima, Shelter client Fatima suffers from post-traumatic stress disorder after she and her family escaped persecution in Libya. Shelter supported Fatima to move home but her daughter’s bedroom in the new property was painted bright green – the national colour of Libya which triggered Fatima’s PTSD. Fatima had never painted before and lacked confidence, and had no money spare to buy paint and materials. With the support of a DIY Skills Adviser she was able to tackle the project which made a big difference to the family. 57 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 “Our local Red Cross – Supporting our communities to feel safe and secure partnerships with We’ve launched an international partnership with the Red Cross so that the Red Cross in when an emergency happens – such as a flood, fire or earthquake – we can support communities to get back on the UK, France their feet and feel safe and secure in their homes. and Poland, are Our local partnerships with the Red Cross in the UK, France and Poland, are providing funding and products providing funding to help prepare for and respond to emergencies. In Poland, for example, our support helped raise awareness and products to and provide emergency support to communities affected by flooding. In the UK, we donated funds and products to Red Cross relief efforts help prepare for after the fire at Grenfell Tower in London and donated to the UK Solidarity Fund for those affected by and respond to the UK terror attacks in Manchester and London. We also have a number of Emergency Relief Kits in place, emergencies.” across the country, to help in cases of extreme weather and emergency. Internationally, our funds have supported relief efforts after emergencies and work with vulnerable communities to build resilience against the impact of natural disasters. This includes supporting the French Red Cross to reach 20,000 families (around 100,000 people) during flooding in Bangladesh. Altogether we donated £170,000 to the Red Cross in the first year of our partnership. 58 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 What we gave in 2017/18 Company investment: detail of company giving 2017/18* £303k We gave a total of £2.4 million through our community investment in 2017/18, an increase £ thousands on the previous year (2016/17: £1.8 million), Cash £1,500 equivalent to 0.3% of underlying pre-tax profits total value of employee time 13% Gifts in kind £579 (2016/17: 0.23%). This includes cash donations, Time £303 employee time and gifts in kind, with product £2.4m * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP donations valued at cost price. We have supported 1,841 community projects since 2012/13. An estimated 62,000 people benefited from our community projects during 2017/18. 24% value of our community investment Our employees spent over 7,000 working hours volunteering in their local communities, with 1,507 employees volunteering during 63% work hours. The total value of employee time (including volunteering hours and management costs) was £303,000. We provide ways for our customers and colleagues to raise money for charity through in-store collections, payroll giving, fundraising events and using our contact centres to take pledges from the public during charity Community investment fundraising appeals. In 2017/18, these donations £ thousands were worth £1.4 million for charity (2016/17: £1.2 million). Company giving Value of employee and customer giving 2,798 1,068 2,330 669 1,667 774 1,785 1,240 2,382 1,387 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18* * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP 59 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 Sharing knowledge and skills Making a difference with B&Q Good Homes We want to make it easier for customers Our colleagues can make a huge difference and communities to learn and share home to their community when given the chance to improvement skills. Many of our stores run share their skills and enthusiasm. That was the classes and workshops for the local community. premise behind B&Q’s Good Homes volunteering For example, 120,000 kids have completed our project in 2017. B&Q teamed up with Neighbourly, Majsterkowo DIY classes at Castorama Poland the online volunteering platform, to connect its since 2012. The sessions teach young people colleagues with volunteering opportunities at about protecting the environment and using charities in their local area. Each project ran over resources carefully as well as helping them to several days, enabling the teams to develop a strong relationship with the charity and increase complete practical projects such as decorating their positive impact. plant pots and making bird boxes. In 2017, 38 colleagues spent 388 hours supporting We are sharing information and insights online projects in eight communities, including some too. For example, Castorama France developed of the UK’s most deprived neighbourhoods. wikiforhome.org – an online home improvement Projects included: ‘encyclopaedia’ with articles, videos and ——Adullam Housing Association – volunteers information on different home improvement from B&Q Loughborough built a new kitchen and decorated several rooms in this centre projects. Anyone can contribute to the site for vulnerable young people experiencing or access the information resources. We also homelessness supported Sikana, a French NGO, to develop a ——St Giles Hospice – volunteers from B&Q series of free online videos to help more people Tamworth and Cannock transformed the develop basic home improvement skills, see hospice’s family room into a welcoming and case study right. comfortable space ——Cree Centre – B&Q Grantham colleagues supported this centre for people with learning Supporting our colleagues to have a disabilities, improving the garden and creating home they can feel good about a new shed where members can safely store their wheelchairs and therapy equipment. We have 78,000 colleagues across 10 countries and each one has a vital role to play in our B&Q will continue working with many of the business. We want to make sure that they same charities in 2018 as well as developing benefit from our expertise in home improvement partnerships with new organisations, giving more and we are exploring new ways to help employees the opportunity to get involved. colleagues create their own good homes. This will be valuable for our business too, supporting Sharing home improvement skills online employee engagement and building our people’s Sikana, an NGO based in France, exists to help home improvement knowledge. people learn practical skills to improve their lives. We formed a three year partnership with Sikana to We will be exploring opportunities to progress create ad-free, online resources teaching people on this goal during 2018. basic home improvement skills. With our support, Sikana worked with expert organisations to produce ‘how-to’ videos. During the partnership over 1,000 videos were made, covering a diverse range of subjects from basic woodworking skills, to saving energy and furniture restoration. These have been translated into six languages and made available across the internet including through YouTube. 60 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 ethical sourcing We want to do business Our policies and standards About our supply chain with suppliers who meet Our Human Rights Policy and Code of Conduct Our products are sourced globally from around provide the framework for our approach to 4,300 suppliers and there are around 5,500 high standards on human protecting human rights in our business and production sites2 that supply us with finished rights, labour practices and supply chain, see page 78. goods. We also source goods and services not for resale from around 300 key suppliers3. environmental protection. These are supported by our Supply Chain Workplace Standards which explain the ethical There are many more indirect suppliers in our standards we require from suppliers. These extended supply chain, including suppliers of We aim to use our £7 billion are aligned to the Global Social Compliance raw materials and component parts used in the Programme (GSCP) Reference Code and Ethical products we sell and buy. buying scale to positively Trading Initiative (ETI) Base Code. influence standards in our Human rights and modern slavery Our Ethical Sourcing and Supplier Workplace supply chain, benefiting Ethical and Environmental Assurance (SWEEA) We respect human rights and do not tolerate any form of modern slavery. However, we recognise workers in our supply chain Policy sets out our approach to ethical audits. that no supply chain is without risk of modern and reducing risks to our Contracts with suppliers include clauses on slavery and it is our responsibility to understand compliance with our supply chain policies and these risks and work with our suppliers to business. standards1. Potential new suppliers are informed mitigate them. during our supplier tender process, so they are aware of our requirements when they In 2017, we set up our Modern Slavery Working quote to provide products or services. We also Group to oversee due diligence and disclosure summarise the key requirements in our Vendor on human rights and modern slavery. It has Manual for goods for resale. agreed an action plan including training, ethical risk assessment and supplier engagement 1 This includes contracts with suppliers of group sourced products and services, including our unified ranges. and audit. 2 Data covers production sites that our Buying Offices source from directly, and those disclosed to us by Our approach is summarised below with more suppliers through the Sedex platform. We aim for all our detail in our Modern Slavery Act Transparency suppliers to be using Sedex by the end of 2020, and to Statement 2017/18. disclose to us all production sites that supply us with finished goods. 3 Around 300 suppliers account for nearly 80% of our spend on goods and services not for resale. 61 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 Assessing risks in our supply chain Goods for resale – Supplier production sites by continent (%) We take a risk based approach to help us prioritise suppliers for engagement. Our ethical risk matrix uses data from Maplecroft, to identify the high-risk product areas and countries in our goods for resale (GFR) supply chain. Examples include horticulture (global), natural stone (India, China and Brazil) and rug Eastern Europe 34% manufacture (India and Pakistan). We also use Sedex, the online supplier data Asia Pacific 33% exchange (www.sedexglobal.com), to help us assess risks among finished goods suppliers. Western Europe 32% We aim for all these suppliers to be using the Sedex platform by the end of 2020 and 40% have joined so far. North America 1% We are working on a number of projects to Other <1% identify and address risks in our extended supply chain including working with the TFT Responsible Stone Programme, to improve ethical and environmental standards in quarries and stone processing factories in developing countries. We have identified a number of GNFR buying categories as higher risk including uniforms, catering, cleaning, labour providers, construction, and logistics/transportation. We have started to engage with suppliers to improve our understanding of the risks and ways we can work together to address them. 62 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 Supplier ethical assessment Other common non-conformances Supplier production sites by grade (%)* 2017/18 include wages and benefits, working hours, We are rolling out a programme of ethical management systems and environment. Grade 1 audits for high-risk production sites 1% Grade 2 that supply us with finished goods. Each Work is in progress with sites graded as 16% Grade 3 production site identified as high-risk is ‘business critical’ to resolve the issues. Our Grade 4 required to have a Sedex Members Ethical audit programme identified one incident of 25% Grade 5 Trade Audit (SMETA) or equivalent at least underage labour in a factory in Asia, and 4% Grade Business Critical once every two years. we applied our remediation programme to ensure the children were safe and no longer *These grades are a snapshot of performance on The audit reviews suppliers’ performance and work at the factory, and engaged with the 31 January 2018. We allocate grades based on the results identifies any instances of non-conformance. factory managers to determine the root of the most recent ethical audit that has been carried over in the past two years (2016/17 and 2017/18). The data cause. Other issues classed as ‘business 23% covers the 1,178 production sites that have had an audit in We require suppliers to act swiftly to address critical’ included blocked fire exits and the past two years. Work is in progress with sites graded non-conformances and to ensure the welfare insufficient exits from buildings. as business critical to resolve the issues (see details to of workers. As part of our audit programme, the left). 31% we follow up with suppliers to ensure the During the reporting year, ethical audits most serious issues are remediated. As a last identified 14 non-conformances under the resort, we cease to trade with factories if heading ‘employment is freely chosen’. they don’t work with us to address ‘business These involved failures to comply with critical’ issues. minimum workplace standards, such as workers being charged deposits for work Supplier audit results tools and clothing, delays in wage payments 1,178 production sites have had an ethical audit to workers who leave, and workers required in the past two years. to pay for a health check report as a condition of employment. There were no We grade supplier sites according to their cases of modern slavery identified. performance in their most recent audit1 Top five non-conformances by category (%)† (see pie chart) and track the number of nonconformances that have been identified (see bar chart) and remedied. Health, safety & hygiene 55% Over time, we aim for our suppliers to improve to at least grade 3, which means that there are Working hours 14% no major or more serious non-conformances. The majority of non-conformances relate to Wages & benefits 12% health and safety, which include fire safety issues such as provision of fire extinguishers. Management systems 6% Environment 5% 1 The grades are based on the number of nonconformances identified during the audit e.g. grade 1 (no non-conformances), grade 2 (some observations), grade 3 (minor non-conformances), grade 4 (1-3 major Other 8% non-conformances), grade 5 (4 or more major nonconformances or 1-3 critical non-conformances), † The % of non-conformances are from ethical audits business critical grade (business critical noncarried out in the past two years (2016/17 and 2017/18). The conformances or 4 or more critical non-conformances). data covers production sites registered so far on Sedex. 63 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 Training and awareness Whistleblowing and grievance mechanisms We are collaborating with suppliers to build their knowledge and understanding of human Our whistleblowing policy and procedures rights issues and how to address them. For enable staff and suppliers to report any example, 565 supplier companies attended concerns about human rights violations. workshops on human rights and ethical sourcing run by our Asia buying office. Our independent and confidential whistleblowing service, In Touch, is available We are also working to build awareness of to all employees (intouchfeedback.co.uk/ ethical sourcing issues among employees. kingfisher) and suppliers (intouchfeedback. During the year, 122 employees from our Asia co.uk/kfsupplier). All reports to the helpline buying office (38%) attended a training session are fully investigated and followed up and the on ethical sourcing and we ran two workshops outcome reported to the Audit Committee of on modern slavery for our buyers of goods the Board of Directors. There were no reports and services not for resale. relating to modern slavery or human rights issues in the supply chain made in 2017/18. We require suppliers to maintain a grievance mechanism and check this through our ethical audits. We aim to use our £7 billion buying scale to positively influence standards in our supply chain, benefiting workers and reducing risks to our business. 64 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 We are collaborating Engagement and advocacy We participate in several partnerships aimed at improving standards across the retail sector. For example: —— EDRA – We are a member of an EDRA (the with suppliers to build their knowledge and DIY retail association) working group, which aims to develop a collaborative approach to responsible sourcing within the home improvement sector. —— BRC – We are members of the British Retail Consortium (BRC) Working Groups on Ethical Labour and Responsible Sourcing. understanding of human —— Sedex – We worked with other retail members of Sedex to help establish a Working Group rights issues and how to address them. on GSNFR (Goods and Services Not For Resale). This aims to create new Sedex tools for service providers and to enable Sedex members to work together to engage suppliers and share best practice. —— HERproject, BSR – We sponsored the HERproject, led by BSR, the sustainability organisation, in one of our supplier factories in Southern India. HERproject aims to improve standards in global supply chains by empowering low-income women (https://herproject.org). —— Which! – Within Homefit, our B&Q kitchen and bathroom installation service, we have started to work on a number of initiatives to raise awareness of modern slavery for tradesmen, for example, engaging with Which! Trusted Traders (the endorsement scheme we use to approve tradesmen) to add a briefing on modern slavery to their assessment process for new tradesmen. 65 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 supporting sustainable livelihoods Ethical sourcing is a During 2017, we visited key sourcing markets including Poland and Turkey to assess how fundamental requirement we can play a role in helping workers and their families in our sourcing communities enjoy but we believe we can go good jobs and good homes. We have identified further to help create a more investment in skills as one area that will make a positive difference for individuals, communities, sustainable supply chain. our suppliers and our business. Our target is to establish During 2018, we will be launching a pilot strategic community project with one of our ceramics suppliers in Turkey. This will provide investment in skills programmes to achieve and vocational training in the local community positive change in key with a particular focus on providing opportunities for women and young people. sourcing regions by 2025. We will use the findings from the pilot to further develop our approach. 66 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 our people Engagement and culture 68 Diversity and inclusion 69 Developing our people’s skills 71 Health, safety and wellbeing 72 67 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 engagement and culture Just as the nature of work To create a great working experience, we are Our engagement score for our 2017 annual Over 60,000 focusing on the moments that matter for our survey was 78 out of 100. This is above the score is changing, so are our colleagues; as they join us, as they contribute in of 66 for the benchmark group based on results their daily roles, as they grow and develop and from over 40 international retail companies. colleagues’ expectations even as they contemplate moving on. Over 60,000 of our colleagues provided their of our colleagues provided of their work environment. feedback through the survey. The results show feedback through our Creating the right culture is key to developing that most of our colleagues understand what’s People don’t simply want the colleague experience we want at Kingfisher. expected of them in their role, feel comfortable 2017 annual survey a job, they want a great It is so important that our culture is driven by the Kingfisher values of curiosity, simplicity, that they can be themselves at work, and have a strong connection with their manager. There is working experience where humility, excellence and working together as further work to do to increase excitement about one. In the last year, we have paid particular our future as ONE Kingfisher and to ensure they can perform at their attention to facilitating cultural change within our colleagues feel they receive the right individual best and be our leadership teams and developing a clear communication at the right time. understanding of the way we want to work. This themselves. has included hosting international leadership In addition to our surveys, we use a range of events to bring together colleagues from approaches to engage our people and support different parts of the business. good two-way communication. This includes a It is important that our range of formal and informal colleague forums Each of our colleagues has a role to play in the and consultation groups. colleagues feel valued, transformation of our business and their views respected and recognised help to shape what we do and how we do it. This Managing change year we introduced a new Colleague Experience for what they do and how Platform – a common approach to feedback We are two years into our five-year they do it, wherever they and measuring engagement covering all our operating companies. This gives colleagues a transformation to become ONE Kingfisher. This is a period of change for our colleagues work in the company. simpler and more timely feedback mechanism and our business as we reorganise ourselves. to share their thoughts on life at Kingfisher. For We need to manage these changes carefully managers and HR teams it has given a more to minimise negative impacts on our people. immediate way of taking the pulse of life at Kingfisher and acting on that feedback. As well Employee turnover as an annual all-colleague survey, it enables us to assess views throughout the year through Our employee turnover rate was 33% shorter pulse surveys covering specific topics (2016/17: 32%). This includes voluntary and or groups of colleagues. involuntary leavers. 68 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 diversity and inclusion We value difference We are focused on enabling all colleagues, regardless of gender, race, background or any Gender balance pay gap of 2.5% and mean pay gap of 9.6% for all UK group and operating company employees. within our company and other characteristics, to reach their full potential We aim to achieve gender balance at all levels These gaps reflect the higher portion of men in and believe that having a diverse workforce, with of our workforce. Women accounted for 44% senior management roles. While our gender pay are committed to equal fair representation, is strategically important of our Board, well above the average for the gap is below the national average for the UK2, opportunities, diversity and generates value for all our stakeholders. FTSE 1001 , and 50% of our Group Executive we recognise that there is work to be done to during 2017/18. Overall representation of reduce it further. We will be looking at ways to and inclusion. We are trialling a number of initiatives to women in our workforce increased slightly to analyse our gender pay gap across the group encourage greater diversity by exploring 40% and there was also a small increase among internationally and plan to investigate pay gaps improvements to how we hire people and help all management positions. for other diversity characteristics. colleagues to progress their career with us. This will include: We became members of the 30% Club, and are committed to its goal of improving —— Introducing leadership development gender balance. programmes to support the building of inclusive teams; We published our first gender pay report for the UK in February 2018 (see www.kingfisher.com/ —— Introducing programmes to support genderpayreport2017). This showed a median women returning to work and reviewing parental benefits; —— Making more senior jobs open to flexible Gender diversity working and reduced hours; % of female colleagues —— Ensuring recruitment panels are diverse to mitigate any unconscious bias; and 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18* 1 The Cranfield University Female FTSE Board Report 2017 reports the percentage of women on FTSE 100 Board 27 40 44 44 44 boards as 27.7%. https://www.cranfield.ac.uk/som/ —— Changing how the business writes job expertise/changing-world-of-work/gender-andlistings to appeal to a diverse range Senior management† 21 19 20 20 20 leadership/female-ftse-index of candidates. 2 The Office for National Statistics quotes a All management positions 29 29 31 33 34 national median pay gap of 18.4% and mean pay gap of 17.4% for 2017. https://www.ons.gov.uk/ Total workforce 39 39 39 39 40 employmentandlabourmarket/peopleinwork/ earningsandworkinghours/datasets/annual * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP surveyofhoursandearningsashegenderpaygaptables † Senior management covers Board, directors and heads of department 69 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 Ethnic diversity Age Employees by age 2017/18* Ethnic minorities accounted for 6% of Each generation brings a different and valuable % of employees (FTEs) Diversity initiatives at our companies employees in the UK (2016/17: 6%). It is not perspective to their work. We encourage age include: compulsory for staff to declare their ethnicity diversity and some of our companies have so we believe the actual figure may be higher. programmes targeted at young people and Supporting women and young people Our definition of ethnic minorities includes all older workers. at Brico Dépôt France 15% Brico Dépôt France aims to fully integrate employees who do not define themselves as diversity into the business with a focus on young White British. We don’t report a Group figure For example, B&Q has encouraged the people and supporting women into management for ethnic diversity since definitions of what recruitment and retention of older workers and roles. All new managers are trained on diversity constitutes an ethnic minority vary by country 29% of its workforce is aged over 50. Screwfix and non-discrimination in recruitment and it has and in markets such as France it is illegal to ask has a focus on young people with 32% of its set quantitative targets to help drive progress. employees to declare their ethnicity. workers aged 24 or under. This includes a goal of 45% of new recruits to 18% be aged under 26 and 50% of apprentices to Disability be women. We aim to create accessible workplaces and to support colleagues affected by disability. Investing in diversity at B&Q B&Q has launched a diversity plan to help During 2017/18, 2.5% of colleagues had a 67% it create an inclusive culture that attracts declared disability (2016/17: 2.5%). talented colleagues from all backgrounds. It is focusing on diversity in relation to gender, Our companies in France are particularly age, ethnicity, disability, sexual orientation and focused on supporting people with disabilities social background. in line with national legislation and targets. This includes providing support for disabled Employees 25-49 During 2017, the company updated its manager training to promote the benefits of diversity and colleagues, training and guidance for HR Employees 50 and over provide guidance to help managers identify and managers and partnering with disability Employees 24 and under address unconscious bias. B&Q is encouraging organisations. 10.4% of workers employed * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP flexible hours and job sharing at both senior and directly or indirectly by Brico Dépôt France junior levels. For example, during 2017 it rolled have a disability (6.4% of full-time equivalent out its new apprenticeship programme which is employees) and 7.5% of workers employed available to part-time candidates and introduced directly or indirectly by Castorama France (5.4% the option for job sharing in retail trading of full-time equivalent employees), compared management roles following a successful pilot. It with the French national target of 6% of workers is also collaborating with Timewise, a jobs board specialising in part-time and flexible roles. employed directly or indirectly1. Promoting diversity and flexible working Brico Dépôt Iberia participates in the Incorpora at Castorama France initiative run by the La Caixa Foundation which Castorama France has launched training provides employment opportunities for people sessions for its managers on how to identify and with disabilities, learning difficulties and the prevent unconscious bias and discrimination long-term unemployed. In 2017/18, 40 people during recruitment processes. It has used social completed work placements at Brico Dépôt media to promote its career opportunities to stores in Spain. a wider audience which has helped increase the proportion of female applicants to 53%. It promotes flexible working options and ran a survey during 2017 to help it better understand and respond to colleague views and expectations in relation to work-life balance. Castorama was the first retail company in France in 2011 to achieve the “égalité” certification issued on behalf 1 Indirect employment includes partnerships with of the Ministry of Solidarity and Social Cohesion. organisations who specialise in providing work for people with disabilities. 70 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 developing our people’s skills We want our colleagues 277 Some of our store-based training programmes in 2017/18 included: Home Improvement Academy to learn and to grow with To provide a great service to —— B&Q’s ‘Rising Stars’ programme leads to a us, and offer a range of Retail Team Leader Level 3 Apprenticeship colleagues took part in B&Q’s customers, we need to equip our store colleagues with the right knowledge ‘Rising Stars’ programme programmes to support (equivalent to 2 A-Levels). 277 colleagues took and skills. This is the goal behind our part last year. new Home Improvement Academy. career development. 788 It’s designed to give our store Colleagues completed —— Screwfix’s ‘1st Steps’ and ‘Fast Track’ to store management programmes are accredited colleagues product training and home improvement knowledge, enabling an average of 10 hours of with City & Guilds and the Institute of colleagues took part in Screwfix’s them to become range ambassadors. Leadership and Management Level 2, 3 training during 2017/18. and 4. Around 778 colleagues were on the ‘1st Steps’ and ‘Fast Track’ programmes The pilot session in 2017 brought colleagues together from all over programmes last year. Europe to learn about our new, 734 unified Bathroom range. Colleagues —— Castorama and Brico Dépôt France work in participated in seminars, practical partnership with universities and business sessions, and situational role plays, schools to recruit apprentices for storeboth in person and through digital based undergraduate and Master’s degree apprentices were recruited across channels. The sessions included Castorama and Brico Dépôt France an introduction to our sustainable placements. In 2017/18, 734 apprentices were growth plan and an insight into the recruited across both businesses. key sustainability features of the new ranges. —— Castorama Poland’s ‘Leaders’ School’ prepares colleagues for store director or administration and logistics director roles. Its ‘Captain’s School’ is aimed at preparing colleagues for department manager roles. 71 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 health, safety and wellbeing Protecting the health 12% Our H&S Dashboard summarises performance We believe this improvement reflects our at each operating company and is reviewed at work to increase safety awareness and and safety (H&S) of our every meeting of our Group Board and Group strengthen our processes for identifying Executive Committee. and addressing safety issues. There were no colleagues is a fundamental work-related fatalities. year on year decrease in our employee accident rate part of being a responsible We appointed a Group Safety and Compliance Risk Officer in 2017 who is There were no health and safety related business. We have clear leading the development of our Kingfisher prosecutions or fines during the year. policies and structures H&S management system. This will align to the new ISO 45001 international standard for in place to help us do occupational health and safety management and will help ensure a consistent approach is this, including a senior taken across our business. Employee accident rate management safety Number of ‘all work-related’ accidents We launched our Group-wide accident per 100,000 full-time equivalent employees committee in each operating management reporting system in 2017 to company and a network of help us identify the root causes of accidents and reduce safety risks. It tracks accidents safety professionals. (including minor accidents) and near misses. We have run training sessions to ensure consistency in how our companies are using the system to report risks, accidents and near misses. We audit our stores against our mandatory minimum H&S standards and each company has an action plan to address areas for improvement. Our total employee accident rate (number of all work-related accidents per 100,000 12,812 13,405 12,160 11,611 10,193 full-time equivalent employees) was 10,193, a decrease of 12% year on year, and an 18% 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18* reduction since 2012/13. * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP 72 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 Employee wellbeing Engagement and advocacy Our Group and operating companies implement We partner with others to support progress programmes to support the physical and on skills development and diversity. Recent mental wellbeing of our colleagues. These examples include: can include: events and workshops promoting healthy lifestyle choices; Employee Assistance —— Apprenticeships – Screwfix launched an Programmes for colleagues who may need apprenticeship guide in Wales in conjunction counselling, financial and legal advice or with the Welsh Government to help more specialist support; occupational health tradespeople hire apprentices. assistance to support colleagues in the workplace; and discounted rates on healthcare —— Supporting the creative sector – we support and medical benefits for colleagues and the New Designers exhibition and awards, their families. which provide a platform for students seeking to develop their design careers. We sponsored two categories in 2017 and provided work placements for the winners. —— 30% Club – our CEO Véronique Laury is a member of the 30% Club which aims to increase representation of women on boards and executive committees. 73 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 We aim to achieve gender balance at all levels of our workforce. Women accounted for 44% of our Board, well above the average for the FTSE 100, and 50% of our Group Executive during 2017/18. 74 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 governance and management Roles and responsibilities 76 Risk management 77 Human rights and ethical conduct 78 Stakeholder engagement 79 Public policy 81 Pensions 82 75 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 roles and responsibilities Our Group Sustainability Committee (GSC), a workshops to explore the business benefits of Fines and prosecutions sub-committee of the Group Executive, leads our new strategy including sales opportunities and oversees delivery of our sustainability and efficiency savings. B&Q has also reviewed There were no fines or prosecutions relating strategy, monitors performance against its recruitment and learning and development to health, safety or environmental issues targets and reviews sustainability risks and materials to further embed sustainability during 2017/18. opportunities. It includes senior executives from messages. Future employees now learn about our digital, purchasing, property, people and sustainability from when they first visit the B&Q community functions as well as our operating careers website and this is reinforced during companies. The GSC meets at least twice a year. the induction process and during manager and range training programmes. The GSC is sponsored by our Chief Customer Officer, who is a member of our leadership Sustainability policies team and reports directly to the CEO. Our Chief Customer Officer is responsible for integrating Our policies guide our approach to sustainability sustainability across the customer journey. and help ensure consistency across the business. We review our sustainability policies Our Board receives regular updates on our annually. All policies have been updated to performance and sustainability risks, including align with our sustainable growth plan, and those relating to climate change. new policies were introduced in 2017 on animal welfare and deforestation. Our operating companies and group functions are developing an action plan for delivering our We also updated our human rights policy to sustainability targets. They are supported by our make it broader in scope (it previously focused central sustainability team, and by sustainability on employees and now covers all stakeholders teams in our operating companies and our Offer affected by our business activities). and Supply Chain function. All updated policies were approved by our Sustainability must be part of how we work in Group Executive. Our Code of Conduct will be every function and part of the business and updated in 2018. we aim to engage our people on sustainability through training, awareness campaigns and See www.kingfisher.com/SustainabilityPolicies events. For example, B&Q held a sustainability for copies of our policies. conference during 2017 to engage its leadership on our sustainable growth plan. Participants heard from expert speakers and took part in 76 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 risk management Identification and management of sustainability Climate change governance, strategy —— Operational risks – those associated with The CEO of each operating company is risks are incorporated in our strategic risk and risk management rising energy and fuel costs and increases responsible for ensuring that appropriate assessment processes. Our GSC monitors in insurance premiums due to a rise in processes and controls are in place to monitor short, medium and long-term sustainability Governance of climate-related risks and extreme weather events. and report progress against our sustainability risks, their potential impact on our business, opportunities is integrated into our overall targets. A senior executive for each operating and our mitigation measures. These are sustainability governance and risk management —— Supply chain risks – potential disruption in company is required to complete an annual reviewed at each GSC meeting. structures, which are outlined above. our supply chain if suppliers are affected self-certification process to confirm that by climate change impacts and rising sustainability performance data submitted to Our most significant risks are included in our Our Group Chief Executive Officer, Véronique energy costs. the Group is materially accurate and has been sustainability risk register (part of our overall Laury, has ultimate accountability for the issues subject to an appropriate level of review prior Group risk management process). These include of energy and climate change. At an asset level, Through our sustainable growth plan we have to submission. risks relating to: we manage climate-related risks through our established targets and KPIs to help us manage insurance programmes and by incorporating these risks. See page 12. We are committed to Group Internal Audit performed testing over a —— Sustainability regulation climate change factors into our planning and developing a longer-term climate target in line selection of performance data at each of our —— Supply chain ethical and environmental design of new stores, refurbishment projects with climate science and we are engaging with operating companies. In addition, we conduct impacts and preventative maintenance programmes. the Science Based Targets initiative to help us topic-specific internal audits or risk reviews —— Chemicals use develop this. where required; for example, in 2017/18 Group —— Modern slavery and human rights risks We have identified a number of climate-related Internal Audit conducted a Chain of Custody —— Climate change risks risks and opportunities that may impact We aim to align our reporting with the (FSC® and PEFC) audit in B&Q. —— Resource costs and scarcity. our business strategy. Our most important requirements of the Task Force on Climate opportunity is the growing market for energy Related Financial Disclosures over time. We appointed Deloitte LLP to provide a limited Read more on our approach to risk management efficient products and services, estimated to assurance opinion on selected information in our Annual Report and Accounts: be worth €70 billion by 2020 across our key Audit and assurance within this report. Further details on the work www.kingfisher.com/annualreport17-18. European markets1. they performed and their conclusion are set We have robust governance processes in place out in their independent assurance statement Several climate change risks are included in our to ensure the completeness, accuracy and on page 108. sustainability risk register. These are: reliability of our sustainability performance data. These include the use of in-house and third—— Customer risks – the need to adapt our party experts to review data and qualitative products to meet changing consumer needs statements included in our Annual Report arising from climate change and global and sustainability reporting. For example, resource constraints such as demand for sustainability experts Bioregional coordinate energy saving products. our head office data review process across all our targets which includes a detailed review of 1 Boston Consulting Group report, commissioned by Kingfisher, 2011. sustainable home product innovation data. 77 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 human rights and ethical conduct Human rights For more information on how we manage human contracts. We have a compliance network for rights and modern slavery risks in our supply our operating company compliance officers to We respect human rights and take steps to chain see page 61. share information and best practices. protect the rights of our employees, workers in our supply chain and others affected by our Ethical conduct Our internal audit function monitors compliance business activities. with our Code and policies, working with our We are committed to meeting high ethical operating companies to help them strengthen Our Human Rights Policy sets out our standards in the conduct of our business policies or procedures where needed. commitment to respect human rights, in line activities and we do not tolerate bribery and with international agreements and guidelines corruption. All employees whose location or role poses a including: the United Nations Guiding Principles potential corruption risk must complete our on Business and Human Rights; the International Our Code of Conduct and Group Governance anti‑bribery and corruption training module, Bill of Human Rights (which includes the Manual – ‘The Way We Do Business’ – explain which has been integrated into the induction Universal Declaration of Human Rights); the our ethical principles, key policies and minimum process for relevant employees. UN Global Compact; the International Labour standards, and help us comply with regulations Organisation’s Declaration on Fundamental such as the UK’s Bribery Act. We aim to create Employees can report any concerns via Principles and Rights at Work; the Children’s a compliance culture in which all employees our whistleblowing hotline or get advice via Rights and Business Principles; and UN feel able to raise concerns and companies have a dedicated email address. All reports are conventions on the elimination of discrimination. the confidence to identify, acknowledge and investigated and if an employee is found to have It summarises our commitment to implement address gaps in policies or performance. breached our Code of Conduct, appropriate due diligence procedures to avoid infringing on disciplinary action is taken. The number of the rights of others. The Code forms part of the contractual open and resolved cases and the outcomes are terms and conditions for all new employees reported to the Audit Committee of the Board We support a number of external initiatives that and is included in our contracts with product of Directors. 144 cases were opened during aim to protect and promote human rights. We suppliers and key GNFR suppliers, who are 2017/18. Operating companies are required to are committed to playing our part in working expected to communicate its requirements to raise employee awareness of the hotline and towards the United Nations Sustainable their own employees. email address. Development Goals (SDGs) and have signed up to the British Retail Consortium (BRC) Our operating companies’ reporting We will be reviewing and updating our Code of commitments on the goals. and compliance procedures include: the Conduct and approach during 2018. appointment of a senior compliance officer We are also a member of the UN Global in each operating company; training for Download our Code of Conduct: Compact and report progress against its 10 relevant employees; raising awareness of our www.kingfisher.com/sustainabilitypolicies. principles annually, see page 86. whistleblowing procedures; and integration of the Code of Conduct into employee and supplier 78 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 stakeholder engagement Engagement with our stakeholders helps us Investor engagement Organisation Activities during 2017/18 to develop our approach to sustainability, to There is growing investor interest in identify risks and opportunities and to report companies’ approaches to managing CDP Climate Change We disclosed our climate change performance through CDP transparently on our progress. environmental, social and governance risks Climate Change and received a rating of A-. and opportunities. Our main stakeholders include our customers, CDP Forest We are a founding participant in CDP’s Forests Program, investors, colleagues, suppliers and regulators We communicate our approach to an investor initiative which aims to improve understanding as well as NGOs, the media and other our investors and participate in many around how companies are addressing their exposure organisations working on sustainability and responsible investment benchmarks and to deforestation risks. We were ranked in the leadership business issues. indices. In 2017/18, these included: category for timber with an A-rating. Dow Jones Sustainability Index We have been included in the DJSI World and Europe Indices Our customers are our most important since 2010. stakeholder group and we have carried out research to better understand their views FTSE4Good Index We are listed in this index with a rating of 4.3 out of 5. in relation to sustainability, see page 8. Our MSCI-ESG We received a AAA ESG rating for our ability to manage approach to engaging our colleagues is ESG issues. summarised on page 68, suppliers on page 6364 and regulators on page 81. STOXX® Global ESG Leaders We are included in this Index of the leading global companies in terms of environmental, social and governance criteria. We want to be advocates for sustainable business and to engage with governments, Sustainalytics We received a positive view of our ability to manage NGOs and industry partners to share our views, ESG issues. learn from others and stimulate progress. Examples of advocacy and partnership are included throughout the report including on pages 21, 32, 36, 40, 52, 65 and 73. You can read a Member 2017/2018 perspective from Sally Uren, Chief Executive of Forum for the Future, on page 6. DISCLOSURE INSIGHT ACTION 79 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 Our materiality assessment —— A science-based analysis of our key product Our material issues impacts, see right. Assessing product-related We want to make sure we focus on the issues —— Climate change impacts and impacts that are most significant to our —— Benchmarking against the UN Sustainable —— Sustainable lifestyles The sustainability impacts associated business and our stakeholders and where we Development Goals, investor questionnaires —— Waste with the production and use of our can make the most difference. and other external frameworks. —— Resources products often outweigh those of our —— Traceability direct operations. We commissioned We identify and prioritise our material issues —— Analysis of external social and —— Labour standards research to assess these value through extensive consultation. This is a environmental trends. —— Community cohesion and engagement chain impacts to ensure they are continual process that includes: fully reflected in our materiality The findings showed that while environmental —— Equality and diversity assessment. This analysis drew on 1. Internal review: internal engagement and issues, including climate change, water —— Deforestation scientific and research evidence to Materiality + provide a more objective view of the research to identify issues of importance and waste, remain priorities, we also need —— Transparency relative importance of different issues. to our business including commercial, to increase our emphasis on social issues, —— Circular economy operational and reputational risks and particularly the health, safety and wellbeing —— Partnership with stakeholders The process looked at the material opportunities. of customers, colleagues and workers in our issues associated with our main supply chain. —— Health and safety product categories in both the 2. External review: benchmarking and —— Business models supply chain and product use phase. engaging directly with priority stakeholders The results of this assessment have shaped —— Ethical conduct Issues were rated according to their through channels such as customer visits, our sustainable growth plan and targets. —— Skills environmental or social significance as well as their relevance to our product face-to-face meetings, research and —— Chemicals portfolio and sales volumes. membership of organisations such as Forum —— Accessibility for the Future. From steps one and two we —— Water We identified eight sustainability create a shortlist of issues. —— Rewards and recognition issues of particular importance. The —— Advocacy most significant product sustainability 3. Prioritisation: working with key internal and —— Biodiversity impacts relate to climate change and external stakeholders to prioritise issues. —— Human rights the health, safety and wellbeing of —— Data management and customer privacy customers, colleagues and workers in our supply chain. Other significant We use the results of this analysis to develop issues include waste, water, ethical our sustainability strategy, targets and policy and traceability. Deforestation key performance indicators and to define and biodiversity were also important. which information should be included in our sustainability reporting. The findings have been integrated in to our overall materiality assessment and We updated our materiality analysis in 2016 our sustainability strategy. and 2017 through research with a wide range of stakeholders. This included: —— Customer research across five markets including in-depth interviews and visits to customer homes. —— Interviews with key external stakeholders and sustainability experts. —— Interviews with senior colleagues from our group functions and operating companies and research with our colleagues in the UK and France. 80 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 public policy Government policy can help stimulate progress recognised self-regulatory organisations such are conducted in a way that avoids negative Membership of trade associations on sustainability issues and on business as the Association of Professional Political impacts on trade and the economy and on issues more generally. We work with nonConsultants in the UK and the European Public our customers both in the UK and Europe. Some of our public policy work is conducted via governmental organisations and regulators at Affairs Consultancies’ Association (EPACA) in We believe that the Brexit process should trade associations and industry groups which the national and regional level to encourage the EU and governed by their codes of conduct. not result in a weakening of the UK’s can help to increase the impact of our policy legislation that incentivises sustainable The lobbying companies we use in the EU are environmental protection laws. We believe messages. These relationships are overseen by business practices and creates a level playing also listed on the EU Transparency Register. that EU colleagues working for us and in our our Group Director of Corporate Affairs with field to support investment in sustainable supply chain in the UK should be given the trade associations in the UK, France and Brussels business and innovation. In line with EU and UK corporate governance opportunity to stay beyond Brexit. We have and, in other markets, by the relevant local CEO. best practice and as stated in our Code of established an internal Brexit working group Our memberships include: Examples of our engagement and advocacy on Conduct, it is our policy not to make donations to oversee our engagement. sustainability issues are included throughout directly to political parties or politicians. —— EU – the European DIY-Retail Association this report including pages 21, 32, 40 and —— Planning – UK (London focus): We are (EDRA) and EuroCommerce 65. We also engage in the political process We follow government guidelines in relation engaging with the Greater London Authority —— UK – the British Retail Consortium (BRC), in our markets and at EU level to inform the to employing former public officials (the on planning issues. Our priority is to Confederation of British Industry (CBI), London development of policy that has a material impact “revolving-door”). prevent store closures where retail sites First and the GC100 – the Association of on our business and the retail sector. are redeveloped by landlords into high-end General Counsel and Company Secretaries Public policy priorities apartment blocks. In our engagement, we working in FTSE 100 Companies Approach and standards seek to highlight the positive role home —— France – the French Association of Private We engaged with governments on a range improvement stores play in helping Londoners Businesses (AFEP), and the French Federation Our Group Director of Corporate Affairs of policy issues during 2017/18 including: the achieve good homes. of DIY Retailers (FMB) manages our public policy activities and reports impact of Brexit; changes to property taxes; —— Ireland – Retail Excellence Ireland to our Chief Customer Officer. The Board of planning policy (UK); employment policies —— Home energy efficiency – France: we are —— Russia – AKORT, the Russian retail association; Directors reviews the key aspects of our public including the UK’s National Living Wage and engaging with the French government and the Franco Russian Chamber of Commerce and policy activity at least twice a year. All our public Apprenticeship Levy; housing policy; the key opinion leaders to simplify the incentive the Foreign Investment Advisory Council (FIAC) policy work must meet the ethical standards circular economy; and Sunday Trading mechanisms for helping people improve —— Poland – The Polish Confederation of Private set out in our Code of Conduct and our Group laws (Poland). home energy efficiency. We seek to promote Employers and the Polish Organisation of Corporate Affairs Policy and reflect our public an aligned approach for all stakeholders Commerce & Distribution (POHID) sustainability commitments. We are registered Examples of public policy activity from 2017/18 involved in energy renovation, that supports —— Portugal – Portuguese Association of Retail on the EU Transparency Register of lobbying both the commercial sector and individual Companies (APED) activities. Our policies are available at —— Brexit – UK and Europe: We are engaging with home improvers. —— Spain – Association of Distributors of Hardware www.kingfisher.com/sustainabilitypolicies. governments in our major markets directly and DIY (ADFB) and via organisations such as the BRC, CBI —— Turkey – Chain Stores Association (KMD), We work with a number of external lobbying and the Horticultural Trades Association. Turkish Industry and Business companies, which are all members of Our priority is that the Brexit negotiations Association (TÜSİAD). 81 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 pensions The Kingfisher Pension Scheme (KPS) manages Ethical funds the pensions of past and present employees. Reflecting our commitment to sustainability, The KPS Trustees have explored opportunities the KPS integrates responsible investment to invest in specific funds that support principles into its work and communicates with progress on sustainability issues, such as stakeholders on its approach to environmental, renewable energy. Existing investments include social and governance (ESG) issues. a £20 million stake in a global farmland fund which invests in farmland operated according to Principles sustainable farming methods and a £20 million investment in a global renewable energy fund. Investment decisions at KPS are governed by the Scheme’s Statement of Investment The Trustees take into account the potential Principles (SIP). This sets out KPS’s risks and opportunities associated with climate commitment to act as a responsible investor change and the transition to a low carbon and states the Trustee Board’s belief that all economy. The investment strategy for their companies should be run in a responsible way. passive equity holdings aims to hedge climate change risk by prioritising companies who Investment managers acting on behalf of the invest in low carbon innovation and reducing KPS are required to take account of social, investment in carbon intensive industries. environmental and ethical considerations where these may have a financial impact The KPS also offers participants in its Money on investment performance. They are Purchase scheme the opportunity to select encouraged to engage with investee an Ethical Fund for their pension. This fund companies on these issues, including aims to provide long-term growth by investing exercising voting rights where appropriate. in the shares of companies that meet a set of ethical criteria. Investment managers must disclose their investment approach to KPS and state whether The KPS aims to make its pension provision this integrates ESG factors. inclusive so that it meets the needs of all employees. For example, the Money Purchase scheme offers a Shariah fund which invests in shares of companies around the world whose practices are consistent with Shariah principles. 82 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 about our reporting 83 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 We also integrate sustainability performance For both areas, 50% of Koçtaş data is included, External assurance Our sustainability report into our Annual Report and Accounts. This in line with our 50% equity share. We appointed Deloitte LLP to provide limited explains our progress enables investors to gain a more holistic assurance over selected information within view of the financial, economic, social and Detailed information on the scope of the data our Sustainability Report for the year ended towards our 12 targets. It environmental value our business generates, and the methodologies used to calculate our 31 January 2018. The information marked summarises performance see www.kingfisher.com/annualreport17-18. data are explained in our Sustainability Data Collection Methodology document. throughout the report with the symbol * indicates the scope of their work. at a group level covering the Regular updates are posted on our website www.kingfisher.com/sustainability. Progress against targets Please see page 108, for their full independent financial year 1 February 2017 We indicate on page 12 how we are progressing limited assurance report which includes details – 31 January 2018. About our data against our 12 targets. Wherever possible we on their scope, work performed and conclusion. Sustainability experts Bioregional coordinate also provide a comparison with previous years’ our head office data review process. They data. The changes we have made to our targets Reporting standards monitor our progress on sustainable home this year mean it is not always possible to This report contains standard disclosures from product innovation and calculate our figure for provide prior years’ data. the Global Reporting Initiative G4 Sustainability customer energy savings. Reporting Guidelines. To aid comparison with Our targets and methodologies have been other businesses, we provide a GRI Index on our Our detailed performance data is provided on developed with Bioregional. Wherever possible website: kingfisher.com/sustainabilityreport pages 94 – 107 of this report. they reflect established frameworks such as the United Nations Sustainable Development United Nations Global Compact Index Our sustainability data covers our wholly-owned Goals. Details of how our targets have been We joined the United Nations Global Compact operating companies and does not include joint developed and our methodology for assessing (UNGC) in 2014, and are committed to its 10 ventures, except where stated. progress are included in our Data Collection principles covering the areas of human rights, Methodology and in the launch report for our labour, environment and anti-corruption. Data for our joint venture Koçtaş is included in sustainable growth plan. the following areas: Our UNGC Index on page 86 shows where information on our performance relevant to the —— Community projects and community 10 principles is included in our Report. investment data (as Koçtaş is included in our pre-tax profit and our community investment is stated as a % of pre-tax profit) —— Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions, category ‘Investments’ (see page 96). 84 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 appendices Our global compact index 86 Our business and the sustainable development goals 88 Detailed performance data 94 Assurance 108 85 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 our global compact index We joined the United Nations Global Compact Principles Summary of approach Location in reporting (UNGC) in 2014, and are committed to its 10 principles covering the areas of human rights, Human rights and labour labour, environment and anti-corruption. Principle One We take steps to protect the human rights of people affected by our business, Ethical sourcing, page 61. This Report is our fourth Communication on Businesses should support including employees and suppliers. We respect the rights of our employees and Progress against the Global Compact and respect the protection suppliers in areas such as freedom of association, the right to collective bargaining, Human rights, page 78. Principles, covering our financial year 2017/18. of internationally proclaimed no child labour or forced or compulsory labour. We work to eliminate discrimination, This table summarises our approach and shows human rights; and to promote diversity and to protect the health and safety of employees, customers Ethical conduct, page 78. where information on our targets and progress and contractors. for each principle can be found in the report: Principle Two Diversity and inclusion, page 69. make sure they are not Our Human Rights Policy and Code of Conduct provide the framework for our complicit in human rights approach to protecting human rights in our business and supply chain. These are Health and safety, page 72. “I am pleased to reaffirm abuses. supported by our Supply Chain Workplace Standards which explain the ethical Kingfisher’s support for the Principle Three standards we require from suppliers. Our policies reﬂect international human rights Modern Slavery Statement, frameworks including the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the UN Guiding www.kingfisher.com/modernUNGC and its principles Businesses should uphold Principles on Business and Human Rights, the International Labour Organization’s slavery the right to freedom of Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. on human rights, labour association and the effective practices, the environment recognition of the right to We do not tolerate any form of modern slavery. In 2017, we set up our Modern collective bargaining; Slavery Working Group to oversee due diligence and disclosure on human rights and anti-corruption. and modern slavery. It has agreed an action plan including training, ethical risk Principle Four assessment and supplier engagement and audit. We are rolling out a programme of We will continue to the elimination of all forms ethical audits for high-risk production sites that supply us with finished goods. of forced and compulsory strengthen our approach labour; Employees and suppliers can report concerns via our independently managed in each of these important hotline. The number of open and resolved cases and the outcomes are reported to Principle Five the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. areas over the year ahead the effective abolition of and to share our progress child labour; and with our stakeholders.” Principle Six eliminate discrimination in Véronique Laury respect of employment Chief Executive Officer and occupation. 86 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 Principles Summary of approach Location in reporting Environment Principle Seven We aim to be restorative to the environment, going beyond zero impacts to create Sustainable homes for our Business should support a positive change. We have set ambitious targets and report progress annually. Our customers, page 16. precautionary approach to approach is summarised in our Sustainability Policy. environmental challenges; Energy saving products and We invest in innovation to improve the environmental performance of our products services, page 24. Principle Eight and help customers adopt more sustainable lifestyles. In 2017/18, sustainable home undertake initiatives products – those that help customers create good homes while having a positive or Making water efficiency a priority, to promote greater much lower impact on people and the environment – made up 32% of our sales. page 25. environmental responsibility; and In our business we are working to cut our carbon footprint, reduce waste, use Saving energy and carbon in our resources efficiently and source sustainable raw materials. business, page 27. Principle Nine encourage the We support a precautionary approach, for example through our work to identify Our circular products and services, development and diffusion and remove chemicals of concern. page 35. of environmentally friendly technologies. Sustainable materials use, page 37. Towards zero waste to landfill, page 43. Identifying and removing harmful chemicals, page 51. Sustainability Policy, www.kingfisher .com/sustainabilitypolicies Anti-corruption Principle 10 We will not tolerate bribery or corruption in any form. Our Code of Conduct and Ethical conduct, page 78. Businesses should work Group Governance Manual – ‘The Way We Do Business’ – explain our approach and against corruption in all its helps us to comply with regulation such as the UK’s Bribery Act. Code of Conduct, www.kingfisher. forms, including extortion com/sustainabilitypolicies and bribery. Our companies have established reporting and compliance procedures including the appointment of a senior compliance officer in each company, training for relevant employees, raising awareness of our whistleblowing procedures for employees and suppliers and integration of the Code of Conduct into employee and supplier contracts. We have a compliance network for our operating company compliance officers to share information and best practices. All employees whose location or role poses a potential corruption risk must complete our anti-bribery and corruption training module. We monitor compliance with our standards through our internal audit programme and annual self-certiﬁcation process. We will be reviewing and updating our Code of Conduct and approach during 2018/19. 87 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 our business and the sustainable development goals The United Nations Sustainable Development We aim to make a positive contribution to the Goals (SDGs), otherwise known as the Global implementation of the SDGs and we used Goals, were launched in 2015. The 17 Goals, the SDGs to inform the development of our which include 169 targets, aim to eliminate sustainable growth plan. We have signed poverty, fight inequality and tackle climate up to the British Retail Consortium (BRC) change over the next 12 years. commitments on the goals and we are a partner to the UK Stakeholders for Sustainable They address the three dimensions of Development network, which aims to drive sustainable development: social, economic action on the SDGs in the UK. The table below, and environmental, as well as aspects related summarises the goals and individual targets, to peace, justice and effective institutions. The where we can have the most impact. United Nations has emphasised the importance of global collaboration to achieve the SDGs and has called on business to make a strong contribution to their implementation. Sustainable homes for our customers Our targets UN SDG targets Our direct contribution 50% of Group sales from products that help SDG 11.6 By 2030, reduce the adverse per capita environmental impact of cities, including by —— Increase sales from products that help create a more sustainable home (2020) paying special attention to air quality and municipal and other waste management customers to create better, more sustainable homes using our sustainable home product SDG 12.2 By 2030, achieve the sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources guidelines SDG 12.8 By 2030, ensure that people everywhere have the relevant information and awareness for sustainable development and lifestyles in harmony with nature 88 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 Save money by saving energy and water Our targets UN SDG targets Our direct contribution Enable a 50% reduction in customer energy use SDG 7.3 By 2030, double the global rate of improvement in energy efficiency —— Promote energy-efficient products through our products, services and advice SDG 8.4 Improve progressively, through 2030, global resource efficiency in consumption and —— Increase our range of energy saving and low production and endeavour to decouple economic growth from environmental degradation, carbon energy generation products in accordance with the 10-year framework of programmes on sustainable consumption and production, with developed countries taking the lead —— Increase the proportion of our save energy range that meet best-in-class criteria SDG 11.6 By 2030, reduce the adverse per capita environmental impact of cities, including by paying special attention to air quality and municipal and other waste management SDG 12.8 By 2030, ensure that people everywhere have the relevant information and awareness for sustainable development and lifestyles in harmony with nature Enable a 50% improvement in customer water SDG 6.4 By 2030, substantially increase water-use efficiency across all sectors and ensure —— Promote water-efficient products efficiency through our products, services sustainable withdrawals and supply of freshwater to address water scarcity and substantially and advice reduce the number of people suffering from water scarcity —— Increase the proportion of our save water range that meet best-in-class criteria SDG 8.4 Improve progressively, through 2030, global resource efficiency in consumption and production and endeavour to decouple economic growth from environmental degradation, in accordance with the 10-year framework of programmes on sustainable consumption and production, with developed countries taking the lead SDG 12.8 By 2030, ensure that people everywhere have the relevant information and awareness for sustainable development and lifestyles in harmony with nature Reduce absolute carbon emissions from SDG 7.3 By 2030, double the global rate of improvement in energy efficiency —— Energy efficiency measures for new and buildings and transport by 25% from a 2010/11 existing stores baseline (2020) SDG 11.6 By 2030, reduce the adverse per capita environmental impact of cities, including by paying special attention to air quality and municipal and other waste management —— Increase energy purchased from renewable sources SDG 13.2 Integrate climate change measures into national policies, strategies and planning —— Clean alternatives to solid fuels —— Commitment to set science-based targets 89 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 Live smarter by getting more from less, reusing or using longer Our targets UN SDG targets Our direct contribution 20 products or services that help customers get SDG 8.4 Improve progressively, through 2030, global resource efficiency in consumption and —— Integrate circular economy principles in more from less, reuse or use longer production and endeavour to decouple economic growth from environmental degradation, product design in accordance with the 10-year framework of programmes on sustainable consumption and production, with developed countries taking the lead —— Focus on smarter consumption solutions SDG 11.6 By 2030, reduce the adverse per capita environmental impact of cities, including by —— Promote our circular products such as paying special attention to air quality and municipal and other waste management ProGrow and easyGrow SDG 12.2 By 2030, achieve the sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources Ensure sustainable management and efficient SDG 8.4 Improve progressively, through 2030, global resource efficiency in consumption and —— Development of sustainability roadmaps for use of key resources (2025) including 100% production and endeavour to decouple economic growth from environmental degradation, cement and concrete; wood; paint; plastics; responsibly sourced wood and paper and peatin accordance with the 10-year framework of programmes on sustainable consumption and ceramics and peat free bagged growing media (2020) production, with developed countries taking the lead —— Responsible sourcing of wood and paper from SDG 9.4 By 2030, upgrade infrastructure and retrofit industries to make them sustainable, with well-managed forests for all products increased resource-use efficiency and greater adoption of clean and environmentally sound technologies and industrial processes, with all countries taking action in accordance with their —— Sustainability clauses incorporated into respective capabilities contracts for all wood and paper suppliers for our goods not for resale SDG 12.2 By 2030, achieve the sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources SDG 14.1 By 2025, prevent and significantly reduce marine pollution of all kinds, in particular from —— Play an active role in protecting and land-based activities, including marine debris and nutrient pollution restoring forests SDG 15.2 By 2020, promote the implementation of sustainable management of all types of —— Commitment to provide peat-free forests, halt deforestation, restore degraded forests and substantially increase afforestation and growing media reforestation globally —— Our peat-free easyGrow bedding plants SDG 15.5 Take urgent and significant action to reduce the degradation of natural habitats, halt the loss of biodiversity and, by 2020, protect and prevent the extinction of threatened species Zero waste to landfill (2020) and 90% of waste SDG 11.6 By 2030, reduce the adverse per capita environmental impact of cities, including by —— Commitment to eliminate waste to landfill recycled (2025) paying special attention to air quality and municipal and other waste management —— Commitment to increase our recycling rate SDG 12.5 By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse —— Renegotiation of waste contracts in the UK and France to include our new targets 90 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 Create a healthier home and connect with nature Our targets UN SDG targets Our direct contribution 20% of sales enable customers to create safer, SDG 3.4 By 2030, reduce by one third premature mortality from non-communicable diseases —— Promote our Connect to Nature products, healthier homes and connect with nature through prevention and treatment and promote mental health and well-being which encourage customers to get outdoors, produce their own food and support wildlife in SDG 11.6 By 2030, reduce the adverse per capita environmental impact of cities, including by their gardens paying special attention to air quality and municipal and other waste management —— Explore ways to have a positive impact on SDG 13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards and natural health and wellbeing disasters in all countries —— Flowering plants sold in the UK grown without neonicitinoid pesticides —— Development of a new own-brand paint range rated A+ for VOC emissions Achieve transparency of harmful chemicals SDG 3.9 By 2030, substantially reduce the number of deaths and illnesses from hazardous —— Reduced the quantities of some potentially in key supply chains (2020), phase out the chemicals and air, water and soil pollution and contamination harmful chemicals in products highest priority hazardous and high-risk chemicals of concern and introduce five SDG 6.3 By 2030, improve water quality by reducing pollution, eliminating dumping and minimizing —— Further work underway on identification green substances (2025) release of hazardous chemicals and materials, halving the proportion of untreated wastewater of priority supply chains, materials and and substantially increasing recycling and safe re-use globally product lines SDG 12.4 By 2020, achieve the environmentally sound management of chemicals and all wastes throughout their life cycle, in accordance with agreed international frameworks, and significantly reduce their release to air, water and soil in order to minimize their adverse impacts on human health and the environment 91 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 Be part of a community that helps millions more people improve their home Our targets UN SDG targets Our direct contribution Help millions more people tackle poor and unfit SDG 1.2 By 2030, reduce at least by half the proportion of men, women and children of all ages —— Strategic partnerships launched with Shelter housing through strategic partnerships and living in poverty in all its dimensions according to national definitions in the UK and with the Red Cross in the UK, local action in all our markets France and Poland SDG 10.1 By 2030, progressively achieve and sustain income growth of the bottom 40 per cent of the population at a rate higher than the national average —— Produced over 200 films this year with Sikana, providing How-To content online in SDG 11.1 By 2030, ensure access for all to adequate, safe and affordable housing and basic 6 languages services and upgrade slums Support our colleagues to have a home they can SDG 1.2 By 2030, reduce at least by half the proportion of men, women and children of all ages —— Exploring new ways to help colleagues create feel good about living in poverty in all its dimensions according to national definitions their own good homes SDG 4.4 By 2030, substantially increase the number of youth and adults who have relevant skills, including technical and vocational skills, for employment, decent jobs and entrepreneurship SDG 10.1 By 2030, progressively achieve and sustain income growth of the bottom 40 per cent of the population at a rate higher than the national average SDG 11.1 By 2030, ensure access for all to adequate, safe and affordable housing and basic services and upgrade slums Ensure suppliers meet our ethical and SDG 8.7 Take immediate and effective measures to eradicate forced labour, end modern slavery —— Onboarding of suppliers onto the Sedex environmental standards (2020) and establish and human trafficking and secure the prohibition and elimination of the worst forms of child platform strategic community programmes to achieve labour, including recruitment and use of child soldiers, and by 2025 end child labour in all its forms positive change in key sourcing regions (2025) —— Ethical audits for supplier production sites SDG 8.8 Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all workers, including migrant workers, in particular women migrants, and those in precarious employment —— Briefings and training to build supplier knowledge and understanding of human rights SDG 10.4 Adopt policies, especially fiscal, wage and social protection policies, and progressively issues and how to address them achieve greater equality —— Modern Slavery Working Group overseeing due diligence and disclosure on human rights and modern slavery 92 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 SDGs outside the scope of our sustainable growth plan SDG targets Our contribution Our targets do not contribute directly to this SDG. However, work on sustainable sourcing and labour practices in the supply chain can influence food security We value difference within our company and are committed to equal opportunities, diversity and inclusion. Our work on diversity indirectly contributes to the following SDG target: SDG 5.5 Ensure women’s full and effective participation and equal opportunities for leadership at all levels of decision-making in political, economic and public life By encouraging our suppliers to meet ethical and environmental standards and through our Code of Conduct and training for colleagues, we have an indirect influence on the following SDG targets: SDG 16.2 End abuse, exploitation, trafficking and all forms of violence against and torture of children SDG 16.5 Substantially reduce corruption and bribery in all their forms SDG 16.6 Develop effective, accountable and transparent institutions at all levels Through our work with suppliers in a range of developing countries, we indirectly contribute to the following SDG target: SDG 17.11 Significantly increase the exports of developing countries, in particular with a view to doubling the least developed countries’ share of global exports by 2020 93 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 detailed performance data This appendix contains our performance Deloitte LLP has provided limited assurance —— Sustainable homes for our customers; data. We also publish a sustainability data over selected performance data for the year see below methodology document, available online 2017/18 marked with an asterisk (*). —— Save money by saving energy and water; at www.kingfisher.com/sustainability. This page 95 provides further details on the methodology Their full assurance report is published —— Live smarter by getting more from less, we use to calculate our sustainability data, on our website at www.kingfisher.com/ reusing or using longer; page 99 including conversion factors and definitions. sustainabilityreport. —— Create a healthier home and connect with nature; page 102 Where data is unavailable this has been —— Help millions more people improve their indicated with “u/a”. homes; page 103 —— Our people; page 105 Sustainable homes for our customers Target: 50% of Group sales from products that help create a more sustainable home (2020) Unit 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18* Sustainable home product sales ‘Best-in-class’ products – the sales £ million £448.3 £484.2 £503.9 £366.9 £573.5 £619.4 £836.0 most innovative sustainable (% retail sales) (4% of retail sales) (4% of retail sales) (4% of retail sales) (3% of retail sales) (6% of retail sales) (6% of retail sales) (7% of retail sales) home products and services in our ranges ‘Compliant’ products – sales £ million £1,746.4 £1,585.3 £1,770.9 £2,024.0 £2,314.2 £2,520.2 £2,946.7 products with eco credentials (% retail sales) (16% of retail sales) (15% of retail sales) (16% of retail sales) (19% of retail sales) (22% of retail sales) (22% of retail sales) (25% of retail sales) e.g. responsibly sourced timber All sustainable home products sales £ million £2,194.7 £2,069.5 £2,274.8 £2,390.9 £2,887.7 £3,139.6 £3,782.7 – including ‘best-in-class’ and (% retail sales) (20% of retail sales) (19% of retail sales) (20% of retail sales) (22% of retail sales) (28% of retail sales) (28% of retail sales) (32% of retail sales) ‘compliant’ products * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP. 94 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 Save money by saving energy and water Target: Enable a 50% reduction in customer energy use through our products, services and advice Unit 2005/06 2006/07 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Customer energy Reduction in customer % 31 32 energy use through products, services and advice Target: Enable a 50% improvement in customer water efficiency through our products, services and advice Unit 2005/06 2006/07 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Customer water Improvement in customer % 44 45 water efficiency through products, services and advice Target: Reduce absolute carbon emissions from buildings and transport by 25% from a 2010/11 baseline (2020) Unit 2005/06 2006/07 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18* Carbon footprint – by source Key carbon emissions included in the scope of our absolute carbon reduction target Property: purchased tonnes CO2e 228,351 232,012 241,091 264,612 254,463 247,775 234,603 243,528 230,760 258,392 246,775 212,592 184,996 electricity and heat Property: gas and other fuels tonnes CO2e 64,103 74,701 72,723 82,593 72,743 94,821 79,637 92,068 98,864 81,759 89,090 87,186 89,678 Haulage: dedicated store tonnes CO2e 35,616 64,009 67,859 60,413 53,495 54,003 51,593 52,043 55,670 55,941 58,063 57,322 57,368 and home deliveries Business travel by road tonnes CO2e u/a 5,417 5,914 5,237 6,276 8,766 8,945 9,463 9,639 9,107 8,909 9,045 9,020 Total carbon footprint tonnes CO2e 328,070 376,139 387,587 412,855 386,977 405,365 374,778 397,102 394,933 405,199 402,837 366,145 341,062 Total carbon footprint kg CO2e/m2 u/a u/a u/a u/a u/a 61 54 59 56 53 52 47 43 relative to floor space reported floor space Total carbon footprint tonnes CO2e per 43 46 43 41 37 39 35 37 35 37 39 33 29 relative to sales £m retail sales Carbon footprint – by source We also calculate market-based emissions from Business travel by road includes scope 1 emissions from Our emissions from electricity consumption are electricity consumption and these are displayed in a the use of company cars and scope 3 emissions from the calculated using location-based emission factors. separate table on page 97. use of non-company cars. u/a – unavailable * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP 95 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 Unit 2005/06 2006/07 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18* Carbon footprint – breakdown by Greenhouse Gas Protocol scope Wider carbon footprint including additional carbon emissions to those included in our absolute carbon reduction target Scope 1 Property: gas and other fuels tonnes CO2e 64,103 74,701 72,723 82,593 72,743 94,821 79,637 92,068 98,864 81,759 89,090 87,186 89,678 Haulage: dedicated store and tonnes CO2e 35,616 64,009 67,859 60,413 53,495 54,003 51,593 52,043 55,670 55,941 58,063 57,322 57,368 home deliveries Business travel by road tonnes CO2e u/a 5,417 5,914 5,237 6,276 8,766 8,945 9,463 9,639 9,107 8,909 9,045 9,020 Scope 2 Property: purchased tonnes CO2e 228,351 232,012 241,091 264,612 254,463 247,775 234,603 243,528 230,760 258,392 246,775 212,592 184,996 electricity and heat Scope 3 Business travel by air tonnes CO2e u/a 2,453 3,011 10,426 8,574 8,367 10,473 9,510 9,133 9,164 9,220 9,433 10,024 Haulage: 3rd party nontonnes CO2e u/a u/a 7,494 8,904 21,227 25,400 30,941 32,513 33,643 34,907 37,598 44,686 43,580 dedicated fleet deliveries from distribution centres to stores Haulage: deliveries by rail tonnes CO2e u/a u/a u/a u/a u/a u/a u/a u/a u/a u/a 1,236 2,166 3,771 Haulage: estimated exports tonnes CO2e u/a u/a 63,402 47,007 45,919 79,080 75,281 64,116 62,541 81,248 74,331 65,985 83,330 arranged by Kingfisher Sourcing & Offer Waste tonnes CO2e u/a 15,082 10,766 8,835 9,942 5,400 6,350 10,796 13,786 12,463 8,407 9,937 7,351 Water and effluent tonnes CO2e u/a 789 796 949 956 1,034 956 1,025 1,029 1,092 1,218 1,164 1,168 Investments: proportional tonnes CO2e 1,675 3,210 5,187 6,551 6,547 9,646 11,386 12,115 10,354 10,216 10,760 11,613 10,321 scope 1 and 2 emissions from investments † Transmission and distribution tonnes CO2e 22,545 23,585 22,067 24,889 23,253 23,154 22,473 22,551 22,407 24,218 22,963 21,570 18,654 (purchased electricity and district heating) Well-to-tank emissions tonnes CO2e 44,121 45,939 46,802 52,572 48,940 50,742 47,933 53,064 54,566 53,898 51,667 47,885 45,691 from energy u/a – unavailable * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP. † Data covers 50% of scope 1 and 2 emissions from our Koçtaş joint venture. 96 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 Unit 2005/06 2006/07 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18* Carbon footprint – totals by Greenhouse Gas Protocol scope Scope 1 total tonnes CO2e 99,719 144,127 146,496 148,243 132,514 157,590 140,175 153,574 164,173 146,807 156,062 153,553 156,066 Scope 2 total tonnes CO2e 228,351 232,012 241,091 264,612 254,463 247,775 234,603 243,528 230,760 258,392 246,775 212,592 184,996 Scope 3 total tonnes CO2e 68,341 91,058 159,525 160,133 165,358 202,823 205,793 205,690 207,459 227,206 217,400 214,439 223,890 Scope 1 and 2 total tonnes CO2e 328,070 376,139 387,587 412,855 386,977 405,365 374,778 397,102 394,933 405,199 402,837 366,145 341,062 Scope 1, 2 and 3 total tonnes CO2e 396,411 467,197 547,112 572,988 552,335 608,188 580,571 602,792 602,392 632,405 620,237 580,584 564,952 Emissions outside of Greenhouse Gas Protocol scopes Outside of scope ‡ tonnes CO2e 815 1,091 1,557 1,375 1,231 1,218 1,240 1,235 1,998 2,275 3,009 1,279 3,055 Carbon footprint – breakdown by Greenhouse Gas decrease in electricity consumption in 2017/18 compared ——Non company cars: Three of our operating companies Protocol scope to 2016/17. (59% of Group turnover) reported data for business The total scope 1 emissions (property gas & other fuels, travel using employees’ own cars in 2017/18 (B&Q, Brico haulage, business travel by road) increased by 2% in Emissions from waste have been restated for 2014/15 to Dépôt France and Castorama Poland). 2017/18 compared to 2016/17. This was driven by a 3% 2016/17 due to a number of updates that were made to our increase in emissions from gas and other fuels, a 0.1% waste data see ‘Live smarter’ section for further details. Details on the data scope of rail deliveries: increase in emissions from dedicated store and home ——Four of our operating companies (66% of Group delivery fleets and a 0.3% decrease in emissions from Details on the data scope of business travel by road: turnover) reported data for deliveries via rail, including business travel. ——Hire cars: Data on company cars was collected from B&Q, Castorama France, Castorama Poland and operating companies which accounted for 92% of Castorama Russia. The total scope 2 emissions decreased by 13% in 2017/18 Group turnover in 2017/18. Five companies reported compared to 2016/17. This is driven by both a reduction in data in 2017/18 (B&Q UK, Brico Dépôt France, Castorama the carbon intensity of the UK grid (15% reduction yearFrance Castorama Poland and Screwfix). on-year and 28% reduction since baseline) and a 6.3% Unit 2005/06 2006/07 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18* Carbon footprint – purchased electricity and heat market-based emissions Scope 2: purchased electricity tonnes CO2 203,728 164,299 129,238 and heat Carbon footprint – purchased electricity and heat a tariff-specific conversion factor from one of our purchased heat for which the same conversion factor market-based emissions energy suppliers has been used as in our location-based emissions. Details of conversion factors used as a percentage of our ——48% is purchased electricity for which a national residual total electricity and heat consumption: mix carbon conversion factor is available (countries We continue to work with our suppliers to obtain tariff——1.0% from onsite renewables inside Europe) specific carbon conversion factors to further improve the ——28% from B&Q, Screwfix UK and Brico Dépôt Romania’s ——14% is purchased electricity for which a grid-average accuracy of our market-based scope 2 emissions. purchased zero carbon renewables conversion factor has been used (for countries outside ——9% is purchased electricity for which we have obtained of Europe). This also includes a small element of * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP. ‡ 2017/18 data covers emissions from biofuels (Castorama France dedicated transport fleets) and forecourt fuels containing biofuel (UK and France operating companies). 97 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 Unit 2005/06 2006/07 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18* Property energy use Energy use GWh 936 1,002 1,020 1,083 1,041 1,156 1,053 1,124 1,159 1,105 1,144 1,124 1,099 Energy intensity kWh/m2 reported u/a u/a u/a u/a u/a 174.0 152.6 166.5 165.2 145.2 147.3 145.3 140.1 floor space Property carbon emissions Carbon emissions from energy use tonnes CO2e 292,454 306,713 313,814 347,205 327,206 342,596 314,240 335,596 329,624 340,151 335,865 299,778 274,675 Carbon intensity kg CO2e/m 2 u/a u/a u/a u/a u/a 51.6 45.5 49.7 47.0 44.7 43.2 38.8 35.0 reported floor space Haulage direct impacts – dedicated fleet vehicles Store deliveries – own/dedicated fleet vehicles Fuel: Diesel thousand litres 13,351 17,834 19,769 17,284 14,956 14,993 14,965 14,483 12,718 13,043 14,237 14,259 15,002 Fuel: Biofuel and gas (LNG and CNG) thousand litres 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 111 1,400 1,604 1,223 33 32 Carbon emissions tonnes CO2 equivalent 35,616 47,574 52,735 46,108 39,896 39,995 38,602 37,736 35,094 35,812 37,999 37,305 38,996 Distance travelled thousand km 43,444 55,881 64,029 56,193 48,293 47,026 47,020 45,578 43,570 45,240 48,119 46,606 48,814 Volume of products delivered thousand m3 3,792 4,393 4,506 4,034 3,641 3,734 3,720 3,650 3,710 3,999 4,083 3,670 3,632 Loading efficiency litres of fuel used 3.52 4.06 4.39 4.28 4.11 4.02 4.02 4.00 3.81 3.66 3.79 3.89 4.14 per m3 of product delivered to stores Home deliveries – own/dedicated fleet vehicles Fuel: Diesel and petrol thousand litres u/a 6,161 5,669 5,363 5,098 5,251 5,020 5,501 7,825 7,559 7,544 7,501 6,999 Fuel: Gas (LPG) thousand litres u/a u/a 0 0 0 0 0 0 38 183 221 183 76 Carbon emissions tonnes CO2equivalent u/a 16,435 15,124 14,305 13,599 14,008 12,991 14,307 20,576 20,129 20,064 20,017 18,372 Total store and home deliveries – own/dedicated fleet vehicles Fuel thousand litres 13,351 23,995 25,438 22,647 20,054 20,244 19,985 20,095 21,981 22,389 23,225 21,975 22,108 Carbon emissions tonnes CO2equivalent 35,616 64,009 67,859 60,413 53,495 54,003 51,593 52,043 55,670 55,941 58,063 57,322 57,368 Haulage direct impacts – dedicated fleet vehicles Details on the data scope of home deliveries: Details on the data scope of store deliveries: ——The following operating companies use dedicated home ——The following operating companies use dedicated store delivery fleets: B&Q, Castorama France and Castorama delivery fleets: B&Q, Castorama France, Castorama Poland (62% of Group turnover). Poland, Screwfix UK and Screwfix Germany (76% of Group turnover). u/a – unavailable * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP. 98 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 Unit 2005/06 2006/07 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Property water use Total water use million m3 0.94 0.94 1.03 1.04 1.13 1.04 1.10 1.10 1.16 1.30 1.24 1.25 Water intensity litres/m2 reported u/a u/a u/a u/a 185 151 162 157 153 167 160 159 floor space Live smarter by getting more from less, reusing or using longer Target: 20 products or services that help customers get more from less, reuse or use longer Unit 2005/06 2006/07 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Product ranges and services Number of product ranges or services that Number 3 help customers to get more from less, reuse or use longer Target: Ensure sustainable management and efficient use of key resources (2025) including 100% responsibly sourced wood and paper and peat-free bagged growing media (2020) Unit 2005/06 2006/07 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18* Responsibly sourced wood and paper in products Total wood and paper sold million m3 RWE 4.46 5.46 4.97 5.83 6.31 6.93 6.19 7.44 8.70 8.71 9.58 8.10 Responsibly sourced wood and paper sold million m3 RWE 3.55 4.17 3.90 4.67 5.23 6.10 5.74 6.97 8.35 8.36 9.22 7.82 Responsibly sourced wood and paper sold % of total 80 76 78 80 83 88 93 94 96 96 96 97 Responsibly sourced wood and paper in products – breakdown by category FSC-certified million m3 RWE 2.34 2.59 2.57 3.01 3.55 3.39 2.78 3.05 3.97 4.26 5.16 4.48 Formally working towards FSC certification million m3 RWE 0.08 0.04 0.04 0.06 0.04 0.01 0.06 0.07 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.04 PEFC-certified (includes endorsed schemes) million m3 RWE 1.12 1.53 1.29 1.60 1.63 2.69 2.90 3.84 4.28 3.98 3.95 3.22 Verifiable recycled material million m3 RWE 0.01 0.01 0.00 0.00 0.01 0.01 0.00 0.01 0.06 0.08 0.07 0.08 Total responsibly sourced million m3 RWE 3.55 4.17 3.90 4.67 5.23 6.10 5.74 6.97 8.35 8.36 9.22 7.82 Responsibly sourced wood and paper in products – or higher in previous years). Data for 2017/18 excludes UK and French operating companies also report data for breakdown by category Castorama Russia. products with smaller quantities of timber. Details on the data scope: ——Data was collected from operating companies which Our data covers products made entirely of timber and accounted for 97% of the Group turnover in 2017/18 (95% containing a high proportion of timber. In addition, our u/a – unavailable * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP. 99 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 Unit 2005/06 2006/07 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Responsibly sourced wood and paper in catalogues, customer marketing materials and office paper Total GNFR paper purchased million m3 RWE 0.129 0.148 0.232 0.212 0.207 0.190 Responsibly sourced GNFR paper purchased million m3 RWE 0.128 0.131 0.227 0.170 0.199 0.189 Responsibly sourced GNFR paper purchased % of total 99 89 98 80 96 99.6 Responsibly sourced wood and paper in catalogues, customer marketing materials and office paper – breakdown by category Our 2020 target is 100% responsibly sourced wood and paper in all our operations. Our 2017/18 Group data covers wood and paper used in our products and we now also report on paper used in catalogues, customer marketing materials and office paper. Data collected on wood and paper in packaging and construction is incomplete and we are working to address this. Unit 2005/06 2006/07 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Peat alternative in bagged growing media Peat alternative in bagged growing media % of total 57 57 56 61 61 64 62 68 67 Peat in bagged growing media % of total 43 43 44 39 39 36 38 32 33 Peat alternative in bagged growing media Due to errors in B&Q’s prior year data the 2016/17 figures have been restated. This has increased peat alternative in bagged growing media by 7.1% for that year. 100 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 Target: Zero waste to landfill (2020) and 90% of waste recycled (2025) Unit 2005/06 2006/07 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18* Waste recycling and disposal Total waste generated (disposed + recycled) thousand tonnes 193 203 204 193 198 191 223 241 230 231 238 207 222 Waste disposed (landfill and incineration) thousand tonnes 140 152 145 119 108 69 76 77 70 69 72 56 62 Waste disposed (landfill) thousand tonnes 50 42 47 32 32 Waste disposed (incineration) thousand tonnes 20 27 25 24 30 Waste recycled thousand tonnes 53 51 59 74 90 122 147 164 160 162 166 151 160 Landfill diversion rate % of total waste 78 81 80 85 86 generated Recycling rate % of total waste 27 25 29 38 45 64 66 68 70 70 70 73 72 generated Unit 2005/06 2006/07 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18* Recycling – breakdown of materials recycled Wood thousand tonnes 27 24 28 34 40 58 78 80 77 72 80 73 75 Cardboard/paper thousand tonnes 19 20 22 24 27 31 36 36 37 39 39 37 39 Plastic thousand tonnes 2 2 3 3 3 5 5 8 6 7 7 7 7 Metal thousand tonnes 2 2 1 1 2 4 4 6 5 7 7 4 4 Rubble (recorded from 2013/14. thousand tonnes 30 29 26 19 19 Included in 'other' data up until 2012/13) Other (including rubble up until 2012/13) thousand tonnes 3 3 5 12 18 24 24 34 5 7 7 12 16 Recycling – breakdown of materials recycled An error was discovered in 2016/17 data provided by one Waste recycled data has been updated to exclude of Brico Dépôt France’s waste contractors, this data has materials reused offsite. As this is not technically waste been restated. This affected the total waste generated it has now been excluded from our numbers. Data for the figure for the Group by -4%. relevant years has been restated (2014/15 and 2016/17). * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP. 101 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 Unit 2006/07 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Packaging – own-brand and exclusive brand products Weight of primary packaging tonnes 18,551 Weight of primary packaging relative to sales tonnes per £ million sales 10.8 Packaging – own-brand and exclusive brand products Details on the data scope: ——Packaging data covers Brico Dépôt France, Castorama France, Screwfix UK (51% of Group turnover in 2017/18). ——B&Q was not able to provide packaging data or estimate data for this year. Packaging (historical data)– own-brand and exclusive brand products Unit 2006/07 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Weight of primary packaging tonnes 26,809 29,197 26,011 25,152 27,463 32,709 30,481 28,863 Weight of primary packaging relative to sales tonnes per £ million sales 12.8 13.4 10.7 9.7 9.9 11.7 11.1 10.1 Packaging (historical data)– own-brand and exclusive ——The data for B&Q for own/exclusive-brand products brand products is derived from taking the weight collected for all Details on the data scope: packaging and then making an estimate based on the ——Historical packaging data, until 2016/17, covers B&Q, sales value of own/exclusive-brand products. Brico Dépôt France, Castorama France (71% of Group turnover in 2016/17). ——Includes an estimate for Castorama France for 2014/15. Accurate data is available for 2014/15 sales of own brand/exclusive brand products, this has been multiplied by the average tonnes/£ million sales for all available years. Create a healthier home and connect with nature Target: 20% of sales enable customers to create safer, healthier homes and connect with nature Unit 2006/07 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Product sales Product sales that will enable our % of retail sales 5 6 customers to create safer and healthier homes and connect with nature 102 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 Help millions more people improve their homes Target: Help millions more people tackle poor and unfit housing through strategic partnerships and local action in all our markets Unit 2005/06 2006/07 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18* Community investment – company giving Cash donations £ thousand 330 300 281 377 405 937 1,197 1,535 1,862 1,581 1,001 1,353 1,500 Gifts-in-kind £ thousand 690 471 571 353 290 291 279 389 332 218 441 109 579 Employee time £ thousand 81 146 207 157 139 175 206 260 604 531 225 323 303 Total company giving £ thousand 1,101 917 1,059 887 834 1,403 1,682 2,184 2,798 2,330 1,667 1,785 2,382 Community investment – value of employee and customer giving Value of employee and customer £ thousand 658 486 630 638 493 623 617 1,021 1,068 669 774 1,240 1,387 giving (fundraising and other leverage) Community investment – value of employee and ——Employee time: management time of £243,000 and customer giving volunteering in company time of £60,000. Kingfisher is currently working on developing new Community KPIs to enable reporting on the number Employee and customer giving: of people helped with tackling poor and unfit housing. ——In addition to our own giving, we encourage and facilitate customers and employees to raise money for charities. Our data on company giving in 2017/18 includes: Our data on employee and customer giving includes ——Cash donations: charitable giving of £1,488,000 money raised through in-store collections, payroll and cause-related marketing of £12,000. giving, fundraising events and pledges taken from the ——Gifts-in-kind: retail product donations of £545,000 public by staff at our contact centres during charity (valued at cost price) and other gifts (including fundraising appeals, such as the UK’s Children in Need. unsaleable goods donated to local communities) of £34,000. * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP. 103 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 Target: Ensure suppliers meet our ethical and environmental standards (2020) and establish strategic community programmes to achieve positive change in key sourcing regions (2025) Unit 2017/18* Supplier assessments Total number of suppliers number 4,310 Total number of finished goods production sites † number 5,504 Production sites that have completed an audit at some stage in the past two financial years number 1,178 Production sites that have completed an audit at some stage in the past two financial years % 21 Supplier assessments – site grades Grade 1 number 187 Grade 2 number 44 Grade 3 number 272 Grade 4 number 367 Grade 5 number 294 Grade Business Critical number 14 Training Employees that have attended a training session on ethical sourcing and/or environmental issues in number 157 the past financial year Supplier companies that have attended training workshops on supply chain ethical and environmental number 565 issues over the past financial year Individuals within our supply chain that have attended training workshops on supply chain ethical and number 917 environmental issues over the past financial year Supplier assessments We reviewed and updated our supplier assessment data points in 2017/18. Our data collection systems have been extended to cover all buying offices as they have now all been operational for the full financial year. * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP. † Data covers production sites that our Buying Offices source from directly, and those disclosed to us by suppliers through the Sedex platform. We aim for all our suppliers to be using Sedex by the end of 2020, and to disclose to us all production sites that supply us with finished goods. 104 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 Our people Health and safety Unit 2006/07 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18* Employee accidents – fatalities Work-related fatalities number 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Work-related employee accidents Accident numbers All work-related employee number 7,430 7,531 8,136 7,580 7,403 6,525 accidents/injuries Accident rate Rate for 'all work-related' accidents number per 100,000 full-time 12,450 12,812 13,405 12,160 11,611 10,193 equivalent employees Work days lost Total number of work days lost as a number 66,769 59,485 u/a 90,547 80,670 93,713 result of all work-related employee accidents/injuries Health and safety There are some significant variations in accident rates across the Group. This is partly due to differences in legislation, mandatory accident reporting requirements, and health and safety cultures across countries. The total rate for all work-related accidents in the UK was 14,898 per 100,000 full-time equivalent employees in 2017/18. * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP. 105 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 People Unit 2005/06 2006/07 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18* Diversity – senior management Gender Board – men % of Board members 73 73 60 56 56 56 Board – women % of Board members 27 27 40 44 44 44 Senior management total – men % of total 79 79 81 80 80 80 Senior management total – women % of total 21 21 19 20 20 20 Diversity – all employees Gender Total employees – men % of employees 60 60 60 59 60 61 60 60 61 61 61 61 60 Total employees – women % of employees 40 40 40 41 40 39 40 40 39 39 39 39 40 All management positions – men % of managers 76 76 74 73 72 71 71 71 71 71 69 67 66 All management positions – women % of managers 24 24 26 27 28 29 29 29 29 29 31 33 34 Age Employees 24 and under % of employees 18 17 21 18 18 17 16 14 13 13 14 15 15 Employees 25–49 % of employees 66 67 64 67 67 68 68 70 71 70 69 68 67 Employees 50 and over % of employees 16 16 15 15 15 15 16 16 16 17 17 17 18 Ethnic minorities – UK only Employees who have declared they % of employees 7 8 8 10 10 10 9 7 9 11 14 6 6 are from an ethnic minority People Data is for full-time equivalents at year end. Details on the data scope: ——We have extended the management positions to also include B&Q’s store supervisor roles. This has led to a 5% increase in number of employees in management positions and a small increase (less than 1%) in percentage of women in ‘all management positions’. Prior year data has not been restated. ——Data for ethnic minorities is for the UK only (B&Q, Screwfix UK, Kingfisher corporate head office and KITS UK). * Independently assured by Deloitte LLP. 106 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 Unit 2006/07 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Disability – all employees Employees who have declared % of employees 2 2 3 2 3 3 3 2 3 3 2 2 a disability Training Training hours number 806,254 869,832 868,705 576,678 444,785 486,132 741,512 744,496 741,366 877,881 1,040,429 772,574 Training hours per employee number per employee 13 12 12 8 6 7 10 10 10 12 14 10 Training Details on the data scope: ——Data was collected from operating companies which accounted for 99% of the Group turnover in 2017/18 (99% in 2016/17). Data excludes Brico Dépôt Romania and Screwfix Germany. Unit 2006/07 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Employee turnover Employees who left number 18,221 21,063 18,777 13,256 14,248 15,516 15,644 14,748 17,379 18,376 24,717 25,320 Rate of employee turnover % 29 29 26 19 20 22 21 21 24 24 32 33 Employee turnover Data covers employees who left voluntarily and involuntarily. Details on data scope: ——Data was collected from operating companies which accounted for 99% of Group turnover in 2017/18 (99.9% in 2016/17). Data excludes Brico Dépôt Romania and Screwfix Germany. 107 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 assurance Independent assurance Our assurance opinion Wood and paper —— Responsibly sourced timber products (% of Targets —— The assertion by Kingfisher that they have statement by Deloitte LLP Based on the assurance work performed, responsibly sourced timber sold, by volume) followed their stated process (as detailed nothing has come to our attention that causes in the Data Collection Methodology) to to Kingfisher plc on selected us to believe that the selected information Communities determine the progress towards their information for inclusion described below has not been prepared, —— Community investment – company giving Sustainability Targets for the year ended in all material respects, in accordance with (cash, gifts in kind and time) (£’000) 31 January 2018 in the Sustainability Report Kingfisher’s Reporting Criteria, as disclosed —— Community investment – company, employee 2017/18. within the Data Methodology Document set out at www.kingfisher.com/sustainability. and customer giving (£’000) Basis of our work and level of assurance People Scope of our work —— Gender diversity (% female employees We carried out limited assurance on the (Board, senior management, all management)) selected information in accordance with Kingfisher plc (‘Kingfisher’) engaged us to —— Employees by age (% by age group (24 and the International Standard on Assurance provide limited assurance1 over the following under, 25 – 49 and 50 and over)) Engagements 3000 (Revised) (ISAE 3000). selected information for the year ended —— Ethnic diversity (% of UK employees from an To achieve limited assurance ISAE 3000 31 January 2018: ethnic minority) requires that we review the processes, —— Employee accident rate (number of all worksystems and competencies used to compile Product Innovation related accidents per 100,000 full-time the areas on which we provide assurance. —— Sustainable Home Products (% of retail sales employee equivalents) This is designed to give a similar level of (compliant products/best-in-class)) —— Health and safety – number of accidents assurance to that obtained in the review (employees, customers and contractors) of interim financial information. It does not Energy and carbon include detailed testing of source data or the —— Property portfolio energy intensity (kWh/m2 Environment operating effectiveness of processes and reported floor space) —— Waste recycling and disposal – waste internal controls. —— Absolute carbon footprint (Scope 1 and 2) recycled, waste disposed to landfill, waste (tCO2e) disposed to incineration with energy With respect to the Product Innovation —— Property portfolio carbon intensity (tCO2e/ recovery (‘000 tonnes) information described above, our testing m2 reported floor space) —— Waste recycling (% of waste recycled) was limited to the review of model —— Carbon emissions from direct haulage assumptions and product classification. (dedicated store and home delivery fleets) Suppliers and partners We did not perform substantive testing 1 The levels of assurance engagement are defined in (tCO2e) —— Supplier Ethical and Environmental procedures over the model used to produce ISAE 3000 (Revised). A reasonable level of assurance —— Carbon emissions from indirect haulage Assessment results (%) reported information. is similar to the audit of financial statements; a limited (tCO2e) level of assurance is similar to the review of a half year financial report. 108 Introduction Sustainable homes Save energy & water Live smarter Healthy homes Our communities Our people Governance Our reporting Appendices Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 To form our conclusions we undertook the Responsibilities of Directors and Our team consisted of a combination of following procedures: independent assurance provider Chartered Accountants with professional assurance qualifications and professionals with —— Interviewed the Group Sustainability Kingfisher’s responsibilities a combination of environmental, corporate Team and other members of Kingfisher The Directors are responsible for the responsibility and stakeholder engagement Management to understand the governance preparation of the Sustainability Report experience, including many years’ experience and review process for data management 2017/18, the Data Collection Methodology in providing sustainability report assurance. and collection, the organisational and 2017/18 and for the information and statements operational boundaries of data collection, contained within them. They are responsible Our responsibility is to independently express the internal validation procedures and the for determining the sustainability targets and conclusions on the subject matters as defined effectiveness of these, the interpretation of for establishing and maintaining appropriate within the scope of work above to Kingfisher reporting guidance and the methodologies performance management and internal control in accordance with our letter of engagement. and assumptions used to calculate the data; systems from which the reported information Our work has been undertaken so that we is derived. might state to the Firm those matters we are —— Interviewed Kingfisher’s Subject Matter required to state to them in this report and Expects (SMEs) and those with operational Deloitte’s responsibilities, independence and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent responsibilities for, or key accountabilities team competencies permitted by law, we do not accept or assume in, the data collection process for the We complied with Deloitte’s independence responsibility to anyone other than Kingfisher subject matters as shown in the ‘Scope of policies, which address and, in certain cases, for our work, for this report, or for the our work’ section; exceed the requirements of the International conclusions we have formed. Federation of Accountants’ Code of Ethics —— Understood the role of internal validation for Professional Accountants in their role Deloitte LLP processes, including the role of Kingfisher as independent auditors, and in particular London, United Kingdom Internal Audit, in supporting the quality of preclude us from taking financial, commercial, data submitted by operating companies governance and ownership positions which 12 June 2018 prior to its consolidation at group level; might affect, or be perceived to affect, our independence and impartiality, and —— Re-performed a sample of Internal Audit’s from any involvement in the preparation of work, testing the key structures, systems, the Sustainability Report 2017/18 and the processes, procedures and controls related, Data Collection Methodology 2017/18. The but not limited to, the collation, validation and firm applies the International Standard on reporting of sustainability information Quality Control 1 and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control —— Reviewed the content of the Sustainability including documented policies and procedures Report 2017/18 and the Data Collection regarding compliance with ethical requirements, Methodology document 2017/18. professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. We have confirmed to Kingfisher that we have maintained our independence and objectivity throughout the year and in particular that there were no events or prohibited services provided which could impair our independence and objectivity. 109 Kingfisher | Sustainability report 2017/18 Read more Contacts Our sustainability website We’d like to hear your feedback. www.kingfisher.com/sustainability You can tell us what you think about Annual Report and Accounts sustainability at Kingfisher at www.kingfisher.com/annualreport17-18 sustainability@kingfisher.com Sustainable growth plan launch report www.kingfisher.com/sustainablegrowthplan Our data collection methodology www.kingfisher.com/sustainabilityresources Our Sustainable Home Product Guidelines www.kingfisher.com/shpguidelines 110
