2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT TABLE #2 OF CONTENT 03 — Foreword by the CEO Key Facts 04 — About TP Aerospace Corporate responsibility 05 — Our People Human Rights Safety Concerns Diversity & Inclusion Job Satisfaction 07 — Product & Business Ethics Quality & Product Safety Bribery & Corruption Facilitation Payments Gifts & Hospotality 08 — Climate & Environment Reducing Emissions Waste Management This report covers the calendar year 2017 and is TP Aerospace’s first report on our corporate responsibility performance. The report constitutes our Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact as well as our reporting in compliance with the Danish Financial Statements Act §99a. FOREWORD #3 BY THE CEO With the rapid growth of global aviation, and with bility concerns into the every-day business to KEY 2018 marking our 10th year in operation, we are achieve the best results. FACTS proud that TP Aerospace has managed to take on the role as market leader within its niche. I now feel that the direction is clear, and with Yet, we also recognize the responsibility that some very ambitious targets going towards comes along with our increasing operations and 2021, we are now ready to get down to busiglobal presence; a responsibility to do our part to ensure that aviation grows in the most sustainable manner possible. ness and start implementing the necessary procedures, systems and policies to succeed on these targets. Especially, we identify a strong HQ Copenhagen, Denmark need to implement mechanisms that allow us to Operating in the aftermarket, and with a busicollect data and follow our progress on severness model rooted in the reuse and recycling of al corporate responsibility challenges, and we 86.6 parts, we believe we are on the right track. acknowledge that this work will span over the next couple of years. However, we have early on identified a need USDm for a more structured approach to working with We are looking forward to continuing our corporevenue 2017 corporate responsibility throughout the Group. rate responsibility journey, and in the meantime, Therefore, we took a big step in 2017, and beI hope you find this report an interesting read! came signatory to the United Nations Global Compact. Not only because we strongly believe in and support the ten principles of the Global Compact, but also because it provides a good framework for strategically incorporating ethical, Best Regards Peter Lyager 7 locations globally social and environmental concerns into all asCEO pects of our business. In light of this new commitment, our focus in 2017 has been on defining the direction for the entire Group and on identifying the best way for TP Aerospace to integrate corporate responsi+230 employees at year-end ABOUT #4 TP AEROSPACE TP Aerospace is the leading aftermarket supCORPORATE plier of wheels and brakes, carrying the world’s RESPONSIBILITY largest ready-to-go inventory in the market for Being a responsible employer, corporate citizen, most commercial, regional and commuter airsupplier and business partner is a core part of craft types. our identity, and we have always placed strong expectations upon ourselves to conduct busiWe source wheels and brakes in the aftermarness with a high level of integrity. ket, i.e. from aircraft companies or tear-down companies, and run them through our in-house During the first steps on our journey to MRO shops to secure consistent quality. From adopt a more structured approach to corstorage in one of our warehouses, the units are porate responsibility, we have conducted sold to aircraft operators through our trading or risk assessments, materiality assessments program divisions. All wheels and brakes sold and stakeholder analyses. We have estathrough programs enter a circular flow, enabling blished a global governance structure, develthe parts to be reused or recycled. oped a 2021 strategy and set forth a global policy commitment that builds on the ten principles In 2017, we landed a revenue of USD 86.6 mill. of the UN Global Compact and covers the areas compared to USD 62.9 mill. in 2016., correof human rights, including labor rights, environsponding to an increase of 38%. ment and anti-corruption. During the same period, our global workIn 2017, we reviewed the 17 Sustainable Deforce increased from 177 to 234 people, and velopment Goals and the underlying goals, and our global reach expanded further as our faconcluded that in light of our corporate responcilities in Dubai and Melbourne respectivesibility strategy, we actively contribute towards ly came into full operation while also a new achieving the following goals: facility in Las Vegas was acquired. OUR #5 PEOPLE We rely on the skills and commitment of our business. ment. people and a healthy society to drive and grow TP Aerospace, and we believe in treating Going forward, similar initiatives will be implepeople, whether inside or outside our organizaSAFETY mented at all other facilities, and a global safetion, with basic dignity and respect. CONCERNS ty committee will be established to create more Safety in the workplace is a fundamental right coherence across our global operations and inThus, we do not only care about fostering a and prerequisite for well-being and job satisfaccrease the possibility for knowledge sharing on healthy and trusting work environment, we also tion, and operating in the aviation parts indussafety matters. care about how our business operations are try, our greatest safety risks are those related potentially impacting people’s, enjoyment of to working at one of our MRO shops and wareAdditionally, a global system for reporting incitheir human rights. houses. dents and accidents is currently being established to enable the gathering of safety perforIn the past year, no lost time injuries occurred mance data. HUMAN at any of our facilities, and the few smaller RIGHTS incidents were immediately remediated. We are strongly committed to respecting the DIVERSITY human rights of our people and of anyone else During 2017, we increased our focus on glob& INCLUSION potentially affected by our operations as we al knowledge sharing and we initiated the estaIt is TP Aerospace’s policy to always hire candibelieve that this constitute the baseline for blishment of a global safety standard. dates who are most qualified for a given position. human dignity. However, we recognize that diversity is a quality At our largest MRO shop, located in Germany, in itself in order to develop different views, ideas Our corporate responsibility policy builds on we appointed safety representatives among and analyses. We are therefore actively promotthe UN Guiding Principles on Business and the workers on the shop floor and established ing a diverse workforce, and we define diversity Human Rights, and we use these guidelines as a safety committee consisting of the safety in terms of gender, nationality, personal and proa framework for understanding human rights in a representatives as well as an external fessional experience, cultural background and business context. consultant. other diversity factors. Going forward, a due diligence process will be The safety committee conducts regular safety We strive towards a balanced gender composiestablished to help identify, prevent and mitigate reviews of all work stations and prepares monthtion at all management levels, and by end 2017, potential human rights impacts caused by our ly reports for the Group’s Executive Manage20% of our global management group were fe#6 male. Additionally, 40% were non-Danes. JOB An overarching goal for 2018 is to implement SATISFACTION global human resource procedures and systems We are continuously striving to strengthen the to enable the collection of detailed HR data and relationship between TP Aerospace and our thus gain a better objective indicator of our perpeople through the measuring of job satisfaction formance and progress on diversity and other and engagement. We believe this is key to mainHR related matters. taining a strong, qualified and loyal workforce and to strengthening our business results. With a highly diverse workforce comes a responsibility to provide an inclusive and supportive In 2017, we established a work environment working environment, where all employees are organization and conducted our first workplace valued and where the individual thrives, develassessment at our headquarters in Copenhaops and feel motivated. gen, which led to minor findings for which action plans were developed. At the core of our efforts for a continuously inclusive working environment lies a fundamental During 2018, we aim to broaden the scope of value of respect; Respect for other people and our workplace assessment and conduct another for their differences, and we continuously strive survey at our headquarters. to undertake initiative to promote this value and do not tolerate any kind of harassment or disAdditionally, we will start implementing similar crimination. assessments at our other locations to gain a global perspective on our employees’ job satisAdditionally, we strongly believe in entrusting faction. our employees with freedom and responsibility to perform their tasks, which will not only increase motivation but also enable an environment where everyone can reach their potential. PRODUCT & #7 BUSINESS ETHICS High business ethics is at the core of how we tions within the Group. On the basis hereof, we GIFTS conduct business, and we want to supply developed and released our first Code of Con& HOSPITALITY high-quality products to a market characterized duct that clarifies the company’s commitments We consider gifts and hospitality a natural part by fair competition. and standards within the scope of responsible of today’s business environment and at TP Aerobusiness conduct. space, accepting or offering courtesies play a part in how we build and maintain strong busiQUALITY & In 2018, we will start adding anti-corruption ness relations. PRODUCT SAFETY clauses to employment contracts to ensure our TP Aerospace is certified to AS9120, an aeroemployees’ compliance with our standards. LikeHowever, we are committed to never give and space specific quality standard which includes wise, we will implement Code of Conduct trainaccept courtesies that could be perceived as ISO 9001:2008. During 2017, we implemented ing to increase awareness and understanding of bribes or otherwise conflict of interests. In 2017, additional training and procedures to increase the Code and provide employees with guidance we therefore implemented strict guidelines for our quality performance and comply with the reon how to handle difficult situations. when gifts and hospitalities are accepted within cent update of AS9120. In late 2017, we passed TP Aerospace. the audit for the updated AS9120 Rev B standard in Europe, and we expect to receive the same FACILITATION certification in Asia Pacific and North America in PAYMENTS early 2018. We are committed to working actively towards the elimination of facilitation payments but are highly challenged by the cultural acceptance of BRIBERY & such payment in some areas of the world. CORRUPTION We have a zero tolerance towards corruption and bribery, and operating in a highly global and In 2018, we will strive to assess the extent of competitive business environment, we acknowlthe issue by implementing a system for reporting edge the risk of being implicated in such illegal demands for facilitation payments, whether they and unethical behavior. are made directly or through third parties. We In 2017, we conducted a risk assessment to expect that increased transparency on this matidentify our exposure to different types of corter will help us define necessary steps for further ruption as well as high-risk regions and job funcaction. CLIMATE #8 & ENVIRONMENT Operating in an industry that undeniably has WASTE adverse impacts on the environment, we strive The transportation of goods between TP AeroMANAGEMENT to take action to continuously minimize the envispace and our customers as well as between difOperating in the aftermarket, reuse of parts and ronmental footprint of our operations. ferent TP Aerospace locations is outsourced to the prolonging of product lifetime are at the core third party freight companies. However, we are of our business model. committed to doing our part in reducing the carREDUCING bon footprint of these operations by optimizing In 2017, we increased focus on our waste manEMISSIONS logistics procedures without compromising our agement around our core products: wheels and TP Aerospace’s direct emissions, defined as commitment to our customers. brakes, and we engaged in a partnership with a scope 1 emissions of the Greenhouse Gas recycling company in Denmark, allowing all end(GHG) Protocol, are limited to a few company During 2017, we have undertaken initiatives to of-life wheels and brakes to enter a full circular cars globally. reduce the number of transactions through incircuit through the separation of all materials ternal awareness training and efforts to increase within the parts and enabling it to be convertThus, our greatest carbon footprint derive from communication internally and between TP Aeroed to raw materials, reused and live on in new indirect emissions from two main sour-ces: elecspace and our customers. Additionally, we have products. tricity used at our facilities (scope 2 of the GHG established guidelines to increase the use of Protocol) and transportation of parts (scope 3 of transportation modes with a smaller environGoing forward, we will work to identify solutions the GHG Protocol). mental impact, such as sea freight, rather than for similar procedures at our other locations to higher impact transportation modes. ensure that all wheels and brakes reaching endA vast amount of our electricity use derives from of-life within the TP Aerospace Group of compaour MRO shops where we run heavy machinery In 2018, we will continue the implementation nies are recycled properly. requiring a lot of power. As part of our strategy, of these initiatives and continue to develop our we have committed to continuously evaluate the data foundation to objectively measure our peropportunities for converting to renewable energy formance going forward. at all our facilities. Starting at our headquarters, we have engaged in a partnership with our energy company to invest in the production of wind energy corresponding to our use of electricity, thus becoming carbon neutral at our facility in Copenhagen. tpaerospace.com Questions regarding this report can be directed to: Julie Loekkegaard, Corporate Responsibility Manager jul@tpaerospace.com IT’S THAT SIMPLE
