P recious to us 2017 Sustainability Report Follow the quarterly evolution of our indicators at www.argor.com/ CSRindicators Letter to our stakeholders When we issued last year’s Sustainability Report, we assumed five commitments to all of our stakeholders. Five commitments that give tangible and personal significance to the concept of “corporate social responsibility” through the work that all of us do every day. We are convinced that the dedication, experience, and good will that our employees put into their work are what makes the difference. Dedication that is naturally expressed in their respect of the standards, rules, regulations, and laws that govern this complex industry and that help make it more solid and transparent. A thorough sustainability report must take account of the most recent guidelines and standards for reporting and sustainability. Therefore, as in the past, we have prepared this report by following GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) guidelines. The report describes what we have accomplished this year as well as our support of the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact concerning human rights, labour, the environment, and the fight against corruption. Lastly, this year the Report introduces the UN Sustainable Development Goals as a further demonstration of our daily commitment to improvement. Our commitment is of course sustained by our long-time shareholder, whose name we bear since 1986 and which now owns 100% of our shares. Heraeus, 2 a global family-owned portfolio company based in Germany, has been a solid partner for many years and shares our values and our attention to responsibility and sustainability. Together, as the world’s largest provider of services in the precious metals industry, we are ready to write a new chapter of our corporate history and of our sector. Christoph Wild CEO Argor-Heraeus SA P recious to us The metal we process and the attention we give our stakeholders are precious. Our devotion to being a successful company, which allows us to assume long-term responsibilities, is precious. Above all, the environment and the social and economic context influenced by our actions are precious. Therefore, “Precious to us” expresses our approach to sustainability, confirmed through five commitments. 4 Our commitments 2. Work for a transparent and responsible 1. nvolve our chain stakeholders Page 16 Page 10 3. Contribute to local development Page 26 4. P rotect the environment 5. Grow with Page 32 our employees Page 46 About Argor-Heraeus ArgorFOUNDED IN 1951 Heraeus Page 58 Headquarters Mendrisio, The Golden Link Canton Ticino, Switzerland www.argor.com HERAEUS GROUP LOCATIONS Page 60 Page 62 100% part of the Heraeus 4 branches Group and fully integrated → Switzerland within the Global Business Unit → Italy Heraeus Precious Metals → Germany → Chile 6 GOVERNANCE PRECIOUS SOLUTIONS AT 3 LEVELS Page 64 Page 66 → Executive → Precious metal refining → Managerial → Smelted and minted products → Operative → Semi-finished products for the high-end jewellery and watch industry → Financial and accessory services GOLD PRODUCTION CUSTOMERS IN ALMOST CAPACITY 50 COUNTRIES WORLDWIDE Page 67 Page 67 Up to 1,300 → Banks tonnes/year → Mines, formalised ASM communities → Professionals in the high-end jewellery and watch industry 7 About Argor-Heraeus Our 5 commitments and the Sustainable Development Goals of the UN By means of the 5 commitments that define our approach to sustainability, we provide a tangible contribution along the entire chain to the Sustainable Development Goals promoted by the United Nations. This report provides detailed descriptions of the aspects summarised in the following table. 1. nvolve our stakeholders 2. Work for a transparent and responsible chain 3. Contribute to local development 4. Protect the environment 5. Grow with our employees 8 Source Argor-Heraeus Distribution SCRAP INDUSTRY Industrial and old jewellery REFINING MINES TRANSFORMATION BANKS, LSM, SSM, INSTITUTIONAL ASM INVESTORS, MINTS PRECIOUS METAL SERVICES GOOD DELIVERY JEWELLERY AND Grandfathered HIGH-END Non-Grandfathered WATCH INDUSTRY 9 Precious to us 1. nvolve our stakeholders P recious to us in our own words We have regular meetings with a panel of sustainability experts from various fields to discuss what we do and how to improve. This open and transparent dialogue is fundamental for creating trust and synergies: the result of our team’s years of experience in the industry and the expertise in responsibility and sustainability provided by professionals from different social contexts. Christoph Wild, CEO, Argor-Heraeus 10 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees Today's commitment NEW OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE A REPORT IN LINE WITH → In July 2017, we officially became INTERNATIONAL PRINCIPLES 100% part of the Heraeus Group AND GUIDELINES and fully integrated within the → Global Reporting Initiative: GRI Global Business Unit Heraeus Standards Precious Metals → 10 principles of the UN Global → Together, we are the world’s Compact largest provider of services in the → UN Sustainable Development precious metals industry Goals NEW WEBSITE → This year we launched our new website, an essential channel for dialogue with our stakeholders Tomorrow's commitment EVEN CLOSER TO OUR BUSINESS PARTNERS TOWARD REAL-TIME REPORTING Heraeus Precious Metals global presence – especially We work hard to make each sustainability report a more through its Hong Kong branch – strengthened our role solid tool in order to provide our stakeholders with a on the Asian market, increasingly important for the platform for sharing what we do and achieve. With industry. This makes us even closer to our business this in mind, starting in mid-2018, they will be able to partners, with which we diligently share our practices consult online and on a quarterly basis, selected data and principles. regarding our consumptions and emissions. Our goal? In the future, real time consultation of these data! 11 Precious to us How do we involve our stakeholders? Stakeholder Key subjects of interest Main activities → Economic performance → Shareholders Meeting Shareholders → Distribution of added value → Continuous collaboration and periodic targeted communication → Reputation → Annual Report, Sustainability Report, video on sustainability, new website → Ethics and integrity → Economic performance → Personnel policy and incentives Management → Reputation → Monthly meetings of executives, workshops → Employment conditions → Technical and professional training → Health and safety → Annual Report, Sustainability Report, video on sustainability, new website, code → Education and training of conduct → Ethics and integrity → Ethics and integrity → Personnel policy and incentives Employees → Reputation → Periodic newsletter → Employment conditions → Technical and professional training → Health and safety → Sports and recreation group → Education and training → Annual Report, Sustainability Report, video on sustainability, new website, code → Efficiency and performance of conduct → Sustainable mobility programme → Member – FocusMEM Ticino – HR Ticino – ICT Ticino – Swiss company for safety at the workplace (SSSL) → Quality of products and service → Compliance procedures Customers → Reputation → Targeted personalised information and suppliers → Compliance → Commercial activities, targeted visits, trade fairs → Ethics and integrity → Sustainability Report, new website → Responsibility and transparency → Supplier assessment procedures of suppliers → Supply practices → Ethics and integrity → Support to local non-profit associations NGOs → Compliance → Assessment of involvement in non-profit projects linked to fair trade → Responsibility and → Seminars transparency of suppliers → Sustainability Report, video on sustainability, new website → Certification of commitment 12 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees Stakeholder Key subjects of interest Main activities → Ethics and integrity → Press and media relations office activities Mass media → Supply practices → Website media area, Sustainability Report, video on sustainability, new website → Relations with institutions → Use → Economic performance → Member of various associations and initiatives: Industry → Ethics and integrity European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) associations → Collaboration on key projects Ticino Industries Association (AITI) Swiss Precious Metal Industry Association (ASFCMP) Ticino Watch Industry Association (ATIO) Ticino Canton Chamber of Commerce (Cc-Ti) CME Group Inc. Dubai Multi Commodities Centre (DMCC) Infosuisse London Bullion Market Association (LBMA) London Platinum and Palladium Market (LPPM) Precious Metals & Rhenium Consortium (EPMF) Responsible Jewellery Council (RJC), Swiss Better Gold Association (SBGA, founding member) UN Global Compact → Continuous collaboration with principal associations governing the precious metals sector → Sustainability Report, video on sustainability, new website → Payment of taxes → Continuous collaboration and periodic targeted communication Institutions → Observance of rules → Sustainability Report, video on sustainability, new website → Environmental impact → Visits to Company by politicians and representatives of institutions → Employment and safety → SUPSI Award for best engineering diploma → Ethics and integrity → Sustainable mobility programme → Employee safety → Regular exercises during the year Public → Collaboration on safety → Continuous collaboration and periodic targeted communication service → Environmental impact → Sustainability Report, video on sustainability, new website → Economic performance → Participation in workshops Competitors → Ethics and integrity → Participation in ASFCMP (Association suisse Fabricants et Commerçants des → Partnerships on matters Métaux Précieux) platform concerning the industry 13 Precious to us Priorities IMPORTANT TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS, IMPORTANT TO US When preparing this Sustainability Report, we identified our stakeholders and the economic, environmental, and social aspects that are most important to them on the basis of GRI standards. These aspects were then mapped based on their importance for the Company and for our stakeholders, and form the basis of the topics dealt with in this report. We constantly monitor these mapped aspects in dialogues with our stakeholders and, when necessary, add new aspects to be monitored with greater attention. Very high 12 14 11 8 13 7 15 9 3 Importance 2 1 16 for SH 6 4 5 10 High Importance for Argor-Heraeus Very high Economic aspects Environmental aspects Social aspects Mixed aspects 1 – Economic value generated 3– Materials used 8 – Employee health and safety 11 – Ethics and integrity and distributed 4– Energy consumption 9 – Employment 12 – Compliance 2 – Supply practices 5– Water consumption 10 – Training and education 13 – Respect of human rights 6– Exhaust and waste 14 – Responsibility and 7– Emissions transparency of suppliers 15 – Relations with stakeholders 16 – Certification of our commitment 14 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees Our approach Collaboration with our stakeholders is essential for our growth. In a spirit of transparency and mutual benefit, we work continuously to ensure their involvement in our operations. Specifically Sustainable Development Goals ATTENTION TO CONTEXT An evaluation conducted with management for our first Sustainability Report in 2010 identified our most important stakeholders. The list is reviewed and updated periodically. ATTENTION TO STAKEHOLDERS’ NEEDS We listen carefully to our stakeholders’ opinions and suggestions, gathered by means of formal and informal channels. INVOLVEMENT AND DIALOGUE We interact regularly with all of our stakeholders by means of numerous activities and on many occasions. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT This platform for dialogue with our stakeholders is essential for sharing results achieved and measures implemented.3 Sustainable Development Goals www.un.org 15 Precious to us 2. Work for a transparent and responsible chain P recious to us in our own words We collaborate with UN Agencies (UNIDO, UNEP, GEF) to help artisanal and small-scale mining operations adopt more sustainable practices. Our objective? To reduce and gradually eliminate the use of mercury in extraction processes so that this precious metal, extracted responsibly, can be sold on the international market. This will achieve important results: better health of miners, environmental protection, and stimulation of the local economy. Phaedon Stamatopoulos, Director of Refining and Bank Products, Argor-Heraeus 16 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees Today's commitment 2017 CERTIFICATIONS → LRD, recertification → LBMA RGG, recertification → RJC, Chain of Custody, recertification → RJC, Code of Practices, recertification COLLABORATIONS → Fairmined certification and → UNIDO, UNEP and GEF Fairtrade recertification → ISO 9001 POLICIES AND REGULATIONS → Code of conduct → Compliance and ethics policy → Supply chain due diligence policy → Human rights policy Tomorrow's commitment FAIRTRADE AND FAIRMINED RECERTIFICATION SUPPORT OF “GLOBAL PRECIOUS METALS CODE” Fairtrade and Fairmined are the two principal gold Our signing of the document in 2018 attests to our certification initiatives for artisanal and small-scale commitment to good practices at the global level in mines. Recertification is scheduled in 2018. support of a sustainable and transparent precious metals market. LBMA CERTIFICATIONS: NOT JUST GOLD LBMA Responsible Gold Guidance recertification will take place in 2018. In addition, since January 2018 the LBMA also provides an analogous compliance system for silver (Responsible Silver Guidance), for which we will be one of the first companies to obtain certification. Even if there was previously no specific Guidance for silver, Argor-Heraeus has always applied the same governance system for all processed metals. 17 Precious to us Principles, policies, and company procedures CLEAR VALUES, TRANSPARENTLY COMMUNICATED, FORM A SOLID FOUNDATION FOR EVERYTHING WE DO Personal initiative and sense of responsibility Sincerity, reliability, and trustworthiness Innovative spirit and creativity Responsible conduct with co-workers and partners Responsible management of financial and natural resources 18 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees POLICIES AND REGULATIONS: GUIDELINES HERAEUS AND ARGOR-HERAEUS: ALIGNED VALUES, IN A COMPLEX WORLD ALIGNED POLICIES These are regularly updated, publicly available, and In 2017 we became fully-owned by Heraeus. Indeed, provided to all employees. Workshops on policies after working together for over 30 years we share ideals are conducted on a regular basis. and values. In this sense, at Argor-Heraeus we also refer and comply with policies of Heraeus in terms of compliance and sustainability. Tools Main areas of concern Scopri di più → Assure fair competition Code of → Fight corruption conduct → Fight money laundering and financing of terrorism → No activity in violation of regulations of domestic, international, or supranational organisations → Prevent conflicts of interest → Create and maintain safe and correct working conditions → Prevent discrimination → Protect the environment → Protect company assets → Relations with the media Policy of → Maintain high standards of ethical conduct Compliance → Comply with all applicable laws and Ethics → Transparency in all transactions → Relations only with persons and companies that comply with all laws and ethical principles Supplies of materials only from parties that comply with international standards and accepted environmental practices → No relations with any parties linked to violations of human Supply chain rights Code of conduct due diligence → No relations with any partners that may be linked to parties www.argor.com policy that violate human rights → No relations with any armed non-state actors → No relations with any partners that may be linked to armed non-state actors Policy of Compliance and Ethics → Zero tolerance of corruption and/or lack of transparency to gain any sort of advantage www.argor.com → Active effort to prevent or unmask money laundering and/ or financing of terrorist groups in activities linked to our industry Supply chain due diligence policy www.argor.com → Prohibition of child labour Human rights → Prohibition of forced labour policy → No discrimination → Freedom of association and protection of right to organise Human rights policy → Safety at the workplace www.argor.com → Human rights in the supply chain → Mandatory due diligence in human rights 19 Precious to us OUR BUSINESS PARTNERS – KEYWORD: KNOWLEDGE We subject all potential and current customers and business partners to a series of strict checks to assess their integrity. These checks are based on a series of protocols called “Know your…” (customer, customer’s customer, business, bank, carrier, etc.). If there are any doubts, the relation is not established and, if already existing, is interrupted. The checks include a wide range of criteria, such as the absence of cases of corruption, respect of human rights, absence of child labour and forced labour, respect of local communities, and impact on society and the environment. Moreover, all of our facilities and activities are subject to equally strict checks! Customer 2. Needs analysis and request for specific documentation from customer → Know Your Customer Know Your Business 1. First assessment Customer officer Know Your Bank Know Your Carrier First assessment → Compliance/Management Compliance / Management → 3. Check of opening process Compliance Officier 4. Assessment Customer profile analysis → Overall assessment and Customer business model analysis plausibilization of customer and documentation Risk assessment Management → Legal / Compliance → Reputation → Business → Check of customer’s documentation Shared decision 5. Approval / Shared Decision Compliance / Management Rejection World – Check → Customer opening → Compliance/Management → Communication/Decision 20 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees Rules, standards, PLAYERS ON THE PRECIOUS METALS MARKET and collaborations SUPRANATIONAL BODIES OECD Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development OUR INDUSTRY IS EXTREMELY COMPLEX. CLEAR RULES FATF Financial Action Task Force AND STANDARDS ARE ESSENTIAL. WORKING FOR A BETTER INDUSTRY Collaborations with supranational bodies, governments, and industry associations produce solutions to problems affecting our industry. We are members of numerous work teams, committees, associations, and task forces that make our industry more solid and transparent by defining new guidelines, rules, best practices, and much DOMESTIC LAWS more. Swiss law FINMA Anti money-laudering law (LRD) Precious metals control law (LCMP) PROMOTING POSITIVE CONDUCT US Law Dodd-Frank Act Acts and ordinances on precious metals We assume the responsibility of making our all of our and money laudering business partners aware of the importance of ethical and responsible conduct, demonstrating, when possible, the benefits (not only economic) that such conduct can generate. PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS RJC Responsible Jewellery Council LBMA London Bullion Market Association WGC World Gold Council EICC/GeSI Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition / Global e-Sustainability Initiative 21 Precious to us Accreditations and recognitions METAL THAT IS TRACEABLE FROM THE MINE TO THE CONSUMER Standards and recognitions prove to our partners that we process all of our metal transparently and responsibly, ensuring its traceability from the mine to the consumer. Our certifications have even more value because all of our employees have many years of experience: their commitment and sweat give a face to these recognitions. 22 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees CERTIFICATIONS AND RECOGNITIONS OVER THE YEARS 1952 2009 UCMP Melter & Assayer Licence LPPM Good Delivery platinum and palladium 1961 2011 LBMA Associate Member SQS ISO 9001 LBMA Good Delivery gold RJC Code of Practices 1974 2012 COMEX Recognised operator for gold LBMA Full member LBMA Responsible Gold Guidance D&B Rating certificate 1982 TOCOM Recognised operator for gold and silver 2013 SBGA Founding member 1992 LBMA Good Delivery silver 2014 RJC Chain of Custody 1999 SQS ISO 14001 / OHSAS 18001 COMEX Recognised operator for platinum and palladium 2015 2001 Fairtrade Certification for gold LME Silver 2016 2004 COMEX Recognised operator for silver LBMA Referee FINMA Authorization 2017 SAS ISO 17025 Fairmined Certification 2005 DMMC Recognised operator RJC member Certifications obtained are reconfirmed at regular intervals (recertifications are not mentioned). 23 Precious to us BEYOND CERTIFICATIONS Not only are we certified by the most authoritative bodies governing the precious metals markets with regard to everything that happens on the chain, we work with these bodies to define new standards and guidelines by contributing our many years of experience. For example, we are one of the world’s 5 referees for checking the quality standards of members on the LBMA Good Delivery list. GOOD DELIVERY LBMA Gold, silver, platinum, LBMA REFEREE and palladium We are one of the world's 5 referees for checking the quality standards of members on the LBMA Good Delivery list LBMA www.lbma.org.uk 24 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees Our approach Our responsibility goes beyond the company walls: we work to ensure that our partners all along the chain act responsibly from every point of view. Specifically Sustainable Development Goals PRINCIPLES, POLICIES, AND COMPANY PROCEDURES These tell us how to make the right decisions in every situation, in order to ensure that we work only with transparent and responsible partners. RULES, STANDARDS, AND CONTINUOUS CHECKS We are certified by the most prestigious national and international organisations, with constant auditing of our chain management system by internal and external experts. COLLABORATIONS FOR A MORE SUSTAINABLE INDUSTRY We constantly dialogue and collaborate with other players in the industry to make it more sustainable. By creating “win-win” situations, we stimulate responsible conduct by our partners. CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT We continuously improve our management system by analysing events and any critical issues that may occur, both externally and internally. Sustainable Development Goals www.un.org 25 Precious to us 3. Contribute to local development P recious to us in our own words We work with the scientific world and, especially, with SUPSI, the University of Applied Sciences and Arts of Southern Switzerland, in many fields. In addition to the annual award for the best Master in Engineering diploma, bachelor’s degree students in business administration do their end-of-course field project with us. We also work with SUPSI on various applied research projects to improve company production practices. Indeed a precious collaboration! Benedetta Masciari, Director of Finance and Administration, Argor-Heraeus 26 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees Today's commitment DISTRIBUTION OF ADDED VALUE COMMITMENT TO THE REGION → 14% to the company → We have trained 13 apprentices in → 54% to our shareholder the last 10 years → 25% to employees → 40% of our employees live in → 9% to institutions Canton Ticino SUPPLIERS OF ACCESSORY PRODUCTS AND SERVICES → 24% in Canton Ticino → 42% in Switzerland → 25% in EU → 8% Extra-EU Tomorrow's commitment ARGOR-HERAEUS AND SUPSI, A GROWING INTERNATIONAL GROWTH WITH A STRONG LOCAL COLLABORATION IDENTITY We work with SUPSI on numerous projects to improve Our company has grown considerably over the years, internal company practices and support the university expanding globally. Thanks to our new owner, we will with various initiatives. Among the current projects is a significantly expand the range of our operations. Our preliminary study aimed at increasing the identifiability and increased international presence, characterised by protection of some of our products. strong identity and local presence, will let us “export” our corporate philosophy, our values, and a bit of our Swissness as well. A TIME OF REFLECTION FOR LOCAL COMPANIES In 2018, together with the City of Mendrisio, we have organised a meeting with the top companies in our region to reflect on the importance of corporate social responsibility. Convinced that local development is based on collaboration and dialogue among corporate leaders, we trust that this meeting will lead to the development of positive dynamics for the benefit of our region. 27 Precious to us Distribution of added value BEYOND OUR ANNUAL RESULTS NEW OWNERSHIP, SHARED VALUES Every year, we think carefully about how we distribute Heraeus acquired 100% of our shares in 2017. Heraeus the added value that we produce: an indicator that lets us has been our industrial partner for many years and our look beyond our annual results and see how we generate shareholder since 1986, and we share a common vision value for our internal and external stakeholders. and values. Our integration in Heraeus has produced an “irregular” figure in the distribution of added value in 2017. The share distributed to the shareholder was significantly higher than in the past for two fundamental reasons: first, the share was 0 in 2016 due to the acquisition process then under way; second, we are adapting to the financial policy of the Group to which we now belong. DISTRIBUTION OF ADDED VALUE IN 2017 (%) 25% Employees 54% Shareholder 7% 14% Institutions Company 28 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees TANGIBLE SUPPORT FOR OUR COMMUNITY WE HAVE BEEN A TRAINING COMPANY FOR Every year, we receive numerous requests for support APPRENTICES SINCE 1978 or sponsoring from a wide variety of organisations, and It is essential for a company to contribute to its territory evaluate these requests based on a clear policy that is by employing local workers. We have been recognised consistent with our values. In addition, we proactively as a training company by the Canton since 1978; 5 support selected local organisations. Among the apprentices worked with us in 2017. initiatives supported in 2017 were: Almost 40% of our employees live in Ticino. This is → SUPSI a significant figure, considering our proximity to the – 7th annual award for the best thesis in Master in Italian border and the industrial nature of our operations. Engineering, Department of Innovative Technology. Moreover, about 80% of Company management lives in – Start of collaboration with bachelor’s degree Ticino. students in business administration for field project at the company. → Mendrisio Municipal Fire Brigade We have worked with the Fire Brigade for many years to guarantee safety at our buildings. The Brigade celebrated its 150th anniversary in 2017, and we supported the activities for festivities held throughout the year. In addition to these initiatives, we support a number of local non-profit associations in the culture, sports, and social fields. Professional training www.formazioneprof.ch 29 Precious to us Suppliers of services and accessory products SUPPLIERS: BEYOND QUALITY AND PRICE 66% OF EXPENDITURES TO SWISS SUPPLIERS When we select our suppliers, the quality/price ratio With the completion of re-engineering work, the offered is naturally important. But we also give great expenditure for local suppliers (which rose significantly weight to the possibility of developing long-term relations in recent years) has returned to normal levels. In 2017, based on shared values and reliability of the work 66% went to Swiss suppliers. When possible, we select performed. local suppliers, thereby supporting the local economy while limiting the environmental impact deriving from the handling of merchandise and the movement of people. DISTRIBUTION OF EXPENDITURES FOR SUPPLIERS OF ACCESSORY PRODUCTS AND SERVICES IN 2017 (%) 25% European Union 24% Ticino Canton 9% Extra-EU 42% Rest of Switzerland 30 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees Our approach Our growth aims to contribute to that of the region where we have been operating for almost 70 years. Specifically Sustainable Development Goals EMPLOYMENT POLICIES Whose aim is to guarantee the creation of jobs and the preservation of safe and correct conditions. SUPPLIER SELECTION POLICIES That give priority to local or Swiss suppliers of products and accessory services. This applies to the parent company as well as our branches. GUIDELINES FOR SPONSORING That promote the funding of activities specifically linked to the development of local talent. Sustainable Development Goals www.un.org 31 Precious to us 4. P rotect the environment P recious to us in our own words We continuously discuss environmental matters with the competent authorities and invest heavily in technical infrastructures to reduce our impact on the surrounding environment. We want our business card to be not only the shining precious metal products that leave our company, but also the sustainability of our presence here in Mendrisio. Alessandro Ruffoni, Environmental Officer, Argor-Heraeus 32 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees Today's commitment FUEL OIL CONSUMPTION → -13% compared with 2016 → -61% in 5 years (2012-2017) NITROUS OXIDE EMISSIONS → -43% compared with 2016 → -77% in 5 years (2012-2017) WATER CONSUMPTION → -7% compared with 2016 → -47% in 5 years (2012-2017) Tomorrow's commitment FUEL OIL: A THING OF THE PAST? LEANER LOGISTICS With new methane boilers to heat our processes and We have launched the “Lean Logistics” project to rooms, we will be able to completely eliminate the use of streamline all in/out logistics processes from/to customers fuel oil and also make more efficient use of methane. and to eliminate paper by digitising all of the documents involved. MORE EFFICIENT REFINING We have received significant funding from ProKilowatt NOISE LEVELS UNDER CONTROL for the purchase of new technology components that will We care about limiting the impact of our activities on our make the electrolytic refining process much more efficient, neighbours. We have been working with the Municipal with energy savings of up to 40%. authority in order to map all the sources of noise produced by our plants and implement the necessary steps to limit it. 33 Precious to us Water consumption WATER PLAYS AN ESSENTIAL ROLE FOR THE 2017 WAS A RECORD YEAR FOR PRODUCTION OF PRECIOUS METALS WATER CONSUMPTION 100% of our water comes from the town aqueduct, and Years of effort and continuous improvements in is used for: production have achieved a significant reduction in water → Chemical and electrolytic reactions: consumption. Compared with 2016, consumption in needed to separate impurities in the precious metals 2017 dropped 7%, to 43,843 m3. Extending the horizon we receive. to 2012, consumption has decreased by 47% despite a → Cooling of machines: considerable increase in production. These results were used to process precious metals. made possible by the installation of new, closed-circuit cooling systems in recent years, which have provided significant savings. USES OF WATER IN 2017 (%) 38% Chemical and electrolytic treatments 17% Cooling tower 13% Other 32% Cooling water 34 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION (M3) 2015 66,935 2016 46,751 2017 43,843 NEGLIGIBLE IMPACT Total water consumption by our international affiliates is only about 7% of that of our Mendrisio headquarters, OUR where most production takes place. Nevertheless, the same philosophy applies: do everything possible to AFFILIATES? minimise consumptions and emissions. Looking at longterm data, we see that consumptions have stayed the same, or in some cases have decreased, whereas when water consumption has increased it has been less than proportional to increased production. TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION BY AFFILIATES IN 2017 (M3) Argor-Heraeus Deutschland 1,000 Argor-Heraeus Italia 498 Argor-Heraeus America Latina 624 Argor-Aljba 1,025 35 Precious to us Chemical consumption CHEMICALS MUST BE USED TO PROCESS → Hydrochloric acid: essential for gold refining, PRECIOUS METALS represents about one-third of chemicals used. → Nitric acid: used to generate chemical reactions needed for silver production. → Caustic soda: used in our water and air purification system to neutralise acidic substances remaining after metal processing. → Other chemicals: needed to refine platinum and palladium and for other production processes. CHEMICALS USED IN 2017 (%) 35% Caustic soda 15% Other chemicals 23% Nitric acid 27% Hydrochloric acid 36 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees THERE WAS A SLIGHT INCREASE IN THE USE OF CHEMICALS IN 2017: +3% We consumed a total of 3,369,153 kilograms of chemicals in 2017, 3% more than in 2016. Looking at long-term data, consumption has remained quite stable, with “natural” fluctuations up or down depending substantially on production trends. In 2017, we consumed a greater quantity of oxygen, used to reduce and recycle nitrous oxide emissions. CHEMICAL CONSUMPTION (TONNES) AND PRODUCTION (%) Tonnes % 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 2015 2016 2017 Hydrochloric acid Nitric acid Caustic soda Other chemicals Production (2015 = 100%) 37 Precious to us Energy consumption WE USE DIFFERENT SOURCES OF → Electricity: the main source of energy, needed to run ENERGY FOR PRODUCTION PROCESSES our systems and facilities. AND TO HEAT OUR FACILITIES → Methane and fuel oil: used mainly to heat the rooms; consumption is linked to the climate. → Propane: used in the foundry for protective flames during the smelting of gold and silver; consumption is linked to production trends. → Photovoltaic: over 1,000 solar panels are installed on the roof of one of our facilities and generate part of the energy used for processes. 4% ENERGY USE IN 2017 (%) Propane 2% Photovoltaic 69% 24% Electricity Methane 1% Fuel oil 38 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees WE CONSUMED A TOTAL OF 55,117 GIGAJOULES OF ENERGY IN 2017 Compared to the previous year, energy consumption in 2017 increased by 2%, in line with fluctuations and not attributable to specific reasons. When the new ArgorHeraeus facility became fully operational, there was an initial increase in consumption from 2012 to 2013 due to a larger production area. Thereafter, consumptions decreased by 3% despite increased production over the years. ENERGY CONSUMPTION (GIGAJOULES) AND PRODUCTION (%) Gigajoule 0 10,000 20,000 30,000 40,000 50,000 60,000 % 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 2015 2016 2017 Fuel oil Methane Electricity Propane Photovoltaic Production (2015 = 100%) 39 Precious to us ABOUT 6% OF THE TOTAL OUR As with other resources, energy consumption by our international affiliates is marginal compared to that of AFFILIATES? our headquarters in Switzerland. Energy volumes by our Latin-American affiliate have increased due to higher production. 2017 ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY AFFILIATES (GIGAJOULES) Argor-Heraeus Deutschland 160 Argor-Heraeus Italia 267 Argor-Heraeus America Latina 1,023 Argor-Aljba 2,183 40 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees Emissions THE FOSSIL FUELS WE USE FOR OUR PROCESSES AND TO HEAT OUR BUILDINGS EMIT CO2 INTO THE ATMOSPHERE. 861 tonnes of CO2 were emitted into the atmosphere in 2017 (2% more than in 2016). From a long-term perspective, despite the fact that we have doubled our production area, emissions have decreased by 2% from 2013 to today. CO2 EMISSIONS (TONNES) AND PRODUCTION (%) 2015 758 2016 841 2017 861 Production (2015 = 100%) Emissions (ton.) 41 Precious to us -77% COMPARED WITH 2012 Thanks to constant monitoring of emissions NITROUS OXIDE EMISSIONS: THE DOWNWARD TREND CONTINUES The use of nitric acid in metal refining processes generates nitrous oxide into the atmosphere. We have been working with the Canton for many years, and work to constantly reduce emissions of this chemical. Compared to the previous year, emissions in 2017 decreased by 43%, an even more significant decrease (-77%) if we consider the last 5 years. These improvements were made possible by the technical improvements introduced with the re-engineering of our first facility, by a greater use of oxygen to improve the absorption of gas treated in scrubbers, and by meticulous monitoring of emissions. 43 CARPOOLING GROUPS IN A HIGH-TRAFFIC ZONE LIKE MENDRISIO, WE REDUCE IMPACT IN VARIOUS WAYS: CARPOOLING, PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION, AND EVEN WALKING! With our company mobility programme, we do everything possible to motivate our employees to use alternate means. Not an easy challenge, considering that they work in shifts and cannot always use public transportation or share a ride with colleagues. In 2017, we had 43 carpooling groups and subsidised 25 Arcobaleno public transportation passes. Osservatorio ambientale della Svizzera italiana www.oasi.ti.ch 42 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees Waste and scrap THE WASTE WE GENERATE IS LINKED TO SPECIAL WASTES PRODUCTION (SPECIAL WASTES) OR IS COLLATERAL TO IT (GENERIC WASTES). Recyclable metal hydroxides (tonnes) Special wastes demand specific and stringent disposal procedures defined by law. At our company, 188 special wastes are linked to production and include, for example, recyclable metal hydroxides containing 188 base metals separated from precious metals in refining processes. 197 Other recyclable wastes (tonnes) 21 50 35 Non-recyclable wastes (tonnes) 33 25 29 2015 2016 2017 43 Precious to us On the other hand, generic wastes are linked to daily operations and include, for example, solid urban waste and packagings for incoming materials, such as cardboard and wood. GENERIC WASTES Solid urban wastes (m3) Wood (ton.) 324 56 193 38 156 50 Cardboard (m3) Plastic wastes (ton.) 98 22 93 14 95 14 PET (ton.) Metal wastes (ton.) x 1.76 31 1.82 29 1.98 27 2015 2016 2017 44 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees Our approach Fully aware of the inevitable impact that every industrial operation has on the environment, we make every effort to monitor and reduce the effects of our processes and advise our partners to do the same. Specifically Sustainable Development Goals CONSTANT MONITORING OF CONSUMPTIONS AND EMISSIONS By means of indicators and continuous measurements. STRICT LIMITS Even though our classification as a chemical company requires very strict monitoring and very low legal limits, we try to self-impose even stricter limits. COLLABORATION WITH AUTHORISED BODIES We collaborate with a network of bodies and institutions to find shared measures aimed at reducing our impact. STATE-OF-THE-ART TECHNOLOGIES We always use production technologies that meet the most recent energy criteria and allow highly sophisticated monitoring. EXPLICIT COMMITMENTS To institutions to reduce impacts. EXTERNAL AUDITS AND CERTIFICATIONS To assess our impacts and management approaches. INCREASED AWARENESS By our business partners through collaborations that stimulate them to act responsibly toward the environment. Sustainable Development Goals www.un.org 45 Precious to us 5. Grow with our employees P recious to us in our own words Rules, procedures, training, exercises, and a lot more. Safety at the workplace is an absolute priority. For example, in 2017, in collaboration with SUVA, we adopted the Safety Charter, a letter of intent that proposes measures to make workplaces safer by means of rules and good practices. The Charter was signed by all employees in production and is displayed as a valuable reminder of the importance of following good practices and avoiding hazards. This concrete step is part of our commitment to greater awareness of the importance of safety at the workplace. Simone Frigerio, Head of Production, Refining and Bank Products, Argor-Heraeus 46 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees Today's commitment COMPOSITION OF PERSONNEL TRAINING → 278 employees in Mendrisio → 2,452 hours in 2017 → 28% female → 6.1% turnover rate → 40% in the company for more than 10 years HEALTH AND SAFETY AT THE WORKPLACE → Magnitude Index: 0.13 days lost per 1,000 workdays → Lost Time Injury Frequency: 0.78 accidents every 100,000 hours worked → Adoption of Safety Charter Tomorrow's commitment TRAINING AND SAFETY GO ARM IN ARM HERAEUS AND ARGOR-HERAEUS: WORKING A company that wants to call itself safe has to teach TOGETHER FOR A SAFER COMPANY its employees rules and procedures to ensure safety at Safety at the workplace is also an absolute priority for the workplace. Many safety initiatives will be conducted our shareholder Heraeus, which will conduct weekly next year. Specifically, ad hoc courses will be organised safety awareness campaigns and targeted audits to for shift supervisors and production managers. support what we already do in-house by means of procedures, projects, and training activities. 47 Precious to us Composition of personnel 278 EMPLOYEES AT OUR MENDRISIO HEADQUARTERS 225 employees work at our Mendrisio location, assisted by 53 temporary employees who help handle the fluctuations in demand that characterise our industry. The number of employees at Mendrisio, practically unchanged in the last 3 years, has risen 20% since 2010, due in part to our expanded production area. EMPLOYEES AND TEMPORARY PERSONNEL 2015 50 229 2016 54 229 2017 53 225 Temporary employees Employees 48 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES AT AFFILIATES IN 2017 Argor-Heraeus Deutschland 9 Argor-Heraeus Italia 11 Argor-Heraeus America Latina 14 Argor-Aljba 30 ABOUT 18% OF THE TOTAL OUR Our international affiliates have 64 employees, practically unchanged compared with 2016, when there was a AFFILIATES? significant increase in employees with the opening of Argor-Heraeus America Latina. TURNOVER SLIGHTLY LOWER: 6.1% EMPLOYEE TURNOVER RATE IN 2017 Turnover is the rate at which employees leave the company compared to the total number of employees in a 2015 given time period. In 2017, the rate was 6.1%. 6.1% 2016 7% 2017 6.1% 28% WOMEN 72% MEN Composition of personnel by gender in 2017 49 Precious to us 4 OUT OF 10 EMPLOYEES HAVE BEEN WITH US FOR MORE THAN 10 YEARS By looking at the tenure of our employees, we can see that 40% have been at Argor-Heraeus for 10 years or more and 32% for 5 to 9 years. Long-term tenure is not an end in itself, but instead an important criterion for developing a culture based on shared culture and values. Thanks to our long-term employees, we can count on a level of expertise and know-how that is rarely found elsewhere. AVERAGE EMPLOYEE TENURE IN 2017 28% Less than 5 years 40% More than 10 years 32% 5-9 years 50 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees A COFFEE BREAK AT ARGOR-HERAEUS If you take a coffee break at Argor-Heraeus, you’ll meet economists, engineers, technicians, sworn assayers, workers, chemists, and professionals in many other fields. There are lots of interesting conversations! Over the years, we have seen that the industry is demanding increasingly diversified profiles: for example, since 2010, the number of our employees with a university degree has increased by 62%. EMPLOYEE EDUCATION LEVEL IN 2017 44% Complete professional training (with apprenticeship) 24% In-house training 2% Compulsory education 9% Professional trade school 6% High school 15% Prof. univ. trade school and university 51 Precious to us Health and safety at the workplace OUR SAFETY GOAL: 0 ACCIDENTS SAFETY INDICATORS: AN DOWNWARD TREND We say it often and we’ll never get tired of repeating it: A look at the key indicators over the last 5 years shows every accident, no matter how small, is one too many. We an downward trend in safety indicators. We monitor two try to create conditions so that our work can be performed main indicators: the Magnitude Index, which expresses optimally. By means of processes that we review regularly, the number of days lost due to accidents at the workplace code of conduct, collaborations with authorities, training every 1,000 days (0.13 in 2017; 0.31 in 2012), and the Lost sessions and meetings on safety, we try to make ArgorTime Injury Frequency, which expresses the number of Heraeus safer and safer. For example, in 2017 we signed accidents recorded for every 100,000 hours worked (0.78 the SUVA (Swiss National Accident Insurance Fund) Safety in 2017; 1.1 in 2012). An downward trend toward our goal Charter, whose signatories pledge to support a series of of 0 accidents. principles and rules regarding safety at the workplace, which are then translated into concrete measures and actions. MAGNITUDE INDEX / LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY 2015 0.17 0.99 2016 0.30 0.76 2017 0.13 0.78 Magnitude index Lost time injury frequency 52 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees Training TRAINING HOURS IN 2017 Quality and processes training 357 144 Personal and professional development training 0 1,600 Safety training 22 329 In-house training Outside training SKILLS IN STEP WITH THE TIMES Many of our employees have been with us for many years and have intimate knowledge of the precious metals industry, a complex sector whose regulations and technology are constantly evolving. To guarantee that we keep up with the times, we provide our employees with training in key aspects that govern the entire chain, in addition to refresher courses in processes and safety. Safety Charter www.charta-sicurezza.ch 53 Precious to us THREE-DIMENSIONAL TRAINING processes to ensure that all employees know our We provide training, either internally or with the processes and internal procedures. Third, with training support of outside partners (such as fire fighters, in professional and personal growth, we ensure that our police, ambulance personnel, SUVA, etc.) in three employees are constantly updated in areas such as IT, main categories. First of all, we provide safety training, management and soft skills, language skills, and much essential for guaranteeing that all employees understand more. and apply company safety rules, procedures, and practices. Second, we provide training in quality and SAFETY TRAINING HOURS 2015 506 409 2016 215 855 2017 329 22 Outside training In-house training 54 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees Our approach Our employees are our most precious asset: we owe them our success. We do everything possible to offer them quality working conditions, ensure their safety at the workplace, and guarantee continuous training. Specifically Sustainable Development Goals CLEAR VALUES, PRINCIPLES AND RULES By means of our principles, personnel rules, and code of conduct, we ensure an environment where duties and rights are shared in a context of complete transparency and respect. CONSTANT MONITORING OF INDICATORS We constantly monitor key indicators regarding our employees. COLLABORATION We collaborate with external bodies and institutions to guarantee constant updating on important issues. AUDITS CERTIFICATIONS We have OHSAS18001, ISO14001, and ISO 9001 certifications for management of safety, health, environment, and workplace quality. Sustainable Development Goals www.un.org 55 About Argor-Heraeus About Argor-Heraeus 56 57 About Argor-Heraeus History Since 1951, we have been the “golden link” for our customers’ precious metal along the entire chain. Every day since then, we have worked to ensure that the quality of the service we offer our partners and the sustainability of our actions represent a precious added value of the metals we process. 1986 UBS and Heraeus form a joint venture and create Argor-Heraeus SA 1951 1999 Argor SA is formed in Heraeus and Management acquire 100%; Chiasso, Switzerland entrance of Commerzbank International 1988 Argor-Heraeus moves to Mendrisio, Switzerland 1973 2002 UBS acquires 100% of The Austrian Mint enters the company the shareholder structure 58 2004 2016 An office is opened in Chile; Re-engineering works at Mendrisio Argor-Heraeus Deutschland and headquarters, begun in 2014, Argor-Aljba are formed are completed 2013 Mendrisio headquarters is expanded 2006 2017 Argor-Heraeus Italia Argor-Heraeus becomes is formed 100% part of Heraeus Group and is fully integrated within the Global Business Unit Heraeus Precious Metals 2015 Argor-Heraeus America Latina is officially opened 59 A proposito di Argor-Heraeus The Heraeus Group Since 2017, Argor-Heraeus has been a part of TOP 10 Heraeus Precious Metals (HPM). The Global Business Unit is a leading provider of precious metal services Family business in Germany worldwide and part of the German Heraeus Group. (Foundation for Family Businesses) Founded in 1851, Heraeus is a family-owned portfolio company which traces its roots back to a pharmacy opened by the family in 1660. Today, Heraeus combines businesses in the environmental, energy, electronics, health, mobility and industrial applications sectors. HANAU (D) Group headquarters 1851 Year of foundation Heraeus www.heraeus.com 60 13,073 € 21.8 BILLION Employees Total revenues (approx.) 100 10 Sites Business units worldwide 40 + PRECIOUS METALS Countries Gold, silver, platinum, palladium, rhodium, iridium, ruthenium 6,000 Patents and applications 61 About Argor-Heraeus Locations We satisfy the needs of our global partners “on-site” thanks to our international presence. ARGOR-HERAEUS ARGOR-HERAEUS DEUTSCHLAND ITALIA Pforzheim, Germany Cavenago-Brianza, Italy Argor-Heraeus has operated in Germany Employing technological know-how shared with the since 2004, in Pforzheim parent company, Argor-Heraeus Italia, inaugurated in (Baden-Württemberg region). Cavenago Brianza in 2006, operates mainly with the Italian goldsmith sector. → Collection and assaying of industrial scrap → Marketing of precious metals → Collection and assaying of precious metals → Logistics → Marketing of precious metals → Sale of products to the jewellery and watchmaking industry → Marketing of gold for investment → Logistics 62 ARGOR-HERAEUS SWITZERLAND Mendrisio, Switzerland The main porduction site in Mendrisio is where 90% of our employees work and where almost all precious metal processing is done. → Refining and assaying of precious metals → Production of cast and minted bars → Products for watchmaking and jewellery, electronics and chemical industries → Services to support physical trading of precious metals ARGOR-ALJBA ARGOR-HERAEUS AMERICA LATINA Mendrisio, Switzerland Santiago de Chile, Chile Argor-Aljba is a joint-venture that develops hi-tech The South American branch of Argor-Heraeus is a joint coatings for numerous industries and applications. The venture formed in 2004, first as a sales office and, since innovative Diamond-like-Coating technique exploits the 2015, as a complete production facility. properties of amorphous carbon to give coated objects exceptional hardness and long life. → Processing of metals from mines (collection, homogenisation and assaying of material) → Production of tool coatings → Provision of logistics services as logistical hub for → Production of coatings for mechanical components Latin-American customers → Production of decorative coatings for the → Marketing of precious metals watchmaking industry → Sale of cast and minted bars → Research and development of hi-tech coating solutions 63 About Argor-Heraeus Governance Numerous governance bodies guarantee a solid system of checks and controls of our company’s entire structure. In 2017 we became wholly-owned by Heraeus; after working in close contact for over 30 years, we are certainly guided by shared ideals and values. Our goal for the near future is to ensure that these shared values correspond to harmonisation of our governance structure with that of Heraeus Group with regard to all aspects of corporate social responsibility. EXECUTIVE MANAGERIAL LEVEL LEVEL Shareholders Meeting Internal Compliance Committee Board of Directors Credit Committee Board of Directors Delegation Credit Office Risk audit committee Personnel Commission ROLE ROLE → Define corporate strategy and governance → Manage allocation of resources in profit → Assess risks and service centres and control their use → Support management and rest of company → Check correct application of guidelines, in daily operations national and international regulations, and internal rules → Assess responsibility of potential new partners 64 OPERATIVE LEVEL Technical and Quality Control Offices Internal and external auditors Quality Control Laboratory (private bodies and government authorities) Full-time safety, quality and environment Audits and checks of process quality supervisors management system ROLE → Assess quality of work performed in each department → Monitor quality of products and processes → Monitor safety at the workplace and Company’s environmental impact → Control quality of precious metals 65 About Argor-Heraeus Operations We offer our customers what we call precious solutions, completely personalised solutions for the refining and transformation of gold, silver, platinum and palladium, for the creation of products for the high-end watchmaking and jewellery market, and for the physical trading of precious metals. SCRAP Industrial and old jewellery MINES Traceability LSM, SSM, ASM GOOD DELIVERY Grandfathered Non-Grandfathered REFINING / TRANSFORMATION INCOMING MATERIAL Precious metals (gold, silver, platinum and palladium) arrive as: → Industrial scrap and old jewellery → Raw material from large and small mines → Good Delivery material, already high-quality 66 PRODUCTION PERSONALISED SOLUTIONS CAPACITY Our services include: → Chemical and electrolytic refining of precious metals Gold refining up to 1,300 T/year → Bars and Coins Silver refining 1,100 T/year → Semi-finished products for the high-end jewellery and Smelted bars 5-5.5 million pieces/year watchmaking industry (Luxury solutions) Minted bars 2.5-3 million pieces/year → Financial and accessory services for physical trading of precious Semi-finished products 120 T of alloys metals (Precious Metals Services) BAR & COINS LUXURY Traceability SOLUTIONS PRODUCT IN COC MATERIAL / PRECIOUS METAL SERVICES CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS Very often, our suppliers are also our customers and therefore retain ownership of the materials we process. Our customers do business worldwide, and are primarily: → Banks → Mines → Companies in the high-end watchmaking and jewellery industry 67 About this report Perimeter Format The information contained in the section “About ArgorThis report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Heraeus” refers to the entire company. With regard to Standards: Core option. the indicators in the first part of the Sustainability Report, the figures refer mainly to the Mendrisio facility, where almost all the production takes place and most of the company’s employees work. Only significant indicators are reported for the affiliates. External audit Most of the information contained in this Sustainability Report was checked during the internal and external audits required for Argor-Heraeus certifications. Likewise, An open platform the measurement standards adopted for the reporting of data are the strictest and most often adopted In a world that is constantly growing more complex worldwide. Therefore, we have decided not to subject and hyper-connected, a world with permeable borders, this Sustainability Report to additional external certification we want our report to be the starting point for a wideaudits. ranging journey in sustainability. Therefore, the report contains numerous links to documents, websites, and other sources that offer comprehensive information on subjects covered here. Accounting cycle and For more information on this report reference period Argor-Heraeus SA Via Moree 14 | CH-6850 Mendrisio This Sustainability Report, prepared on an annual basis, Canton Ticino | Svizzera covers the period from 1 January to 31 December 2017. T +41 91 640 53 53 | F+41 91 646 80 82 The previous Sustainability Report refers to 2016. info.argor@heraeus.com | www.argor.com 68 GRL Lndex GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES (2017) Number Disclosure Page Omissions / comments ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE GRI 102-1 Name of the organization 6 GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 67 GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters 6 GRI 102-4 Location of operations 6, 7 GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form 60, 61 Private corporation GRI 102-6 Markets served 7, 67 GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization 48, 49, 66, 67 GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 48, 49 GRI 102-9 Supply chain 66, 67 GRI 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 60 GRI 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 45 GRI 102-12 External initiatives 12, 13 GRI 102-13 Membership of associations 12, 13 STRATEGY Strategia GRI 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2, 3 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Etica e integrità GRI 102-16 Values, principle, standards and norms of behavior 18, 19 GOVERNANCE Governance GRI 102-18 Governance 64, 65 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Coinvolgimento degli stakeholder GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 12, 13 GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements None GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 14 GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 12, 14 GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 12, 14 REPORTING PRACTICE Pratiche di reporting GRI 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Argor-Heraeus SA / Argor-Heraeus Deutschland Argor-Heraeus Italia / Argor-Aljba GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 14, 15, 68 GRI 102-47 List of material topics 14 GRI 102-48 Restatements of information GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting 68 GRI 102-50 Reporting period 68 GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report 68 GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle 68 GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 68 GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 68 GRI 102-55 GRI content index 69 GRI 102-56 External assurance 68 69 About Argor-Heraeus GRI 200: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE (2017) Number Disclosure Page Omissions / comments ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE GRI 103 Management approach disclosures 31 GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 28, 29 We do not report economic result for reasons of privacy MARKET PRESENCE Presenza di mercato GRI 103 Management approach 31 GRI 202-2 Proportion of senior-management hired from local 29 community PROCUREMENT PRACTICES Pratiche di approvvigionamento GRI 103 Management approach 31 GRI 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 30 ANTI-CORRUPTION Pratiche anti-corruzione GRI 103 Management approach 31 GRI 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 20 GRI 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and 20 procedures 70 GRI 300: ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE (2017) Number Disclosure Page Omissions / comments MATERIALS GRI 103 Management approach 36, 45 GRI 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 36, 37 We do not report incoming raw material for reasons of privacy ENERGY Energia GRI 103 Management approach 38, 45 GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 38, 39 GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 39 WATER Acqua GRI 103 Management approach 34, 35 GRI 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 34 EMISSIONS Emissioni GRI 103 Management approach 41, 45 GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 41, 42 GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 41, 42 GRI 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other 41, 42 significant air emissions EFFLUENTS AND WASTE Scarichi e rifiuti GRI 103 Management approach 45, 45 GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 43, 44 GRI 306-3 Significant spills None COMPLIANCE Compliance GRI 103 Management approach 45 GRI 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations None SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT Valutazione fornitori GRI 103 Management approach 30, 45 GRI 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental 20 criteria 71 About Argor-Heraeus GRI 400: SOCIAL PERFORMANCE (2017) Number Disclosure Page Omissions / comments EMPLOYMENT GRI 103 Management approach 55 GRI 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 48, 49, 50 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Salute e sicurezza sul lavoro GRI 103 Management approach 55 GRI 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, 52 lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities. TRAINING AND EDUCATION Formazione e istruzione GRI 103 Management approach 53, 54, 55 GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 53 CHILD LABOR Lavoro minorile GRI 103 Management approach 19, 20, 25 GRI 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of 19, 20 child labor FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR Lavoro forzato GRI 103 Management approach 19, 20, 25 GRI 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of 19, 20 forced or compulsory labor HUMAN RIGHTS Diritti umani GRI 103 Management approach 19, 20, 25 GRI 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or 19, 20 impact assessments SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT società GRI 103 Management approach 19, 20, 25 GRI 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 19, 20 SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE Compliance GRI 103 Management approach 25, 31 GRI 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and None economic area 72 www.argor.com
