JSC EuroCreditBank Foreword Oleg Holban as the Chairman of BC “EuroCreditBank” S.A. has committed to Sustainable Development, and as a result has always integrated responsibility in its business approach, on both environmental and social aspects with an objective of continuous improvement. A modern economy cannot work efficiently without a coherent and stable banking system, while the roles and functions of banks increase continuously as the national economy performs globally. Thus the Moldovan banking system can be deemed as more advanced than the other economy branches in terms of transition to the market economy, but it faces a continuous change, trying to adapt to the new major transformations occurred during the last two decades in the technical, commercial and legal areas, while also pursuing to meet the international banking standards in order to be recognized by the world banking community and by its customers as a system with proper reputation. During the past years EuroCreditBank has included sustainable development and social responsibility among its primary objectives. It focused mainly on the continuous improvement of both the environment and the social issues. Since 2014, when it joined the United Nations Global Compact, the Bank committed to apply and develop the Ten Principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. To fulfil the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact EuroCreditBank established in the same year a platform dedicated to the implementation and effectiveness of these Principles by highlighting the entrepreneurship and the ethics specific to the Bank. The platform focuses on the five priorities of the ECB system namely: respect to the stakeholders; investment in continuous development of both the employees and the clients of the Bank; environment protection; covering all aspects of entrepreneurship and sharing the specifics of our culture. Please note that so far we preferred to use an intensive development strategy. In the near future we plan to improve the technology products and the banking services, as well as the quality of the services provided by our staff. So far the Bank focused on SMEs and individuals by offering them attractive products. Further we would like to focus also on other categories of customers by offering them the existing products in favorable conditions and promoting the products under development. General information on the Bank’s activity JSC EuroCreditBank was incorporated in 1992; it is a foreign-owned financial institution but a small share of its stock is owned by Moldovan individuals and legal entities. The major goal of the Bank since its incorporation was to provide high quality banking services to the customers that perform commercial and industrial business in the Republic of Moldova, later becoming a dynamic and professional participant on the financial market. The volume and the quality of products and services has increased. The Bank provides a full range of financial services at the highest standards, which will help ensure the sustainability of relations with the existing customers and increase further their number. At the same time EuroCreditBank focuses on the establishment of new quality standards for the services provided. To increase the efficiency of investments in the national economy, the Bank pays special attention to foreign investors. We tend to keep our market position and enhance the performance indicators. The Bank also focuses on increasing the value of shareholders’ investement in the share capital of the Bank by protecting them against depreciation through dynamic and profitable activity and increased value of assets. Our strategy addresses a major enlargement, which provides significant benefits in terms of attracting new clients, multiplying the activities for the traditional clients, increasing the banking profitability and diversifying the income sources for the purpose of a higher share of fees. The strategy success stems from: • direct involvement of the executive management; • clearly established strategic direction to follow; • adoption of the optimal strategy for the entire organization; • implementation of appropriate organization structure; • establishment of clear and concise tasks for each decision chain link; • development and implementation of strategies perceived as a whole; • performance measured as accurately as possible; • provision of opportunities to compare the outcomes. Global Compact suggests the companies to adopt, apply and maintain a set of fundamental principles regarding the observance of human rights, labour relationships, environment protection and anti-corruption: Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Businesses make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should take part in the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: Businesses should determine the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: Businesses should eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Human Rights Principles JSC EuroCreditBank shall take responsibility to ensure and support the protection of human rights in matters related to its own activity. The Bank is extremely careful by making sure that its customers, business partners and suppliers are offered the highest quality services. Since 2011 the Bank holds in each February the annual meeting of the entire staff where they share the results of the previous year and the objectives to be achieved in the current year. We consider that the observance of human rights must be the minimum standard in doing business and we recognize that the private sector as a part of the society may have an important role in the promotion and protection of human rights. It should be noted that JSC EuroCreditBank promotes actively the right to health globally, by providing solutions for sustainable development. Labour Principles The assessment of working conditions is based on a set of guidelines for employees that has been also developed and applied globally. The first six principles of Global Compact related to human rights and labour cover all employees of JSC EuroCreditBank. For us it is also important the right to equality and non-discrimination, therefore we assume responsibility to take all necessary actions to ensure the same rights and equal opportunities in all areas. For example, our employees take part in and support various conferences for women entrepreneurs of Moldova, where we have found that more and more women want to become small entrepreneurs. Nonetheless women, unlike men, are less active in terms of entrepreneurship, but the new economic policy has confronted the women with the need to occupy the vacant jobs on the labour market. According to statistics the businesses led by women are less risky and are based on long term economic relations. The Bank tried to keep the balance between the two genders so it created credit lines that could be accessed by both men and women in order to develop the economy and create new jobs. Taking also into account that more than 60% of the territory of Moldova is agricultural land, we have decided to motivate the farmers in doing their business. We have created credits specifically for agricultural business, which would support individuals and legal entities to purchase land and agricultural equipment but also to build greenhouses and improve all factors that enhance their activity. JSC EuroCreditBank has involved in various projects and increased the quality of its services in order to come closer to its clients and understand their needs. Environment Principles By joining Global Compact the company undertakes to communicate publicly with the stakeholders (employees, consumers, media, shareholders, government, etc.). Taking into account the company advancement we have implemented in our activity the Ten Principles and we have undertaken to support the UN objectives as partners. As a participant in Global Compact we choose to improve performance by fostering communication and promoting action. During the current operations we observe the environment performance indicators and notify mandatorily our progress by seeking continuous improvement of energy efficiency, resource conservation and waste curtailment. We do our best to minimize the environment impact and we contribute to the development of innovative methods and projects that would foster sustainability and efficiency in the long run. To protect the environment we encourage our employees to use more environmentally friendly means of transport. The Bank has also implemented several remote services, which help not only to protect the environment, but also provide a benefit for our customers so that they can manage more easily their time. For example, ECB-Online allows the customers to send and receive financial information in electronic form minimizing thus their visits to the bank. By observing the maintenance rules of ECB-Online, the customer can be sure that the information exchange is carried out securely and confidentially. The customer can manage his/her EuroCreditBank account from any place of the world and receive quickly information about the account status. The benefits of the ECB-Online also include:  Notification about the NBM exchange rates, confirmation of international transfers through SWIFT and other financial information;  Less errors when drafting the payment documents;  Convenient system for processing the documents drafted, which allows quick entry of payment documents and their printing;  Possibility to follow all stages of the document life cycle;  Recording of accounting information on the document (date and time of entry, the operator’s name, etc.), which allows in case of need to restore the entire history of the document;  Accelerating the processing of your documents in the bank;  Guaranteed protection of documents (codification and use of digital signature) against falsification or unauthorized access. Anti-Corruption Principles The programs for preventing and fighting money laundering and terrorist financing ensure safe and cautious banking transactions for customers. Such programs are developed according to the laws in force and also taking into account the generally accepted practice in this area, including the documents issued by the Basel Committee and the Financial Action Task Force (FATF). Whenever necessary, JSC EuroCreditBank applies the programs for preventing and fighting money laundering and terrorist financing taking into account the legislation in force. The Bank also holds weekly meetings in order to find solutions and apply new methods for protecting the customers against various attempts of fraud and money laundering. It should be noted that our Bank has organized the Anti-Corruption Week. Our employees have been trained and informed on various laws and regulations that may help us fight against corruption, bribery and terrorist financing. Despite the above mentioned efforts in the legislative and administrative areas and in the private sector, local and world studies and surveys show that the Republic of Moldova has not achieved so far its objectives in fighting corruption. Conclusion Currently companies are being assessed not only by economic results or product quality more and more emphasis is put on their contribution to the social life. Social responsibility has become a key component of business organizations both for the social and the economic life globally. Supported by Global Compact JSC EuroCreditBank has undertaken to continue its activity in full transparency. We are fully engaged and we will work for the continuous improvement of our services in order to offer more benefits to our customers and our staff. Together we will work for sustainable development. Our approach covers various strategies and projects having as main goal revenue growth, cost reduction, risk management and mitigation. As regards the social responsibility policy of JSC EuroCreditBank, we have developed a long term strategy, which means both continuity and coherence in choosing the areas of involvement.
