FROM DARKNESS TO LIGHT… SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 FOR A BRIGHT AFRICA In Africa, almost one-fifth of the population does not have access to electricity. We at Aksa Energy have taken an important step to change the future of this continent where darkness continues to reign. With the power plants we have built in Ghana, Madagascar and Mali, Aksa Energy meets a significant portion of total electricity demand in these countries for a brighter Africa. We present our Sustainability Report with the smiling faces from Meltem Yaşar’s book “Bright Faces from a Dark Continent,” which was published with our sponsorship. MELTEM YAŞAR From Darkness to Light Meltem Yaşar was born in Adana, Turkey. After graduating from Adana Anatolian High School, she studied Public Administration at Middle East Technical University Faculty of Economics and Administrative Sciences. Ms. Yaşar received a British Council scholarship and completed her MA at University of Wales, in the Banking, Accounting and Economics Department. She worked at Pamukbank in the Financial Control Department, at Boyner Holding in the Budget and MIS Department, and at Turkcell in the Strategic Planning Department. Ms. Yaşar’s book titled “Fund Cost Calculating Methods in Commercial Banks” was published by the Banks Association of Turkey. In 2005, she went Uganda for gorilla trekking and safari and moved there. Ms. Yaşar served as a financial consultant to international firms in Uganda. In 1996, Ms. Yaşar started taking photographs. She held exhibitions in Uganda, where she lived for 12 years, and in Istanbul. She is interested in photographing Africans living in the remote and challenging corners of this continent. Ms. Yaşar became the first and only Turkish safari guide to settle in Africa. Her first book of memoirs spanning from Turkey to Africa was published with the title “Dancing with the Pygmies” in July 2017. Ms. Yaşar’s second book of memoirs, sponsored by Aksa Energy, is titled “Bright Faces from the Dark Continent” and was published in 2018. Meltem Yaşar currently lives in Olimpos, Antalya, and organizes safaris to Uganda and other various African countries. Contents 01 About This Report 04 Aksa Energy at a Glance 04 About Aksa Energy 08 Vision and Mission of Aksa Energy 10 Chairman’s Message 12 CEO’s Message 14 Developments in 2017 18 Investment Strategy 19 Sales Strategy 22 Our Sustainability Approach 24 Stakeholder Communication 28 Our Management Approach 28 Corporate Governance 30 Risk Management 34 Our Sustainability Performance 34 Environmental Sustainability 34 Climate Change and Energy 35 Air Emissions 36 Waste Management 36 Water and Waste Water Management 38 Biodiversity 40 Employees 44 Community Relations 46 Reporting Principles and Tables 49 GRI Content Index AKSA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 1 ABOUT THIS REPORT Aksa Enerji Üretim A.Ş. (Aksa Energy) has prepared this report to present the Company’s environmental, social and corporate governance performance and progress to its stakeholders in a transparent manner. This report covers the period January 1 – December 31, 2017. Environmental data for renewable power plants that were sold during the year encompass only the time period up to their respective sale dates. This report was prepared in accordance with GRI Standards (Core Option). The Electric Utilities Sector Disclosure was also used as a reference. Please send your questions, feedback, and recommendations regarding this report to surdurulebilirlik@aksa.com.tr. We reached an agreement with the Government of the Republic of Ghana to establish a power plant with an installed capacity of 370 MW. The power plant currently serves the country with an installed capacity of 280 MW. 4 AKSA ENERGY AT A GLANCE ABOUT AKSA ENERGY Aksa Energy is Turkey’s largest publicly listed independent power producer and a global energy company. NUMBER OF POWER INSTALLED NEW CAPACITY PLANTS CAPACITY IN 2017 9* 2,236 MW* 386 MW Aksa Energy, one of the leading groups in the Turkish energy sector, Aksa Energy aims to increase its installed capacity and extend its was established in 1997 as a subsidiary of Kazancı Holding. The existing agreement terms in the countries where it operates. In Company is Turkey’s largest publicly listed independent power addition to the guaranteed energy sales and power plant construction producer as well as a global energy company. agreements it has entered into with TRNC, Ghana, Madagascar and Mali, the Company is also evaluating other new overseas investment Operating in five countries on two continents as of year-end 2017, opportunities. Aksa Energy generates energy from natural gas, fuel oil, lignite and hydroelectric sources. The Company’s portfolio is comprised of Global Power 1,697 MW installed capacity in Turkey, 153 MW installed capacity in Aksa Energy has become a significant player in Africa’s energy Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus (TRNC), and three power plants market – in addition to Turkey and TRNC – after its investments on totaling 386 MW installed capacity in Africa. the continent became operational. The Company’s expansion in the African market was in keeping with its investment strategy focusing In 2015, Aksa Energy made some major changes to its strategic on regions with emerging energy demand. The Company has increased investment plan and set an international growth target following the volume of its investments by commissioning Madagascar and its TRNC power plant investment. Aiming to expand its profit-based Mali power plants in 2017, which follow the commissioning of its first sustainability-oriented approach to overseas markets, Aksa Energy’s power plant in Ghana the same year. primary target was Africa. The Company established a solid presence on this underserved continent by starting up power plant operations in Ghana, Madagascar and Mali. * Installed capacity and number of power plants as of end-2017. AKSA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 5 SHAREHOLDER STRUCTURE 0.01% OTHER 21.39% PUBLICLY TRADED 61.98% KAZANCI 16.62% * HOLDING GOLDMAN SACHS INT. * Goldman Sachs International’s (GSI) 16.62% equity stake in Aksa Energy was transferred to Kazancı Holding pursuant to Energy Market Regulatory Authority’s (EMRA) Approval, No. 19793 dated April 20, 2018. In accordance with the related agreement between Kazancı Holding A.Ş. and GSI, Kazancı Holding A.Ş. reacquired 101,911,765 shares at a price of USD 2.9437229 per share for the total sum of USD 300 million from GSI as of April 20, 2018. After this repurchase, Kazancı Holding’s stake in Aksa Energy rose to 78.59%. 6 AKSA ENERGY AT A GLANCE ABOUT AKSA ENERGY PRODUCTION PORTFOLIO Aksa Energy operates in 5 countries on 2 continents. Aksa Energy’s power plant portfolio consists of 1 hydroelectric, 1 lignite, 3 natural gas and 4 fuel-oil facilities – a total of 9 generation plants – as of year-end 2017. Operating in 5 countries on 2 continents, the Company’s total installed capacity stood at 2,236 MW at end-2017. 270 MW 539 MW LIGNITE POWER FUEL OIL POWER PLANT (12%) PLANT (24%) 1,412 MW 15 MW NATURAL GAS HYDROELECTRIC COMBINED CYCLE POWER PLANT (1%) POWER PLANT (63%) AKSA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 7 Number of Power Plants* 9 Installed Capacity** 2,236 MW Bolu Göynük Çorum, İncesu Manisa 115 MW 270 MW 15 MW Antalya 1,150 MW Çorum, İncesu** 15MW Bolu, Göynük 270 MW Şanlıurfa 147 MW TRNC 153 MW Mali 40 MW Ghana 280 MW Madagascar 66 MW Mali 40 MW Şanlıurfa Ghana 147 MW Manisa Antalya TRNC 280 MW 115 MW Madagascar 1,150 MW 153 MW 66 MW *Power plants and installed capacity as of the end-2017. NATURAL GAS 3 4 FUEL OIL POWER 1 LIGNITE POWER 1 HYDROELECTRIC COMBINED CYCLE PLANTS PLANT POWER PLANT POWER PLANTS Antalya Ghana Bolu, Göynük Çorum, İncesu** 1.150 MW 280 MW 270 MW 15 MW Şanlıurfa TRNC 147 MW 153 MW Manisa Madagascar 115 MW 66 MW Mali 40 MW 1,412 MW 539 MW 270 MW 15 MW Total Installed Capacity Total Installed Capacity Total Installed Capacity Total Installed Capacity ** İncesu Power Plant was sold in January 2018. 8 AKSA ENERGY AT A GLANCE VISION AND MISSION OF AKSA ENERGY AKSA ENERGY’S VISION: To become the largest and most reliable power in the region. AKSA ENERGY’S MISSION: To capitalize on our deep experience and know-how in the energy industry and continue implementing high-performance projects, with a focus on cutting-edge technologies and our well-educated, highly skilled workforce. AKSA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 9 10 AKSA ENERGY AT A GLANCE CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE Aksa Energy continued to grow steadily in 2017, a year of major progress for Turkey’s economy. The Company made significant contributions to move the Turkish economy forward and meet global energy demand, particularly with its investments in Africa. In 2017, the global economy achieved stability and outperformed growth Aksa Energy continues to climb the ranks of Turkey’s leading companies thanks to expectations. While the US economy continued to expand in the face of political its successfully executed international growth strategy and ongoing investments. uncertainty, the Eurozone sustained its growth trajectory owing in part to the In the “Turkey’s Top 500 Companies” list published by Fortune magazine, the ECB’s expansionary monetary policies. The outlook for 2018 is positive as the US is Company rose 12 places and ranked 49th in 2017. In a similar list compiled by expected to continue leading the world economy out of the crisis, with a favorable Capital magazine, Aksa Energy climbed 19 spots to rank 59th. impact anticipated from the economies of Europe, the UK and even Japan. In addition to its financial performance, Aksa Energy also places great importance During the year, Turkey’s economy was also affected favorably in parallel with on key issues such as upholding human rights, protecting the social fabric in its positive developments globally and the country recorded a high economic growth operating regions, advancing social and economic development, boosting energy rate that exceeded forecasts in 2017. The Turkish economy expanded 5.4% in the conservation and efficiency. The Company significantly contributes to local job first two quarters and 11.3% in third quarter, ending the year with 7.4% annual creation in the markets it operates. 50% of the workforce at our Africa power plants growth. This performance ranked Turkey among the fastest growing OECD is local staff as at 2017. countries once again. Planning to continue its overseas expansion, Aksa Energy monitors new New stimulus policies and incentive packages were unveiled during the year to investment opportunities through Global Investments B.V., the umbrella company revive the economy and reestablish confidence. New partnerships were forged and we established in the Netherlands as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Aksa Energy. new projects launched to boost economic performance. The improving European As negotiations with various African countries continue, Aksa Energy has already economy is expected to have a positive spillover effect on Turkey’s economy in signed a memorandum of understanding to build a natural gas fired power plant in 2018. Indonesia’s Aceh Province in Southeast Asia. Our Company continues to take steps to provide services to countries which have emergency power needs. Against the backdrop of these economic developments, the energy industry also had a dynamic year. Turkey, a market characterized by high energy demand, As we continue to move forward confidently, we see all our stakeholders – is burdened with a high energy bill because its primary sources for energy especially our employees, who contribute significantly to our many achievements generation are imported. To counter this dilemma, the Ministry of Energy and – as our greatest supporters. To this end, I would like to express my deepest Natural Resources adopted the “National Energy and Mining Policy” and increased gratitude to our entire stakeholder community. incentives for using renewable energy resources and domestic coal. Aksa Energy continued to grow steadily in 2017, a year of major progress for Turkey’s economy. The Company made significant contributions to move the Turkish economy forward and meet global energy demand, particularly with its investments in Africa. Cemil KAZANCI Moving confidently toward its goal of becoming a global power, Aksa Energy Chairman became one of the major energy producers on the African continent after its heavy fuel oil power plants in Ghana, Madagascar and Mali were commissioned in 2017. AKSA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 11 50% LOCAL WORKFORCE AT OUR AFRICA POWER PLANTS IN 2017. 12 AKSA ENERGY AT A GLANCE CEO’S MESSAGE Aksa Energy is keenly aware that its vision of becoming a global power can only be realized with an approach that complies with corporate governance principles and respects the environment and society. Turkey and the world recorded rapid economic growth in 2017. However, Turkey Our investments support local employment, the regional economy and social positively decoupled from the global economy thanks to new investments development in addition to addressing the need for energy. To this end, we take as well as its closely-watched capital markets. In tandem with these active measures to uphold and safeguard basic human rights. We work with developments, energy production and consumption also continued to rise. local subcontractors and suppliers as much as possible. In addition, we provide our subcontractors and suppliers with the same training that we administer to As Aksa Energy we expanded and moved closer toward our targets in Turkey our own employees. In accordance with the Aksa Energy Human Rights Policy, and Africa as a result of the steps we took in 2017. We reached 2,236 MW of we meticulously ensure healthy and safe working environments and conditions total installed capacity after our power plants in Ghana, Madagascar and Mali for all our staff and business partners. Thanks to these efforts, our Ghana Heavy commenced operation during the year. As of year-end 2017, we generated Fuel Oil Power Plant reached its target of “One Million Man-hours without an 17.9 TWh of electricity and reported TL 3.6 billion in revenue from nine power Accident” in January 2018 – five months earlier than expected. plants in Turkey, TRNC and Africa. We will continue providing energy to African markets and contributing to the development of underdeveloped and developing Always committed to continuous improvement, Aksa Energy implements countries with our sustainable business approach in 2018. educational and training initiatives for employees and suppliers and further improves its HR processes every year. To that end, we plan to improve our Aksa Energy is keenly aware that its vision of becoming a global power can human resources applications and project our career mapping and talent pool only be realized with an approach that complies with corporate governance out to 2020. We also aim to develop a risk and opportunity matrix within the principles and respects the environment and society. The Company has Company for our human capital by 2020. taken every step forward in line with its responsibility to the environment and to society since the day it was founded. We place people at the core of All these achievements were made possible by Aksa Energy family, who is all our operations – including our employees, business partners and the open to innovation and change, and aware of its potential to improve itself and local population in the areas where we invest. We design our entire business the Company’s business operations in every aspect. I would like to take this processes and policies with this perspective and embrace a management opportunity to thank our employees and all our stakeholders. approach that values people and the environment. As a result of our strong environmental, social and corporate governance-related performance, Aksa Energy was included in the BIST Sustainability Index once again this year. Cüneyt UYGUN Energy Group Head, CEO and Board Member AKSA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 13 TL 3.6 BILLION AKSA ENERGY REPORTED TOTAL REVENUES OF TL 3.6 BILLION IN 2017. 14 AKSA ENERGY AT A GLANCE DEVELOPMENTS IN 2017 Aksa Energy creates employment for the local society by hiring workforce from the regions power plants are located in. Both rising global energy demand and the volatility in the energy Aksa Energy’s practice of hiring employees from the regions where it industry put more emphasis on the future decisions of energyoperates creates job opportunities for the local population. In addition, dependent countries. Countries must also consider the role energy Aksa Energy creates lasting value through infrastructure initiatives investments will play to combat climate change and their impacts on and repair projects that support local economic development in the socio-economic development of the local population. its operating regions. The Company uses feedback mechanisms customized for the unique needs and demands of stakeholders and the Against this backdrop, comprehensive energy policies need to be local population to evaluate the complaints and demands submitted via formulated. The sustainable development journey should continue in a various channels. way that increases social prosperity in general. Boosting energy supply security and diversifying energy resources are the primary goals in Turkey, where total energy consumption has expanded at an average annual rate of 5.1% over the last 10 years. In light of these national objectives and rapid consumption growth, private sector energy companies are undertaking major energy projects in various segments of the industry – from power generation AKSA ENERGY REACHED to distribution – in Turkey and other parts of the world. In doing so, Turkey’s private sector energy firms are raising their international 386 MW OF INSTALLED profile and reputation. Aiming to extend its successful track record in Turkey to overseas CAPACITY IN AFRICA AFTER markets and to become a global power, Aksa Energy not only began responding to Africa’s need for energy with its power plants in Ghana, COMMISSIONING ITS Madagascar and Mali but also initiated the social change in the region with the socio-economic benefits that result from its commercial POWER PLANTS IN GHANA, operations. MADAGASCAR AND MALI. AKSA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 15 BY FOCUSING ON AFRICA, AKSA ENERGY IS MEETING THE URGENT ENERGY DEMAND IN THAT UNDERSERVED MARKET. Ghana Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant Became Operational Aksa Energy’s first step under its international expansion drive was Ghana. Equipment from the Company’s portfolio was transferred to Ghana following the approval of 6.5 year US Dollar based power purchase agreement in the Ghanaian Parliament. Construction of Ghana Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant was completed in just 9.5 months, thanks to Aksa Energy’s deep-rooted experience and strong infrastructure. The power plant was commissioned in phases. In March 2017, the first phase commenced commercial operation with 280 MW of installed capacity. The 6.5-year guaranteed purchase agreement took effect as of August 2, 2017. First Phase Completed at Madagascar Fuel Oil Power Plant The first phase of Madagascar Fuel Oil Power Plant commenced operation with 66 MW of installed capacity in September 2017. The opening ceremony was attended by the Madagascar President, Prime Minister, Minister of Energy and a number of other government ministers, indicating the high level of interest in the investment. The first phase of the power plant was completed in only 7 months and the construction of the second phase will start after the completion of the transmission lines in the region. Power to the Capital of Mali Following Ghana and Madagascar, Aksa Energy continued to address Africa’s urgent need for energy by starting up operations in Mali. Located in the capital city of Bamako, Mali Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant with 40 MW of installed capacity was constructed in only 6 months. All power generated by the plant is being sold under a 3-year power purchase agreement with a Euro-denominated tariff starting in September 2017. 16 AKSA ENERGY AT A GLANCE DEVELOPMENTS IN 2017 Aksa Energy plans to continue taking steps to make its sustainability efforts traceable and improvable. Sale of 7 WPPs Completed Credit Rating During the year, Aksa Energy sold off seven wind power plants In 2017, Aksa Energy’s high loan quality and strong debt repayment amounting to 259 MW of installed capacity. The sales transactions of capacity were once again confirmed by TURKrating, the nation’s Hatay Sebenoba Wind Power Plant, Manisa Karakurt Wind Power Plant, leading credit rating agency. In its latest assessment published on Balıkesir Şamlı Wind Power Plant, Ayvacık Wind Power Plant, Kapıdağ October 13, 2017, TURKrating affirmed Aksa Energy’s Long Term Wind Power Plant, Kıyıköy Wind Power Plant and Belen/Atik Wind National Credit Rating as ‘TR A+’ and Short Term National Credit Rating Power Plant were completed in 2017 pursuant to agreements executed as ‘TR A2’ with a ‘Stable’ outlook. with the buyers. Cash proceeds from the sales were used to reduce Aksa Energy’s short-term liabilities. The high loan quality rating of ‘TR A+’ shows that the Company has low loan default risk and a strong capability in terms of fulfilling its Aksa Energy in the Sustainability Index financial obligations over the long term. The Short Term National Credit Since 2015, Aksa Energy has been a component of the Borsa Istanbul’s Rating of ‘TR A2’ is only one notch below ‘TR A1’, the highest rating in Sustainability Index, which is comprised of listed companies with the terms of debt repayment capacity. highest corporate sustainability performance. Aksa Energy maintained its place in the Sustainability Index since 2015 to date. Aksa Energy established the Sustainability Committee to formulate the strategies, policies and targets required to manage its environmental, social and managerial risks – including climate change – in line with the Capital Markets Board’s Corporate Governance Principles. The SINCE 2015, AKSA ENERGY HAS TAKEN PLACE Company plans to continue taking steps to make its sustainability ON BORSA ISTANBUL’S SUSTAINABILITY efforts traceable and improvable. INDEX, WHICH IS COMPRISED OF LISTED COMPANIES WITH THE HIGHEST CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE. 17 18 AKSA ENERGY AT A GLANCE INVESTMENT S T R AT E GY Aksa Energy has transformed from a local energy company to a global energy player and started supporting the Turkish economy with its foreign currency-denominated revenues. The Company plans to continue expanding its overseas installed capacity. Aksa Energy made a radical change to its strategic investment plan and initiated an international growth plan following its Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus (TRNC) power plant investment with an ambition to become a global power. AKSA ENERGY COMPLETED In accordance with this strategy, Aksa Energy turned to Africa via THE CONSTRUCTION OF investments in Ghana, Mali and Madagascar and became one of the major players in the energy market of this underserved continent which GHANA HEAVY FUEL OIL has an emerging energy demand. Aksa Energy aims to reduce the foreign exchange rate impact on its financials by boosting its profitability and foreign currency-denominated sales via these investments in African POWER PLANT IN ONLY countries, which greatly need energy and infrastructure investment. 9.5 MONTHS. The power plants in Africa became operational in stages as of March 2017. Ghana Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant reached 280 MW of installed capacity in August 2017, Madagascar Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant reached 66 MW of installed capacity in September 2017, and Mali Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant reached 40 MW of installed capacity in September 2017. Aksa Energy not only minimized investment costs but also cut the construction duration of the projects significantly by using the Company’s existing equipment to build the power plants in Africa. Thus construction of Ghana Power Plant was completed in only 9.5 months, Madagascar in 7 months and Mali in 6 months. Aksa Energy has transformed from a local energy company to a global energy player and started supporting the Turkish economy with its foreign currency-denominated revenues. The Company plans to continue expanding its overseas installed capacity. Negotiations are currently underway with a number of countries to generate quick solutions with low investment costs for countries with urgent energy demand. AKSA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 19 SALES S T R AT E GY In 2017, 74% of Aksa Energy’s EBITDA (Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortization) was from foreign currency-based contracts. Aksa Energy plans to increase the share of foreign currency-denominated sales in its revenues to avoid potential foreign exchange rate losses. The Company’s foreign currency denominated take-or-pay sales – from Kalecik Fuel Oil Power Plant in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus and the heavy fuel oil power plants in Ghana, Madagascar and Mali, which started commercial operations in 2017 – form the centerpiece of Aksa Energy’s financial transformation. As of year-end 2017, 74% of the Company’s EBITDA (earnings before interest, tax, depreciation & amortization) was from foreign currency-based contracts. Türkiye Elektrik Ticaret ve Taahhüt A.Ş. (TETAŞ) announced that it will purchase 18 billion KWh of energy from independent power producers that generate electricity from domestic coal in 2017. During the year, Bolu Göynük Thermal Power Plant sold the amount of electricity specified in the referenced tender to TETAŞ at the price of TL 185/MWh – the rate set for 2017. While incentives to encourage electricity production from domestic coal continued throughout the year, TETAŞ revised its principles and procedures related to electricity sourcing. As of 2018, the total amount of energy to be sourced from power plants producing electricity from domestic or imported coal is to be calculated by the price and supply formula stipulated in the decree for seven years. The amount of domestic coal used in energy production is the determining factor in calculating the amount purchased. The decree raises the nominal purchase price of TL 185/MWh (the price set for 2016 and 2017) to TL 201.35/ MWh for 2018. Moreover, from second quarter 2018 until year-end 2024, quarterly upward revisions will be made to the price using the CPI and PPI indices. The energy purchase price, which started with an 8.8% increase over the price set for 2017, will be revised for the next seven years in line with the CPI and PPI indices. This new incentive is expected to significantly encourage new investments and support those companies producing electricity from domestic coal. Given that the average market clearing price in 2016 was TL 140 /MWh and TL 164 /MWh in 2017, this incentive has the potential to significantly tilt the balance in Turkey’s energy industry. Madagascar Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant – our second project in Africa – was an important step forward in executing our international growth strategy. As the facility’s first phase is completed with 66 MW of installed capacity, Aksa Energy continues to put smiles on faces with the electricity produced at its Madagascar power plant. 22 AKSA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 O U R S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y APPROACH Aksa Energy makes social and economic contributions to the countries where it operates by creating employment and addressing Africa’s urgent energy demand. In 2017, Aksa Energy began executing its strategic investment plan Aksa Energy groups its sustainability initiatives under three main geared toward becoming a global energy player and commissioned headings: “Environmental Sustainability,” Our Employees” and “Social three power plants in Africa. In addition to the Turkish Republic of Responsibility.” In 2017, the Company updated its policies in line with Northern Cyprus (TRNC), Aksa Energy now meets a significant portion its new international growth strategy and implemented policy revisions of the energy need in Ghana, Madagascar and Mali. related to the Environment, Occupational Health and Safety, Quality, Energy and Corporate Social Responsibility. The Company established In line with its new investments, Aksa Energy began managing its the Sustainability Committee to oversee and guide its environmental, sustainability initiatives with a more global perspective. The Company social and governance performance. The Committee is responsible for makes social and economic contributions to the countries where it integrating sustainability in major aspects of the Company’s operations operates by creating employment and addressing Africa’s urgent need – such as decision-making, management and business processes – for energy. Aksa Energy is also committed to upholding basic human and ensuring that Corporate Governance Principles are assessed from rights while conducting its operations even in high risk regions in this perspective. The Sustainability Committee regularly updates the terms of human rights protection. Company’s sustainability priorities and determines the focus areas under these priorities. Aksa Energy’s approach to sustainability includes a focus on developing business processes and methodologies that integrate advanced technologies. All Aksa Energy employees embrace this innovative approach and corporate culture, paving the way for the Company’s holistic progress. Continuous improvement and development of business processes has a positive effect on the Company’s sustainability performance. Meanwhile, Aksa Energy’s AKSA ENERGY GROUPS ITS technology and know-how transfer to its operating regions creates a SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES general social benefit. UNDER THREE MAIN HEADINGS: “ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY,” “EMPLOYEES” AND “SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.” GRI 102-46 AKSA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 23 Importance for Stakeholders Corporate Governance High Occupational Health and Safety Energy Supply Security Employee Efficiency and Satisfaction Uncertainties in Electricity and Fossil Fuels R & D and Innovation Human Rights Medium Emergency Management Climate Change and Energy Efficiency Air Emissions Water Footprint Ecological Footprint Local Communities Wastes and Wastewater Low Bio-diversity Supply Chain Social Development and CSR Projects Low Medium High Importance for Environment Society Products and Services Governance Aksa Energy GRI 102-46, GRI 102-47 24 OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH S TA K E H O L D E R C O M M U N I C AT I O N Aksa Energy aims to continue moving forward with the support of all its stakeholders in its business activities and also plans to increase collaborations with other organizations by actively participating in various platforms. Communicating with the stakeholders carries major importance Aksa Energy aims to continue moving forward with the support for Aksa Energy in carrying out its sustainability approach and in of all its stakeholders in its business activities. The Company also developing its performance in this field continuously. To this end, the plans to increase collaborations with other organizations by actively Company takes steps to understand the needs and expectations of its participating in various platforms. stakeholders – from its employees to the local communities in regions where the Company operates. Aksa Energy’s stakeholders may send their opinions, expectations, suggestions and complaints to the Company via Aksa Energy’s most important communication tools include annual http://www.aksaenerji.com.tr/en/write-to-us/ with confidentiality reports, sustainability reports, the Company website, Public Disclosure ensured both internally and externally. Platform (KAP) announcements, LinkedIn, various feedback tools and methods, meetings, and two-way communication mechanisms. These Detailed information related to stakeholder analysis is available on tools and platforms provide regular and continuous communication page 14 of the 2015 Sustainability Report: http://img-aksaenerji. with the Company’s stakeholders. mncdn.com/media/21423/aksa-enerji-2015-yılı-surdurulebilirlikraporu.pdf Aksa Energy develops various projects and collaborations as it exchanges ideas and works together with all its stakeholders including public institutions, NGOs, financial institutions, local government administrations and sector organizations. The Company ensures communication with its employees via trainings, meetings, internal AKSA ENERGY TAKES STEPS communications, intranet systems, performance assessments, feedback systems, email communications, and annual reports. TO UNDERSTAND THE NEEDS Similarly, the Company organizes one-on-one meetings, certification AND EXPECTATIONS OF ALL trainings, technical and occupational trainings in order to ensure regular communication with its suppliers and contractors. ITS STAKEHOLDERS – FROM ITS EMPLOYEES TO THE LOCAL COMMUNITIES IN REGIONS WHERE THE COMPANY OPERATES. GRI 102-42, GRI 102-43, GRI 102-44 AKSA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 25 SECTORAL NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS ORGANIZATIONS FINANCIAL SUPPLIERS INSTITUTIONS AKSA ENERGY’S S TA K E H O L D E R S LOCAL PUBLIC GOVERNMENTS INSTITUTIONS EMPLOYEES GRI 102-40 AKSA ENERGY CONDUCTS ITS BUSINESS OPERATIONS BY CONSIDERING THEIR SOCIAL IMPACT ON ITS STAKEHOLDERS. THE COMPANY CONSIDERS CONTRIBUTING TO THE ECONOMIC, CULTURAL AND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES IN THE REGIONS WHERE IT OPERATES AS ITS PRIMARY GOAL. AKSA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 27 28 OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH C O R P O R AT E GOVERNANCE Aksa Energy complies with the Corporate Governance Principles set forth by the Capital Markets Board. Aksa Energy is keenly aware of the importance of building a corporate Ethics covers a broad array of subjects. These include compliance with laws governance structure on sound principles. To this end, the Company has and regulations; risk prevention; confidentiality; auditing and reporting of embraced a fair, responsible, accountable and transparent corporate breaches of rules of ethics; conflicts of interest; use of company resources; governance approach. The Board of Directors, Aksa Energy’s highest giving and receiving gifts on behalf of the Company; donations; and executive body, is comprised of eight members appointed at the General discrimination. Assembly, including three independent members and one female member. Since 2015, Aksa Energy has implemented the Anti-Bribery and AntiCorruption Policy and Program. The Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy The Company has an Audit Committee, Corporate Governance and its appendices are a separate document that supplements the Code of Committee and Early Risk Assessment Committee that report directly Ethics which aims to protect Aksa Energy and its stakeholders against risks to the Board of Directors. Each of these committees conducts regular and to raise the Company’s value and reputation. The Policy was formulated meetings, carries out prescribed tasks and reports the resulting to ensure that the Company is managed in compliance with all applicable opinions and recommendations to the Board of Directors in order to help laws, rules and regulations in the countries where the Company operates. the Company achieve a better management structure. The Company’s The Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy also covers principles related governance principles prevent unlimited authority to be granted to a to business procedures and practices; auditing and reporting of political single person; the positions of Chairman of the Board of Directors and donations; travel and accommodation expenditures; gifts; and similar topics. CEO are held by different individuals(*). Aksa Energy also complies with the Corporate Governance Principles set forth by the Capital Markets Aksa Energy oversees the Code of Ethics and the Anti-Bribery and Board in its operations. Anti-Corruption Policy. The Company has created an email address (etik@aksa.com.tr) to report violations of these principles and policies. This Aksa Energy understands that the Code of Ethics is an integral part system was designed to ensure the confidentiality of the person reporting of a company’s values and with this perspective, builds all business the alleged violation. processes on the basis of codified rules of ethics. Aksa Energy expects all employees and business partners – from the senior management to The Ethics Committee is responsible for evaluating, investigating and contractors who represent the Company, such as suppliers, consultants, resolving notifications related to ethics matters, corruption and bribery and attorneys and external auditors – to comply with these rules. The the Committee reports directly to the Chairman of Aksa Energy’s Board of Company is committed to acting in accordance with these principles at Directors. The Ethics Committee consists of the Internal Audit Director, Legal all times and to serving as an exemplary institution in this regard. Affairs Director, and Human Resources Director. Aksa Energy’s Code of Ethics, which all employees are subject to, In 2017, the Company did not receive any complaints or notifications of a is organized under four headings: General Rules, Use of Company violation of the Code of Ethics or the Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy. Resources, Relationships, and Obligations to the Company. The Code of Aksa Energy plans to administer training on the Company’s Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy to employees in 2018. (*) Further information on the Board of Directors’ committees is accessible at: /www.aksainvestorrelations.com/corporate-governance/board-of-directors-committees/ AKSA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 29 Sustainability Management recommendations and guidance accordingly. The Sustainability Sustainability of business processes is becoming an increasingly Committee is chaired by the Investor Relations and Corporate important issue each year, both domestically and globally. Against Communications Director; the Domestic Power Plants Operation and this backdrop and motivated by this global movement, Aksa Energy Maintenance Director serves as Vice Chairman; and the Environment assesses the existing risks and embraces sustainability awareness as and Energy Legislation Specialist serves as General Secretary. a strategic priority in all its operations. The Company’s sustainability Members of senior management from Human Resources and Supply approach is implemented under the key headings of “Environmental Chain appointed by the Board of Directors also serve on the Committee Sustainability,” “Our Employees” and “Social Responsibility.” Aksa to foster a multi-faceted sustainability approach. In addition, senior Energy aims to leverage its sustainability approach as a competitive executives from Energy Trading as well as Sales and Marketing attend advantage on its path to becoming a global power and is committed to the Committee’s meetings as necessary. making significant strides in this area to bolster its competitive edge. The Sustainability Committee meticulously examines and assesses Aksa Energy has established a Sustainability Committee which reports the impacts of sustainability related activities on the Company’s directly to the CEO. The Committee is responsible for formulating operations. The Committee formulates recommendations and strategies and policies that ensure sustainable implementation of all suggestions resulting from these assessments and reports them to the business processes; taking the necessary steps to put these strategies CEO. and policies into practice; overseeing, supervising and improving the strategies and policies. The Committee also ensures effective The Sustainability Coordination and Working Group which was implementation of the Company’s sustainability-related strategies and established to support the implementation of decisions made by the policies across the organization. Committee and is chaired by the Environment and Energy Legislation Specialist. The Sustainability Coordination and Working Group is Sustainability Committee comprised of managers from Corporate Finance, Business Processes, Aksa Energy set up the Sustainability Committee to include Supply Chain and Human Resources as well as specialists from representatives from a number of different departments across the Occupational Safety, Quality, Social Responsibility, Environment and organization in order to ensure that all the Company’s operations are Energy Management Systems. conducted in harmony with sustainability principles, while providing ENERGY GROUP HEAD, CEO AND BOARD MEMBER CÜNEYT UYGUN SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE SUSTAINABILITY COORDINATION AND WORKING GROUP Investor Relations and Corporate Communications Director Environment and Energy Legislation Specialist Özlem McCann (Chairperson) Ebru Aydeniz (Chairperson) Domestic Power Plants Operation and Maintenance Director Corporate Finance Manager Şenlav Güner (Vice President) Aylin Kırhan Environment and Energy Legislation Specialist Business Processes Manager Ebru Aydeniz (Secretary General) Betül Işıklar Human Resources Director Purchasing Manager Yeşim Ağaçkesen Serpil Tolgay Purchasing and Logistics Director Occupational Health and Safety Specialist Meral Tunalı Oğuz Biçer Quality and Social Responsibility Management Specialist Aysel Topçu Environment and Energy Systems Specialist Mustafa Kurt Human Resources Manager 30 OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH RISK MANAGEMENT In 2017, Aksa Energy continued its efforts to proactively manage and prevent risks arising from fluctuations in electricity and fossil fuel prices. Aksa Energy’s risk management approach is designed to help the from geographically dispersed production operations of the Company, Company achieve its goals and targets in line with its corporate vision. human rights incompatibilities stemming from activities in non-OECD This approach enables the Company to assess and manage risks with countries, fluctuations in energy and fossil fuel prices, energy supply a holistic perspective. security, occupational health and safety risks. Issues of corporate risk management, operational performance, In 2017, Aksa Energy continued efforts to proactively manage and legal compliance, business continuity and reputation are gaining in prevent risks arising from fluctuations in electricity and fossil fuel importance for businesses. Aksa Energy’s risk management policy prices. Our operations in Africa provide contribution to the management is centered on safeguarding the value of Company assets, as well as of these risks. For the management of price-related risks, Aksa ensuring operational safety and sustainability. Risks are managed by Energy’s Early Risk Assessment Committee provides the Board of the Early Risk Detection Committee with a view to rapidly detecting Directors recommendations and possible courses of action on strategic the risks that may jeopardize the Company’s existence, continuity and issues, including uncertainties related to fuel and energy prices. development, and to taking the necessary measures against the risks identified. At the same time, the Committee makes recommendations to the Board of Directors concerning strategic issues, including fuel and energy price fluctuations. The Committee, which convenes six times a year under the chairmanship of the Independent Board Member, presents the results of its evaluations to the Board of AKSA ENERGY’S RISK Directors. Corporate risk management helps to address the risks that businesses are exposed to, through a comprehensive and holistic MANAGEMENT POLICY perspective. IS CENTERED ON Aksa Energy’s risk management approach is an instrument for the Company in achieving its goals and objectives in line with its vision. SAFEGUARDING THE VALUE With this approach, risks are assessed and managed through a holistic perspective. Aksa Energy manages its non-financial risks, as OF COMPANY ASSETS IN well as its financial risks. The Company defines its financial risks as depreciation of the TL, energy prices (electricity tariffs and spot prices) ADDITION TO ENSURING lagging behind the natural gas and oil prices, legislative changes leading to cost increases, and slowdown in the growth of energy OPERATIONAL SAFETY AND demand. Non-financial risks include climate change as well as carbon management, stakeholder relations, geopolitical issues arising the SUSTAINABILITY. AKSA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 31 After Ghana and Madagascar, we built a heavy fuel oil power plant with 40 MW installed capacity in Bamako, the capital of Mali. With this facility, we have further increased our share in the African energy market as well as prosperity and happiness in the region. 34 OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE E N V I R O N M E N TA L S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y Aksa Energy’s Environmental Policy is based on four main concepts: climate change, efficient natural resource management, waste management and protection of biodiversity. Aksa Energy operates with the target of minimizing the environmental In the construction of its African power plants, Aksa Energy used impact of its business activities and establishing the most efficient equipment from its existing power plants in Turkey that became business processes. Environmental sustainability is prioritized in all of operational in 2017. By dismantling its Samsun, Mardin-1, Mardin-2 the Company’s business processes while environmental impacts are and Idil fuel oil power plants in Turkey, and using the equipment from managed in accordance with international management systems. these power plants, the Company recorded significant cost savings in construction of its plants in Ghana, Madagascar and Mali which Aksa Energy has obtained the ISO 140001 Environmental Management became operational in 2017. System, ISO 50001 Energy Management System, ISO 9001 Quality Management System and OHSAS 180001 Occupational Health and To boost its environmental performance, Aksa Energy made Safety Management System Certifications. The Company uses the environment related investments totaling TL 6,477,190 in 2017. ISO 14001 Environmental Management System Certificate and The Company plans to continue making investments to improve its Environmental Management Policy to guide environment management environmental performance in the coming year. across the organization. Aksa Energy set up the Framework Environmental Management System (FEMS) to execute its business Climate Change and Energy activities in parallel with its environmental policy. FEMS is designed to Aksa Energy is well aware of its growing responsibility to develop comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations; outline and keep efficient technologies and practices due to the high impact the energy track of the Company’s environment management objectives and goals industry has on global climate change. and establish an effective environmental management system. To this end, Aksa Energy signed the Trillion Tonne Communiqué – a Aksa Energy’s Environmental Policy is based on four main concepts; declaration to the world by companies demanding that measures climate change, natural resource management, waste management be taken to combat climate change. The Company places great and protection of diversity. In accordance with ISO 50001 Energy importance on the battle against climate change and is committed Management System, climate change related impacts are reduced to becoming a more sustainable and responsible organization in this by adopting efficient production processes as well as the focus on regard. effective use of natural resources primarily on water continues. Wastes are recycled and removed consistent with the legislations. Aksa Energy sold its wind power plants due to a shift in the Company’s The Company co-operates with specialized institutions to protect and business model. Moreover, the hydroelectric power plant was sold as develop biodiversity in its operating regions. well. Additionally, the licenses of some fuel oil and natural gas power plants were cancelled and the equipment of these decommissioned plants was used to construct three heavy fuel oil power plants in Africa, a region with urgent energy demand. AKSA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 35 BY USING LED ARMATURES AT GHANA FUEL OIL POWER PLANT, THE ENERGY SPENDING FOR LIGHTING AT THE FACILITY DECREASED 60%. AS A RESULT, WE ACHIEVED ANNUAL COST SAVINGS OF TL 137,000. The power plants which were previously operating with low capacity • Pulverized water spraying has begun at Şanlıurfa Natural Gas in Turkey are currently operating with high capacity in Africa. Bolu Combined Cycle Power Plant to boost radiator cooling capacity, Göynük Thermal Power Plant reaching full capacity along with resulting in annual savings of 3,600 MWh. high capacity utilization rates of the power plants in Africa and the • A total 4,500 MWh annual savings is expected with the PA Fan removal of the renewable power plants from the portfolio increased Impeller change that provides hot and cold air supply at Bolu Göynük Aksa Energy’s greenhouse gas emissions in 2017 compared to the Thermal Power Plant. previous year. Therefore, the 15% emission reduction target per MWh by 2020 over year 2008 is currently being updated due to the changes Air Emissions in the Company’s portfolio. Aksa Energy plans to assess the annual One of the most significant areas of environmental impact within performance of those power plants with increased greenhouse gas energy generation is air emissions. Aksa Energy regularly monitors emission and set new targets as new investments take shape. and measures the effect of its operations on air quality and ensures that its emissions fall within the legally prescribed limits. The Company Redirecting its climate change strategy, Aksa Energy continues to makes necessary technological and capital investments to eliminate conduct its business activities with the most efficient production any adverse impact of the air emissions on the environment and human methods and prioritizes maximum energy efficiency. health. Energy efficiency is a top priority for Aksa Energy in parallel with its To this end, Aksa Energy established a flue gas treatment system – the new climate change strategy. The Company’s efforts to this end include first of its kind in Turkey – at Bolu Göynük Thermal Power Plant. Thanks the following projects: to this system, the power plant reached the legal emission target set • By using LED armatures at Ghana Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant, the by the EU for the year 2018 in 2015. In addition, Bolu Göynük Thermal energy spending for lighting at the facility decreased by 60%. As a Power Plant’s NOx emission volume has been reduced to a low level by result, the Company achieved annual cost savings of TL 137,000. using fluidized bed combustion technology with limestone injection. • Radiator fan motors and cooling towers were utilized in the most efficient at Şanlıurfa Natural Gas Combined Cycle Power Plant to achieve energy savings. 36 OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE E N V I R O N M E N TA L S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y Aksa Energy is committed to recycling waste generated at every stage of its operations. Waste Management Water and Waste Water Management Waste management is one of the most important components of Global water consumption is steadily increasing today, putting severe Aksa Energy’s environmental sustainability approach. The Company pressure on the world’s water resources. Against this backdrop, conducts research studies to reduce the amount of waste and boost Aksa Energy aims to minimize water consumption in all its business business process efficiency in order to achieve a higher performance operations and processes. The Company implements numerous water level each year. Efforts are expended to improve business processes, conservation projects to reduce the amount of water used across the reduce resource consumption, and decrease waste generation by using organization. Waste water yielded by production processes is discharged innovative technologies and resources effectively. in accordance with the Water Pollution Control Regulation. Aksa Energy is committed to recycling wastes generated at every Over the last three years, Aksa Energy’s water consumption has stage of its operations. Waste oil, contaminated packaging and cloth, increased in parallel with the rising production at the natural gas power absorbent filters, slob from oil-water separators and other scrap plants. Decarbonization facilities installed at the power plants helped material produced at thermal power plants are sent to licensed to save 500 m3 water per hour at Ali Metin Kazancı Antalya Natural recycling companies for disposal. Hazardous waste is initially collected Gas Combined Cycle Power Plant and 270 m3 of water per hour at Bolu in the temporary waste storage areas within the Company’s facilities Göynük Thermal Power Plant. and transferred by licensed vehicles to specialized recycling facilities. Water Consumption (m3) 2015 2016 2017 Packing wastes are sent to recycling facilities which are contracted by the related municipalities in the locations of the power plants. Municipal Water 235,824 320,261 226 In 2017, ashes generated at Bolu Göynük Thermal Power Plant started Surface Waters 3,220,939 7,536,569 7,649,666 to be stored at New Southern Regular Ash Storage Area instead of Underground Water 141,083 230,893 161,987 temporary storage. The new storage facility was built during the year and granted an environmental permit by the Environment and Total 3,597,846 8,087,723 8,038,366 Urbanization Provincial Directorate. Total Amount of Waste Water (m3) 2015 2016 2017 Waste (tons) 2015 2016 2017 Non-hazardous Recycled Waste 325 895 388 Total 1,282,380 1,478,390 1,869,430 Hazardous Recycled Waste 327 254 440 Recovered for Energy Use 0 195 20 Total Amount of Recycled Water (m3) 2015 2016 2017 Sent to the Dump Site 4,892 Total 60,070 416,485 567,969 AKSA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 37 AKSA ENERGY ESTABLISHED A SEAWATER DE-SALINATION SYSTEM AT NORTHERN CYPRUS KALECİK HFO POWER PLANT. Established with a EUR 2.5 million investment in 2012, Ali Metin In November 2017, the Environment and Urbanization Provincial Kazancı Antalya Natural Gas Combined Cycle Power Plant’s Directorate imposed an administrative fine of TL 21,235 on Aksa decarbonization facility lowered water consumption from 0.71 m3/MWh Energy because the Company did not release lifeline water supply to to 0.66 m3/MWh in 2017. As a result, 428,000 m3 of water was recycled the stream bed in the required amounts. In response, Aksa Energy and reused during the year. made a counterclaim in court to cancel the related decision since no production had been performed during the period in question and all Aksa Energy established a decarbonization facility with an investment the water reaching the regulator had already been released to the of EUR 2.8 million at Bolu Göynük Thermal Power Plant. The Company stream bed. completed a project to collect reverse osmosis waste water in a separate pool in order to humidify ashes. The project now yields additional water savings of 14.4 m3 per hour. In addition, the Company Ali Metin Kazancı Antalya Natural Gas created Çatak Pond with an investment of TL 17.5 million at Bolu Göynük Power Plant; this effort was aimed to meet the water needs of Combined Cycle Power Plant the local community and operational requirements of the plant. Water Consumption per MWh At the Manisa and Şanlıurfa Natural Gas Combined Cycle Power Plants, 7% D ecre water treated by the reverse osmosis method started being recycled ase and reused in the cooling towers. As a result, water consumption declined at these facilities. 0.71 0.66 Aksa Energy established a seawater desalination system at Northern Cyprus Kalecik Fuel Oil Power Plant. Furthermore, the plant uses an Evaporator Treatment System which purifies waste water generated at the facility by evaporating and condensing for domestic needs and natural gas closed cycle systems. 2016 2017 The Company has executed a variety of water conservation projects at its power plants in Africa where water resources are extremely limited. Waste water generated by the water softening unit at Ghana Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant is used in the facility’s grounds irrigation system. 38 OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE E N V I R O N M E N TA L S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y Aksa Energy places great importance on monitoring and protecting the natural life and biodiversity of the regions where it operates. Biodiversity The striped hyena project is noteworthy among other studies carried out Aksa Energy places great importance on monitoring and protecting in that region for its scope and effectiveness. Scientists who acted as the natural life and biodiversity of the regions where it operates. The consultants to the study praise its results. Company actively supports projects that protect and enhance natural habitats, with a view toward monitoring the environmental impact of This project is also significant with regard to biodiversity as it showed its business operations and mitigating negative impacts. there are 10 other types of carnivores – wolf, weasel, red deer, fox, marten, badger, poppy, herpestes, wildcat, jungle cat – in a small region In line with this perspective, Aksa Energy initiated partnership with the like Kırıkhan-Reyhanlı that share the same space with the striped hyena. Association for the Protection of Turkey’s Nature (TTKD) to preserve biodiversity since 2015. One project to protect mountain gazelles was Aksa Energy plans to support another biodiversity project in 2018. This implemented for two years. In 2017, the collaboration continued with new project will aim to determine the presence (present condition) of red TTKD-Hatay branch under a project to explore the current situation and deer (cervus elaphus) around Yedigöller National Park and its ecology. ecology of the striped hyena living in that region. A study was initiated In addition, the study will identify the following about the species on the highly endangered wild species of striped hyenas living in cervus elaphus: population numbers; distribution and density of its Kırıkhan – Gölbaşı Village. In the first phase, interviews were conducted population; habitat; nourishment and nutrition sources; social behaviors; among the local population. The overall goal of the project was to relationships with humans; threat risks and precautions required for the highlight the importance of protecting the striped hyena, located in the protection of the species. As a large mammal, the red deer is a symbolic upper region of the food chain, and preserving the rich biodiversity of species representing the biodiversity of the region. Hatay region. During the two-month project, photo traps positioned in the landscape captured images of the rock gerbil (gerbillus dasyurus), which had not been observed in the last 22 years and was thought to be extinct. This was an important achievement for both the specialists on the project team and Aksa Energy. The report titled “Preliminary Study on the Striped Hyena’s Spread and Habitat in the Hassa – Reyhanlı Region” was published upon completion of these efforts. The report pointed to the need for meticulous protection of the local habitats which are rich in local mammals. The study results were published in regional and national media, thereby broadening awareness on the rich biological diversity of the area. AKSA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 39 40 OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE EMPLOYEES Aksa Energy provides a working environment where all occupational health and safety measures are taken. The Company also administers regular OHS training to its employees. Aksa Energy sees its employees as its most valuable asset and Percentage of Employees by Category formulates its corporate polices with that perspective. The Company takes steps to provide better employee working conditions and to WHITE BLUE develop its workforce. Aksa Energy’s goal is to become the most COLLAR COLLAR preferred employer in the energy industry. The Company is aware that managing and developing employees in 24% 76% the most effective manner ensures sustainable success and creates value. Aksa Energy provides a working environment where all health and safety measures are taken. The Company also administers regular OHS training to its employees. The Company is firmly committed to taking all necessary precautions to ensure a healthy and safe working environment for its workforce. Aksa Energy aims to retain development-oriented, productive and highly motivated employees. Understanding that reaching long-term corporate goals requires staff support, the Company continuously Percentage of Employees by Country invests in its human capital. Aksa Energy always strives to foster and sustain a work environment based on respect for diversity, differences, GHANA MADAGASCAR and universally accepted human rights. The Company uses ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning) systems 13% 9% TRNC MALI to manage its human resources more effectively and efficiently. Accordingly, career maps and staff talent pool are set to be defined at the Company by 2020. 10% 9% TURKEY 59% AKSA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 41 Local Employment Rate in International Power Plants GHANA MADAGASCAR MALI 32% 59% 72% As of end-2017, Aksa Energy employed 1,019 personnel; of whom, 76% Aksa Energy, as a OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety are blue collar and 24% are white collar. 9% of employees are located Management Certificate holder, aims to receive the certificate for Ali at headquarters, with the remaining 91% at the power plants in various Metin Kazancı Antalya Natural Gas Combined Cycle Power Plant and geographic regions. As a global company, Aksa Energy operates in Bolu Göynük Thermal Power Plant in 2018. The Company plans to different regions of the world and believes that the resulting workforce obtain the same certification for its other power plants in the coming diversity strengthens its organizational structure. At all its domestic and years. Aksa Energy is committed to ensuring that all necessary foreign power plants, the Company selects its contracted employees precautions related to OHS are taken at subcontractor firms and from the local community in order to support the development of each organizations and all Company facilities across Turkey. regional economy. Some 32% of employees at Ghana Heavy Fuel Oil Power Plant are from the local community, compared with 59% at Aksa Energy uses Corrective and Preventive Action Reports to assess Madagascar and 72% at Mali power plant. conditions across the organization. This reporting tool guides the Company in taking measures to avoid problems related to employee In 2017, the ratio of female employees at the Company increased by 4% injuries, enhance OHS performance and achieve the zero accident and almost doubled. Women personnel account for 9% of the Company’s objective. In addition, emergency plans are maintained in order to total workforce. Some 75% of female employees took maternity leave be prepared for all potential job-related accidents or emergency and all of them returned to work at the Company afterwards. scenarios. Respect for Human Rights Aksa Energy is committed to respecting the universally recognized human rights of its employees and business partners while conducting all its business activities. The Ethics Committee is responsible for AKSA ENERGY ALSO PRIORITIZES OCCUPATIONAL ensuring compliance with the Aksa Energy Human Rights Policy. Issued in 2016, the Policy details the Company’s commitment to uphold basic HEALTH AND SAFETY AT ITS OVERSEAS human rights. The Policy is published on the corporate website in all INVESTMENTS. AFTER SETTING A “1 MILLION MAN languages of the countries where Aksa Energy operates. HOURS X ZERO ACCIDENT” TARGET FOR GHANA HEAVY FUEL OIL POWER PLANT IN MAY 2017, THE Safe Working Environment COMPANY REACHED THAT OBJECTIVE IN JANUARY Occupational health and safety (OHS) is a top priority at Aksa Energy. The Company aims to provide an environment that ensures all 2018. AKSA ENERGY HAS BECOME A MODEL necessary measures are taken for its entire employees and business COMPANY BY ACHIEVING SUCH A SUCCESS IN ITS partners in accordance with its “zero accident” target. DOMESTIC AND INTERNATIONAL OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY RECORD. 42 OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE EMPLOYEES Aksa Energy aims to bolster its competitive power by accurately forecasting its human resources needs by analyzing possible changes in the industry. OHS evaluation and development efforts at the Company are based Performance and Career Management on statistics in Turkey and Europe and are designed to prevent Aksa Energy actively supports the career path and development of occupational accidents and diseases. These activities are carried out its human resources with talent management studies. Career paths by the OHS Board, which comprises 20% of Aksa Energy employees are created on common ground that benefits both employees and the and represents 70% of the workforce. The OHS Board and the Company, enabling staff members to improve their skills and help the Sustainability Committee are responsible for conducting assessments Company achieve its corporate goals. related to sustainability issues and providing reports to the CEO when deemed necessary. Aksa Energy sets corporate goals that reflect the importance given to employee recognition. In accordance with its target, the Company has In 2017, there were 23 accidents and two fatal occupational accidents planned competency-based performance assessment for its bluein total; no one suffered from occupational illness at the Company. collar workers until 2019. In addition, the Company aims to expand To maintain high OHS standards, Aksa Energy focused on delivering its offering of personal and occupational training programs by 20% in training programs on accident prevention. Some 70% of employee hours and numbers by 2020. training programs totaled 21,183 man hours was assigned to OHS subjects. During the year, training programs totaling 12,950 man The performance management system plays an important role in the hours were administered to 1,466 employees on OHS subjects at the Company’s Remuneration Policy. Aksa Energy has adopted a fair and Company’s power plants in Turkey and abroad. All employees were transparent remuneration policy based on performance to maintain informed about the various precautionary measures and emergency its status as a preferred employer in the industry. Additionally, the plans in place to guard against potential workplace accidents. Company closely monitors general macroeconomic conditions, the current inflation rate in Turkey and industrial trends to guarantee an Accident Frequency Rate appropriate and fair remuneration policy for its employees. Aksa Energy’s Remuneration Policy is based on the following principles: • Fairness, 5.39 • Transparency, • Upholding measurable and balanced performance criteria, 3.92 • Encouraging sustainable success, • Complying with risk management principles of the company Aksa Energy aims to bolster its competitive power by accurately forecasting its human resources needs by analyzing possible changes in the industry. 0.54 0.53 To this end, the Company plans to prepare a risk and opportunity matrix by 2020, which will feature the job positions that cannot be immediately filled 2014 2015 2016 2017 through transfers and promotions within the organization. AKSA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 43 44 OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE COMMUNITY R E L AT I O N S Aksa Energy collaborates with 2,022 suppliers from 14 countries on three continents. These suppliers include subcontractors, intermediaries and consultancy firms that provide services in energy production and mining. The number of suppliers to the Company increases steadily each year. Aksa Energy defines its stakeholders as all persons and institutions that Aksa Energy encourages suppliers to comply with international standards are affected by its business operations. Embracing a strong corporate in occupational health and safety, and environmental protection. In 2017, social responsibility approach, the Company conducts its business the Company completed all infrastructure preparation work related to the processes and operations in consideration of their social and economic integrated procurement management system and developed a system impacts on its stakeholder community. Committed to minimizing the connected to SAP. Additionally, the Company aims to digitalize supplier adverse impacts of its commercial activities, the Company takes steps to analysis processes in 2018. monitor the possible results of those impacts. Aksa Energy also solicits the opinions and suggestions from the local population. Placing great importance on social responsibility, Aksa Energy carries out various activities focused on children – the promise of our future. These Aksa Energy gives priority to the economic, cultural and social needs efforts include giving support to education and culture. The Company and development of the local community wherever the Company arranges tours and training programs for the development of young conducts business operations. To this end, the Company focuses on people. Ali Metin Kazancı Antalya Natural Gas Combined Cycle Power local employment to meet its human resources needs. As a reflection Plant has received many visitors from various schools and organizations. of this approach, local residents accounted for 51.3% of Aksa Energy’s In 2017, 7 tours of the power plant were attended by 221 visitors in total. total employees by year-end 2017: 41 in Ghana, 65 in Mali and 55 in Madagascar. In addition, the Company employs 167 local subcontractor employees in total in the African countries where it operates. Implementing the same recruitment policy at its power plants in Turkey, Aksa Energy staffed Bolu Göynük Thermal Power Plant from the neighboring villages of Göynük. The needs of local stakeholders are also met through infrastructure works LOCAL RESIDENTS and repair projects that support economic development in the Company’s regions of operation. Opinions, recommendations and complaints from ACCOUNTED FOR 51.3% OF the regions are received via various channels, such as email messages or during special meetings. After an assessment, these communications AKSA ENERGY’S TOTAL STAFF are resolved as needed. When additional services are required at the Company’s power plants, subcontracting firms are chosen from the region RECRUITMENT AT YEAR-END to provide more local employment opportunities for the community. Aksa Energy collaborates with 2,022 suppliers from 14 countries on 3 2017: 41 IN GHANA, 65 IN MALI continents. These suppliers include subcontractors, intermediaries and consultancy firms that provide services in energy production and mining. AND 55 IN MADAGASCAR. The number of suppliers to the Company increases steadily each year. AKSA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 45 46 REPORTING PRINCIPLES AND TABLES E N V I R O N M E N TA L P E R F O R M A N C E D ATA Greenhouse gas emissions from all buildings, generators (excluding headquarters) and cooling gases under the control of Aksa Energy were included in the inventory. Energy Consumption (MWh) 2015 2016 2017 Electricity 139,504 333,334 357,944 Natural Gas 7,060,440 8,450,047 9,311, 968 Lignite 1,080,849 5,618,960 5,475,872 Fuel Oil 1,686,248 1,750,346 3,736,302 Diesel 77 80 544 Total 9,967,119 16,152,765 18,882,630 Energy Consumption per MWh 1.36 2.20 2.09 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (tons CO2) 2015 2016 2017 Scope 1 2,295,641 4,255,280 4,888,820 Scope 2 77,021 163,781 183,315 Total 2,372,661 4,419,061 5,072,135 Greenhouse Gas Emissions per MWh (kg CO ) 2 323 601 562 The greenhouse gas calculation method chosen is based on greenhouse gas activity data multiplied by greenhouse gas emission or removal factors. Greenhouse gas emissions were calculated according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol methodology. The activity limits were designated as Scope 1 (direct) and Scope 2 (indirect).. The Global Warming Potential (GWP) factors were taken from Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Fifth Assessment Report (AR5). AKSA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 47 Air Emissions (kg) 2015 2016 2017 NOx 1,885,255 2,408,120 19,285,292 SOx 11,464 9,644 5,129,198 Water Consumption (m3) 2015 2016 2017 Municipal Water 235,824 320,261 226,713 Surface Waters 3,220,939 7,536,569 7,649,666 Underground Water 141,083 230,893 161,987 Total 3,597,846 8,087,723 8,038,366 Total Amount of Waste Water (m3) 2015 2016 2017 Total 1,282,380 1,478,390 1,869,430 Total Amount of Recycled Water (m3) 2015 2016 2017 Total 60,070 416,485 567,969 Waste (tons) 2015 2016 2017 Non-hazardous Recycled Waste 325 895 388 Hazardous Recycled Waste 327 254 440 Recovered for Energy Use 195 20 Sent to the Dump Site 4,892 Environment Investment and Expenses (TL) 2015 2016 2017 Total 37,036,000 11,649,701 6,477,190 48 REPORTING PRINCIPLES AND TABLES S O C I A L P E R F O R M A N C E D ATA Employees by Gender 2015 2016 2017 Women 33 37 84 Men 746 745 935 Employees by Category 2015 2016 2017 Women Men Women Men Women Men White-collar 28 228 29 270 65 179 Blue-collar 5 518 8 475 19 756 Employees by Contract Type 2015 2016 2017 Full-time 777 782 1,007 Part-time 2 0 0 Senior Management Structure 2015 2016 2017 Women Men Women Men Women Men Over 50 Years Old 0 2 0 0 0 1 31-49 Years Old 1 5 0 2 3 1 Under 30 Years Old 0 0 0 0 0 0 Parental Leave 2015 2016 2017 Women Men Women Men Women Men Employees on Parental Leave 4 35 3 38 4 0 Employees Returned to Work After Parental Leave 4 35 3 38 3 0 New Recruits by Gender and Age 2015 2016 2017 Women Men Women Men Women Men Number of New Recruits 9 162 17 146 39 198 Over 50 Years Old 7 6 2 5 31-49 Years Old 3 38 8 51 13 64 Under 30 Years Old 6 117 9 89 24 129 Employees Quitted Work by Gender and Age 2015 2016 2017 Women Men Women Men Women Men Number of Employees Quitted Work 8 163 7 166 23 332 Over 50 Years Old 14 1 19 0 20 31-49 Years Old 5 77 3 104 20 229 Under 30 Years Old 3 72 3 43 3 83 AKSA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 49 GRI CONTENT INDEX Explanation GRI Standard Disclosure Page Number/Link Omission for Omission GRI 101: Foundation 2016 General Disclosures Organizational Profile 102-1 1 102-2 4 102-3 http://www.aksaenerji.com.tr/en/contact-us/ 102-4 7 102-5 6 102-6 7 102-7 7 102-8 40-41 102-9 44 102-10 12-14 102-11 30 GRI 102: 102-12 http://img-aksayatirimci.mncdn.com/media/6874/aksa-energy-2016-sustainability-report.pdf General Disclosures 102-13 http://img-aksayatirimci.mncdn.com/media/6874/aksa-energy-2016-sustainability-report.pdf 2016 Strategy 102-14 10-12 102-15 30 Ethics and Integrity 102-16 28 102-17 28 Governance 102-18 28-29 102-19 28-29 102-20 28-29 102-22 http://img-aksayatirimci.mncdn.com/media/7120/aksa-enerji-2017-yili-faaliyet-raporu.pdf 102-23 http://www.aksainvestorrelations.com/corporate-governance/list-of-insiders/ 102-24 http://img-aksayatirimci.mncdn.com/media/7120/aksa-enerji-2017-yili-faaliyet-raporu.pdf 50 GRI CONTENT INDEX Explanation GRI Standard Disclosure Page Number/Link Omission for Omission GRI 101: Foundation 2016 General Disclosures 102-29 28-29 102-30 30 102-32 29 102-33 http://img-aksayatirimci.mncdn.com/media/7120/aksa-enerji-2017-yili-faaliyet-raporu.pdf 102-35 http://www.aksainvestorrelations.com/corporate-governance/remuneration-policy/ 102-36 http://www.aksainvestorrelations.com/corporate-governance/remuneration-policy/ Shareholder Analysis 102-40 25 102-41 No employee is covered by the collective labor agreement. 102-42 24 102-43 24 GRI 102: 102-44 24 General Disclosures Report Profile 2016 102-45 http://img-aksayatirimci.mncdn.com/media/7120/aksa-enerji-2017-yili-faaliyet-raporu.pdf 102-46 22, 23 102-47 23 102-48 There is no change compared to the previous reporting period. 102-49 There is no change compared to the previous reporting period. 102-50 1 102-51 1 102-52 1 102-53 1 102-54 1 102-55 49-51 102-56 No external assurance sought for this report. GRI 200: Economic Standard Series Economic Performance 103-1 18-19 GRI 103: Management 103-2 18-19 Approach 2016 103-3 18-19 GRI 201: Economic 201-1 http://img-aksayatirimci.mncdn.com/media/7120/aksa-enerji-2017-yili-faaliyet-raporu.pdf Performance 2016 GRI 300: Environmental Standard Series Energy Energy 103-1 34 GRI 103: Management 103-2 34 Approach 2016 103-3 34 302-1 46 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-3 46 302-4 35 AKSA ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 51 Explanation GRI Standard Disclosure Page Number/Link Omission for Omission GRI 300: Environmental Standard Series Energy Water 103-1 36 GRI 103: Management 103-2 36 Approach 2016 103-3 36 303-1 47 GRI 303: Water 2016 303-3 47 Emissions 103-1 34 GRI 103: Management 103-2 34 Approach 2016 103-3 34 305-1 46 305-2 46 GRI 305: Emissions 305-4 46 2016 305-5 35 305-7 47 Effluents and Waste 103-1 36 GRI 103: Management 103-2 36 Approach 2016 103-3 36 GRI 306: Effluents 306-2 47 and Waste 2016 Compliance 103-1 34 GRI 103: Management 103-2 34 Approach 2016 103-3 34 GRI 307: 307-1 37 Environmental Compliance 2016 GRI 400: Social Standard Series Employment 103-1 40-42 GRI 103: Management 103-2 40-42 Approach 2016 103-3 40-42 401-1 48 GRI 401: Employment 401-2 48 2016 401-3 48 Occupational Health and Safety 103-1 40-42 GRI 103: Management 103-2 40-42 Approach 2016 103-3 40-42 GRI 403: Occupational 403-2 41-42 Health and Safety 2016 Training and Education 103-1 40-42 GRI 103: Management 103-2 40-42 Approach 2016 103-3 40-42 404-1 42 GRI 404: Training and 404-2 42 Education 2016 404-3 42 Reporting Consultancy: S360 www.s360.com.tr Aksa Energy Rüzgârlıbahçe Mahallesi, Özalp Çıkmazı No: 10 34805 Kavacık Beykoz ISTANBUL/TURKEY Tel: +90 216 681 00 00 Fax: +90 216 681 57 83 www.aksaenerji.com.tr/en www.aksainvestorrelations.com
