United Nations Global Compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 CONTENTS STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT ....................................................... 5 ABOUT GIRTEKA LOGISTICS ........................................................................... 6 HUMAN RIGHTS .................................................................................................. 11 LABOUR ............................................................................................................... 17 ENVIRONMENT ................................................................................................. 23 ANTI-CORRUPTION ......................................................................................... 34 This is our Communication on Progress in implementing the Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We welcome feedback on its contents. Contact person: Kristian Kaas Mortensen, CCO, kkm@girteka.eu United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 CEO STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT IN 2017 We are very pleased to confirm that Girteka Girteka Logistics had around 9.900 employees at Logistics reaffirms its support of the ten principles of the end of 2017, who work all over the European the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Union and beyond. With our employees in front we Human Rights, Labour, Environment and have realized and discovered how much we can, and Anti-Corruption. must do, to be a responsible employer and corporate citizen while uniting around our mission, In this, our 3rd annual communication on progress, WE CARE. we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles We welcome the UN Sustainable Development into business strategy, culture and daily operations. Goals (SDGs) as a useful framework to set direction We also commit to sharing this information with our towards a more sustainable future. We contribute by stakeholders using our primary channels of investing in environmentally thought out operations, communication. We hope to be a positive example in buildings and equipment. As an example then we were our industry and in our home country of Lithuania, we the first company in Europe to order the new TESLA have created our CSR report based on the Global electric truck when it was offered in 2017. We ensure Compact COP, and publish this on all our our newly constructed warehouses, offices and communication channels. garages are highly energy efficient, and engage with our employees to create and participate in relevant During 2017 our company grew organically with CSR projects. more than 30%, this further make us understand how important CSR is in our company’s daily life. We have During 2018 we will continue to expand and since our start in 1996 grown to be a sizable develop our CSR activities and participate in our European leader in our industry. This position creates community, with the biggest focus on traffic safety. expectations from our stakeholders and more importantly from within. We take our industry and In this report we share our past results and future CSR leadership position serious. During the last few plans for implementing the 10 Global Compact years we have continued to do so by investing our principles into practice. We wish to inspire our During 2018 we will continue time and resources in many valuable projects, now colleagues, clients, partners, suppliers and other to expand and develop our mainly related to traffic safety for children. stakeholders to support the Global Compact. CSR activities and participate Corporate Social Responsibility continues to take in our community, with the a growing and deepening interest in our company. We have during the last few years matured in this Best Regards, Edvardas Liachovičius biggest focus on traffic safety. area and now understand that we have to focus our efforts in order to make the biggest impact. Our main focus going forward continues to be on traffic safety in our community, and especially where we can Edvardas Liachovičius improve traffic safety for children. CEO, Girteka Logistics 4 5 ABOUT GIRTEKA LOGISTICS Girteka Logistics is Europe’s biggest asset based FTL Transport Company, the company delivers more than 320.000 Full truck loads annually. The company grew organically from 600 trucks in 2010 to now 4.000 trucks and 4.500 trailers operating in Europe, Scandinavia and CIS/Russia. Girteka Logistics has more than 8.000 professional truck drivers and 10.000 employees in total, and is often the FTL carrier of choice for the world’s biggest brands. Our customers range from local producers to big international companies with major regional distribution centers. Our clients are mainly located in Europe, Scandinavia and CIS/Russia where we focus on long distance full truck loads. Our extensive network of routes caters to our client needs from the daily truck to big clients having 20.000+ full truck loads per year. On a daily basis Girteka Logistics have employees, trucks and trailers in more than 30 countries ensuring that our clients receive their valuable cargo on time. Girteka Logistics thrive due to the high skills and dedication shown by our employees every day throughout our value chain. From the driver spending days away from his family in order to deliver fresh fruits or fish to European families, to the warehouse employees working closely with customs inspectors to clear goods, their daily dedication embodies our company Mission WE CARE. Whether you are transporting salmon from Norway, dairy products from France or fruits from Spain then we have the expertise and experience to ensure it’s done right. 6 7 GIRTEKA LOGISTICS ANNUAL PROGRESS AND OUTCOMES This section highlights Girteka Logistics 2017 progress towards the UNGC and the Ten Principles in each of the four issues: Human Rights, Labor, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. For each area we shares our assessments, policy and goals as well as our implementation and measurement outcomes. We are proud, that throughout the year our employees expressed their assent for social commitment. Regardless of where they work, everyone at Girteka Logistics takes part in our CSR initiatives. This creates opportunities to achieve even more in 2018. 8 9 HUMAN RIGHTS Un Global Compact Principles Businesses Should: 1 Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 2 Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses Girteka Logistics is proactive in its commitment to employee safety. Those areas of our business most exposed to safety risks have developed tailor-made awareness information and training resources. Even so, safety must remain our key priority for the future. Whether on the road, our own sites or on those of our clients – Girteka Logistics is committed to continuous improvement. GIRTEKA LOGISTICS ENSURES THAT: Employees are provided with safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities. Employees at Girteka Logistics are protected from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats. Measures are taken to eliminate ingredients, designs, defects or side-effects that could harm or threaten human life and health during usage or disposal of products as well as while providing services. Andrieta Tamulevičienė, Drivers recruitment manager at Girteka Logistics, participating in new mission presentation event for our employees 10 11 IMPROVING WORKING CONDITIONS FOR OUR DRIVERS United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 Drivers are our biggest employment group We continue to improve our driver’s and account for approximately 80% of our education via our Girteka Logistics Drivers workforce, we consider them our company’s Academy, in 2018 we plan to invest in truck frontline Ambassadors. We have during the last driving simulators, to ensure we have the SUPPORTING year made a number of significant investments At the conference business leaders and in order to provide a better working climate for CHILDRENS RIGHTS media from all across Lithuania were invited to our drivers. This included buying more than the event with the aim to deepen the 2.500 new trucks with better safety equipment, CELEBRATING TRUCK understanding on how children are affected by and improved comfort for drivers. During 2017 we took further actions to raise business operations and how business can DRIVER #8.000 awareness among employees on human rights take action to contribute in securing good Another investment highly tailored towards and employee safety. As an example then conditions for children. improving working conditions for our Girteka Logistics as the only Lithuanian employees is our new facility in Siauliai, Girteka Logistics recently reached employment company was invited by the Embassy of Speaking at the conference were Lithuania, that opened in 2016. This new office of our truck driver number #8.000. This is a new Sweden in Lithuania to be a presenter and representatives from the Presidential Palace, the includes highly improved facilities for our milestone, and a strong testament to our efforts panel speaker at a high level “Conference on Ambassador of Sweden Ms. Maria Christina drivers, such as a lounge, shower facilities and towards being the best company for trucks Children’s Rights and Business Principles” at the Lundqvist, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs of even a laundry area. drivers in Europe. Girteka Logistics has for years Presidential Palace in Vilnius. This conference Lithuania, experts from Business Sweden and worked on how to best manage a large group of was under the National Campaign for a Safe Global Child Forum. From business sector were We also improved the on-the-road facilities drivers, meaning we have systems in place for Lithuania, an initiative by the President of IKEA, Telia, Girteka Logistics, Rimi Baltic and Tele2 with dedicated parking places in areas like everything that can make the daily work of our Lithuania Dalia Grybauskaitė. sharing their knowledge. Finland, Sweden and the Netherlands. drivers better. 12 Together with our drivers celebrating truck driver #8.000 13 Girteka Logistics management presenting new mission for employees United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER young Lithuanians who has studied abroad and return with new knowledge and language Girteka Logistics is an equal opportunity skills. employer that welcomes everyone, regardless of nationality, religion, gender or sexual orientation. We employ a large amount of drivers from different nations. We realize that transport and With headquarters in a small country like logistics is historically a male dominated Lithuania we are proud to employ 15+ different industry, however in recent years we have seen nationalities working together to provide an increase in female drivers. In our excellent service to our clients. We employ headquarters and other office locations we people from Spain, Italy, Ukraine, Russia, Latvia, have a much different situation where the Chile, Argentina, Denmark, Norway, France and number of female employees equal male several other countries. Being an international employees. We only offer employment and company, we are often a preferred employer for promotion based on skills and experience. MEASUREMENT AND FUTURE GOALS We were proud to be participants in the 2017 Joining such events are inspiration for our Swedish Institute Sustainability Forum – SISF. future CSR work, and helps us benchmark our The Swedish Institute Sustainability Forum – achievements against International leaders. SISF – is no ordinary event, it is a highly creative We continue our efforts to implement our Code 48-hour global think-tank with a selected of Conduct, and deepen the understanding of sustainability theme serving the dual purpose to its importance in all aspects of our company. develop real-life applicable solutions that help One of our aims for 2018 is to enhance companies deal effectively with some of the key employee participation and understanding of sustainability challenges of the 21stcentury, and human rights and employee safety. We want to to help society to be more resilient in meeting grow our CSR to be be an International leader known and unknown challenges. in this area. 14 Donato, Erika and Innocent participating in daily Asaichi meeting 15 LABOUR RIGHTS Un Global Compact Principles Businesses Should: 3 The freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor 5 The effective abolition of child labor 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Girteka Logistics respects and values the individuality and diversity that every employee brings. We do not tolerate any form of discrimination, and we seek to create a positive as well as open working environment wherever we operate. GIRTEKA LOGISTICS ENSURES THAT: The company does not participate in any form of forced or bonded labor, as well as do not accept child labor. Wages comply with minimum national standards. Employment-related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria. Employees are granted freedom of association. 16 17 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 GENDER BALANCE AND DIVERSITY Girteka Logistics has signed on to the ParityPledge™, in which companies promise to interview at least one qualified woman candidate for every open position, vice president and above, including the C-suite and board. ParityPledge perfectly aligns with Girteka Logistics values and mission. In Girteka Logistics we are proud of the work we have done to achieve gender diversity in our offices, but we believe we can do more to promote and attract this diversity, from our top positions to the drivers in our trucks. A diverse workplace allows us to leverage the strengths and unique qualities of all of our employees, and that is good for our business. Signing onto the Parity.org pledge is another way we fulfill our “WE CARE” mission, the ParityPledge™ is an initiative of Parity.org, a nonprofit organization that focuses on bringing gender equality to the highest levels of business. HEALTHY LIFESTYLE THROUGH SPORTS In Girteka Logistics we value a healthy lifestyle and support our employees sport activities. During the year we support a number of sports activities from Basketball to football teams. We also have Girteka Logistics teams joining the Vilnius Marathon, and Vilnius Bicycle marathon. This healthy lifestyle is evident and visual in all our activities, as an example then our employee summer party is focused around sports activities. Our head office education academy even doubles as a yoga facility afterhours for our employees. Girteka Logistics is a large international company with many energetic employees, again this year we had many colleagues who participate in the annual WE RUN in Vilnius Lithuania. WE RUN Vilnius is an annual event running since 2012, and in 2017 more than 7.500 people participated. We as a company and our more than 10.000 colleagues support a healthy lifestyle where sports in an important aspect of your daily living. Our colleagues were participating in 5 km, 10 km and 21 km races, and off course children participated in the family run. 18 Simona, Daiva and Asta participating in Girteka Logistics event for employees 19 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 IMPROVED ROAD SAFETY TROUGH DRIVERS ACADEMY Girteka Logistics Drivers Academy annually trains our now more than 8.000 professional drivers in safe and ECOnomical driving. Driving a truck is becoming increasingly complex, each driver must have detailed knowledge of European Union as well as national rules and regulations. Ensuring compliance with cabotage rules, resting periods, using tachographs in the correct manner and much more is something we constantly educate all our employees in. Some of our new initiatives has been to introduce tablets for online tests, and we also have introduced online education and testing for how to use the cooling unit on our trailers and much more. In 2018 we will add a new module to our driver’s academy program, namely truck driving simulators. TRUCK DRIVING SIMULATOR IMMERSIVE VISUAL SYSTEM MEASUREMENT AND FUTURE GOALS Labor rights should be a key issue for all companies. It’s not just about obligations, only companies who respect and improve labor rights is truly sustainable. Our ambition is to take this further, to increase engagement with our employees and other stakeholders, and to be the most attractive employer in our field. Girteka Logistics has labor unions within the company that every employee is free to join. Labor unions are granted independence and collective agreements are signed. We have a wide scope of employees with different nationalities and cultural backgrounds, our aim is to further develop our achievements in cultural and gender diversity. 20 21 ENVIRONMENT Un Global Compact Principles Businesses Should: 7 Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Measures to minimize adverse impacts on human health and the environment are taken throughout the value chain. This includes minimizing pollution, promoting an efficient and sustainable use of resources, including energy and water, and minimizing greenhouse gas emissions in transport. The local environment at the production site, warehouse or the garage shall not be exploited or degraded. GIRTEKA LOGISTICS ENSURES THAT: Environmental damage is avoided via regular maintenance of supply-chain and environmental protection system (air pollution control, waste, water treatment systems, etc.). Emergency procedures are created to prevent and address accidents affecting the environment and human health. Handling and storage of chemical and other dangerous substances is done in accordance to international requirements and rules (Girteka Logistics holds ADR certificate). 22 23 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 ROAD SAFETY DAY WITH THE LITHUANIAN POLICE Girteka Logistics Drivers Academy together We invited Lithuanian police dogs and their with the Lithuanian Police created a road safety trainers to demonstrate how Police dogs work day in Vilnius, Lithuania. The day focused on and are trained, this enabled the children to road safety for socially supported children (age understand the importance for the police. The 6-12, total 45 kids and 10 adults, from three children learned about road safety and how to different organizations), and included our safely behave in the traffic. Local police Drivers Academy educating their trainers in participated with expertise, equipment and blind spot detection and accident prevention. sharing of best practice. During an intensive 45 minutes lesson from Lithuanians most experienced road safety educator for Children – Police Commissioner Aistė Dijokaitė, the children learned the main rules for: HOW TO BEHAVE ON THE STREET WHAT ARE THE MAIN DANGERS AND HOW TO ACT CAREFULLY WHY DO WE NEED LIGHT REFLECTORS AND HOW TO USE IT PROPERLY WHAT ARE THE MAIN ROAD SIGNS AND ITS MEANING A VIDEO TEST TO ANSWER WHAT WAS WRONG IN THE EXAMPLE SHOWN WHY DO WE NEED A HELMET WHEN RIDING A BIKE AND HOW TO USE IT. THIS INCLUDED AN EXAMPLE WITH A MINI HELMET AND AN EGG WHICH WHEN DROPPING ON THE GROUND, PERFECTLY PROTECTED WITH A HELMET AND BROKE TO PIECES WITHOUT IT. As traffic safety is of the highest importance The event introduced safe behavior to the for our company, we used this event to improve children, and also allowed children to see and our company’s Drivers Academy understanding try the equipment used by Girteka Logistics and of how to protect children in the traffic. the Police. Each child had an opportunity to personalize their own safety vest to make it fashionable enough to be worn every day. 24 SHARING OF EXPERIENCE This year Girteka Logistics participated in the We have almost weekly visitors to our United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 career days of two universities in Lithuania, company to study our LEAN practices, we are Vilnius University and Vilnius Gediminas proud to share our work and thereby inspire Technical University. Practitioners from Girteka and help other companies to become better. Logistics shared their experience and expertise, LEAN visitors included VNO, Vilnius Airport, and provided students with some career tips UniCredit and Swedish Chamber of Commerce that might help them in the future. in Lithuania. SUPPORTING LOCAL CULTURE As part of career Days in VU and VGTU we We are a growing company and have a Girteka Logistics became a filming stage for a Well known actor James D‘Arcy plays the main had interactive workshops, where students had constantly increasing need for young people to new Lithuanian-American co-production movie character who is aware that his heart is a chance to manage our realistic everyday join our company, we therefore participate in “001 Lithium X“ directed by Israeli born, U.S. “unhealthy.” His last hope is to use a government work-life situations. During these workshops career days in major Universities. based director Guy Moshe. 001 Lithium X“ is a -funded program “to change the heart and their roles varied from HR, marketing specialists fantasy drama about a near future: The ozone cloned.” The ex-wife agrees, but she has a to planners and sales managers. We received We want to be open to business society, and layer over the planet during the day has risen to different plan not to only change the heart. great feedback from the participants; after all, do so by inviting companies and business 50 degrees Celsius thereby turning the rhythm it’s true, that you learn better by doing. associations to visit our company, one such of life upside down people sleep during the The major part of the fantasy drama is being visitor in 2017 was the European Business day and live at night. Communication in the filmed in Vilnius, Lithuania. There are 66 cinema Girteka Logistics strive to be transparent and Network. virtual world becomes the norm blurring the specialists in the filming crew and most of them have an open door policy, we therefore had limits between what is real and what is virtual. are Lithuanians. many visitors to our company during the year. 26 27 ADOPTING NEW TECHNOLOGY United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 Girteka Logistics as one of Europe’s largest road transport companies, was the first company in Europe who ordered the new ENVIRONMENTAL FOCUS TESLA truck. Girteka Logistics want to be the greenest transportation company available, and electric trucks are the future. We have a continuous aim to further reduce We also invest in the most fuel efficient our environmental impact by lowering CO2 cooling units for our trailers, even using solar emissions. Girteka Logistics only buy Euro 6 panels to power these units. Our new office and During 2018 we will try to further understand emission standard trucks, and during 2017 we truck maintenance facility in Sauliai, Lithuania is how adopting electric and LNG trucks can invested in more than 2.000 such new trucks. a highly energy efficient building, and positively impact the environment, and as well We also continue to use fuel saving initiatives exemplifies our effort towards reducing our our company. such as the Eurotunnel Le Shuttle Freight, energy consumption. 2017 was also the year ferries and trains. We are among the leaders in where we strengthened our usage of eco driving training and have measurable Intermodal solutions. efforts from this training. SUPPORTING ANTI BULLYING CAMPAIGN Girteka Logistics supported the #WeCare about building communication values since childhood. #WeSupport #AntiBullying campaign and drawing contest in more than 1200 Lithuanian schools! There were two ages groups competing – younger were drawing paintings about untibullying, teenagers were participating in a song contest, creating music videos about friendship as the best weapon against untibulying. Happy to participate in Vaiku linija's projects and to support the award ceremony of the winners. 28 29 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 SUPPORTING YOUNG PEOPLE Girteka Logistics joined a Volvo Trucks Lithuania initiated a project “Be. Discover. Choose”, the project attracted almost 350 young people to become better acquainted with the business of transportation and logistics, and potentially see their professional careers here. The project concluded on September 21 with a unique final event – an economic truck driving contest “Students’ Fuel Challenge” which took place at the Nemunas Ring racing track in Lithuania. Girteka Logistics was among the event’s partners and sponsors. Transportation is one of the most significant sectors for economic development, responsible for over 12% of the gross domestic product of Lithuania. The transportation and logistics sector is one of the key employers with up to 109,000 employees. During last year alone, the sector was responsible for creating 7,000 new jobs. 30 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 SUPPORTING A BETTER TOMORROW FOR CHILDREN During the year Lithuanian, Kačerginė ring road sounded from the best Lithuanian masters of cars drifting who gathered to compete for a good purpose. The sportsmen together with the foundation Mothers Union (lith. “Mamų unija”) brought together a crowd of more than a thousand people and turned sports entertainment into a meaningful support for children with severe oncological diseases. The money collected was contributed towards non-reimbursed medicines and research for treatment of children. Girteka Logistics is proud to have employees who takes part in organizing such initiatives. We happily supported the event by delivering the stage for the event where not only music was played by DJ but meaningful messages and kind words given from organizers and athletes coming to pick up awards for the best results of the day. We are happy to help and contribute for a happier today and better tomorrow! MEASUREMENT AND FUTURE GOALS We believe that the best measurement of environmental impact can be seen in our asset based investments. We only invest in new highly energy efficient buildings and operations. This includes environmentally correct collection, treatment and disbursement of any hazardous waste. We continue to strive to have the most energy efficient fleet of trucks and trailers in Europe, we invest considerable resources in training our employees in using this equipment to the highest standards. During 2018 we will continue our commitment, investments and resources to reach these goals. 32 33 ANTI-CORRUPTION United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 Un Global Compact Principles Businesses Should: MEASUREMENT AND FUTURE GOALS 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, We believe that a continued strong focus on our procurement operations has a high importance, we must including extortion and bribery. balance our negotiations and ensure transparent and open procurement procedures. As a company we participate in numerous tenders and transactions in many different countries, both as an issuer and as a recipient of tenders. We believe we must monitor this area and educate our employees and management on a continual basis. As a transport and logistics industry leader in Europe, we understand that Girteka Logistics In 2018 we will continue to reinforce awareness of our values and our code of conduct by including this in has to adhere to and set the highest standards of ethical business. Our employees are our education activities for all employee groups. continuously trained and expected to familiarize themselves with the ethical business standards and uphold them in their day-today work. Our Code of Conduct is used as the foundation for our training on these subjects, and have been updated during 2017. The Code of Conduct is available for download on our company website. GIRTEKA LOGISTICS ENSURES THAT: Our company is not involved in and does not accept corruption when doing business. Anti-corruption and/or ethical behavior measures are mentioned while agreeing on contracts and business discussions with business partners. Internal procedures are established to support the company’s anti-corruption commitment. COMMUNICATING WITH THE COMMUNITIES WHERE WE OPERATE Girteka Logistics on average have up to 100+ trucks and trailers in each European Union country every day. We wish to communicate with these communities, and have an opportunity to listen to any suggestions for improvements. We therefore continue to have a sticker on each trailer with an email where any concerns, comments or compliments can be addressed. We generally provide responses in a very short timeframe to such emails, and use them to communicate with our drivers and implement improvements. We also internally provide open and anonymous communication channels to all employees for any issues. 34 35 OUR MISSION +370 5 239 4090 /company/GirtekaLogistics UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT info@girteka.eu /GirtekaLogistics C O M M U N I C AT I O N www.girteka.eu /GirtekaLogistic ON PROGRESS 2017
