GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR HOME OUR RESPONSIBILITY GLO BA L S U STA I NA BI L I T Y RE P O RT 201 7 1 STATEM EN T F ROM UN IVAR’S PR ESIDEN T AN D C EO DAVID J UK ES This is my first opportunity as President and CEO to welcome you to a Univar sustainability report. Sustainability is something close to my heart as I commissioned Univar’s first sustainability report for our UK business in 2007, which was entitled “Our Home, Our Responsibility.” That is why one of my first actions as Univar’s President and CEO was to reaffirm our ongoing commitment to sustainability by writing to the Secretary-General of the United Nations and reaffirming Univar’s commitment to support the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. David Jukes Our commitment and support for these principles allow Univar to build on existing President and economic, ethical, environmental and social standards, while achieving further long-term Chief Executive Officer sustainable growth. Furthermore, as a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, Univar will help drive more responsible and sustainable business, not only within our operations, but also throughout our supply chain. This last year has been one of significant progress for Univar as a company and across our key areas of sustainability. Our focus on sustainable growth allows us to broaden our expectations and accelerate our progress through 2018 and beyond. Throughout 2017, we were encouraged by our safety performance, which matched our 2016 achievements and allowed us to achieve another record year of safety at Univar. This industry-leading performance across our global operations is a testament to the dedication of our colleagues and visitors who operate in accordance with our safety expectations. Our commitment to economic, environmental and social sustainability is unwavering. We remain focused on driving positive change within our business and our communities as we expand this approach throughout our supply chains. This year and for the first time, I have requested that we publically publish Univar’s global sustainability goals. Known simply as our 2021 sustainability goals, the focus is on six key areas for sustainability. Energy & Resource Responsible Safety Sustainable Equality & Emissions Use Handling Supply Chain Diversity You will read more about these in the pages ahead and in future years. Meanwhile, I am proud to present the 2017 Univar sustainability report detailing our economic, environmental and social responsibility performance through the year. This report marks our third annual publication based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and references the latest version of the GRI Standards. This helps ensure our disclosures are as relevant, transparent and comprehensive as possible. I hope that you, as a stakeholder, will continue to join us on our journey of continual improvement for a more sustainable future. At Univar, we understand our role and value transparent and collaborative relationships with all our stakeholders. In this vein, I personally invite everyone to communicate their views with us on sustainability related issues. Please send these communications to our sustainability team at Sustainability@Univar.com. 2 G LOBAL SUSTAIN AB ILIT Y R EP ORT 201 7 1 U N I VA R B R A N DS Our services go beyond chemical distribution. Univar’s extensive portfolio of value-added services is part of the Univar difference and allows us to serve customers from a wide range of industries. The following Univar brands deliver our services to the marketplace. COLOUR Part of the Univar Network COM PAN Y PRO F ILE DALTRIX UNIVAR INC . We are a leading global chemical and ingredient distributor and provider of specialty services. We purchase chemicals from thousands of chemical producers worldwide and warehouse, repackage, blend, dilute, transport and sell those chemicals to more than 100,000 customer locations across approximately 140 countries. Our specialized services include A Univar company digital promotion or e-marketing of chemicals and ingredients for our producers, chemical waste removal and ancillary services, on-site storage of chemicals and ingredients for our customers, and support services for agriculture as well as pest control industries. Univar’s headquarters are located at Univar is more than a distribution company. We are a global partner to our customers and 3075 Highland Parkway, Suite 200 suppliers with dedications to: Downers Grove, IL 60515-5560 USA. Our major regional offices are located in Bellevue and Redmond, Washington; Houston, • Earning customers for life Texas; Los Angeles, California, in the U.S.; Richmond, British Columbia, Canada; Bradford and • Using our global network to provide market insight and expertise to grow our Chertsey, United Kingdom; Sao Paulo, Brazil; Hidalgo, Mexico, and Shanghai, P.R. China. customers’ businesses We also have operational and sales offices across the Middle East and Africa as well as the • Uncompromising safety and compliance Asia-Pacific region. As of the end of the 2017 calendar year, Univar had a total of 638 facilities across 31 countries with almost 8,800 employees. Combined, our people and the scale • Creating enduring supplier relationships of our operations globally enabled: • Providing an innovative suite of value-added services • Over 90 million gallons of storage capacity Our scale, geographic reach, diversified distribution channels, industry expertise and comprehensive product portfolio enable us to develop strong, long-term relationships with our • Service to over 100,000 customers in over 140 countries suppliers and to provide a single-source solution for our customers. • A consistent on-time delivery rate exceeding 96% Because we are Univar, we do everything safely and with integrity. 2 G LOBAL SUSTAIN AB ILIT Y R EP ORT 201 7 3 G LO BA L S A LES BY R EG IO N U N I VA R’S T E A M The below figures reflect our employee statistics as of December 31, 2017, split by region, gender and employment type. 20 17 NET SALES BY R E GI ON G E N DE R CANADA Globally: By region: 17% of Univar Net Sales 1, 2 98 301 USA CANADA 2 ,851 4,512 3 08 916 WOM E N 2 ,906 615 USA 56% of Univar Net Sales 583 UN DISCLOSE D 285 967 EME A 2 ROW 273 2 ,284 1,055 EMEA 5,333 22% REST OF WORLD = Male MEN 1, 3 15 497 of Univar Net Sales 5% of Univar Net Sales = Female = Undisclosed E M P LOY M E N T T Y P E MARKETS SERVED Globally: By region: Given our diverse product range, we reliably supply products to a broad range of end markets. The figure below lists Univar’s 2017 net sales 22 21 by end market. Coati ngs & A dhe si ve s 14% 179 USA CANADA PA RT-T IM E 4,512 916 4,490 895 25% O t h er Agri c ultural & E nvi ronm e ntal S c i e nce s 10% 12 9 7 Fo rest r y, 3% L umb er & Pa p er Che m i cal EME A ROW Water Manufac turi ng 10% 8,588 4% FUL L-T IM E 2 ,284 1,055 Treat ment 2 ,15 5 1,0 4 8 Ph a r maceut ical Food Ingre di e nts 5% I ng red ien t s & & Produc ts 7% = Full-Time Finish ed Pro d u c ts = Part-Time 5% Per sonal Ca re E ne rg y & Powe r Ge ne rati on 7% While Univar uses third-party services in our extended transport and distribution networks, this is primarily the case in 5% U pst rea m O &G our European operation and does not constitute a significant part of our global delivered services. Cleani ng & S ani ti zati on 5% 4 G LOBAL SUSTAIN AB ILIT Y R EP ORT 201 7 5 S UP P LY C H A I N E X T E R N A L I N I T I AT I V ES As a full-line distributor with a strong supply chain Univar collaborates with our stakeholders throughout the supply chain to ensure that network across a broad geographic region, we are our economic, environmental and social disclosures remain transparent and relevant. Our well suited to help customers and producers consolcommunications via external initiatives help Univar promote and further sustainability in idate their distributor relationships and lower their our business. Not only are these external initiatives useful to present Univar’s performance total costs of ownership or service. and actions, but also they are a crucial part of fostering responsible business practices We buy and inventory chemicals and ingredients throughout the supply chain. in large quantities such as barge loads, railcars or Our move to commit to the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact by becomfull truck loads from producers and sell and dising a signatory to this globally recognized initiative marks a significant milestone in commuThis year more than ever, we tribute smaller quantities to our customers. nicating Univar’s commitment to responsible business. Our letter of commitment from our Approximately 40 percent of the chemicals and President and CEO David Jukes is available on the United Nations Global Compact site. engaged with subscribed external ingredients we purchase are in bulk form and we initiatives. We see the value of Improving sustainability beyond our own gates is becoming increasingly important, and we repackage these materials into various size containare committed to supporting our customers on their journey to sustainable business while stakeholder collaboration and ers for sale and distribution. influencing our suppliers to be equally responsible. performance improvement During 2017, we initiated a large-scale project to In 2017, we subscribed to the principles of and/or participated in these external initiatives. optimize our supply chain network and transportation solutions to better address the unique needs of United Nations EcoDesk our customers and supplier partners across our lines Global Compact Sedex of business. Through our Commercial Greatness, Operational Excellence and One Univar strategy, and CDP Global Food Safety Initiative by reinforcing our “one-stop-shop” provider capabilResponsible Care ity, we will build on and increase the economic value International we create in the global supply chain. Responsible Distribution Labour Organization Univar took important steps in 2017 to address EcoVadis ISO Certifications sustainability in our supply chain as detailed in the stakeholder engagement section of this report. This year more than ever, we engaged with subscribed external initiatives. We see the value of stakeholder collaboration and performance improvement through these platforms. Univar will continue to improve performance through our engagement with our stakeholders and these initiatives. A SSO C I AT I O N M E M B E R S H I PS As a leading global chemical and American Chemistry Council ingredients distributor and provider of Responsible Distribution Canada specialty services, Univar is a natural selection for involvement with assoRoundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil ciations across the chemical and food CropLife Canada industries. We are very active and hold National Pest Management Association board positions in local, national and international committees as appropriEuropean Association of Chemical Distributors ate, including the following: Vegetation Management Associations National Association of Chemical Distributors 6 G LOBAL SUSTAIN AB ILIT Y R EP ORT 201 7 7 A P P LY I N G T H E P R E CA U T I O N A RY P R I N C I P L E TO O U R B U S I N ESS Where there is potential for environmental or social harm, lack of certainty cannot be accepted as a reason for inaction. At Univar we believe that use of the precautionary principle is a key directive of responsible environmental and social governance and is an important factor in the journey towards a more sustainable future. Our transparent and honest culture encourages the application of the precautionary principle. We evidence this commitment in part through our global sustainability goals, committing to action, which will reduce our contribution to global climate change and address remediation. VA LUES , PRIN C IPLES , GLO BA L COD E OF CON D UCT Although applying the precautionary principle means taking action despite scientific uncertainty, it does not STA N DA R DS A ND Our Code of Conduct applies to employees of Univar Inc. and all of negate the need for, or value of, pursuing a risk-based approach – remaining informed by the best available N O R MS O F BEHAVIOR its subsidiaries as well as members of Univar’s Board of Directors. information and taking into account uncertainties. Our dedicated Risk Management team and Environment, Our vision is to be the most valued chemHealth and Safety department take the lead on assessing the potential for environmental harm and taking This document, publically available in 22 languages, provides guidelines preventative measures where possible, erring on the side of caution where extensive scientific knowledge of ical and ingredient distributor in the world for working with fellow employees, customers, suppliers and business through Commercial Greatness, Operational risks is lacking. partners, as well as dealing with ethical or compliance-related questions. Excellence and One Univar. When faced with ethical questions or dilemmas that may not be G OV E R N A N C E ST R U CT U R E directly answered by the Code of Conduct, we encourage employees We value relationships, earning custo first seek our counsel on the issue in order to minimize any ethical Despite some significant changes in management and the announcement of a change of our CEO in 2018, our tomers for life and treating suppliers as issues for themselves or the Company. To maintain the relevance and governance structure remains the same for 2017 compared with our statement in 2016. The business and affairs long-term partners. We treat others with effectiveness of this document, we made revisions in 2017 expanding on of the company are supervised by the Board of Directors (“Board”). The Board believes that good corporate candor and respect. environmental, safety and ethical topics. governance is a critical factor in achieving business success and in fulfilling our responsibilities to our shareWe succeed through performance, holders. The Board believes that its corporate governance practices align management and shareholder interTo ensure our Code of Conduct is understood and accepted by our focusing on superior execution, prodests. Highlights of the company’s corporate governance organization and practices are described below. employees, everyone at Univar must complete mandatory annual uct breadth, optimized logistics and training which is competency tested. Extending our requirements on The Board maintained three committees at the end of financial 2017: Audit, Nominating and Corporate productivity. this, we initiated a new process in 2017 whereby employees, following Governance, and Compensation. We thrive on profitable growth, seeking training, are required to sign and return a self-attestation that they have Univar’s Compensation and Audit committees are responsible for certain economic decisions across the new markets and new opportunities, read and agreed to Univar’s Code of Conduct. organization and the Board maintains overall responsibility for overseeing the company’s risk management, continuously innovating to be the cusThis document also sets out our commitments to lawful business including succession planning. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee addresses risk associtomer’s distributor of choice. practice, including those around anti-corruption, anti-bribery and fair ated with director independence. The Risk Management team identifies and monitors top enterprise risks to competition. We also have up-to-date, mandatory training courses the company that include our economic, environmental and social risks. Because we are Univar, we for all employees on these topics, completion of which is monitored. Our global Sustainability Steering Committee is made up of regional Environment, Health and Safety (EH&S), do everything safely and Our Board of Directors Audit Committee is responsible for assessing Quality, Engineering and Communications Managers, Directors and our Vice President of EH&S. This commitcompliance with our Code of Conduct. with integrity. tee, supported by the Corporate Leadership Team, leads and implements our reporting, improvements and initiatives for our many environmental and social topics. 8 G LOBAL SUSTAIN AB ILIT Y R EP ORT 201 7 9 STAKEH OLD ER ENGAGE M EN T At Univar, engaging internal and external stakeholders is simply good corporate governance C U STOM E R S and good business sense. We work with our stakeholders through two-way open commuOn-demand technical expertise nications to assess the expectations of our stakeholders and to share information in return. Our engagement efforts help us understand our strengths and areas for improvement, Sales team relationships influencing our priorities moving forward. Customer feedback surveys Now more than ever, meaningful engagement with our stakeholders is key to realizing the Sedex information exchange benefits of sustainable business. Each of our stakeholders is unique and we approach our engagement with this in mind. Each one of these groups has the potential to be affected by the activities of our operations, products and services; likewise, their actions and decisions may impact our ability to SUPPLIERS operate. Our engagement efforts are an ongoing process, in which all parties share knowlSupplier surveys edge and experience in order to achieve greater collaboration and improve economic, Supplier auditing environmental and social performance. Sedex information exchange While not exhaustive, the graphic on the opposite page outlines some of our engagements with our key stakeholders. E MPLOYE ES We see further opportunity through meaningful stakeholder engagement as we work to Training and development reduce risks throughout the supply chain, develop increased effectiveness and foster innoI N V ESTO R S A N D Safety committees vative products in new, growing markets. The examples below are just a few ways in which S H A R E H O L DE R S Colleague well-being initiatives we are working to achieve this. Organized charitable events Financial reporting Investor information area Two-way employee communications SUSTA INABLE SUSTA I N A BL E STA K EH OL D E R K E Y Senior management SUP PLY CHAINS PART N ER S H I PS I SS UES I N 2 0 17 question sessions 2017 has been a year of We are working more closely Univar remains committed to All-employee meeting significant progress for than ever this year with some taking the issues important to our stakeholder engagement. of our key customers. Through stakeholders into account when This year we have expanded our more collaborative partnerships, developing our goals and taking I N DU ST RY G RO U PS EMEA-wide supplier assessments we are not only helping our action on our priorities. We have Auditing to include requirements for all stakeholders reduce their wider identified consistent topics of impacts, but also strengthening importance from our stakeholders Collaborative projects suppliers to disclose their labor and ethical business practices our partnerships and ensuring we to include economic performance Transparent reporting and their environmental are in line with the expectations as well as health, safety and U NIO NS objectives. Of these additional of these key stakeholders. environment data, ethical business practices and employee training. Chairing committees questions, a number are preHowever, in 2017 we noted Active participation requisites to business with Univar, allowing us to encourage more increasing stakeholder interest Progressive code of conduct socially and environmentally in workplace equality, product G OV E R N I N G B O DI ES responsible behavior from our carbon footprinting, regulatory Information exchange upstream supply chain. breaches and supply chain assessments. Emergency scenario training Auditing and compliance In 2017, Univar undertook strong and clear actions based on the concerns and priority topics of our stakeholders. Our newly published sustainability goals for 2021, our revised materiality assessment and progress on sustainability across our business carry influence from the two-way communications with our extensive stakeholder groups. LO CA L COM M U N I T I ES Charity and fundraising Educational sponsorship Community development 10 G LOBAL SUSTAIN AB ILIT Y R EP ORT 201 7 11 E XTER NAL SUSTAINABILIT Y RE P ORT I N G Our 2017 Sustainability Report serves as our first UNGC Communication on Progress (COP). While our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact became public in 2018, Univar was already taking practical action in 2017, which progressed the areas of responsibility covered by the UNGC’s principles (human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption). Our commitment and communication to the UNGC, as a signatory, will serve as a cornerstone of our transparent reporting and a driver of improving performance. While we use this Sustainability Report as our main platform for sharing our sustainability efforts with all U N I VA R’S G LO BA L S U STA I N A B I L I T Y G OA L S stakeholders, we also report our economic, environmental and social performance across multiple third-party In 2017, we established global sustainability goals around six of our key platforms and respond to individual customer and investor disclosure requests. areas of responsibility. These goals mark a step forward in our journey to a more sustainable future, ensuring greater transparency, accountability and measurability of our actions against our material topics. In 2017, we were again awarded the silver CSR rating from EcoVadis with a score Our goals listed below run to 2021 with performance evaluated through our specific, greater than 90% of other companies assessed in our sector, based on the assessmeasurable, achievable, realistic and time-bound objectives. The baseline for our goals ment of our environmental, labor and fair business practices. is from our 2016 reporting year, in which we achieved greater confidence in our data across all of our regions. We also engaged our supply chain both upstream and downstream through our active Sedex (Supplier Ethical Data Exchange) participation, sharing information with over 130 suppliers and customers globally. Additionally, we annually report our performance via the CDP platform, responding to customer requests through the Supply Chain and Climate Change questionnaires. In 2017, we improved our Climate assessment result to C, two grades Energy & Emissions Resource Use Responsible Handling above the CDP industry average. Minimize Univar’s environmental Reduce resource consumption Protect our people, communities, impact by reducing energy usage of operations while delivering and environment by leading a and associated emissions. business growth. “Zero Release” culture to minimize DEF IN ING REPORT CONT ENT A N D TOP I C BOUN DA R I ES major releases. Our global Sustainability Report will provide transMaintaining the proportionality of our material parent, comprehensive and appropriate content, topic disclosures continues to play a significant role addressing both Univar’s material aspects and in shaping our reporting. We determine this through impacts, as well as the material topics of our assessing our stakeholder’s own material issues and stakeholders. To present this information we have reflecting Univar’s actual economic, environmental again used the latest version of the Global Reporting and social impacts. Safety Sustainable Supply Chain Equality & Diversity Initiative’s Standards, further ensuring that the inforUsing guidance from the GHG Protocol Corporate mation we report is comprehensive, consistent and Continuously improve Univar’s Lead on transparency in the Demonstrate Univar’s Accounting and Reporting Standard, Univar has proud safety record, protecting supply chain as we responsibly commitment to providing useful for our stakeholders. included data from all operations deemed to be our workforce and demonstrating manage and influence the equal opportunities to all Determination of our material sustainability topics under Univar’s operational control. This excludes we are Serious about Safety. environmental and social employees, through training, was completed by approved GRI methodology, and third-party warehouses and third-party operated impacts of our suppliers. education and reporting. while our identified material topics are key, our transportation. Where we consider operations not wider efforts continue to address topics beyond to be significant to our economic, environmental the issues in our Materiality section. or social impacts, and/or where accessing the data In addition to the GRI reporting standards, Univar has for these sites would require disproportionate effort, We are proud to have set these goals with ambitious, material purpose as part of our continued efforts to also applied GRI’s principles for defining report qualwe have chosen to estimate energy, waste and water foster more responsible business, not just within our own operations, but to develop such practices across the ity, namely: accuracy, balance, comparability, clarity, data. This applies particularly to small sales offices supply chain. Each of these goals is covered throughout this report, noting the measurable objective for each reliability and timeliness. Through this we continue in rented spaces where data access may be limited. goal and its current status. to build on the value that our sustainability report We have excluded operations with three or less We will continue to monitor and review our progress against our goals through 2021, developing them as offers to our stakeholders. full-time employees due to the minimal impact appropriate to ensure they continue to be material to our operational impacts as well as the demands of of these operations. our stakeholders. 12 G LOBAL SUSTAIN AB ILIT Y R EP ORT 201 7 13 MAT E R I A LI T Y We report on the topics that we determine to be of material importance to our operations and our stakeholders. In line with GRI guidance we determine material topics by assessing: • The significance of the organization’s economic, environmental and social impacts. At Univar, we are • Their substantive influence on the assessments committed to maintaining and decisions of stakeholders. our understanding of The following Materiality List represents the results of our the impacts of our own materiality assessment. operations and the Economic Social expectations of our Economic Performance Occupational Health and Safety stakeholders. Anti-corruption Training and Education Anti-competitive Behavior Diversity and Equal Opportunity Non-Discrimination Environmental Freedom of Association and Energy Collective Bargaining Water Child Labor Emissions Forced or Compulsory Labor Effluents and Waste Local Communities Environmental Compliance Supplier Social Assessments Supplier Environmental Customer Health and Safety Assessment Marketing and Labeling Customer Privacy E CONOM IC Socioeconomic Compliance R ESPON SIB IL IT Y At Univar, we are committed to maintaining our understanding of the impacts of our own operations and the expectations of our stakeholders. This year we have revised the presentation of our materiality assessment to appear as a list, instead of the matrix from our 2016 report. In addition, we have added two new topics to our materiality list. While these newly added topics (“Non-Discrimination” and “Diversity and Equal Opportunity”) have always been important to Univar, we recognize an increase in stakeholder demand for reporting and collaborating on these topics. 14 G LOBAL SUSTAIN AB ILIT Y R EP ORT 201 7 15 D IRECT E CON OM I C VA LUE R I S K A SS ESS M E N T GEN ER AT ED A N D D I ST R I BUT ED Our Risk Management team identifies and monitors top enterprise risks on behalf of the The 2017 year marked a turning point for Univar as we put our Company company that include our economic, environmental and social risks for our global operasquarely on a growth trajectory. During the year, we made great strides tions. The annual risk assessments influence our management systems’ continual improvetoward building a company that delivers consistent, superior, profitable ments, while shaping our future strategies in how we manage those risks. growth, creating value for our customers, supplier partners, employees An increasingly clear risk is related to the meteorological and geopolitical impacts associand shareholders. ated with climate change. As global temperatures increase and weather patterns become We finished the year with our fifth consecutive quarter of Adjusted less predictable, the world is experiencing increases in extreme weather events bringing EBITDA growth. flooding, drought, property damage and risk to life. Such events bring increasing displacement of populations and wider economic impacts. Univar has considered an extensive Con so li dated S tatem en t s o f O perat i o n s range of regulatory, physical and other risks that we consider likely to arise due to cli(figures shown in millions USD, except per share data) mate change and have identified how this may impact our business. To date, we have not assigned quantified financial impacts of the realization of such risks, nor have we recorded Net sales. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $8,253.7 costs of managing these risks. However, we are continuing to apply the precautionary prinGross profit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $1,805.5 ciple to our key focus areas, considering the perceived and real impacts of climate change, Gross margin. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21.9% to provide closer assessments of where we can reduce our exposure to these risks. Net income. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $119.8 A N T I B R I B E RY, A N T I CO R R U P T I O N Income per common share diluted. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $0.85 A N D A N T I COM P E T I T I V E B E H AV I O R Ensuring continued ethical business across our operations globally is a key priority for Univar. These issues are equally important to our stakeholders and through 2017 we have Con so li dated Bala n ce S h eet worked harder than ever to ensure our business remains free from bribery, corruption and Cash and cash equivalents. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $467.0 anti-competitive practices. We remain committed to respecting and complying with all applicable regulatory requirements in the markets in which we operate, recognizing these Total assets. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $5,732.7 issues as a risk to our business and reputation. Long-term liabilities. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $3,223.2 We require all new employees to read, understand and complete training on our global Stockholders’ equity. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $1,090.1 Code of Conduct, detailing our high standards of ethical business and our requirements for all employees. All existing employees must undertake refresher training annually. We updated the document in 2017 to ensure our Code of Conduct remains relevant to our Ot h er F i n a n c ial D ata growing business and material to our impacts. By understanding this key resource, available Cash provided by operating activities. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $278.9 in 21 languages, our employees are equipped to make the right decisions and act as role models to colleagues and business partners. As part of these updates we have expanded Cash used by investing activities. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ($79.1) on our expectations for our employees and the tools available to them to remain well Cash used by financing activities. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ($108.7) informed and prepared to report any breaches or unethical behavior. Capital expenditures. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ($82.7) At Univar, we believe it is essential that our employees feel empowered to make the right Adjusted EBITDA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $603.7 1 decisions and to make their concerns heard if they suspect unethical behavior. To facilitate this, our ethics and compliance teams produce and share with employees a quarterly Adjusted EBITDA margin1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.3% compliance magazine providing guidance, updates and reminders on material ethics and compliance issues. We also share monthly ethics alerts to all employees covering different 1 Details on the methods used to produce these figures are available topical areas of ethical business. To facilitate reporting when employees are concerned in our 2017 Annual Report. about unethical behaviors we have a Compliance and Ethics Alert line, available 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. We actively encourage employees to speak up confidentially about concerns and we have a strict non-retaliation commitment for all employees who report conduct issues in good faith. We are developing further efforts in 2018 to increase awareness, openness and traceability of these issues to ensure we remain open to learning and improving our performance. Our responsibility to foster ethical business practice goes beyond our own operations. As part of our growing focus on sustainability in the supply chain, we have further developed our supplier assessments to expand on the economic, environmental and social responsibility. See the supply chain section of this report for more information. 16 G LOBAL SUSTAIN AB ILIT Y R EP ORT 201 7 17 I N T RO DU CT I O N TO E N V I RO N M E N TA L R ES P O N S I B I L I T Y At Univar we report on what really matters with regards Annually, we collect and report data around key envito the aspects of our operations and the demands of ronmental areas, including: energy and water use, carbon our stakeholders. emissions, waste generated and its treatment, significant We recognize that our operations have the potential to spills and incidences of material non-conformances. The generate environmental impacts. We are committed to data we report covers our entire operations and fully illuspreventing harm and minimizing our impacts wherever trate Univar’s impacts on the environment and our efforts possible, reducing risk to our environment, people and to eliminate and minimize these impacts. stakeholders. Across our global operations, we are govOur global data collection program feeds into our envierned by legislative requirements but we do not stop ronmental management systems and serves as the founat what we “need” to do. Our proactive approach to dation of measuring performance against our sustainabilresponsible environmental stewardship runs through ity goals to 2021. We are already taking significant steps each region of our business and each function. Where to help achieve our ambitious sustainability goals and to applicable to our sites, we hold ISO14001 certification create economic, environmental and social good. to the latest standard, with the remainder of our This year we have continued to improve the quality and operational sites implementing systems comprehensiveness of our environmental data collection. based on these standards. As our business grows, we must continue these efforts to make sure all aspects of our business are reporting the information we need to track progress. At present our reporting on all environmental topics captures more than 99.9% of our operations, with 98% of all data coming from primary sources (on a per FTE basis). ENV I RO NMENTAL R ES P O N S IB ILIT Y E N E RGY A N D E M I SS I O N S The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change declared in their Fifth Assessment Report GOAL : that human influence on the global climate is clear and growing with a 95% confidence that humans are the primary cause of global warming in the last 60 years*. Among other factors, Minimize Univar’s greenhouse gas emissions from burning of fuels and deforestation are contributing to the environmental change currently taking place across the globe. impact by reducing energy usage and *IPCC Fifth Assessment Report associated emissions. Our Home, Our Responsibility ME ASU RE ME NT: At Univar, our drive to reduce energy use and emissions is not based on the benefits to Reduce energy use the business alone. While it makes sense to save money through energy efficiency and to (MWh) and emissions reduce our operational and reputational risks, it is simply the right thing to do. As a business with strong and ethical principles, we understand that we must bear our responsibility (tCO2e) 15% by 2021 for the need to combat climate change. from 2016 baseline per Metric Ton (MT) Through 2017, we have continued to implement energy efficiency measures and lower merchanted. carbon alternatives in our operations. Although we cannot make these changes to all of our operations at once, we have in place plans to roll out similar measures on a regional basis. 18 G LOBAL SUSTAIN AB ILIT Y R EP ORT 201 7 19 The figures below provide a breakdown of our energy use and emissions This table details the exact for 2017 and include our historic global data back to 2015. breakdown of the energy use 2015 2016 2017 and emissions resulting from our Global Energy Consumptions (MWh) operations globally over the last three years. MWh tCO 2 e MWh tCO 2 e MWh tCO 2 e Scope 1 600,000 = Diesel 251,174 63,180 257,693 64,811 257,644 64,786 = Diesel 500,000 = Natural Gas 161,792 29,843 95,072 17,493 158,555 29,200 = Natural Gas = Biogas 0 0 0 0 625 0 = Biogas 400,000 = Gasoline 31,014 7,451 43,852 10,548 38,633 9,291 = Gasoline SCOPE 1 300,000 = LPG 14,61 3,138 10,670 2,289 2,314 496 = LPG = Coal 4,805 1,578 720 232 0 0 = Coal 200,000 = Gas Oil 2,424 657 5,436 1,502 936 258 = Gas Oil = Heating Oil = Heating Oil 101 25 0 0 0 0 100,000 TOTA L S CO PE 1 465,927 105,872 413,443 96,875 458,707 104,031 Scope 2 0 2015 2016 2017 = Electricity = Electricity 80,143 31,510 88,555 36,204 88,207 34,872 = Steam SCOPE 2 = Steam 88 18 1,311 268 624 95 = Renewable Energy = Renewable Energy 0 0 249 0 228 0 Global Emissions (tCO 2e) TOTA L S CO PE 2 80,231 31,528 89,866 36,472 89,059 34,967 150,000 TOTA L S CO PE 1 & 2 546,158 137,400 503,309 133,347 547,766 138,998 120,000 2015 2016 2017 90,000 SCOPE 1 & 2 Energy Energy Energy ENERGY AND Consumed tCO 2 e Consumed tCO 2 e Consumed tCO 2 e 60,000 EMISSIONS (MWh) (MWh) (MWh) PER FTE 59.35 14.93 57.22 15.16 62.52 15.86 30,000 PER MT MERCHANTED 0.131 0.033 0.106 0.028 0.14 0.04 0 2015 2016 2017 As shown in the two tables above, our combined scope 1 and 2 energy use and emissions have shown overall increases in both absolute terms and intensity metrics in 2017 compared with our 2016 base-year. While we are disappointed to see that we did not continue the strong progress made in 2016, we have positive examples of improvements across the business when we examine the data more closely. 20 G LOBAL SUSTAIN AB ILIT Y R EP ORT 201 7 21 We are encouraged to see further reductions in absolute fuel used by our commercial and We recognized this as a contributing factor to our emissions and energy reductions in our 2016 Sustainability company vehicles as well as absolute reductions in electricity consumption despite acquiReport. We also acknowledge that climatic factors will continue to affect our performance. The table below sitions. These two groups of emissions sources form our largest and second largest energy illustrates the variations in natural gas use and emissions from 2015 to 2017. use and emissions sources respectively and we are pleased to see improvements in these areas. These resource reductions and energy savings have also resulted in reduced emissions Natural Gas Consumption for these key aspects of our environmental impacts in 2017. 180,000 161,792 MWh 158,555 MWh These changes are detailed in the table below. 2016 2017 % CHANG E 120,000 95,072 MWh Global electricity 88,555 88,207 -0.4 consumption (MWh) 60,000 Global electricity 29,843 tCO­2 e 29,200 tCO­2 e 36,204 34,872 -3.7 17,493 tCO­2 e consumption (tCO 2 e) All vehicle use 0 300,228 293,548 -2.2 2 015 2 016 2017 (MWh equivalent) We are also taking these mixed results as motivation to redouble our efforts across our operations to reduce All vehicle use (tCO 2 e) 75,027 73,391 -2.2 the resources and energy we consume where possible. While climate and other external factors will always influence energy use, we have the ability to limit the impacts through achieving greater efficiencies and using alternative technologies. The galvanizing commitment to sustainability from our CEO, as well as the implementation of our global goal on energy and emissions, will play a significant part in Univar’s path to a more SUMMARY CH AN GES F OR 2 0 17 F ROM 2 0 16 efficient, lower emission future. Although we have not reduced total emissions over 2016 we have continued to plan for and invest in further Global total energy use up 8.8% energy efficiency and energy saving efforts in every one of our regions. Below are just a few programs imple+4.2% Global total emissions up 4.2% mented through 2017, which all follow the guiding principles of our Sustainability Policy and facilitate collective progress to help us achieve our global sustainability goals. Global electricity use down 0.4% Global and local actions to reduce EMEA—Transport Management System (TMS): -3.7% Emissions associated with electricity use down 3.7% energy use and emissions: In 2017, our sites have continued to implement the Following implementation of similar systems in our U.S. business, we have worked to bring a new principles set out in Univar’s global Sustainability TMS into our EMEA business. As well as further Policy, working together in the spirit of our One improving Univar’s on-time delivery rate, customer Univar Guiding Principle. Across all regions, satisfaction and order transparency, our TMS will Global energy use from vehicles down 2.2% -2.2% Global emissions from vehicles down 2.2% Univar has taken action to reduce energy use and invested in more energy efficient technologies allow for better route optimization, reducing fuel use, the associated emissions and our contribuacross our operations in areas in which we can tion to congestion. We are further improving our improve our performance. We recognize that fuel efficiencies through driver behavior training, Unfortunately, our progress in making these reductions was offset by unexpected increases implementing such changes across all of our vehicle tracking and driving-style data collection. in natural gas use, particularly across our North America and EMEA regions. Much of Univar’s locations will be an ongoing effort, but it is one natural gas use closely relates to local ambient temperatures due to its use for space to which we are committed. We will continually heating. This relationship explains, at least in part, the increases in gas consumption when improve our infrastructure across our operations considering that the 2017–2018 winter was one of the coldest recorded across Eastern U.S. to deliver the best option for our business, the and Europe for 30 years. This is in contrast to the winter of 2016–2017, which was one of environment and our stakeholders. the top 10 warmest winters recorded for the Eastern U.S. At Univar we understand that the journey toward a more sustainable future for both us and our supply chain is one of continual improvement. We will continue to invest in training, innovative solutions and technology to further our progress on reducing the impacts of our operations, both on the environment and society. 22 G LOBAL SUSTAIN AB ILIT Y R EP ORT 201 7 23 WATER USE The availability of clean water across the world is an issue of growing concern. It is estimated that 2.1 billion people lack access to safe, readily available drinking water at home and while this number has been falling, increased risks from our changing climate present further challenges to meeting the world’s water demands. The issues with water availability are not limited to areas that historically suffer shortages. The OECD projects that many areas in which we operate, including Europe and the United States, may experience water stress and scarcity by 2050. As a global chemical and ingredients distributor, access to a safe, reliable water source is key to running our operations. The reality is that unless individuals, organizations and governments take action to reduce water waste and prevent resource degradation, the availability and attainability of this resource will be in jeopardy. In order to ensure we contribute to maintaining high quality, clear and plentiful water supplies, Univar is taking action to reduce total water use and improving the quality of our wastewater. We are committed to ensuring that our operations do not negatively impact the quality of or access to local water sources. Univar further supports reduced water consumption and improved access to sanitation and safe water through our range of water treatment products. We facilitate responsible water management downstream of our operations by providing safety and environmental information including details of materials posing hazards to water sources and aquatic life. Upstream, we are fostering more responsible supplier behaviors through the extended scope of our supplier assessments. Univar has not knowingly had any negative impact on a specific water source through extraction or through the disposal of wastewater during 2017. The total amount This table reflects Univar’s global consumption of fresh water. of wastewater produced has 2016 2017 decreased from Municipal Source 630,019 559,939 our 2016 total by 10.4% Owned Source 46,755 56,758 TOTAL EXTRACTION 676,774 616,697 -8.9% TOTAL WATER EXTRACTION REDUCED Used in Product 268,695 250,938 TOTAL WASTEWATER 408,079 365,759 -10.4% TOTAL WASTEWATER REDUCED Figures in m . 3 Our 2017 water consumption has decreased significantly in absolute terms from our revised 2016 figures. We are encouraged to see an 8.9% reduction in total water extraction from 2016 and we will continue to apply the water management hierarchy to reduce resource use and costs across our operations. By factoring into our calculations the total amount of water used in our products, we can see that the total amount of wastewater produced has also decreased from our 2016 total by 10.4%. The revisions to water figures published in Univar’s 2016 Sustainability Report are covered in greater detail in the “Behind the Report” section. We are committed to reducing the quantities of water consumed through our operations. However, we are steadfast in our commitment to honest and transparent disclosures on any significant changes to our previous and current reports. Having made the revisions to our historical data we now have greater confidence in the figures published on water consumption. 24 G LOBAL SUSTAIN AB ILIT Y R EP ORT 201 7 25 WAST E AND RESO URC E CON S UM P T I ON Our performance against our goal on hazardous waste is highlighted below: GOAL : We have taken further actions in 2017 not only 2016 2017 % CHANGE to reduce the quantities of waste produced, but Reduce resource consumption also to eliminate part of our waste streams where Absolute 8,049 7,055 -1 2 . 3 of operations while delivering possible. We continue to prioritize waste reducbusiness growth. tion where possible and waste elimination in line Per MT Merchanted 0.17 0.25 6.3 with our application of the waste management ME ASUREMENT : hierarchy. Where elimination is not possible, we Reduce hazardous waste 15% continue our leading work on the use of reusable While our hazardous waste intensity metric increased 6.3% from 2016, containers across our operations globally, reducing we are encouraged to see a significant 12.3% absolute reduction of by 2021 against 2016 baseline wider resource use, energy, water and emissions. hazardous waste produced. We anticipate hazardous waste volumes per MT merchanted. will fall further in both absolute and intensity terms through our global programs. Univar’s Global Waste Figures for 2016 and 2017: NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE HAZARDOUS WASTE Univar is continuing to work to reduce our hazardous waste through our focus on responsible handling, eliminating accidental releases and reducing the waste created through those releases. This global effort, 12.3% 2016 2017 2016 2017 alongside our improved inventory management systems, which minimize absolute reduction of product loss, will help drive down the quantity of hazardous waste crehazardous waste produced Packaging recycled ated by our operations globally. These actions all contribute to our goal 658 825 247 335 (not reused in its current form) to reduce our hazardous waste 15% by 2021. Other recycled 1,383 1,010 2,080 883 Our ChemCare business, in partnership with Systech, delivers hazardous waste collection and disposal services across the U.S. We have Incineration with This service works to maximize the potential for recovering energy 228 1,226 1,632 1,763 worked to energy recovery from our customers’ waste products. While controlled energy recovery from chemical waste does release carbon emissions, the ensure all Incineration without use of this waste resource offsets the need for non-renewable fossil 88 76 229 449 regions report energy recovery fuels from being burned. Specifically, this energy recovery provides non-hazardous an alternative fuel source to fire cement kilns in processing plants. Landfill 7,760 9,727 1,369 1,004 Over the past 41 years this partnership has helped prevent the use waste more of over 500,000 metric tons of coal. consistently. Other disposal 961 2,379 2,491 2,622 (biological treatment etc.) TOTAL 11,079 15,243 8,049 7,055 *Figures in metric ton. Our non-hazardous waste total quantity has increased notably from our figures published in our 2016 Sustainability Report. The overall waste increase is due in part to the inclusion of data from new acquisitions through 2016 and 2017 which are now part of our global reporting. However, as noted in our 2016 Sustainability Report we have worked to ensure all regions report non-hazardous waste more consistently, including smaller waste units and leased office locations. More specifically, our observed non-hazardous waste increase significantly relates to an increase in waste data collection from our U.S. locations where we have achieved more comprehensive data reporting. This is not the case with hazardous waste for which we have already developed accurate and mature systems for measurement. 26 G LOBAL SUSTAIN AB ILIT Y R EP ORT 201 7 27 S U P P LY C H A I N S U STA I N A B I L I T Y At Univar, we know that the need for, and our influence on, sustainable G OA L : business practices goes beyond our gates. Lead on transparency in the supply While we consider risk, our work on supply chain engagement and chain as we responsibly manage and assessment focuses on achieving collective improvements through the influence the environmental and supply chain. With thousands of suppliers worldwide, we know that we social impacts of our suppliers. can achieve far greater collective good than focusing on our own operations alone. M E A S U R EME NT: As discussed in our 2016 Sustainability Report, we have this year develRESP O NSIBLE HAND LING Establish and implement oped our supplier assessment processes to ensure that we are considering assessment of product suppliers The materials we handle present one of the most GOA L : a more comprehensive range of environmental, social and ethical topics. significant risks that our operations pose to the for environmental and social Protect our people, communities and To ensure that we remain accountable for progressing this critical area of responsibility in all regions by 2021. environment. We are steadfast in our commitment to environment by leading a “Zero Release” influence, we have made it one of our sustainability goals for 2021. responsible handling, preventing any releases across our operations and ensuring our trained people culture to minimize major releases. handle any unplanned releases. In 2017, we have developed our supplier assessment process in our EMEA region to reflect our increased focus M E A S UR EM E N T : The figures below identify the number of significant on supplier environmental management, actions to mitigate climate change, ethical labor practices, commitreleases (>90Kg/200Lbs) for 2017 alongside our global Achieve 15% absolute reduction in significant ment to the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, historic data dating back to 2014. spills by 2021 against 2016 baseline. and supplier health and safety. While some aspects of these revised assessments are scored, we have also established some topics as absoSignificant Releases In 2017, we have renewed our efforts to reduce the lute requirements. We are committed to doing everything reasonably possible to ensure that our suppliers incidences and causes of spills across our operations are operating in an economically, environmentally and socially responsible manner. Through 2018 and moving globally. We initiated a new global program focused forward, we will implement this enhanced supplier assessment across the rest of our operations globally in line 80 on making improvements across the business which with our supplier assessment timelines. 70 will assist us in achieving our global goal on responWe are not trying to sanction suppliers who do not initially score well, rather, this is an opportunity for 60 sible handling. As well as improving responsible hansuppliers to improve their own performance and subsequently the performance of our upstream supply chain. 50 dling practices, our focus on minimizing releases has 40 led to more comprehensive reporting. This in turn has SAFE-TAINER™ System 30 increased the number of significant spills recorded and reported globally. Through investing in equipOne example of a sustainable solution offered by Univar is the SAFE-TAINER™ System. For over 20 years we 20 ment and infrastructure upgrades, as well as addihave worked with SAFECHEM on the innovative closed-loop SAFE-TAINER™ System. This durable and secure 10 system reduces the amount of resources used compared with non-reusable containers and reduces the tional employee training and collaboration with our 0 stakeholders, we are confident we will see further risk of unintended releases through the use of dry-break connections, reducing environmental impacts 2014 20 1 5 20 1 6 2017 improvements in our product handling performance. and hazards during material handling. By minimizing the need for environmental reme™ Trademark of SAFECHEM diation, we reduce reputational risk and reduce unplanned costs to our business. 28 G LOBAL SUSTAIN AB ILIT Y R EP ORT 201 7 29 O CC U PAT I O N A L H E A LT H A N D S A FE T Y At Univar, our commitment to the health and safety of our employees, G OA L : contractors and visitors is unwavering. We have a safety record that we are Continuously improve Univar’s proud of as we focus on keeping health, safety, security and environmental proud safety record, protecting issues at the heart of our planning for all existing and new operations, prodour workforce and demonstrating ucts, processes and facilities. Through our implementation and maintenance we are Serious about Safety. of appropriate health and safety management systems and our strong, supportive safety culture, we will continue to improve in all aspects of our M E A S U RE ME NT: health, safety and well-being. Achieve and exceed the While our industry leading safety performance is a great achievement, we are global TCIR goal of 0.68 focused on doing even better because one person injured is one too many. each year to 2021. Total Case Incident Rate (TCIR) is the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) standardized methodology for calculating the rate of recordable injuries per 200,000 hours worked. 2017 was Univar’s safest year ever in our core chemical distribution business, with a 10% total case incident rate (TCIR) reduction. Company-wide, TCIR was flat, primarily due to onboarding of recent acquisitions. Nevertheless, Univar continues to outperform the key safety indicators for the global chemical distribution industry categories and many other subcategories. Univar Total Case Incident Rate Vs. Industry Commitment to safe 7 operations and taking 6 Warehouse/ Storage pride in our achievements Transportation/ Warehousing runs throughout our 5 All Manufacturing organization. In 2017, 4 All Industry three separate U.S. 3 Chemical Distributors Univar sites celebrated 10 2 Chemical Manufacturing years without an OSHA UN I VAR: 0.71 recordable injury. Our 1 Milwaukee, Jacksonville 0 10 20 11 12 20 13 14 15 20 16 20 17 and Burlington sites all passed this milestone 20 20 20 20 during the year and Source: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics celebrated their Our global safety teams are committed to continuing the consistent exemplary safety improvements in safety performance that we have seen over the last 12 achievement, highlighting years. We employ a range of tools and methods to help us improve our that Univar is Serious performance and culture when it comes to the health and safety of our people at Univar, including: about Safety. SO C I A L Managementworker safety Accident prevention Process and procedural Role-specific safety training On-site audits Incident investigation and R ES P O N S I B I LIT Y committees controls improvements 30 G LOBAL SUSTAIN AB ILIT Y R EP ORT 201 7 31 SAF ET Y I N T H E S UP P LY C H A I N T R A I N I N G A N D E DU CAT I O N Our focus on safety is not restricted to our own operations. We actively Univar is committed to growing our people to grow our business. We offer a wide variety of formal and inforwork with both suppliers and customers to improve health and safety mal learning and development opportunities across the organization including, but not limited to, in-person performance across our supply chain. and virtual instructor-led sessions, an extensive collection of eLearning resources, on-the-job learning, select As discussed in the Sustainable Supply Chain section of the report, we job-rotation programs, tuition reimbursement programs for external programs as well as coaching and menhave worked to expand the focus of health and safety in our supplier toring programs. Due to the diversity of our learning opportunities as well as the dispersed way in which the assessments. The aim of this is to evidence Univar’s required standards management and recording of training is handled across different parts of the company, we do not aggregate and commitment to safety from our suppliers. Univar is collaborating and report on the total hours of training that our employees receive across the organization. to ensure good performance is maintained by compliant suppliers and Learning is a continual process at Univar, whether through formal learning programs, growth opportunities We deliver on our duty to that demonstrative improvements can be achieved by suppliers still within a role or through project involvement or self-development. Examples of programs we offer include: provide customers with developing safety systems and culture. comprehensive and relevant We deliver on our duty to provide customers with comprehensive and All global employees are required to Our learning management system, known as “The U” complete training on a variety of legal offers employees, at all levels of the organization and information about the relevant information about the properties and hazards of the products and compliance topics. Topics range across all geographies, over 70,000 on-demand course, we supply. This is especially pertinent given the potentially significant properties and hazards of environmental and safety risks inherent to some of our products. We from our annual Code of Conduct trainvideo and book titles to support their personal and the products we supply. closely monitor and adapt to any changes in national and international ing that is required of all employees, to professional development. In 2017, 2,435 employees chemical labeling legislation, such as the Globally Harmonized System geographyand role-specific topics such engaged with over 8,120 resources in our collection. of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals. as Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interest, In addition to the open collection, we offer asynchroPrivacy and Data Protection. Because we nous learning programs such as onboarding programs Through provision of safety data sheets (SDS) and the knowledge and are Serious about Safety, extensive safety to orient new members of our team. We also offer a expertise of our dedicated technical teams, we deliver information to training is also conducted on an annual continuous improvement program that challenges our customers on the physical and chemical properties of the products we basis with over 95,100 course completions employees to find opportunities to eliminate waste, deliver as well as the hazards and correct handling guidance. Our techduring 2017 in the U.S. alone. Additionally, solve problems and innovate. Other programs support nical service teams also provide customers with guidance on product all meetings with 3 or more persons start our desire to create a diverse and inclusive workplace compatibility and appropriate applications. Univar has formal processes with a Safety Share to ensure that safety as well as contain custom-created content to support and procedures in place to identify non-compliance with regulations is always the first topic on every agenda. Univar’s own processes. or codes relating to the health and safety of the products and services we distribute. We offer and share a variety of leadership Our Training team works hard to ensure development opportunities from classroom-based that our sales team is knowledgeable programs across geographies to 1:1 executive coaching about our products, industries, sales relationships. Univar uses both internal facilitators to processes and tools through robust bring a Univar-context to the training as well as external onboarding programs, selling-skills curtrainers who are experts in their respective fields. riculum and supplier/product training. Our employees participate in a formal annual performance review process, and employees and managers are encouraged to discuss performance and update goals throughout the year. We revised our competency framework for the 2016 cycle then made some minor updates for 2017 to ensure that our competencies help us to deliver on our strategic priorities and remain relevant to our people and our business. Our performance management process: Ensures that priorities are clear Documents accountability Provides a framework for ongoing Provides a focus on behaviors (competencies) feedback and coaching and communicates the expectation of “how” we work together Identifies opportunities for development to improve in current role and prepare for future roles 32 G LOBAL SUSTAIN AB ILIT Y R EP ORT 201 7 33 DI V E R S I T Y, E Q U A L O P P O RT U N I T I ES A N D N O N DI SC R I M I N AT I O N Any act of discrimination in the workplace is not only a breach of national legislation, but also is a breach of a person’s human rights with wider social and economic consequences. Univar is committed to maintaining a strong ethical standard in regards to the elimination and prevention of discrimination in the workplace as a core principle of our global Code of Conduct and an International Labour Organization (ILO) fundamental right at work. We are committed to a work environment free of discrimination and harassment, and we embrace a culture of mutual respect and appreciation for the differences of others. We must always treat employees, customers and business partners, such as vendors and suppliers, with dignity and respect. Univar prohibits discrimination in the workplace based on the following personal characteristics: RESP ON S I BLE L A BOR P R ACT I C ES Univar is fully committed to adhering to the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. A NC EST RY We fully recognize and respect the freedom of association and right to AGE COLOR collective bargaining for all Univar workers and operations globally. In 2017, we had approximately 590 employees in the United States GOAL : subject to various collective bargaining agreements, most of which have Demonstrate Univar’s a three-year term. In addition, in several of our international facilities, commitment to particularly those in Europe, works councils represent employees and VE T E R A N DISABILITY providing equal are pursuant to local law consisting of employee representatives who STAT U S opportunities to all have certain rights to negotiate working terms and to receive notice of employees, through significant actions. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 25% of our training, education labor force is under a collective bargaining agreement. This includes We are committed to a approximately 14% of our labor force in the United States, approximately and reporting. work environment free of 20% of our labor force in Canada , approximately 68% of our labor force ME ASU RE ME NT: discrimination and harassment. in Latin America and approximately 46% of our labor force in Europe. S E XU A L GE ND E R Approximately 4% of our labor force is under a collective bargaining Invest in an easy to use agreement that will expire within one year. These arrangements grant OR I E NTAT I ON reporting system which certain protections to employees and subject us to employment terms allows us to record, that are similar to collective bargaining agreements. investigate and track all In a similar vein, Univar is committed to ensure that our operations GE ND E R complaints with regard R E L I GI ON to diversity and and our supply chain sourcing are carried out free of child, forced or I D E NT I T Y compulsory labor, including all forms of modern slavery. With incidences equal opportunities. of slavery increasing in the world and child labor still present in some industries, we must remain alert to the risks faced in the supply chain R AC E NAT I ONA L and proactively prevent such practices from occurring in our supply OR I GI N chain. We are confident that our ethical labor policies and compliance with local and international laws lowers the risk in our operations. Our revised supplier assessment has greater focus on these areas and we We value diversity in our workforce and provide equal employment opportunities for all continue to communicate Univar’s zero tolerance policy on these issues applicants and employees. We do not discriminate against any applicant on the basis of with suppliers. To ensure compliance, we carry out due diligence approprithe personal characteristics listed above. ate to our risk assessments and conduct on-site audits where appropriate. 34 G LOBAL SUSTAIN AB ILIT Y R EP ORT 201 7 35 LO CA L COMMUNIT IES CHEMISTRY FOR KIDS FU N DR A I S I N G E VE NTS A ND G OODWILL Our people are at the center of Univar’s positive, Univar in the Nordics is a member of IKEM, In 2017, we have not shied away from getting representing 1,400 chemical and plastic responsible culture. Almost invariably, every involved with our communities. In addition to companies operating in Sweden. IKEM works to location in which we operate runs fundraising providing employment to almost 8,800 people in promote chemistry’s important role in how we events, raising money and resources for a broad over 600 locations worldwide, we recognize that live today and develop sustainable solutions for range of charities with meaningful impacts on our operations can play a significant positive impact the future. It sponsors Kemins-Dag, an annual our local communities. in our local communities. event to spark children’s interest in chemistry. MOROLO FAMILY DAY CHARITIES COMMIT TEE We recognize that the nature of our business is not As part of the project, teachers received 4,500 free from potential harm to the local environment. experiment kits enabling 110,000 children to Univar Italy organized a family and In 2017, we established our global Charitable Through our mature, responsible environmental take part in fun and educational experiments friends open day at its warehouse in Contribution Committee. This committee and safety management systems, we minimize across Sweden. Member companies contributed Morolo. It was a great opportunity for ensures that all Univar supported charitable the risks associated with our operations and do through donations as well as chemicals used in families, children and friends to find contributions meet Univar’s ethical eligibility not consider any to have any significant negative the kits. In 2017, Univar Nordics donated citric out about the working activities in a criteria. Through this we are ensuring that any impacts to our communities. acid for the experiment kits. business in their community from the charitable contribution from Univar is made people who know it best: our staff. with integrity to appropriate and responsible In addition, we pride ourselves on our positive Guests were also able to explore charitable organizations. relationships with public services such as local fire the warehouse through site tours, departments, safety regulators and environmental wearing suitable protective clothing, THE UNIVAR FOUNDATION bodies who together help us to ensure that we are learning more about the range of operating as responsibly as possible, reducing any The Univar Foundation was set up in 2017. YOU BE THE CHEMIST products stocked there and asking negative impacts on the local community The foundation, a vehicle for Univar and our questions about anything from and environment. employees to support colleagues in the event of For the second year, Univar sponsored the local “You chemistry to deliveries. hardship as a result of unforeseen disasters and Be The Chemist Challenge®” for pre-teen students COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT emergencies, is funded both through employees’ in DuPage County, Illinois. The “You Be The Chemist HIGHLIGHTS voluntary contributions and Company contribuChallenge®” is an interactive academic contest that tions. The first action taken by the Foundation encourages students aged 11–14 to explore chemistry formed a major part of Univar’s response to concepts and their real-world applications. The Hurricane Harvey as detailed below. challenge provides a unique opportunity for a variety of individuals and organizations—including schools and chemical industry companies—to come together HURRICANE HARVEY RELIEF and show their support for science, technology, In 2017, Hurricane Harvey had a devastating engineering and math (STEM) education. effect on many of the communities and businesses in the Gulf Coast region. After confirming SUPP ORTING EDUCATION IN KENYA the safety of our people, Univar and our employees committed to assisting the community with As part of our efforts to support International recovery efforts. Through a combination of Women’s Day, we invited employees to help us contributions from Univar and our employees, a support a small rural school in Kenya which we have total of $78,000 was raised to assist our colSOCIOECONOMIC supported for a number of years in their drive to leagues with repair damages suffered as a result COMPLIANCE, CUSTOMER encourage more girls to attend classes. Unfortunately, of the hurricane across the region. PRIVACY AND MARKETING AND LABELING a lack of access to some of the everyday essentials Building on reporting from 2016, Univar was once again often prevent girls from attending, so as part of PROSTATE PROJECT not subject to any substantiated complaints or incidences of our ongoing support, Univar and our employees The Univar regional EMEA team hosted the corruption, bribery, anti-competitive behavior, data loss or privacy contributed necessities to make it more convenient annual charity golf event to raise money for breaches. Furthermore, we were not in breach of and did not receive for girls to attend as well as stationery items for all the Prostate Project. The money raised funded any material penalties in relation to the sale of banned products, nonstudents to enhance their learning experience. important research that has made breakcompliance with marketing and labeling regulations, product health and throughs in identifying the early signs of prostate safety, occupational health and safety or environmental laws and regulations. cancer, including a new urine test that will make We believe that the honesty, integrity and vigilance of our employees in 2017 a big difference in reducing the number of false evidences the effectiveness of our training and responsible culture. positive diagnoses. An auction and raffle at the Significant penalties/fines are considered to be those in excess of $100,000. event dinner helped us raise a total of more than $47,000 for this valuable research and charity. 36 G LOBAL SUSTAIN AB ILIT Y R EP ORT 201 7 37 BEH I N D T H E R E P O RT GR I CON TEN T IN DE X O RGA NIZAT IONAL ST RUCT UR E EM I SS I ON S DATA M ET H OD This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option. The Company’s operations are structured into four Our energy and emissions data collection methDetails of any omissions of individual GRI Standards, or parts thereof, are provided in the GRI Content Index operating segments that represent the geographic odology aligns to the GHG Protocol Corporate and reasons given. Currently, neither this report nor the data within it have been externally verified. areas under which the Company manages its Accounting and Reporting Standard. Data has been business: collated for all operational sites and significant offices Disclosure reference Page number(s) Omissions for 2017 and emission calculations are based on 2017 Part Omitted Reason Explanation Univar USA (“USA”) UK Government GHG factors for all conversions GRI 101: Foundation 2016 (No disclosures) Univar Canada (“Canada”) with the exception of non-UK electricity, which was GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 calculated using 2015 UK Government GHG factors. Univar Europe, the Middle East and Africa 102-1 Pg. 2 No Omission These factors are now available via the International (“EMEA”) Energy Institute. Our energy and emissions relate to 102-2 Pg. 2, 3 No Omission Rest of the World (“Rest of World”) our scope 1 (direct) and scope 2 (indirect) emissions. 102-3 Pg. 3 No Omission Where appropriate, we have made informed estiRest of World includes certain developing businesses mations for a small number of sites. At present, we 102-4 Pg. 3 No Omission in Latin America (including Brazil and Mexico) and the do not collect data on or report our scope 3 emis102-5 Pg. 38 No Omission Asia-Pacific region. This report reflects all of Univar’s sions. However, as part of our ongoing stakeholder 102-6 Pg. 4 No Omission operations across these geographical areas. engagement, we are considering areas of our scope 3 102-7 Pg. 3, 5 No Omission emissions, which we may report in the future. CHA N GES TO T HE ORGANIZATI ON 102-8 Pg. 5 No Omission Univar produced a global baseline for energy and In the year ended December 31, 2017, the Company 102-9 Pg. 6 No Omission emissions based on 2015 data, allowing us to carry completed two acquisitions. out short-term, useful reduction calculations in 102-10 Pg. 38 No Omission On September 21, 2017, the Company completed an our 2016 Sustainability Report. Although Univar has 102-11 Pg. 9 No Omission acquisition of 100% of the equity interest in Tagma collected and assessed our energy and emissions data 102-12 Pg. 7 No Omission Brazil Ltd. (“Tagma”), a leading Brazilian provider of since 2007, in some regions, 2015 was the first year 102-13 Pg. 7 No Omission customized formulation and packaging services for in which data from our global sites was sufficiently crop protection chemicals that include herbicides, complete and transparent. 102-14 Pg. 1 No Omission insecticides, fungicides and surfactants. This acquisiDespite the improvements in data leading up to 2015, 102-16 Pg. 8 No Omission tion expands Univar’s agriculture business in one of Univar has selected 2016 to serve as the baseline for 102-17 Pg. 8, 33, 34 No Omission the world’s fastest-growing agricultural markets. our sustainability goals to 2021. 102-18 Pg. 9 No Omission On September 29, 2017, the Company completed 102-40 Pg. 11 No Omission a definitive asset purchase agreement with PVS R ESTAT EM E N TS OF I N F OR M AT I ON 102-41 Pg. 34 No Omission Minibulk, Inc. (“PVS”), a provider of Minibulk services The calculated totals and historic figures for for inorganic chemicals in California, Oregon, and 102-42 Pg. 10 No Omission Univar’s global operational water consumption has Washington. This acquisition expands and strengthchanged significantly from that reported in our 102-43 Pg. 10 No Omission ens Univar’s MiniBulk business in the West Coast 2016 Sustainability Report. This is due primarily to 102-44 Pg. 10 No Omission market as the Company has the opportunity to improved comprehensiveness and accuracy of our 102-45 Pg. 38 No Omission service PVS customers and integrate them into the data reporting. Univar business. 102-46 Pg. 12 No Omission This report features minor adjustments to some of 102-47 Pg. 14 No Omission the figures published in our 2016 Sustainability Report 102-48 Pg. 38 No Omission on the topics of significant releases and Univar’s TCIR figures. These minor adjustments reflect Univar’s 102-49 Pg. 38 No Omission close monitoring and reporting of these subjects 102-50 Pg. 3 No Omission and for the main part reflect changes determined 102-51 Pg. 1 No Omission from the completion of investigations into accidental releases and safety related incidents. 102-52 Pg. 1 No Omission 102-53 Pg. 1 No Omission 102-54 Pg. 39 No Omission 102-55 Pg. 39, 40, 41 No Omission 102-56 Pg. 39 No Omission 38 G LOBAL SUSTAIN AB ILIT Y R EP ORT 201 7 39 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 Management approach applied 403-1 Pg. 11, 31 No Omission 103-1 throughout 2017 Sustainability No Omission 403-2 Pg. 31 403-2 region and gender omitted, not applicable Report disclosures GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 Management approach applied 103-2 throughout 2017 Sustainability No Omission 404-2 Pg. 33 No Omission Report disclosures 404-3 Pg. 33 No Omission Management approach applied GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 103-3 throughout 2017 Sustainability No Omission Report disclosures 405-1 partial omission, data currently not available due 405-1 Pg. 34, 35 to collection method, improvements planned GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 405-2 partial omission, data currently not available due 405-2 Pg, 34, 35 201-1 Pg. 16 No Omission to collection method, improvements planned 201-2 Pg. 17 No Omission GRI 406: Non-Discrimination 2016 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 406-1 (a) omission, data currently not available, 406-1 Pg. 34, 35 improvements ongoing 205-1 Pg. 17 No Omission GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016 205-2 Pg. 17 No Omission 407-1 Pg. 34 No Omission 205-3 Pg. 36 No Omission GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 2016 408-1 Pg. 34 No Omission 206-1 Pg. 36 No Omission GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 GRI 301: Materials 2016 409-1 Pg. 34 No Omission 301-3 (a) reported as absolute weight, not %, GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 301-3 Pg. 26 data unavailable at present 413-1 Pg. 36, 37 413-1 (a) partial omission, not reported as %, data unavailable GRI 302: Energy 2016 413-2 Pg. 36, 37 No Omission 302-1 Pg. 20, 21, 22, 23 No Omission GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 302-3 Pg. 21 No Omission 414-1 Pg. 6, 10, 29 No Omission GRI 303: Water 2016 414-2 Pg. 6, 10, 29 No Omission 303-1 Pg. 24, 25 No Omission GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 303-2 Pg. 24 No Omission 416-1 Pg. 32 No Omission GRI 305: Emissions 2016 416-2 Pg. 36 No Omission 305-1 Pg. 20, 21, 22, 23 No Omission GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016 305-2 Pg. 20, 21, 22, 23 No Omission 417-01 Pg. 32 No Omission 305-4 Pg. 20, 21, 22, 23 No Omission 417-02 Pg. 36 No Omission 305-5 Pg. 20, 21, 22, 23 No Omission 417-03 Pg. 36 No Omission GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 306-1 Pg. 24, 25 No Omission 418-01 Pg. 36 No Omission 306-2 Pg. 26, 27 No Omission GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 306-3 Pg. 28 No Omission 419-01 Pg. 36 No Omission GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 307-1 Pg. 36 No Omission GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 308-1 Pg. 6, 10, 29 No Omission 40 G LOBAL SUSTAIN AB ILIT Y R EP ORT 201 7 41 © 2018 Univar Inc. All rights reserved. UNIVAR, the hexagon, and other identified trademarks are the property of Univar Inc. or affiliated companies. All other trademarks not owned by Univar Inc. or affiliated companies that appear in this Univar material are the property of their respective owners. PC-1487-1117 3075 Highland Pkwy, Suite 200 Downers Grove, IL 60515 www.univar.com
