DS Smith Sustainability Review 2018 Redefining packaging for a changing world The world is changing. Evolving consumer habits and new technologies are reshaping the way we buy and use products and services: smaller, more frequent grocery shops; less brick-and-mortar; more online; smaller households; less ownership; a more conscious consumer. Packaging must adapt to these global trends. At DS Smith, we create and deliver innovative, sustainable packaging solutions that consider the entire supply chain. These solutions energise sustainable growth – for our customers and consumers, our people, our business and shareholders, and most importantly our environment. We are redefining packaging for a changing world. Contents Top three 2017/18 highlights 1 An introduction from our Group Chief Executive Our Business 2 DS Smith at a glance 4 Packaging in a changing world • Improved EcoVadis score, remaining in the top 9 Our performance against commitments 5 per cent of all organisations evaluated 10 Our sustainability strategy Our Environment 12 Our value chain 14 Product design and innovation • 95 per cent of all in-scope sites across our 17 Sourcing Packaging and Paper divisions now FSC® certified 20 Manufacturing operations Our People 27 Customer supply cycles 30 End of life and recycling • 239 sites achieved zero accidents, reflecting our 34 Ethics, governance and risk commitment to safety as our number one priority 36 Stakeholder engagement Please see page 9 for full highlights 38 External recognition and influence 39 About this review 40 Data An introduction from our Group Chief Executive Packaging has never been more relevant Our sustainability strategy At DS Smith, we remain committed to building a more sustainable business for the long term. After announcing last year that we had achieved our 2020 carbon target three years early, we decided it was time to create a new set of nine ambitious, long-term targets relating to each of our priority issues to guide us towards 2030. Miles Roberts, Group Chief Executive Our Business As shopping habits evolve, consumer expectations change Packaging impact and supply chains become more complex, packaging has to work • Manufacture 100 per cent reusable or harder than ever before. Packaging is expected to transport recyclable packaging by 2025, and grow products, build brands, delight customers and make supply our net positive recycling position. chains more efficient. However, the core purpose of packaging Fibre sourcing is to protect products, keep food and drink fresher for longer, • Use 100 per cent recycled or chain of and reduce all kinds of supply chain and product waste. custody certified papers by 2020. The right packaging does all of this sustainably. Supplier standards • Ensure 100 per cent of our suppliers In doing so, innovative packaging has a key role to play in comply with our sustainability standards helping to address a number of global sustainability challenges by 2025. – ensuring more efficient use of resources, optimising last-mile delivery in increasingly urbanised societies and reducing food and product waste as populations grow. Our Environment Carbon and energy More needs to be done to ensure that the positive role of good, • Reduce our CO2e emissions by 30 per sustainable packaging is not forgotten. With increasing scrutiny cent per tonne of production by 2030, of the role of packaging, we all need to do more to help tackle against a 2015 baseline. some of the challenges associated with ‘bad packaging’ by working within our industry, with government, local authorities, Water stewardship • Achieve zero water impact by 2030. brand owners, retailers, recyclers, reprocessors and consumers. Alongside designing reusable, recycling packaging solutions Waste and recycling • Send zero waste to landfill by 2030. and continuing to reduce our operational impact, we are reaching out more into the communities in which we operate: supporting charities and community groups and fulfilling our role as a Our People responsible neighbour. We are also continuing to focus on Responsible employer being a responsible employer, providing a safe, healthy working • Build a diverse, engaged and environment in which everyone has the tools and opportunity respected workforce. to thrive. Responsible neighbour I am delighted to publish another Sustainability Review, • Engage in community programmes launching new targets to underpin our strategic goal to lead at 100 per cent of our sites by 2020. the way in sustainability and demonstrating how we are Health and safety redefining packaging for a changing world. • Zero accidents. Vision zero harm. Read more about our strategy and targets on pages 10 and 11 Miles Roberts, Group Chief Executive Sustainability Review 2018 | dssmith.com/sustainability 1 DS Smith at a glance Our purpose To redefine packaging for a changing world Our vision To be the leading supplier of sustainable packaging solutions Our culture We have a clear set of values that we expect all of our employees to own and live by Be Caring Be Challenging Be Trusted Be Responsive Be Tenacious Find out more at: dssmith.com/people/culture Our global footprint A leading provider of corrugated packaging supported by paper and recycling operations. New operations in the United States As part of the acquisition of Interstate Resources, we now own 18,000 acres of timberland in southeast Georgia and one kraftliner mill in Riceboro, Georgia. This is the first time that DS Smith has had direct ownership of operations involved in virgin fibre production. Owning timberland provides new opportunities to enhance our strategic position in the packaging market and improve fibre security; however, it also comes with some sustainability risks. The global issue of deforestation most frequently relates to unmanaged, unsustainable or illegal logging in areas of high conservation value. By contrast, harvesting timber in well-managed renewable forests is sustainable, does not harm the environment and Managing acquisitions sustainably has vital social, environmental and economic benefits. We are aware As we expand into new markets and continue to grow of the environmental impacts of unmanaged forestry and we mitigate through acquisition, we often find ourselves operating these by taking the necessary action to ensure that any forests in countries where the implementation of health, safety in our operations or supply chains are managed sustainably. and sustainability standards and management practices At our Riceboro paper mill, 100 per cent of the virgin timber varies from those we see in Western Europe. This is both used derives from sustainable sources, covered by either the a challenge and an opportunity as we work together with Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI) Fiber Sourcing certification, new colleagues to implement our high standards and the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC) ways of working, meeting our own internal requirements or Forest Stewardship Council (FSC®) Controlled Wood chain of and the expectations of our stakeholders. All the custody standards. expertise within our Group is used to manage these Work is ongoing to integrate our North American operations into operations ever more sustainably and continuously our sustainability reporting and framework and, although our improve performance. As we continue to expand and North American Paper and Packaging division is not within scope invest to delight our customers, we are looking at options for the reporting period covered by this Sustainability Review, for greenfield development. Wherever we explore we will be reporting on it in 2019. greenfield sites, environmental considerations are embedded into the design and build programme. 2 Our business As packaging strategists, we promote longer-term strategies to create a more efficient packaging ecosystem. Packaging Paper Recycling Plastics DS Smith is a leading We are a leading DS Smith is Europe’s Our Plastics business provider of consumer manufacturer of largest cardboard and comprises flexible packaging, with emphasis high-quality papers. paper recycler, and a leading packaging and dispensing on state-of-the-art Our papers are used by global supplier of paper for solutions, rigid packaging packaging design. the packaging industry for recycling. We manage over and returnables, as well as conversion into board for 5 million tonnes of recycling foam products. making corrugated boxes. every year. c. 22,800 c. 2,900 c. 800 c. 2,000 employees employees employees employees 34 10 14 13 countries countries countries countries Our business model How we bring our business and processes together to enable our strategic vision and create sustainable value. Redefining packaging through our circular Insight Manufacturing business model At DS Smith, our business model is truly circular with a unique capability of complementary recycling, paper and packaging operations. It is through this closed-loop system that we are able to embed sustainability into our Paper products and services and deliver packaging solutions and recycling services that meet the evolving requirements of supply chains, customers and consumers. Corrugated and plastic packaging Recycling Innovation Design Download the Annual report & accounts 2018: dssmith.com/annual-reports Sustainability Review 2018 | dssmith.com/sustainability 3 Packaging in a changing world Growth of e-commerce and omni-channel packaging Shopping habits are changing, with consumers spending an ever-increasing amount We extrapolated these trends to create a scenario online. In these new, more complex and developing supply chains, packaging has to of the world in 2025 which is set out in our video change too. Consumers, increasingly exposed to packaging, develop relationships with called: Caring Convenience. These are not brands that are ever more informed by secondary and tertiary packs. The rise of the predictions, but a plausible version of the future vlogger and the unboxing video means ‘bad packaging’ is reviewed and shared with the to demonstrate how different the future could be. world. Brand reputation and packaging have never been more closely linked. Packaging in e-commerce supply chains also has to meet the potentially conflicting sustainability requirements of protecting products through supply chains with more touch points, Watch the video here whilst simultaneously being efficiently designed to optimise last-mile deliveries. dssmith.com/uk/packaging/expertise/ our-vision2/rehearsing-the-future/scenario1-caring-convenience One third of respondents to various packaging and e-commerce surveys globally, say disposal of excess packaging is a key frustration We need new innovative ideas to meet changing consumer habits. 4 Urbanisation and demographic change In 2008, for the first time, the world’s population was evenly split between urban We extrapolated these trends to create a scenario and rural areas. According to the World Bank, by 2050 it is anticipated that 65-70 per of the world in 2025 which is set out in our video cent of the population will live in cities. In more developed countries this shift is called: Everything is an Experience. These are not coupled with a rise in single-occupant households and a growing generation of predictions, but a plausible version of the future consumers embracing the sharing economy. At the same time, we are seeing a new to demonstrate how different the future could be. generation of millennials emerge, increasingly expecting products tailored for them whenever they want them, wherever they are in the world, delivered sustainably in the way that is most convenient for them. These shifts impact how and where Watch the video here consumers shop, and what they buy. In such a rapidly changing world, the role of packaging is redefined: it has to support smaller and more frequent shops, more dssmith.com/uk/packaging/expertise/ online purchases and enable ever more efficient, responsive door-to-door delivery. our-vision2/rehearsing-the-future/scenario2-everything-is-an-experience By 2050 it is anticipated that 65-70 per cent of the population will live in cities We are redefining how we deliver packaging solutions for growing urban populations. Sustainability Review 2018 | dssmith.com/sustainability 5 Packaging in a changing world continued Food waste As our population continues to grow, we face increasing pressure on resources. Estimates suggest that the global population is likely to reach nine billion by 2050, in which case global food production will need to increase by 70 per cent, according to the United Nations, World Bank and World Resources Institute. As we will have to produce more food with increasingly constrained resources, minimising waste will be essential. Packaging plays a key role in protecting food and drink through long, complex supply chains. It also plays a key role in keeping perishables fresher for longer. Research by the Waste and Resources Action Programme in the UK suggests that approximately 60 per cent of household food waste arises from products not used in time. As the population grows and resources are constrained, packaging will play an increasing role in ensuring foodstuffs, and the energy, water and resources invested in them, are protected. By 2050 global food production will need to increase by 70 per cent We must reimagine the linear ‘take, make, dispose’ consumption model. 6 Consumer attitudes to packaging, waste and pollution Public awareness of and interest in sustainable packaging are higher than ever before. We extrapolated these trends to create a According to Nielsen and Unilever, 21-36 per cent of consumers in North America and scenario of the world in 2025 which is set out Europe say that packaging has the most significant influence on sustainable purchasing in our video called: Asia New Deal. These are not decisions. Brand owners and retailers are coming under increasing scrutiny for the predictions, but a plausible version of the future decisions they make in relation to packaging materials and design. Increasingly, we to demonstrate how different the future could be. have already seen a change in our customers’ attitudes to packaging as they search for answers to questions about material provenance, recycled content, recyclability, end-of-life processing, reuse, production, distance travelled and weight. According Watch the video here to GfK, one of the largest market research companies in the world, 29-31 per cent of dssmith.com/uk/packaging/expertise/ consumers are more willing to buy products made or packaged from recycled materials. our-vision2/rehearsing-the-future/scenario3-asian-new-deal 21-36 per cent of consumers in North America and Europe say that packaging has the most significant influence on sustainable purchasing decisions Public awareness of and interest in sustainable packaging are higher than ever before. Sustainability Review 2018 | dssmith.com/sustainability 7 Packaging in a changing world continued Increasingly, we have seen a change in our customers’ attitudes to packaging, as they search for answers to questions about the impact of corrugated and plastic packaging, the life cycle of recyclable and non-recyclable packaging, end-of-life processing, reuse, production, distance travelled and weight. At DS Smith, we are embracing this challenge. As paper makers, suppliers of packaging solutions and recyclers, we are perfectly placed to identify end-to-end solutions. Through our circular business model and network of packaging strategists, we are using packaging to help organisations, consumers, cities and governments to deliver more sustainable ways of managing the growth of consumerism. However, sustainability at DS Smith is not just driven by our customers. We also look to create long-term sustainable value for all of our stakeholders including investors, banks, regulators, employees and communities. To us, this is about balancing the needs of our business, our environment and our people. 8 Our performance against commitments Our progress so far In last year’s review we shared a number of commitments linked to the areas where we believe we can have the greatest impact. Throughout the past year, our work has focused on delivering against each of the commitments we made last year. An overview of our performance against these commitments can be found below. Our progress on commitments from Performance since the Sustainability Review 2017 the Sustainability Review 2017 At DS Smith, we make it a priority to conduct business with openness and transparency. Last year we set ourselves some short-term commitments to drive progress across our business in areas where we can have the most positive impact. We have had great success in continuing to build our network of PackRight and Impact Centres (see pages 15 and 29), working with our customers to design brand-building packaging that creates a domino effect of supply chain sustainability efficiencies, by removing excess packaging and optimising logistics. We have also had considerable success in the implementation of our carbon reduction strategy, including roll-out of energy efficiency initiatives such as our LED lighting programme and continued exploration of and investment in fuel switching, as seen with the investment in biomass (see page 23). Whilst we have not quite achieved our target of 100 per cent of in-scope sites being FSC® certified, we are optimistic that this will be achieved in the coming months. There has also been excellent progress against the commitments we made regarding health and safety, with a particular highlight being the successful roll-out of a series of on-boarding leadership workshops. Complete/on track: 71 per cent In the areas where we are behind schedule or at risk, we have learnt a great deal Ongoing/behind schedule: 24 per cent about the importance of truly embedding sustainability into all business functions, At risk: 5 per cent supported by strong governance structures and accountability. For example, we have not made as much progress as we would like in driving our sustainability standards into our supply base, which is why we have strong plans in place supported by a new target for 2025 (see page 11). Building on the past year’s success, and taking into account what we have learnt, we have built a robust new set of targets to underpin our strategy (see pages 10-11) to lead the way in sustainability. These targets are based on time-bound, measurable action plans with increased levels of ambition in areas where we have performed well, and renewed levels of focus in areas where we have opportunities to improve. Our 2017/18 highlights Our Business Our Environment Our People EcoVadis Gold Over 7 per cent Health and safety DS Smith improves score and reduction of CO2e per tonne of production 239 sites achieved zero accidents, remains in the top 5 per cent in the Plastics and Recycling divisions. reflecting our commitment to safety of all organisations evaluated. as the number one priority. 95 per cent 26.9 per cent 3,500 FSC® certified across all in-scope sites reduction in waste to landfill per tonne Management Standards launched to within Packaging and Paper divisions. of production in the Belišće paper mill. 3,500 line managers across the entire DS Smith Group. Sustainability Review 2018 | dssmith.com/sustainability 9 Our sustainability strategy Our strategy to lead the way in sustainability At DS Smith, one of our four strategic goals is to lead the way in sustainability. We are pleased to announce a range of new, ambitious, long-term targets that will help us realise this ambition. In last year’s review we announced that, in light of achieving “These new targets are a confirmation to all our existing energy, water and waste targets ahead of schedule, our stakeholders that we remain committed to we would review our sustainability performance targets. delivering long-term, sustainable value and will Following this review, and using our materiality analysis (see continue to have high ambitions in this area. I was page 37) as a guide, we are pleased to share a range of new, particularly pleased to sign off the ‘Our People’ ambitious, long-term targets relating to each of our priority issues. targets. People are our most important asset and It is through delivering against these targets, and ongoing review we must create a business environment in which of our priorities and objectives, that we look to achieve our our employees and their communities thrive.” ambition to lead the way in sustainability. Miles Roberts, Group Chief Executive, DS Smith Plc Our four strategic goals Our three pillars of sustainability To delight our customers • Delivering on all our commitments Our Business • Further improving our quality standards Creating shared value through responsible • Driving innovation on a multinational basis recycling, paper and packaging. To realise the potential of our people • Ensuring the safety of all • Creating a place where people are proud to work and give their best Our Environment • Building individual and organisational capability Minimising our impact, from design To lead the way in sustainability to production and supply to recycling. • Building sustainability into our decisions • Growing our recycling platform To double our size and profitability • Winning market share Our People • Growing with our customers Ensuring the safety, wellbeing and • Expanding our footprint through acquisitions and greenfield sites development of colleagues and • Building a resilient and sustainable business model contributing to our communities. “Our target to source 100 per cent of the papers “Our target to manufacture 100 per cent reusable that we use from sustainable sources aligns with or recyclable packaging brings a welcome, the ambitions of a huge number of our customers constructive challenge. Whilst we start from a as they look to manage and remove deforestation strong position, it is the perfect opportunity to risks from their supply chains. Alongside our encourage problem-solving with our customers innovative, brand-building packaging solutions, and partners. From senior management to our commitments such as this demonstrate how we machine operators, everyone within DS Smith partner with our customers to create shared value.” will have a role to play in achieving these targets.” Adrienne Liebenberg, Lucas van der Schalk, Sales, Marketing and Innovation Director, Chief Operations Officer, DS Smith Plastics DS Smith Packaging 10 Our targets At DS Smith, sustainability is the foundation of our overall business strategy. These new targets, focused on the areas where we believe we can have the greatest impact, embed sustainability across our entire organisation. Packaging impact Manufacture 100 per cent reusable or recyclable packaging by 2025, and grow our net positive recycling position1 Fibre sourcing Carbon and energy Reduce our CO2e emissions by Use 100 per cent recycled or chain 30 per cent per tonne of production of custody certified papers by 2020 by 2030, against a 2015 baseline Our Business Supplier standards Water stewardship Ensure 100 per cent of our Achieve zero water suppliers comply with our impact2 by 2030 sustainability standards by 2025 Our Environment Responsible employer Waste and recycling Build a diverse, engaged Our People Send zero waste to and respected workforce landfill by 2030 Responsible neighbour Health and safety Engage in community programmes Zero accidents at 100 per cent of our sites by 2020 Vision zero harm “Carbon reduction and water stewardship “We aim to create a workplace where we realise continue to be the main improvement focus areas the full potential of our people so that everyone within the Paper division. The discussions around can contribute to the achievement of our business our new water goal were lengthy and very technical, goals. This way, we thrive and grow together. but we recognise that water is an increasingly I am particularly proud of our aim to build a precious resource and we must do our bit to diverse, engaged and respected workforce as manage our use responsibly.” this encompasses so much about the culture of shared responsibility we are looking to create.” Niels Flierman, Operations Director, DS Smith Paper Andy Speak, Human Resources Director, DS Smith Plc 1. Involved in all or in part of collecting, sorting, reprocessing, managing and/or transporting a greater tonnage of material through our Recycling division than we place on the market through our Packaging and Plastics divisions. 2. To include water quality, water stress improvements and water reduction (where feasible). Sustainability Review 2018 | dssmith.com/sustainability 11 Our value chain A journey through our business model As you will read in the following pages, our complementary Paper, Packaging, Recycling and Plastics businesses touch the supply chain at multiple points, over and over again. This report walks you through this supply chain: discussing key issues, being honest about challenges and sharing success in how we create sustainable value every step of the way. le circ full ng omi C Page 33 Managing the end of life impacts of our products and End of life and recy recycling materials are core elements of our circular business model. Paper and board have the highest recycling rate of any material in Europe clin with the constituent fibres capable of being recycled up to seven times. Page 30 g Our Recycling division, one of the largest in Europe, plays a key role in this, managing over five million tonnes of recyclable materials per annum which are a key feedstock for our network of paper mills. The net effect is that we manage for recycling a considerably higher tonnage of used fibre packaging than we manufacture. Cust Page 27 Truly sustainable packaging solutions can set off a domino effect of om efficiencies in our customers' supply cycles: making logistics more efficient, er su protecting products and keeping food and drink fresher for longer. pp ly cyc We support our customers in using packaging to unlock additional sustainability benefits in their les supply chains – reducing palletisation, increased transport utility, reduced warehousing demand, fewer road miles and more efficient logistics. 12 Our targets Look out for our new targets in this section. We will report progress against these targets in next year's Sustainability Review. Prod Our sustainable packaging solutions begin uct with product design and innovation. de sig Our global network of packaging strategists work with customers n an di to design packaging that protects products and the resources Page 14 nn o invested, using no more material than necessary. n tio va Sustainable sourcing is central to our offer. Our primary raw material – fibre – is renewable. Across the industry, roughly 88 per cent of the fibres used for corrugated board manufacture are from recycled sources, with 92 per cent of the virgin papers used deriving from chain of custody certified forests Page 17 according to the European Corrugated Packaging Association (FEFCO). Sourcing Our focus is on using quality, sustainably sourced raw materials, whether fibre or plastics. Page 20 ns tio ra Our manufacturing operations are focused on fully recyclable corrugated e g op solutions and plastic packaging solutions that are predominantly multi-use rin or made from recycled and recyclable materials. fac tu Across our operations, we are reducing our environmental impact through investment in u Man innovative energy reduction technologies, switching to cleaner fuel, turning waste streams into resources and managing our water impact. Sustainability Review 2018 | dssmith.com/sustainability 13 Our value chain Product design and innovation Product design and innovation Sustainable packaging solutions begin with an excellent understanding of our customers' challenges, the reality of category specifics, product design and innovation. Introduction to product design Packaging impact and innovation Context Changing consumer habits and the growth of e-commerce are The core role of packaging is to protect products and to keep food fundamentally changing the way we buy and use products and and drink fresher for longer. In doing so, packaging makes supply services. Supply chains are evolving; speed, simplicity, efficiency chains more efficient and protects the energy and resources and just-in-time delivery are essential. Where, when and how fast invested in products. The recent media and consumer focus on we want our products alters rapidly; next-day delivery is too slow, single-use plastics packaging has resulted in a broader discussion with consumers wanting things faster, sooner, now. The weekly about the role of packaging in society. grocery shop is becoming obsolete for the millennial generation, More than ever before, the role of packaging in society is being with smaller, more frequent baskets becoming commonplace. scrutinised. Changes are being driven not only by our customers Coupled with an increasingly urbanised society where space is at and consumers, but by regulatory developments as well. a premium, this means less storage, smaller portions, smaller packs. As a result, new sustainability challenges are emerging. Across Europe, new measures to incentivise good and deter bad packaging are being proposed. As supply chains change and Packaging has a key role to play: taking delivery vehicles off the consumer expectations and lifestyles evolve, packaging must road by supporting efficient last-mile delivery, driving resource evolve too. Sustainable packaging solutions are increasingly efficiency by making fibre go further and providing a recyclable important and valued, but there is more that industry can do. solution to an increasingly packaging-conscious consumer. Real change will come from collaboration between all Our global network of packaging strategists, supported by stakeholders, including regulators, trade bodies, councils, our innovative Impact Centres, PackRight Centres and More From brand-owners, retailers, reprocessors and consumers. Less consultancy, work with customers to design packaging that protects products and the resources invested in them whilst Leadership in sustainability is not just about reducing the making their supply chains more efficient. environmental impact of operational sites. Leadership goes beyond this, which is why we are committed to working on sustainable sourcing (see pages 17-19) and with our customers to manage the life-cycle impact of our products and services. Reflecting the shift to a more circular economy and our focus on creating sustainable value for our stakeholders, we have set an ambitious goal that not only drives the sustainability of our packaging, but reflects our commitment to making recycling real. Our target Manufacture 100 per cent reusable or recyclable packaging by 2025. Our performance and highlights We are playing a key role in delivering good, sustainable packaging solutions that minimise environmental impact. As part of our sustainability strategy, we are looking to measure the impact of our products and services, and this is reflected in the target above. We believe we are starting in a strong position. The following examples show how we are delivering against this target, creating sustainable recycling and packaging solutions for our customers. 14 Inspiring customers to succeed through Implementing eco-design principles our Impact Centres Packaging design must balance a huge range of different criteria. Sustainable design has to be balanced against packaging that These include performance, protection and visual impact on the meets consumer expectations and retailer requirements and shelf, and they are increasingly judged by sustainability criteria, specifications. This is where our biggest opportunities lie. such as raw material provenance and end-of-life management options. At DS Smith, we conceive and design packaging based Through our Impact Centres we challenge existing packaging. on eco-design principles as standard procedure. As packaging By provoking thoughtful discussion and concept generation for strategists, this is business as usual. new sustainable packaging solutions, we demonstrate how the right packaging can increase sales, lower costs and manage risks. Our packaging strategists, designers and More From Less consultancy are constantly creating packaging designs for our DS Smith has nine Impact Centres across Europe. Whilst the focus customers which ensure protection of the product whilst using of our Impact Centres is to work with our customers to explore only the right amount of material necessary to produce less the impact their packaging makes on-shelf, this unique experience waste, promote recycling and have a lower product or supply also delves into how their packaging is processed and managed in chain environmental impact. For example, incremental changes the entire supply chain, as well as after use. can reduce the carbon and water footprint of the box, and Performance packaging, using no more replacing tape with more innovative closing solutions or making material than necessary a box easier to collapse at end of life can improve recyclability. As consumers, we make the vast majority of our purchasing decisions Likewise, our plastics customers can switch from a fixed-size based on value: what that product or service will deliver for us. container to a customised, foldable, returnable plastic container to optimise load, and unlock a domino effect of carbon savings That is why at DS Smith we focus specifically on performance in return logistics. packaging in our corrugated products, delivering reliable packaging with no more material than necessary. Solving e-commerce challenges Our innovative Made2fit solution is designed specifically to Our 'PACE' programme is focused on four key elements to deliver address one of the key sustainability challenges of e-commerce reliable packaging: supply chains: transporting air. Shipping air is a waste of resources • Performance • Assurance • Consistency • Environment and makes last-mile deliveries inefficient, whilst over-packaging creates consumer frustration and leads to the unnecessary use Our patented real-time testing process enables us to have of fibre and additional void fill materials. This all comes back to complete confidence that every box that leaves a DS Smith facility product innovation and better design. The Made2fit technology meets our customers' performance requirements, guarantees has the capability to manufacture more than 10 million box size levels of performance with the most efficient use of fibre and combinations, in a multi-channel-ready process, optimising supply reduces damage rates and associated resource and energy loss chain emissions and reducing waste. in supply chains. Danish company crowned with success by Our next steps using no more material than necessary and • Fully investigate our product portfolio, identifying the areas where action is needed to ensure our packaging saving carbon solutions can be either recycled or reused. When approached by Danish Crown, a global meat • Focus on redesign for recyclability of our products, processing company, DS Smith's packaging strategists saw and speciality corrugated packaging. numerous opportunities to create an optimised packaging solution, which reduced the customer's environmental impact at every stage of the supply cycle. DS Smith developed a solution to switch from B-flute More information and policies to R-flute, which was 27 per cent thinner without • DS Smith 'Shopper trends unpacked', white paper compromising carrying capacity or durability. As a result, • 'The benefits of packaging in an increasingly Danish Crown reduced warehouse, handling and shipping waste conscious world', opinion piece costs by 25 per cent and is now saving 290 tonnes of carbon emissions per year due to reduced paper consumption and • 'Transforming e-commerce', white paper fewer lorries on the road. • The empty space economy campaign Find out more on our website. Sustainability Review 2018 | dssmith.com/sustainability 15 Our value chain Product design and innovation continued Prioritising reusability, repairability and recyclability Designing for a safer world For plastic solutions, we focus on designing lightweight, durable Recognising continued interest in the role of packaging and packaging which can protect and transport products time and product safety, we are focused on ensuring our products are safe time again. In many supply chains, products take thousands of and that we manage the ongoing concern over different chemicals journeys, lasting up to 30 years for beverage crates transporting and substances in our products. glass bottles and up to seven years for corrugated plastic transit packaging transporting products such as automotive parts. Ensuring the highest product safety standards For these products, our designers focus on reducing material At DS Smith, we never compromise on product safety. Our complexity down to one single polymer, allowing for efficient, products comply with all the applicable regulations and standards, high-quality, 100 per cent recyclability at end of life. and in the mindset of 'beyond compliance' we work closely with trade associations to develop ever more stringent and safe We also focus strongly on circular customer services. Our mobile standards to guarantee that our customers' and consumers' regrinding units regrind old crates directly at the customer's needs are entirely met. bottling facilities, increasing the recycling and transport efficiency approximately six fold. Once back at our facilities, this reground Our internal controls and product safety systems apply to the material is immediately manufactured into new crates and sent complete life cycle of our corrugated products: from the very first back to our customers for the next life cycle. stages of development, through design, raw materials sourcing, manufacturing and sale to delivery and support to our customers. Another highly innovative bulk containers is our Stackabox™, a foldable container which is not only fully recyclable after All food contact manufacturing sites follow Good Manufacturing coming to the end of its useful long life, but is also repairable Practice and have developed robust processes based on and all 17 parts are replaceable. Parts can be ordered separately risk assessment principles, an essential requirement to verify by the customer as part of the supply agreement and the flexible and ensure product compliance and safety. We ensure that we connections make replacing the parts easy. This modular and only use substances that are approved and in accordance with repairable product enables customers to fully embrace the circular the applicable regulations, and we provide our customers with plastics economy. Both of these solutions prioritise the highest full information on products' hygiene and safety aspects through segment of the waste hierarchy, reducing our customers' total declarations of compliance and other specific documentation. need for new packaging, and decoupling them from virgin raw To ensure that we are as effective as we can be, we have material consumption. developed a comprehensive training programme and deliver this to our key internal actors, both centrally and locally. In 2017, we rolled out a European Product Safety module to European sales New life for Vichy Catalan's water crates teams and embarked on a robust training programme for all Spanish water producer, Vichy Catalan, needed to replace regional leads responsible for product safety. its old and worn out reusable crates but wanted an efficient and sustainable solution which did not require The evolving landscape we operate in constantly brings new new virgin plastic. challenges. For example, we are seeing an increased recycling rate of historically non-recyclable products (e.g. paper-based DS Smith Plastics' injection moulded products offer coffee cups) and a growing shift away from plastic towards paper a total solution approach for customers. Our mobile packaging. These trends present food safety challenges that regrinding vehicle was parked at the customer's site require us to utilise our expertise and knowledge to find a balance where we reground 300,000 old crates. This compact between food safety and recyclability. recycled material was then transported back to DS Smith Plastics to be moulded into new crates and filled with Managing our chemical footprint returnable glass bottles. In line with the REACH regulations, we continue to monitor and manage the inclusion of identified substances of very high The result was 100 per cent recycled crates, 121 truck concern (SVHCs) within our products. This year, we undertook a journeys avoided through mobile regrinding, and 11,500 kg comprehensive exercise to build a central database of hazardous of carbon saved. chemicals, with a focus on SVHCs. The project has been completed Find out more online. for the whole of our Plastics division and, as a result, we have already completed the successful phase-out of an adhesive remover, with two more substances identified for substitution. More information and policies For more information on how we manage the application of chemical substances in our products, and for an up-todate overview of SVHCs in use in our business, please visit our website: www.dssmith.com/company/sustainability/our-business/ chemicals-management/ 16 Sourcing In parallel with sustainable product design and innovation, we are working to source our raw materials responsibly and improve the quality of secondary raw materials. Introduction to sourcing Percentage of plastic raw materials Over the last 25 years, there has been a proliferation of from recycled sources (%) certification schemes and marketing campaigns linked to product 2015 22 provenance, driven by consumers who are increasingly aware 2016 34 of the wider environmental and social impact their purchasing 2017 37 decisions can have. Programmes now exist for a wide range of goods and commodities, including fruit, tea, coffee, sugar, fish, Many of our products can be produced with 100 per cent postsoy, palm oil, eggs, timber products and others. Paper is a material consumer recycled sources. However, we responsibly apply a linked closely to deforestation, an emotive and consumer-facing lower percentage to some products to avoid compromising issue, so sustainable management of forestry is key to ensuring product integrity (e.g. rigidity) and, in some cases, to comply responsibly produced timber-based products. with customer hygiene specifications. At DS Smith, sustainable sourcing is central to our offer. Throughout Fibre traceability has long been a focus of our sustainability our business, our focus is on using quality, sustainably sourced activities. In line with the increasing focus on plastics and raw materials, whether recycled or virgin fibre or plastics. Our recyclability by media and policy makers, we are seeking to trace primary raw material – fibre – is part of the renewable corrugated where our products go at end of life, and know how they are used system. As such, the renewable corrugated system depends on downstream if they are exported. We are therefore delighted to regular inputs of sustainably sourced virgin fibre. Through this have launched a new traceability project to map the mass balance combination of design and responsibly sourced materials, we flows of plastic materials through our business. We hope to are able to offer truly sustainable packaging solutions. publish the results during the next calendar year. High-quality, recycled raw materials Advocacy on secondary materials Although the focus of DS Smith's fibre sourcing and traceability To improve quality of raw materials and segregation, DS Smith projects is on ensuring sustainable sourcing of virgin fibres, our has fed into a number of consultations around the issue of quality raw material consumption continues to be dominated by recycled recycling and specific campaigns (such as on coffee cups, see material managed by our Recycling division. page 32), written to industry, MPs and government to bring As part of the EU Circular Economy Package, there is growing stakeholders together to find solutions. We are also regular pressure to increase recycling rates. This is both positive and contributors to trade and industry magazines on issues such as achievable if managed correctly. However, we must not sacrifice collection infrastructures and contamination. On a practical level, the quality of fibres for recycling in search of ever greater we continuously work with our customers to provide training and quantities. If we forget about quality in recycling, we end up education to improve recycling systems. with higher contamination rates. With high contamination For details of which trade associations DS Smith participates in, comes unusable feedstock for recyclers – meaning that material please see page 38. intended for recycling will end up in energy recovery or, even worse, landfill. This is why we persistently advocate for high-quality recycling and early segregation of recyclables. Our paper mills can only make paper from paper – not plastics, glass, metal or any other recyclable or waste material that can sometimes end up in paper and card recycling collections. We need high-quality fibres to maintain a strong, efficient DS Smith supply cycle. In our Plastics division, sourcing high-quality raw materials is also of utmost importance. Between 30 and 40 per cent of all plastic raw materials come from post-consumer recycled sources. In 2017 alone, we sourced over 24,000 tonnes of regrind. This prevented the need for virgin materials equivalent to 381,000 barrels of oil or 1,800 recycling trucks diverted from landfill or incineration. We also provide buy-back and take-back programmes for polypropylene (PP) and high-density polyethylene (PE) products. In fact, we source just under half of all our injection moulded PP and PE in this manner (see pages 31-32). Sustainability Review 2018 | dssmith.com/sustainability 17 Our value chain Sourcing continued Fibre sourcing Our performance and highlights Context Percentage of sites to have chain of custody certification (%) When sourced from well-managed forests, harvested timber has 2015 62 vital social, environmental and economic benefits and can be a truly sustainable enterprise. However, we recognise that in some 2016 85 countries and regions there are issues with deforestation and 2017 95 illegal logging. 2018 100 Due to increased consumer interest in product provenance and an urgent need to preserve habitats and ecosystems, there is In Europe, our paper mills are fed with quality inputs from our a heightened scrutiny of timber and fibre sourcing. Therefore Recycling division and manufacture only recycled papers, DS Smith remains committed to supporting initiatives that whilst in North America our kraftliner mill sources all its fibre promote forest management and chain of custody, and inputs from sustainable sources and our Reading testliner mill ensuring, through traceable and transparent supply chains, sources high-quality used papers. However, since the renewable that any virgin fibres in our products originate from sustainably corrugated system relies on regular inputs of sustainably sourced managed sources. virgin fibre, certification of these sources is of utmost importance. In 2015, we set ourselves the ambitious goal of 100 per cent of relevant manufacturing sites achieving FSC® certification by the Our targets end of April 2018. We are pleased to report that 95 per cent of Our work on sustainable fibre sourcing splits into two in-scope sites across our Packaging and Paper divisions have key areas, and we have set an ambitious target in each: achieved FSC® certification. Whilst we have missed our target of • 100 per cent of our sites to have a chain of custody 100 per cent due to a combination of integration of new certification (FSC®, PEFC or SFI). acquisitions and regional organisational challenges, this project • Use 100 per cent recycled or chain of custody has built up networks, processes and ways of working that will be certified papers by 2020. used to enhance and embed future Group-wide certification plans. Within the year, the small number of remaining uncertified in-scope sites will become certified. Due to our ongoing growth, we have decided to keep this as a formal sustainability target, ensuring that as we move into new regions and countries we maintain our minimum standards and ensure we continue to meet the needs of our customers. Our focus is on using the right balance of recycled and chain of custody certified virgin papers to meet the requirements of our customers. We are working closely with a number of our customers to help them to meet their 'zero net deforestation' ambitions by 2020. We support the FSC® standard and all other credible international fibre sourcing and chain of custody certification schemes. Our next steps • Undertake a gap analysis of the current status of our sustainable paper sourcing against our new target. • Develop an action plan to ensure all paper we source comes from sustainable sources to reach our target. More information and policies • DS Smith Packaging Sustainable Sourcing Guideline • A summary of our paper mill certifications 18 Supplier standards Our performance and highlights Context Number of strategic suppliers who have signed The growing interest in commodity supply chains is part the Global Supplier Standard of a broader global trend. Every facet of the modern world is 2015 36 being challenged to operate in a more transparent fashion, from politics to law and order, and from the media to sport. Burgeoning 2016 109 technologies such as blockchain and the rapid rise of big data 2017 213 and social media are bringing a new era of radical openness. Organisations are expected to disclose much more information We have exceeded our commitment to ensure our top 200 than ever before. Legislation such as the Companies Act, EU strategic suppliers sign our new Global Supplier Standard, with Timber Regulations, UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 and Equality Act 213 having committed to adhere to our minimum social and 2010 plays a high-profile role in driving this transparency. environmental expectations. Work is ongoing to implement a supplier assessment programme, and our ambition and focus In response, at DS Smith we are driving greater disclosure from our in this area are now reflected in our new target. Whilst our aim suppliers in order to better understand the entire supply chain and is to source 100 per cent of our papers sustainably to address manage risks related to human rights, child labour, business ethics the risk associated with our primary raw material, the purpose and environmental management. of this target is to ensure we drive similar ethical standards into We understand that to ensure the highest ethical standards we our wider supply base. must look to form partnerships with our suppliers. Each and every In addition to ensuring current suppliers adhere to our minimum supplier of materials and/or services to DS Smith is expected to standards, we also have a responsibility to mitigate risk associated meet certain minimum standards. Through our fibre sourcing with potential new suppliers. Therefore, as we report in our target, we are already making strong progress in our fibre Modern Slavery Statement, in areas of higher geographical supply chain. However, as we look to drive our sustainability risk we have required our businesses to commit to completing standards into our entire supply chain, we will focus on our full pre-audits on all potential suppliers. For example, in our Chinese breadth of suppliers. business, vendors are audited and approved before they can supply to DS Smith. Our target As we dig deeper into the supply chain, we expect to encounter a Ensure 100 per cent of our suppliers comply with our range of new challenges. During the last 12 months our assurance sustainability standards by 2025. processes have encountered one instance of child labour in a pre-audit of a prospective supplier. Identifying this issue early confirmed to us that our assurance processes are robust. We are taking the necessary steps in line with our Modern Slavery Policy to ensure child labour does not exist in our supply chain. We will be tenacious and will continue to work on our approach to address these challenges, report transparently where we find them, and engage in collaborative work to bring more influence to harder-toreach areas of our supply chain. Developing a culture of awareness around these issues is key. Our procurement teams and key members of the management team have received third-party training which will be extended to all new starters in these teams. Our next steps • Create robust methodology for assessing suppliers. • Develop an ongoing programme of refresher courses on modern slavery and supply chain labour risks. More information and policies • DS Smith Code of Conduct • DS Smith Global Supplier Standard • DS Smith Modern Slavery Policy • DS Smith Modern Slavery Statement Sustainability Review 2018 | dssmith.com/sustainability 19 Our value chain Manufacturing operations Manufacturing operations Following design, innovation and sourcing, our core activity is to manufacture packaging solutions, ensuring we manage our environmental impact and take responsibility for our people. Introduction to manufacturing operations Our performance and highlights Diversity Globalisation has resulted in greater connectivity, causing our DS Smith is an equal opportunities employer. Our Code of Conduct countries and cities to consume more, putting a strain on natural details our commitment to strive towards a non-discriminatory resources. According to the Global Footprint Network, we are Group culture based on our values. We seek to build upon the currently using resources equivalent to 1.7 planet Earths. talents of our global workforce without regard to gender, race, Regulatory initiatives such as the Paris Climate Accord, EU Circular ethnic or national origin, marital status, pregnancy, parental Economy Package and more recently the focus on single-use status, sexual orientation, gender re-assignment, trade union packaging are all examples of how we are becoming more aware membership, age, religion or belief, political affiliation or disability. of the challenges of consumerism. In addition to developing a specific action plan around gender Whilst our core business is based on renewable, sustainable diversity, we are working with our European Works Council (EWC) fibre-based packaging, we also manufacture reusable plastic on the topic of diversity and inclusion in the broadest sense as packaging and provide recycling and waste management services part of the implementation of our Employee Charter. This involves to our customers around the globe. Across our operations, we the creation of working groups to boost the representation of are reducing our environmental impact through investment in minority groups within the employee base and ensuring there are advanced energy reduction technologies, switching to cleaner clear channels for employees to speak to their representatives or fuel and turning waste streams into resources. In all of these to use our Speak Up! phone line, should they encounter any bias or areas, we aim to reduce the environmental impact of our business unfair actions. and maintain our position as a responsible employer. This year, we have published gender pay gap information for Responsible employer our UK businesses for the first time. The evidence in the report reflects the hard work we have put in to implement a fair and Context equitable policy and process when it comes to reward. What our At DS Smith, our most valuable asset is our people. Realising the report, and those of others in the industry, has highlighted is the potential of our people is essential for the continued growth of need to encourage more women into jobs in the manufacturing the business. As a responsible employer, we are conscious of the industry. DS Smith is keen to take a leading role in promoting wide-reaching impact of employment relationships on individuals, training, recruitment and networking opportunities to enhance their families and the communities in which they live and work. the gender diversity of our workforce and to promote inclusive We provide direct employment and livelihoods for over 28,500 work practices. people. Through their experience and advocacy, we have an impact on their friends and family. In many cases, our production Engagement sites are located outside major cities, in industrial parks or less We have regular and productive meetings between our Senior populated rural areas, making us a significant employer in Executive and the EWC. It is through that strong relationship those localities. that we launched our Employee Charter last year. This was a huge step forward in employee relations and provides greater clarity We also extend our impact as an employer through our broader on what is expected from employees of DS Smith – and what stakeholder network of contractors, suppliers, customers and they can expect in return. Following the official signing of the charitable partners, creating touch points to a global community. document in April 2017, it was formally launched internally at the July plenary meeting of the EWC and since then has been Our target introduced to colleagues throughout DS Smith. A full update to all employees on our progress towards the commitments made Build a diverse, engaged and respected workforce. in the Charter is planned following the next all-employee survey, • This involves measuring and looking to improve the as the items in the survey are used as our measures. diversity of our workforce, creating more engaging Over the course of the last year, we have also taken steps to workplaces, and maintaining compliance with engage employees in the brand and ways in which they can be international labour standards through the Supplier advocates for DS Smith. Through our corporate Instagram Ethical Data Exchange (Sedex) platform. account, we have invited colleagues to share their photos of holidays around the world featuring our logo, sparking some incredible creativity and enthusiasm. This same enthusiasm was applied to our current campaign promoting the recycling of coffee cups and the important role each of us can play as a consumer by segregating waste, with DS Smith employees posting images, videos and comments on LinkedIn, Facebook and Instagram on the topic. 20 Respect for our people In addition, we have introduced nine Management Standards that In addition to our supplier standards activities (see page 19), list the key expectations of all DS Smith line managers relating we have a duty to manage business ethics and labour topics to safety, individual performance, performance development, in our own operations, aligned with the requirements of the customer focus, communications, compliance, targets planning Modern Slavery Act (UK). For DS Smith, our position as a strategic and control, business excellence and resourcing. The purpose of supplier to many of the most recognisable FMCG brands means these standards is to develop a transparent, responsible and that we have an opportunity to provide our customers with the ethical business culture in the workplace. highest level of assurance that their packaging is sustainably and ethically sourced. We continuously maintain 100 per cent of our sites registered on the Sedex platform and completing the Self-Assessment Questionnaire. One third of our largest sites verify their answers through third-party SMETA 4-pillar audits. Talent, careers, education and training Working in partnership with our EWC, we have also been proactively seeking ways to retain the expert knowledge of our workforce, as many technical experts and long-service employees approach retirement. As a result, we have reinvigorated apprenticeship and graduate programmes and are tightening international good practice sharing or coordination surrounding these programmes. Our apprenticeship scheme introduces young talent into the organisation and gives them the opportunity to become the packaging specialists of tomorrow. Wellbeing Our next steps For many years now, we have been developing our ability to • Build and implement a diversity action plan, including a support the physical and mental wellbeing of all employees Group-level measure. through nutritional advice, healthy food options in canteens, • Assess and analyse site responses through the Sedex health check opportunities and exercise groups. This year has Self-Assessment Questionnaire and identify potential also seen the introduction of Mental Health First Aid training areas for improvement. for DS Smith employees (see page 22). This internationally recognised course teaches people how to spot the signs and symptoms of mental ill health and provide help on a first aid basis. Those who attended can now feel confident to guide people towards appropriate support, raise awareness about More information and policies mental health, reduce stigma around mental health and promote • 'DS Smith signs Employee Charter' press release early intervention. • DS Smith Code of Conduct • DS Smith Modern Slavery Policy Management culture and behaviours • DS Smith Modern Slavery Statement The DS Smith values have been explored in depth with managers • DS Smith Gender Pay Gap Report at all levels through our Engaging Managers programme. Over the past few years, the programme has given thousands of managers the skills to act as positive role models and engage their teams. Our high-performance culture is driven by our values, which promote open communication, driving for results, always looking to improve and meeting our commitments to all stakeholders. They set the behavioural code for how all DS Smith employees are expected to carry out their work and are set out in our Code of Conduct. We have also taken steps to recognise our values in action across the Group through a variety of local awards programmes. Most significantly, our Paper and Recycling businesses launched People Excellence Awards. Sustainability Review 2018 | dssmith.com/sustainability 21 Our value chain Manufacturing operations continued Health and safety We have also further upgraded our global health, safety and environmental reporting system, CERTUS, providing us with Context greater control and richer insight into our performance in these The safety of all people – employees, agency workers, areas whilst also reducing the number of information systems contractors and visitors – is absolutely paramount. It is our in use across the Group. This enhanced capability is designed to number one priority, every day. It is the cornerstone of being help us generate insights and focus on leading indicators that a responsible business. will help us prevent accidents from occurring in the first place. As the system continues to be embedded, an increasing focus on self-service analytics will empower our front-line staff to make Our targets more safe decisions at work. • Zero accidents • Vision zero harm These measures and next steps will allow us to continue the journey towards a sustainable, world class performance, supported by Boxy, our health and safety hero, and of course Number of Lost Time Accidents (LTAs) ensure the health and safety of everyone who works on our sites. 16/17 132 17/18 126 Our next steps • Implement and embed our vision zero harm strategy. Health and safety performance indicators 2016/17 2016/17 • Continue to embed Group-wide health and safety 2017/18 (comparative) (reported) Variance standards, audit programmes and employee Total LTAs1 126 132 113 -3.8 engagement activities. AFR2 2.8 3.0 2.6 -6.7 • Extend our leadership programmes to all existing Number of sites general managers and managing directors at our sites. with zero LTAs 239 207 207 15.5 1. Lost Time Accident (LTA): accident resulting in lost time of one shift or more. 2. Accident Frequency Rate (AFR): number of LTAs per million hours worked. More information and policies • DS Smith health and safety website Our performance and highlights Our standards and expectations for safety go beyond the legal requirements of the countries in which we operate and are modelled to drive world-class safety performance and to Mental Health First Aid training achieve our goal of zero accidents. As a result, 239 of our One of our largest packaging sites in the UK has taken an locations achieved zero lost time accidents (LTAs) in 2017/18. important step towards zero harm by focusing on mental Previously reported 2016/17 data has been updated to reflect all health. Every year, approximately one in four people will acquisitions during the financial year and overall we are pleased experience a mental health issue and Mental Health First with the reduction in our LTA rates and our accident frequency Aid England estimates that each year mental health rates. We have proactively taken steps to reduce risks and accounts for almost 70 million sick days. In response, our reinforce our policies, processes and safe systems of work as Fordham, UK site has delivered Mental Health First Aid well as developing our safety culture. We have proactively taken training to management employees, with further training steps to reduce risks and reinforce our policies, processes and planned in the new year for further UK sites. safe systems of work as well as developing our safety culture. In the following months, we will also be implementing a renewed emphasis on health and safety and widening our aim towards a vision of zero harm. The journey towards zero harm will Recycling LGV driver lone worker devices encompass organisational, physical and cultural elements, Leading the way in zero harm initiatives is the UK Recycling designed to engage our people and move towards sustainable Division. All LGV Drivers have been equipped with a “Lone world-class health and safety performance in the years to come. worker risk management device” which acts as an SOS fob To increase safety leadership skills and to expedite the compliance with inbuilt fall detector, tilt alarm and GPS to alert a team of with DS Smith's safety standards, we have designed a bespoke specialist support staff in the event of an accident. Whether development course for key managers. This programme is the drivers are on-site or off-site, on the road networks or currently mandatory for all new or transferring managing at a third party facility the device significantly improves directors and general managers and all health and safety speed of emergency response. managers, including those joining from acquisitions. Currently, 122 Site general managers, managing directors and all site health and safety managers have attended this programme. The positive feedback we have received means that we are considering extending this course to all existing general managers and managing directors at our sites. 22 Carbon and Energy intensity per tonne of production. Nevertheless, we remain in a positive position against our long-term target, showing a 1.5 Context per cent reduction in carbon intensity against a 2015 baseline. Climate change is one of the biggest global issues and presents businesses of all sizes and in all industries with both a unique Our absolute carbon figures rose by 4.4 per cent primarily due to range of market opportunities and a significant array of the acquisition of 11 further sites, primarily in Northern Europe challenges. We are aware of the recommendations of the and Iberia. As we continue to grow through acquisition we expect Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), based this upward trend to continue, although we consistently strive to in part on the Paris Climate Accord. At present, we believe that we reduce emissions per tonne by as we embed our high standards of report against many of the recommended criteria through our energy management into newly acquired sites. annual submission to the CDP. Over the coming year, we will review Despite these trends, we have seen success across our Recycling our reporting against the criteria and will look to disclose more in and Plastics sites. Both divisions have reduced their Scope 1 future reports. emissions by over 7.0 per cent, and Scope 2 emissions by 13.2 Energy use is one of the main sources of emissions. We have both and 9.1 per cent respectively. efficiency and financial incentives to reduce our own emissions We are also exporting more energy than last year through our and the emissions of upstream supply chains. Businesses are paper mills, reaching a total of 892 GWh, which is 4.5 per cent up increasingly being held to account on this performance by from 2016. This is primarily due to the investment and operational investors and customers, as well as having to comply with developments at our Combined Heat and Power plant in Lucca. international agreements and domestic regulations aimed at reducing global emissions of greenhouse gases, which provide Energy efficiency initiatives also continue to make strong progress. regulatory incentives. Our most significant project in this area is the replacement of high bay lighting with LED lamps. Last year, we reported that the UK deployment was complete, with in excess of 8,000 lamps installed Our target across 35 sites, and we are now delighted to report that this has Reduce our CO2e emissions by 30 per cent, per tonne resulted in a saving of 6,201 tonnes of CO2e. We are also pleased to of production, by 2030 against a 2015 baseline. report that deployment has now been completed in Italy, with in excess of 5,000 lamps installed across 13 sites. Our performance and highlights Our next steps Carbon emissions per tonne of production (kg of CO2e per tonne) • Refresh our climate change risk register, in light of the TCFD 2015 209 recommendations, and report on our findings next year. 2016 195 • Implement ISO 15001 across 100 per cent of sites by 2017 206 2019/20, thereby creating an effective mechanism for cascading responsibility for carbon reduction to 2030 146 146 individual sites. • Install LED lighting in Germany, France, Spain and Poland At DS Smith we are committed to reducing our emissions. in next stage of global roll-out. To best demonstrate our progress as we continue to grow through acquisition, we measure and report our emissions relative to production. Our approach to achieving our ambitious emissions reduction target is split into two areas, with approximately More information and policies 15 per cent of carbon reduction to be achieved through each of: • DS Smith Sustainability Policy • fuel switching • DS Smith CDP Climate Change submission • energy efficiency initiatives. CO2e emissions per tonne of production have increased by 5.2 per cent. This is due to a combination of increased use of natural gas at our paper mills caused by less burning of alternative fuels such Värnamo biomass boiler as reject plastics, and a focus on performance papers and packaging D ​ S Smith's first major biomass boiler is now being built at which, whilst using less fibre and providing better-performing Värnamo box plant, Sweden, as part of a carbon reduction packaging, are more carbon-intensive per tonne of production. strategy based on switching to alternative, low-carbon fuels. Production by volume has increased during the last year; however, By partnering with Värnamo Energi, a local district heating production by weight has decreased slightly, reflecting our focus company, the site can replace the existing gas-fired boiler on lighter, higher-performance papers and packaging. In the with a boiler powered by locally sourced biomass – to Packaging division, in order to meet customer specifications and provide at least 95 per cent of the site's steam requirements. sustainability ambitions, we have been optimising our fibre use This move will guarantee a supply of renewable, low-cost so that we use no more fibre than necessary. However, energy energy for 15 years and is expected to reduce the site's requirements do not reduce in direct correlation with paper emissions by approximately 2,200 tonnes of CO2e per annum. weight reductions, which has led to an increase in our energy Sustainability Review 2018 | dssmith.com/sustainability 23 Our value chain Manufacturing operations continued Water stewardship levels continue to increase. There is also a delicate and highly technical balance to be maintained, as reducing water use Context leads to an increase in energy consumption. Based on industry Water plays a critical role in our business, particularly in the benchmarks, we have identified an optimum level of water use paper production process. Fibres are transported through the of 6.5m3/tonne of production. production process, from pulp to paper, using water, and then superheated steam is used to dry the paper. Water is also used to dilute starch in our corrugated plants, which then bonds several Our next steps layers of paper together to create board, and in all facilities for • Create an updated water stress map to more accurately cooling machinery and cleaning. As a water-intensive business, it monitor, measure and mitigate any sites exposed to high is important that we consume, recycle and treat the water we use water stress risks, by 2019. responsibly and efficiently so that we minimise our impact when we return water to the natural environment and that we comply • Identify paper mills operating above our defined water with all legislative requirements. use benchmark and work to bring them in line with this standard. Our target Achieve zero water impact* by 2030. * Including measures for water quality (zero non-conformances with More information and policies consents to discharge), water stress improvements (all operational • DS Smith Sustainability Policy sites in water-stressed areas to have a mitigation plan in place) and water reduction where feasible (all paper mills to perform at or below internal performance benchmark). Paper mill improves local water conditions Our performance and highlights DS Smith's De Hoop paper mill in The Netherlands has a Water effluent per tonne of production (m3 per tonne) unique system which allows 'waste' water to be treated, purified and recycled back into the paper-making process. 2015 2.4 The mill part-owns Industriewater Eerbeek, a specialist 2016 2.3 water treatment facility in the town that uses industry2017 2.5 leading technology to remove unwanted materials and treat the water before returning it to the mill. This arrangement Our primary water stewardship priority is quality. At DS Smith, has been closing the water loop since 2016, meaning less over 80 per cent of the water we extract for our own purposes groundwater is extracted and fewer additional additives are is returned to be treated via our own or municipal effluent required. As a result, water levels in Eerbeek Spring are treatment. The remaining water is lost by evaporation during raised and biodiversity benefits. the paper making process or through starch dilution. The largest consumer of water in our business is our Paper division, where we use wastewater treatment systems to ensure that the effluent we discharge is purified, ecologically safe and meets all regulatory Decommissioning Silverton paper mill requirements. All our sites monitor COD, BOD and AOX levels, At DS Smith, we are aware of the impact our operations pH and suspended solids, which is a key element to managing and supply chains can have on biodiversity. Whether it be performance to prevent pollution incidents and ensure water building new greenfield sites or responsibly managing is returned back to the environment in the same or better decomissioned sites, we are committed to high standards condition than when it was extracted. At some sites, we also of biodiversity management. treat wastewater on behalf of the local community. During 2017 This is best demonstrated by our work to transform we treated a total of 608,000 m3 of water effluent on behalf Silverton mill, a former DS Smith paper mill located of third parties. However, production was up by 3 per cent in our in the south of England, which closed in 1999 after a Paper division during 2017, resulting in an absolute water effluent manufacturing history lasting over 200 years, back into increase of 4.95 per cent. a natural environment. After dealing with contamination, Our second water stewardship priority is to manage our facilities abandoned buildings and river re-meandering, countless that are in areas of high water stress. Most of our mills are located birds, fish and mammals have returned to the site. DS Smith in areas where water is plentiful, with the exception of Lucca. has received a glowing report from the National Trust and We manage this site closely to ensure that we remain within the Best Biodiversity Enhancement Award. extraction limits, and have specific localised risk identification, Find out more on our website. mitigation and management plans in place to use water more sustainably and efficiently. Finally, our third priority is to reduce total water consumption. Predominantly, our water is sourced from boreholes (53 per cent) and surface water (42 per cent). This is the most difficult area to tackle as water is crucial to our business and our production 24 Recycling and waste to provide bulk and nutrients to the land, or to the construction industry to be an additive to cement. We think this is an excellent Context way of ensuring the full value is extracted from our materials. In a world of rising raw material prices and ambitious recycling targets, it has never been more important to be as resourceThe quality of fibre we receive has a huge impact on our waste efficient as possible. Businesses must find ways to reduce waste, stream and for a significant period of time one of the most use renewable materials where it is advantageous, and create problematic waste streams for our paper mills has been plastic. closed-loops systems maximising opportunities to extract the Approximately 32,000 tonnes of plastic are extracted from our most value from waste materials through recycling and recovery. pulping process per year – based on an average contamination rate of 3 per cent before the impact of the China export bans. These are a mixture of films and fragments which were thought Our target to be previously unrecyclable. However through collaboration Send zero waste to landfill by 2030. with our Plastics division, we found a way to recycle these plastics to create low-grade polyolefins which are being manufactured into new products. Our performance and highlights Waste to landfill per tonne of production (kg per tonne) Our next step 2015 10.7 • Produce an internal 'zero waste' roadmap. 2016 11.7 2017 14.3 2030 0 More information and policies • DS Smith Sustainability Policy Waste is a resource at DS Smith. We apply this principle not only to our circular business model, but also to our everyday operations. As a Group, we send over 60 per cent of our waste to recycling. BedKind turns waste into a resource Almost all our packaging facilities are equipped with underfloor During 2017, DS Smith launched BedKind – an animal conveyor belts, which transport 636,000 tonnes of pre-consumer bedding brand which creates a high-value product from off-cuts per year back to paper mills as high-quality feedstock. manufacturing by-products. Similarly all our Plastics sites are equipped with regrinders which can recycle off-cuts, damaged products and samples immediately Clean off-cuts from cardboard packaging production are and return the material to production within four hours. collected, cut into two centimetre squares, dust extracted and bagged at our DS Smith Packaging plant in Blunham, UK. One of our biggest highlights on recycling and waste is the BedKind is highly absorbent, naturally insulating and 100 significant improvement in our paper mill in Belišće. This site is per cent compostable. Its minimal dust means that it is a great example of the longer term impact of embedding our primarily targeted for use with horses, but is suitable for a minimum environmental standards into acquired sites, delivering wide range of livery stock. a reduction in waste to landfill of 26.9 per cent in 2017. Find out more on our website. The impact of the China import ban has unfortunately had a negative effect on our overall landfill figures due to higher levels of contamination at our paper mills. In the wake of a global capacity issue caused by the China import ban we have taken Paper mill closes the loop on plastic more mixed paper recycling feedstocks into our mills that have DS Smith Aschaffenburg paper mill in Germany is now produced a higher waste yield. Therefore waste to landfill has providing the raw material for DS Smith Plastics' production increased by 21.0 per cent in absolute terms, and by 22.0 per cent facilities. Aschaffenburg mill has developed technology to per tonne of production. Other fluctuations year on year can be separate plastic rejects from its paper pulp and sends them caused by new acquisitions and unique circumstances such as site to a DS Smith Plastics site in Karlovac, Croatia where new renovations. Our focus on high quality raw materials therefore technology means they can be recycled and used in a new remains top priority as we hope to recover the impact of the China award-winning product, Beaulex®. import ban in the coming year. Find out more on our website. Whilst timber fibre can be recycled at least seven times, when fibres become too short and are no longer strong enough to manufacture quality papers, they are rejected by our mill operations. In some countries, these waste fibres are used to generate energy at on-site anaerobic digesters or biomass boilers to power our paper-making, or at off-site energy-from-waste facilities. However, in the UK, France, Italy and The Netherlands we send the remaining fibres to either the agriculture industry Sustainability Review 2018 | dssmith.com/sustainability 25 Our value chain Manufacturing operations continued Responsible neighbour Context Opening doors for young people in the UK Although we directly impact the lives of 28,500 employees, the As a member of the Alliance for YOUth, DS Smith has partnered scale of our business and our joined-up approach means we are with the EY Foundation to create opportunities to engage able to tackle big challenges faced by the wider communities in with young people from lower socioeconomic backgrounds which we operate and in which our employees live. As a caring and help us to build a more diverse talent pipeline. and responsible business, we partner with our local communities. As part of the programme we will be providing early career Fuelled by entrepreneurial spirit, our people are constantly support to a group of young people across our London, seeking solutions. We know our people value being able to use Northampton, Devizes and Livingston sites. As part of the their skills to give something back and support the future of their course, they receive one to two weeks of work experience local environment. on site, followed by six to ten months of mentoring with our employees. After a further two weeks of intensive skills training with the foundation, the young people will receive a Our target Chartered Management Institute accredited qualification in Engage in community programmes team leadership, fully funded by DS Smith. The programmes at 100 per cent of our sites by 2020. provide development opportunities for existing DS Smith employees who work with and mentor the young people, creating real benefits to all involved. Our performance and highlights Community engagement In previous years, community engagement in the form of fundraising, volunteering, charity support and other activities has been primarily site-led and employee-led. This approach has been largely successful: however, as we continue to grow as a business we understand the importance of being more strategic in this area. DS Smith is therefore in the process of developing an ambitious, unified and radically boosted community engagement strategy Romania strengthens Eco Stuff partnership with a target to increase the number of sites involved to 100 per cent by 2020. This strategy will include new charity For over two years, DS Smith Packaging sites in Romania partners and a common framework to enable sites to join have been supporting the Eco Stuff charity to help to together and work towards common projects and initiatives. educate the community, encourage creativity and inspire positive action to protect the environment. Charitable Foundation In addition to site-led and employee-led charitable giving, Last summer, designers from our Timisoara packaging site DS Smith also operates a Charitable Foundation which provides worked tirelessly to create an award-winning cardboard financial support to charities that align with our own activities giraffe Lucretia, and this year an aeroplane, for Eco Stuff's and values. 'Make it! Race it! Recycle it!' – a competition to race boats made of recyclable and reusable materials down the Bega The foundation primarily supports charities engaged in improving River to raise awareness of World Environment Day. or conserving the environment and those providing training and Continuing this partnership in Spring, our employees in educational opportunities. In 2017, a total of £190,000 was Romania once again supported the charity by participating donated by the Charitable Foundation. in the Lunca Timișului Trophy 60km mountain bike event. Over 300 competitors from Romania and abroad raised money to support a children's Zero Waste Summer Camp in Our next steps summer 2018. • Develop a global strategy for our involvement in the This ongoing partnership is an example of our employees' community that fits our corporate purpose and values. passion to support the environment and education – exactly • Create a framework to guide our sites towards common the attitude and values we will foster through our new target. projects and initiatives. More information and policies • DS Smith Charitable Foundation website 26 Our value chain Customer supply cycles Customer supply cycles As supply chains become more complex, not least through the rapid rise of e-commerce, it is increasingly important to ensure packaging is designed to meet the needs of each specific chain. Introduction to customer supply cycles Our performance and highlights Following the design, sourcing and manufacturing stages Supply cycle thinking is central to our business offering, of our closed-loop business model, the focus is to work with our saving customers hundreds of thousands of tonnes of carbon customers to ensure their packaging is working to its full potential through packaging solutions which create winning supply to reduce the impact of the supply chain, again and again. We chain efficiencies. call this supply cycle thinking – where supply chains become supply cycles. Our next step Supply cycle thinking • Explore ways to measure the full supply cycle impact of Context our packaging and the role it plays in making supply cycles. The right packaging should be an enabler of more efficient supply cycles, working in harmony with both the product and any primary packaging. With an increasing focus on end-of-life management of packaging and single-use plastics in particular, it is important More information and policies to recognise the role that well-designed packaging can play across • 'Box-to-box in 14 days' video the supply cycle. • DS Smith Packaging supply cycle thinking website The potential of secondary packaging is often underestimated • DS Smith Plastics supply cycle thinking website by brands. Not only do we design products that tackle challenges of reusability and recyclability (see pages 14-15), our packaging is designed to drive efficiencies. As one of Europe's leading suppliers of consumer and secondary packaging, we understand Furniture manufacturer makes that marginal gains can lead to winning results when multiplied recyclability of packaging a priority on the size and scale of our customers' supply cycles. Puustelli Group Oy manufactures its high quality kitchen furniture in Harjavalta in western Finland to supply Truly sustainable packaging solutions can set off a domino customers in Finland, Sweden, the Baltic States and Russia. effect of efficiencies in our customers' supply cycles, making It is also well known for striving to be responsible and transport and delivery more efficient and reducing supply chain sustainable in every area of its business. environmental impacts, whilst continuing to protect products and keeping food and drink fresher for longer, and ultimately reducing Previously, all 2,000 different fixtures of Puustelli furniture waste and improving recycling. We partner with our customers to were packed using plastic corner covers and stretch realise these supply cycle sustainability benefits. film. The solution was not in keeping with the company's environmental objectives and did not provide sufficient protection to products during transport. This in turn caused Our target indirect costs in the form of damaged goods and Whilst we have not set a formal target in this area, we wasted resources. are continually looking to create packaging solutions that In partnership with Puustelli Group, DS Smith packaging deliver positive sustainability impacts for our customers strategists developed seven different sizes of corrugated by making supply chains more efficient. packaging to cover the entire range. This resulted in tremendous savings in terms of ordering, warehousing and implementation and avoided 32,000 kg of plastics from going to landfill each year. Find out more on our website. More Sales Lower Cost Risk Managed Sustainability Review 2018 | dssmith.com/sustainability 27 Our value chain Customer supply cycles continued Supply cycles in action Packaging Efficient supply cycles for HELL Energy Drink As an integrated paper, packaging and recycling business, Riding a wave of 30 per cent annual growth, HELL Energy we bring the circular economy to life. Our recycling operation Drinks wanted DS Smith to design a new pack to increase manages over five million tonnes of recyclable materials per differentiation, work more efficiently in its warehouses, annum. The majority of this is fed into our network of recycled and reduce damage during distribution. paper mills, which in turn supply our pan-European packaging By switching to a thinner R-flute corrugated cardboard for manufacturing sites. the drinks trays, our packaging strategists were able to Not only do we have a focus on recycled raw materials and provide a 6 per cent saving on cost through a 55 per cent solutions that are themselves recyclable (see page 17), but we increase in number of products per pallet, 33 per cent less look to use packaging to reduce the environmental impact of packaging handling in the warehouse and an immediate our customers' supply cycles. Incremental changes to packaging increase in warehouse space enabling higher sales. This led design can have a knock-on effect through a supply chain, to carbon savings during distribution, a win-win for the improving operational efficiencies, reducing waste and cutting environment and the profit and loss account. emissions. We support brand-owners to explore how their Find out more on our website. packaging is processed and managed after use, tracing material and energy usage all the way from design to production and through to end use and recycling. A simple example of this is how shaving 5mm off one customer's standard secondary corrugated packs allowed for a greater number of packs on the pallet and pallets per lorry, leading to fewer lorries on the road per year and hundreds of tonnes of carbon emissions avoided. This sort of supply cycle thinking is our way of shaping the circular economy and transforming supply chains to focus on more cyclical resource systems. Plastics The current legislative and media focus on single-use plastics Value, convenience and sustainability is causing many organisations to question the role of plastics in supply chains. At DS Smith, we do not believe that plastic in itself pour into the European lubricants market is the problem, instead it is the poor waste management and There is increasing pressure on the automotive and inappropriate use of the material that should be addressed. petroleum industries to improve their sustainability These discussions around the role of plastic in supply chains are credentials from numerous stakeholders, including vehicle also bringing to the surface interesting studies and information maintenance sites, which struggle to manage limited space about the positive role that well-designed plastic packaging can and large quantities of contaminated plastic waste. Last play in protecting products by reducing waste, increasing logistics year, thanks to Fuchs Silkolene and DS Smith Rapak, a new efficiencies and driving down costs through supply chains. solution hit the shelves, for the first time in Europe, to meet the needs of the industry. For example, there are a limited number of applications where product safety and hygiene leave single-use packaging as The Bag-in-Box is light, stackable and space-optimised, the only available option. For example, in the wine supply chain, providing extra shelf space and utilising up to six times DS Smith Bag-in-Box products are 80 per cent lighter than glass, fewer pallets, significantly reducing trucks on the road and producing significantly less waste and reducing transport energy generating carbon savings. The anti-glug pour enables more by a fifth according to our third-party life cycle assessment. hygienic filling and ensures maximum evacuation of the Similarly, in other liquid supply chains the Bag-in-Box is on average product, resulting in less oil waste. At end of life, the outer 54 per cent lighter than the next best alternative and its flat-pack box is 100 per cent recyclable, and the plastic bag produces properties provide significant carbon and cost savings in the five times less waste than rigid plastic alternatives. supply chain. These carbon savings far outweigh the benefits Find out more on our website. of a multiple-use product. In supply chains where durability, extended lifetimes and multiple life cycles are favoured, reusable plastic packaging certainly still has a very strong role to play. For example, in the automotive supply chain, products of the same model, size, shape and weight are shipped back and forth between locations. In order to balance durability with supply chain efficiency, DS Smith's collapsible Stackabox™ improves the efficiency of return logistics and has a lifetime of approximately seven years before being reground and recycled into a new Stackabox™. 28 PackRight Centres DISCS Through our network of 33 PackRight Centres, we embed the DISCS is our unique, patented solution to test the durability sustainability requirements of packaging early in the design stage. of packaging designed to protect products (and the resources When specifying packaging, each stage of the value chain should invested in them) through complex e-commerce supply chains. be considered, from the source of new raw materials, supply chain impact (palletisation, transport etc.) to shelf life and the end-oflife disposal of the new material. Each PackRight Centre is a hub of expertise and creativity, where we are focused on delivering concrete projects in the short to medium term. In a PackRight Centre, we invite our customers for collaborative discussions and workshops, and our skilled people deploy the PackRight creative tools, to achieve tangible results. We integrate deep insight from our customers' businesses and design advanced solutions that will improve performance throughout the entire supply chain, whilst keeping environmental impact at a minimum. We will continue to grow this network, with plans in place for further centres in the USA, France and Iberia, which will enable our customers to succeed with the optimum packaging and minimum environmental impact. There are three test levels for customers to choose from, depending on whether a package is delivered straight to the customer first time, delivered and returned or delivered with three failed attempts and then returned. This technology unlocks a host of sustainability savings in the e-commerce supply cycle. Transport packaging can be specified accurately to meet the needs of the product, eliminating resource inefficiency. Packaging is also designed to protect the product through complex e-commerce supply chains, reducing damage and supporting product returns without the need for further packaging. Our DISCS testing also enables optimisation of logistics, with protected products taking up no unnecessary E-commerce space in delivery vehicles. E-commerce supply chains give rise to a specific set of sustainability challenges. E-commerce supply chains can include Transport and logistics up to 50 touch points, far more than in traditional brick and mortar Our primary focus is to work with brand-owners to meet their own retail chains. This means the packaging has to work harder to carbon emission targets while also optimising their supply chain. protect the product and prevent resource loss. At the same time, The impact of our own transport and logistics is relatively small in over-packaging, empty space, excessive void fill and the efficiency comparison to the impact of our customers' global supply cycles. of last-mile deliveries provide unique sustainability challenges – However, this is becoming an increasingly important area for us as and at DS Smith we love a challenge. the footprint of our business grows and so does our fleet of own and third-party vehicles. Our latest activity in this area has been We are also focusing on the 'first mile of recycling'. As more to specify all new vehicles as 'Euro6' standard, and we are in the and more packaging ends up in households, due to the rise process of setting a further strategy for improvements. of e-commerce, we are working with customers, regulators, governments, councils and reprocessors to explore the new recycling infrastructure needed to make sure that consumers can readily recycle the increased packaging coming into their home. Sustainability Review 2018 | dssmith.com/sustainability 29 Our value chain End of life and recycling End of life and recycling All packaging and products eventually reach end of life and must be designed to enable high-quality segregation and recycling. Introduction to end of life and recycling Closing our corrugated loop Traditionally, global economies have been based on a linear Waste is a resource at DS Smith. Paper and board off-cuts from model of 'take, make, dispose', which promotes poor resource our packaging operations make up a significant amount of our management. However, an increasing number of stakeholders production waste. Paper fibres in general have the highest have been joining together to build a new circular economy recycling rate of any packaging material in Europe. According to focused on extracting maximum value from our resources and the European Federation of Corrugated Board Manufacturers prioritising the highest levels of the waste hierarchy. (FEFCO), 88 per cent of corrugated packaging is collected and recycled. Our recycling and paper-making operations play a key Reflecting this attitude, in the last year governments have been role in this system, making finished paper products for use in our investigating ways to eliminate single-use packaging, which operates packaging plants – closed-loop recycling at its very best. on a linear model. Working with stakeholders from across the packaging value chain, they are exploring ways to create a system Our recycling, paper and packaging operations are closely that further incentivises more sustainable packaging solutions. integrated. Our Recycling division manages over five million tonnes of recyclable materials per annum, which provides the Recycling and waste core feedstock for our network of 10 paper mills across Europe. Context This fibre can become new packaging within 14 days. This is our We realise that environmental and economic benefits come hand closed-loop, circular business model in action. in hand when both our customers and our own business use Our focus is on ensuring we extract the full value from materials, resources in a more circular manner by designing better products that focusing on quality for recycling and ensuring that materials complement recycling infrastructure. As a business committed to zero intended for recycling are recycled. The net effect is that the waste to landfill, as well as a market-leading provider of recycling and tonnage of used materials we manage for recycling is considerably waste management services, we see waste as a resource. higher than the tonnage of packaging that we manufacture. At DS Smith, we work with brands and retailers to apply the waste Our target hierarchy and ensure that all materials that can be recycled are Grow our net positive recycling position. actually recycled. Every tonne of recyclable fibre we collect from customers offsets the need to harvest a tonne of virgin raw material. Our performance and highlights Over the period covered by this review, our Recycling business in the UK won 'Paper Recycler of the Year' at one of the industry's leading award ceremonies. As the UK is our largest market for paper for recycling, this was a significant achievement that underlines our commitment to both innovation and quality. Two major milestones stand out from the past year. In September, the Recycling division launched a new product, Bedkind, using waste cardboard off-cuts from our packaging production operations to make premium, dust extracted, cardboard animal bedding (see page 25). In addition to product innovation, we have also risen to consumer challenges such as the Coffee Cup Recycling challenge in the UK (see page 32). Through collaboration with our Paper division, we have found a way in which we can recycle coffee cups at our mills – something that Box-to-box in 14 days until now has not been able to happen in traditional recycled paper mills. We are working hard with government, producers, collectors, To demonstrate the crucial role of our Recycling division and industry bodies to find more ways to get coffee cups to in our business, we launched our 'Box-to-box in 14 days' video our mills and avoid them ending up as litter. And finally, we have earlier this year. The footage follows the two-week journey of been growing our Recycling business in less developed recycling paper fibres around DS Smith's supply cycle and demonstrates markets, such as South East Europe. By bringing our recycling how corrugated packaging is circular by nature. expertise, we can have a significant impact in improving recycling By recycling the paper fibres in our cardboard, we are making performance, meaning that more materials that can be recycled recycling real and can save over 360,000 trees every year are recycled, and not lost to energy from waste or landfill. from being cut down. Watch the video on our website. 30 Closing our plastic loop For plastic materials, we also embrace the waste hierarchy. Our next steps Our product portfolio focuses on multiple-use products, • To continue to grow in capacity, geographical spread and enabling our customers to reuse packaging for as long as possible. connectedness with packaging sales from our Recycling Our crates have been known to be used for up to 30 years, and division so that we can close more loops with our our rigid transit packaging lasts up to seven years with repairable, Packaging and Plastic customers. spare parts infrastructure. • Work with stakeholders across the recycling value chain The recycling infrastructure for plastic is much less developed to improve recycling infrastructure, driving for more, than that for corrugated, which is why at DS Smith we focus on high-quality recycling. closing our own loops. All our rigid and foam sites offer take-back from customers once our products finally reach end of life. These sites are also all equipped with regrinders that can recycle the material and create new products within a couple of hours. More information and policies In the beverage industry, we take this a step further. Our injection • DS Smith Recycling closed-loop recycling services moulding facilities, which manufacture beverage crates, have • DS Smith zero waste solutions mobile regrinding units. We take recycling right to the customer's door: creating efficiencies, reducing carbon emissions and decoupling our customers from raw material consumption. Managing our customers' waste Our flexible packaging is the most complex when it comes to We have been innovators in the recycling industry for over recycling. The PE bags are designed for recyclability (see page 28) 40 years. DS Smith Recycling is one of Europe's leading paper recycling rates in Europe reaching approximately 31 per cent, and cardboard recycling companies, providing a fully integrated according to Plastics Recyclers Europe. The challenge is raising recycling and waste management service. awareness about end of life recycling options. Therefore, we are taking responsibility to raise awareness and partner with our Collaboration throughout the supply cycle is essential in customers to educate them about separation of materials and creating a real circular economy. By partnering with customers, end-of-life options across the world. we enable them to apply the waste hierarchy to their own business and identify key opportunities to reduce, reuse and recycle their waste. Customer buy-back expands in Slovakia Closed-loop customers One of the biggest challenges for reusable plastic packaging Through our recycling, paper and packaging operations, is customer hygiene requirements, resulting in single-use customers benefit from closed-loop fibre packaging application of products designed for multiple use. In opportunities. We make millions of new box products from response, DS Smith Plastics Slovakia has introduced a the used boxes we collect, and for other materials we facilitate buy-back programme that collects single-use polypropylene a consolidated offering across all waste and recycling needs – (PP) from customers. so, whether it is paper, card, food waste, plastics or coffee cups, Thirty-five companies have embraced this new programme, we help our customers maximise recycling and minimise waste. with DS Smith buying back a total of 747 tonnes per annum and operating at full capacity on our regrinding machines. One customer, BA Glass Bulgaria SA, is a leading glass bottle manufacturer which uses extruded PP sheets from the DS Smith Plastics Slovakia site as layer pads to transport its glass bottles between locations. The company now supplies DS Smith Plastics with 30 tonnes of PP per month. Find out more on our website. Sustainability Review 2018 | dssmith.com/sustainability 31 Our value chain End of life and recycling continued Food waste According to the Food and Agriculture Organisation a third of Tesco's continued success on food waste all food in the world is wasted, estimated at around 88 million DS Smith and Tesco have fostered a strong and successful tonnes in Europe every year. This represents huge costs to partnership on food waste since 2014. By working together, companies. Packaging is one of the ways that food waste can be both companies have implemented a successful backhaul prevented, by protecting food from damage and prolonging shelf model for a number of years, where all stores return life. However, retailers and brands are increasingly facing huge materials such as cardboard, polythene, bakery waste and pressures to reduce packaging and packaging waste, at the same animal by-product waste to central hubs for recycling. time as reducing food waste. Latest projects have included the creation of 'walking floor' At DS Smith, we are in a unique position to support customers, trailers, which maximise the amount of waste that a trailer as our divisions touch every point of the food supply chain. can carry at any one time. This resulted in a 15 per cent Our Packaging division works with customers to use the optimal reduction in spend and a 25 per cent reduction in amount of material necessary to protect the product, prevent waste arisings per annum. The project also improved food waste and minimise packaging waste. Then, as part of our environmental performance, as fewer vehicle movements integrated recycling and waste solution, the Recycling division led to a significant reduction in CO2 emissions, because manages food waste at back of store with retailers – keeping it backhauling the waste streams reduces the number of out of landfill and separate from other recycling streams. vehicles needed. Coffee cups Find out more on our website. Every day in the UK, one in five of us visits a coffee shop. Every year, 2.5 billion single-use cups are thrown away – enough to reach Trials proved that when around the world more than five times. Currently, we only recycle coffee cups are segregated one in every 400, while just 1 per cent of consumers bring their and collected separately, DS Smith could own reusable cups. we can produce recycle up to Following months of in-depth research and trials, we have found a solution to the coffee cup recycling challenge at our state-ofthe-art paper mill in Kemsley, also the largest recycled paper mill in the UK. We still have some challenges to overcome, because there need to be improvements in the infrastructure to segregate and collect coffee cups from consumers all over the UK. Please take a look at our website to find out how we will be working with the coffee cup supply chain through policy makers and coffee lovers across blended into traditional feedstocks of at Kemsley Mill the UK to build a sustainable, long-term recycling solution. paper for recycling at the mill annually Plastic Across brands, retailers and consumers, there is a growing concern about plastic packaging waste streams. At DS Smith, Proper segregation improves Kolorcraft 's we provide a range of services to help brands and retailers tackle recycling rate to 62 per cent in one year this material. DS Smith worked with Kolorcraft to improve its existing recycling processes. Implementing segregated collections Our fully integrated recycling and waste management system ensured that larger quantities of material and a higher includes the collection of plastic. This is still a very new area of quality of recyclate could be sent for reprocessing. our business, but over the last two years we have managed an average of over 10,000 tonnes per annum. We have taken This meant that the company benefited from the twin a leading role in tracking these materials beyond export to environmental and economic benefits that come with ensure traceability of our plastic supply chain (see page 17). high-quality recycling systems. Dramatic improvements were realised within just six months, with recycling rates Aside from our recycling services, in the product design and rising from 29 per cent to 52 per cent overall, and going on innovation section of this review (see page 25) we report how to achieve a recycling rate of over 60 per cent within the our rigid plastic and foam manufacturing locations are equipped first year. with on-site regrinding capabilities and our mobile regrinding units. These serve a growing list of customers for whom we Find out more on our website. provide take-back services, recycling their products at end of life and turning them into new packaging. Similarly, all our foam sites have community collection bins for expanded polystyrene, preventing approximately 30 tonnes of waste expanded polystyrene going to landfill each year. 32 This brings us full circle in our business model Designing for recyclability, sourcing sustainable materials, reducing the impact of our manufacturing, creating packaging that makes supply chains more efficient and playing a leading role in recycling is what we do everyday. We combine the circular nature of corrugated packaging with our integrated, closed-loop business model. As our products reach the end of their useful life, the materials are ready to re-enter the supply cycle in the form of raw materials. Turn back to page 14 to loop back to the beginning of our business model and start again. Sustainability Review 2018 | dssmith.com/sustainability 33 Ethics, governance and risk Delivering innovative packaging solutions for a changing world A commitment to transparency remains at the heart of our business and performance reporting. As a Group, we comply with the principles of good corporate governance and understand the importance of being trusted by our stakeholders to operate in an ethical manner. Living our values, we align with best practice in our management of sustainability and are committed to the principles of good corporate governance. Iain Simm, Chairman of the Sustainability Steering Group As we continue to grow by delivering innovative game-changing As part of the wider business community, I am pleased to packaging solutions for a changing world, we are committed reaffirm DS Smith's commitment to the following high-level to doing so in a way that balances the priorities of our business, international standards: our environment and our people. Increasingly, stakeholders • United Nations Global Compact are interested not just in what we do, but how we do it. Living • United Nations Declaration of Human Rights and the our values, we align with best practice in our management Convention on the Rights of the Child of sustainability and are committed to the principles of good corporate governance. • International Labour Organization Eight Fundamental Conventions We have refreshed our stakeholder engagement exercise • Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development this year to ensure our assessment of sustainability challenges Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. and opportunities takes into account the priorities of partner • United Nations Sustainable Development Goals organisations. This insight has been invaluable in the development of our new sustainability targets (see pages 10-11), ensuring Whilst not yet formally integrated into our overall business we focus on the areas in which we can have the greatest impact strategy, we are also continuing to align our sustainability whilst also creating sustainable value for our stakeholders. activities with the United Nations Global Goals. As Chairman of the Sustainability Steering Group, I am very Finally, I am delighted that we have again produced a happy with the progress we have made against existing carbon sustainability review that is aligned with the Global Reporting and FSC® targets and am excited by the broad set of new Initiative (GRI) best practice sustainability reporting guidelines. targets that underpin our strategy, as we look to achieve our This reflects both our commitment to operating ever more strategic goal to lead the way in sustainability. sustainably, and to being transparent about the progress I am pleased that our continued focus on sustainability has we continue to make. received widespread external recognition over the past year. We have again been included in the FTSE4Good Global Index, achieved 'Management B' scores in each of the forest, water and climate change CDP assessments and improved our score in the EcoVadis benchmark, retaining the 'Gold Award'. We Iain Simm, have also been recognised in a number of prestigious awards Chairman of the Sustainability Steering Group ceremonies (see page 38) and at this time of focus and change in the packaging industry, are taking a leading role in shaping the agenda through our ongoing engagement with a wide range of trade associations. 34 One common ethical standard Since then, governance of these topics has become more The DS Smith Code of Conduct sets out our ethical position embedded into how we respond as a Group to the complexities on key topics. It describes common rules which apply to all of operating in a global market with increasing stakeholder of our employees, and provides guidance on our approach to interest in our ethics, how we manage emerging risks and the ethical business practices, environmental values, and human manner in which we deliver our performance and results. and labour rights. It is made available to all employees as part Through our processes, we identify risks and gather timely of their induction, and has been translated into 27 languages. information allowing us to implement mitigation plans, reporting and monitoring measures and assign roles and responsibilities. Ethics and compliance With these practices, we believe we are now a more resilient Ethical business conduct and compliance with local, national organisation. We also see that in all aspects of our activities and international legislation are fundamental to our way of there is a growing interplay between how we manage our doing business. Embedding an ethical approach to business principal risks and our sustainability priorities. is increasingly a licence to operate and a condition of trading. Building trust in our stakeholders and protecting our reputation Specifically, we are able to connect our efforts on sustainability are crucial, and lead to repeat business and sustainable financial to support our broader risk management efforts in order to: growth. Monitoring ethics and compliance and providing annual • minimise business disruption due to tightening regulations training to our employees are the responsibility of our legal teams. on energy, water and fibre usage However, all employees are encouraged to report suspected • avoid the impact of prolonged labour unrest, or failure to misconduct, non-compliances or unethical behaviour. maintain satisfactory labour relations Sustainability governance • prevent reputational damage due to the increasing social At DS Smith, the responsibility for our sustainability concern surrounding the broad range of packaging issues performance is governed at the highest levels. As introduced • minimise the increased costs arising from climate change, at the beginning of this report, one of our four corporate goals extreme weather events and the impact of our approach is to 'lead the way in sustainability'. The Group Chief Executive to energy management. is ultimately accountable for progress on this goal, strategy and Using the above criteria, our risk management and sustainability other sustainability-related issues, but delegates management teams work together to apply the precautionary principle by to other groups, as listed below. identifying and classifying risks that could impact the integrity Managing sustainability risks of the business. Our biennial materiality analysis forms a key At DS Smith, sustainability-related risks are embedded in part of this risk identification and prioritisation. Through everything we do. Since 2014, the Corporate Services function the guidance of our executive management, we establish has combined legal, risk, safety and sustainability. sustainability priorities focusing on those risks that are most relevant to our global and divisional operations. Governance framework Board Health, Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee (HSES) Oversees and reviews divisional and Group sustainability performance processes, standards and strategies and monitors compliance with responsibilities and commitments. Sustainability Steering Group Core Sustainability Team Cross-divisional and multi-functional group which leads Creates, facilitates and coordinates delivery of delivery of sustainability strategy. Contains Director level framework for achieving strategic goal to lead the membership from multiple divisions. way in sustainability. Divisional and functional management Sustainability Review 2018 | dssmith.com/sustainability 35 Stakeholder engagement New leadership for sustainability Vision, leadership and accountability are key to enabling the business to respond to the changing expectations of stakeholders and equipping us to achieve our strategic goal and targets. The recent focus on packaging presents us with a unique opportunity. There is widespread customer and consumer interest in creating innovative, sustainable packaging and as an industry we have the chance to communicate the positive role that packaging plays in society. Emma Ciechan, Director of Planning, Performance Management and Sustainability Tell us about the targets underpinning your What role can consumers play in helping strategy to 'lead the way in sustainability' to improve recycling rates? I am really pleased to have been involved in building this robust As an increasing proportion of our shopping is transacted set of new targets to underpin our strategy. We have engaged online, we all end up with more packaging in our homes. a wide range of stakeholders, identifying their priorities and These valuable packaging materials are often more difficult balancing these against the areas in which we believe we can to segregate and collect than they are from retailers and have the greatest impact. Alongside increasing our ambition and distribution centres. Consumers therefore have a key role to focus in areas like water and waste, we are particularly excited by play in segregating their waste streams to support quality our target to manufacture only reusable or recyclable packaging recycling collections. One of the benefits of the DS Smith Group by 2025. having complementary Paper, Packaging and Recycling divisions is that we can see the situation at every stage of the cycle and The recyclability of packaging is a hot topic take a bigger-picture view about what will actually work to at the moment. What should the industry deliver the results we all want. be doing? What is the next big challenge? We are heavily involved in industry conversations to find balanced and practical solutions to these challenges, joining up As we have reflected on in this review, packaging has to adapt with stakeholders from across the packaging value chain. Clear to be relevant and value-adding as the world evolves. From and consistent recycling infrastructure is key in ensuring sourcee-commerce to omni-channel packaging, alternative materials segregation of materials for recycling. This improves the quality to radical end-of-life solutions, the opportunities abound. The of the material collected, simplifying reprocessing and, ultimately, challenge is to embed sustainability principles as we explore helping to produce a better quality, higher value recycled raw these opportunities and redefine packaging for a changing world. material – whether fibre-based or plastic. In turn, this helps to stimulate recycled material markets, supporting investment in infrastructure – a virtuous cycle. You mention plastics. What is your view on Emma Ciechan, the current plastics debate? Director of Planning, Performance Management and Sustainability I think the position is more nuanced than is currently being portrayed. Yes, there are clear challenges around single-use, hard-to-recycle plastic packaging that need to be addressed. However, we should not lose sight of the positive role that good, reusable or recyclable plastic packaging can play in protecting products, reducing food waste and making supply chains more sustainable. Across the industry this message has not been well communicated to consumers. 36 Deciding what matters most Communication with our stakeholders is an essential building block of our sustainability strategy and activities. A wide range of stakeholders enable us to highlight key topics to further develop, challenge and validate our priority areas of activity and focus. Understanding our stakeholders Investors, Key interests Our sustainability strategy (see pages 10-11) continues to be banks and • Packaging impact, see pages 14-16 developed based on a range of strategic internal and external regulators measures with medium-term targets and action plans. However, • Fibre sourcing, see page 18 sustainability trends vary greatly from fast-moving trends such • Health and safety, see page 22 as the current focus on plastics which require us to take quick and • Responsible employer, see pages 20-21 immediate action, to longer-term trends such as reducing emissions. • Water stewardship, see page 24 Therefore, to complement the strategy, we undertake a biennial engagement exercise, called a materiality analysis, to identify, Customers Key interests understand and monitor the upcoming sustainability concerns for • Packaging impact, see pages 14-16 a range of our external stakeholders, including customers, investors, • Supplier standards, see page 19 banks, regulators and employees. • Fibre sourcing, see page 18 This year, in order to refresh our findings from 2016, we expanded • Supply cycle thinking, see pages 27-29 our stakeholder scope to include a much wider range of strategic • Recycling and waste, see page 25 and 30-32 suppliers and customers of our Plastic business, and once again engaged internal audiences to sense-check the findings. The titles Employees Key interests of our material issues have also been altered subtly in order to better • Packaging impact, see pages 14-16 reflect our activities in each area. • Responsible employer, see pages 20-21 As a result, we can summarise the key interests of our stakeholders • Responsible neighbour, see page 26 (right) and have updated our materiality graph (below). • Health and safety, see page 22 Materiality analysis Very high Health and safety Fibre sourcing Packaging impact Importance to external stakeholders Supplier standards Supply cycle thinking Human rights and labour Business ethics Carbon and energy Legislation and compliance Recycling and waste Responsible employer Water stewardship Our Business Other responsible sourcing Transport and logistics Our Environment Biodiversity Responsible neighbour Our People Medium Medium Very high Priority for DS Smith Sustainability Review 2018 | dssmith.com/sustainability 37 External recognition and influence External recognition and influence We value the chance to have our performance assessed by external organisations and benchmarks. It is important to maintain a balance between reviewing our own performance, being assessed through external benchmarks and sharing our leadership expertise. Performance in benchmarks Influencing our industry The regulatory environment for packaging and packaging waste has been highly active over the last year. As an industry leader, Included in the FTSE4Good Global Index, indicating we must be responsive to these developments, protect the DS Smith as a long-term, sustainable investment. reputation of packaging, and enable global leaders to better understand our industry. To achieve this, we are members of the following organisations: Included in the VigeoEiris Index, indicating DS Smith • WRAP (Waste and Resources Action Programme) as a long-term, sustainable investment. • DEFRA (Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs) • FEFCO (European Federation of Corrugated Board Manufacturers) • CEPI (The Confederation of European Paper Industries) Participated in annual MSCI assessment • CPI (The Confederation of Paper Industries) demonstrating good corporate governance to investors. • The Packaging Federation • INCPEN (Industry Council for Research on Packaging and the Environment) Achieved a strong score of 'Management B' in the • EUROPEN (The European Organisation for Packaging and the Carbon Disclosure Index (CDP) for each of the three Environment) assessments (climate change, forests and water). • BPF (British Plastics Federation) • National trade associations Awards Increased EcoVadis score, achieving Gold once During 2017, we received widespread recognition of our again and putting us in the top 5 per cent of all sustainability performance, with all four divisions winning an companies who submitted. award. In June 2017, our Packaging division was awarded the Deliver2 sustainability award, closely followed in December by the Paper division winning the Environmental Leadership Award Participated in the World Wildlife Fund for Nature's at the Pulp and Paper International (PPI) 2017 Awards, hosted at Environmental Paper Company index scoring the CEPI European Paper Week. More recently, DS Smith Recycling 71.7 per cent of total achievable scores. Out of UK was awarded 'Paper Recycling Business of the Year' and our three subcategories, DS Smith scored 100 per cent Plastics division won Plastics Recycling Award Europe with of all available points in the fibre sourcing category, Beaulex®. In addition, our circular business model was highly an improvement since the last assessment. commended by the World Economic Forum's 'The Circulars' awards, and our sustainability team was highly commended 'Sustainability team of the Year' at the Ethical Corporation's Responsible Submitted to FEFCO database for Business Awards. Life Cycle Assessment 2018 report. Continuously utilised the Sedex platform to ensure compliance with international labour standards. 38 About this review This review provides a comprehensive description of the governance of sustainability issues within DS Smith, and how our strategy, targets and performance are monitored. Commitment to transparent reporting and benchmarking Assurance Statement DS Smith remains committed to transparent reporting. For Verification Statement from Bureau Veritas UK this reason we have widened the depth of our data reporting Bureau Veritas UK Limited (Bureau Veritas) has been this year. Statutory data remains in both the Annual report & commissioned by DS Smith Plc. (DS Smith) to provide accounts 2018 and this report, but further detail can be found an independent opinion on the following environmental in our online databook, Modern Slavery Statement and Gender performance indicators: energy consumption, greenhouse Pay Gap report. Similarly, for the second year running, this gas emissions, raw material usage, water consumption, report has been prepared in compliance with Global Reporting waste, discharge (to air and water) and production for Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards (Core), in line calendar year 2017. The reporting boundaries cover with best practice. DS Smith's global operations. Following the release of the recommendations of the Task Based on our verification activities and scope of work, Force for Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) by the nothing has come to our attention to suggest that the G20 Financial Stability Board (FSB) in 2017, DS Smith is taking the reported data do not provide a fair representation of opportunity to refresh its climate change risk register in light of environmental performance across the DS Smith Group the advice offered and engage with investors on this emerging for the defined period. framework. We will report on our findings next year. DS Smith should be commended on its approach to We also continue to submit to a wide range of highly reputable environmental data collection, including the use of a third-party platforms including the Carbon Disclosure Project, central reporting system, clear responsibilities at Head EcoVadis and Sedex, which allow us to sense-check our Office and site levels, frequent data gathering, and the performance against the rest of the industry. existence of an audit trail from source evidence to reported data at the sites visited. Statistics and scope Unless otherwise specified, any statistical information referred to A full verification statement including methodology, in this review covers the calendar year January to December 2017 limitations and exclusions can be found on the and refers to all 243 manufacturing sites that we have owned DS Smith website: since January 2017. The following indicators have been dssmith.com/company/sustainability/ externally verified: our-environment/performance • energy consumption • greenhouse gas emissions • raw material usage • water consumption • waste • discharge to air and water; and Bureau Veritas UK Limited • production May 2018 Environmental incidents During the year, we received notification of breaches or minor environmental incidents at six sites. There were zero major incidents (defined as incidents of significant impact reportable to local or national authorities, or incidents potentially resulting in legal prosecution) reported for the period of this report. Sustainability Review 2018 | dssmith.com/sustainability 39 Data Environmental performance indicators A summary of our environmental performance can be found below. For further detail, please find our data book available to download: dssmith.com/company/sustainability/our-environment/performance Group greenhouse gas emissions 2017 2015 2016 2016 KPI Unit of measurement (published) (published) (adjusted) 2017 % variance Scope 1 Kt CO2e 1,678 1,570 1,576 1,660 5.3 Scope 2 Kt CO2e 355 333 348 352 1.2 Emissions from energy exports Kt CO2e 348 299 299 317 5.8 Total CO2e (net energy export) Kt CO2e 1,686 1,604 1,624 1,695 4.4 Energy exported GWh 962 852 854 892 4.5 Total production Kt nsp 8,059 8,209 8,302 8,234 -0.8 Waste to landfill Kt 87 98 97 118 21.0 Total water effluent Mm3 19 20 19 20 5.3 CO2e per tonne of production kg CO2e/tonne nsp 209.0 195.4 195.7 205.9 5.2 Water effluent per tonne of production m3/tonne nsp 2.4 2.4 2.3 2.5 7.0 Waste to landfill per tonne of production kg/tonne nsp 10.7 11.9 11.7 14.3 22.0 Comments on the data: 1. Based on data from 243 in-scope sites. There are 124 sites which require fossil fuels for their production process (paper mills, corrugators, plastics plants) and the remaining 120 smaller sites use just electricity in their processes (sheet plants, recycling and logistics depots and warehouses). 2. Figures from all years are based on data from sites we owned for the entirety of that year. The 2017 data is based on sites we have owned since 1 January 2017. The 2016 figures '2016 (representative)' are restated from last year to include data from sites added to the 2017 scope to give a representative like-for-like comparison. We have shown the 2015 published figure as it is the baseline year for our target, and the published figure for 2016 to show the performance of the business from last year. The same calculations have been applied for all years. 3. Total production is the sum of printed reels and paper reels from our paper mills; plastics production (all types) from our Plastics sites; recovered fibre and other materials collected and processed through our Recycling depot network; and boxes and sheets sold to third parties from our Packaging sites and other types of packaging production from these sites. 4. DS Smith collects and reports environmental data in accordance with the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP), to the extent that this is practicable. 5. The CO2 and CO2e emissions were calculated using the UK DECC 2016 factors for all fuels and the UK national grid. Emissions from other national grids use the DECC factors (IEA) from 2015. 6. Where available, we use the emissions factor for bought electricity from the supplier of energy to our business (Scope 2 Market Value). If this figure is not reported, the country emission's factor from the IEA is used instead (Scope 2 Location Value). 7. The CHP that supplies our Witzenhausen paper mill with steam is fired predominantly by biogenic fuels. The emissions factor for this site has been estimated as 32.06 kg/MWh of CO2e. 8. The CHP that supplies our Belišće paper mill and Corrugator with steam and electricity is fired by a combination of natural gas and flare gas. The emissions factor for flare gas is estimated to be 240 kg/MWh of CO2e. 9. Scope 3 emissions, external to DS Smith but involved in the supply cycle for the Group's products and services, are not included. 10. The waste figures relate to waste generated by our operations; they do not include waste that is collected from external sources for recycling. 11. Where water effluent figures are available from meters and invoices, they are used here, otherwise they are calculated to be 50 per cent of the water abstracted and brought on-site. Some of our paper mills have their own waste water treatment plants and treat water for third parties. This water flow is measured and subtracted from our total effluent figures. 40 GRI Index 2018 This GRI content index has been prepared in accordance with GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (Core) in reference to the DS Smith Sustainability Review 2018 and DS Smith Annual report & accounts 2018. General Standard Disclosures Page Number External Page Number External and Links Assurance and Links Assurance Organisational profile Stakeholder engagement 102-1 AR pg. 136 Yes 102-40 SR pg. 37 102-2 SR pg. 3, AR pg. 2 102-41 GRI report* 102-3 AR pg. 139, 150 Yes 102-42 SR pg. 37 and GRI report* 102-4 SR pg. 2, 3 102-43 SR pg. 37 102-5 AR pg. 138 Yes 102-44 SR pg. 37 102-6 AR pg. 17-21 Reporting practice 102-7 AR pg. 3, 5, 35, 75, SR pg. 3 Yes 102-45 AR pg. 88-92 Yes 102-8 AR pg. 24 and GRI report* 102-46 SR pg. 12-13, 39 102-9 GRI report* 102-47 SR pg. 37 and GRI report* 102-10 AR pg. 6, 12, 32, SR pg. 2 Yes 102-48 SR pg. 40 Yes 102-11 SR pg. 19, 35 102-49 SR pg. 40 Yes 102-12 SR pg. 34 102-50 SR pg. 40 Yes 102-13 SR pg. 38 and GRI report* 102-51 GRI report* Strategy 102-52 SR pg. 39 102-14 SR pg. 1, 10-11 102-53 SR back cover and website Yes Ethics and integrity 102-54 SR pg. 39 Yes 102-16 SR pg. 2, 35 and GRI report* 102-55 SR inside back cover Governance 102-56 SR pg. 39 Yes 102-18 SR pg. 34-35 Key SR = Sustainability Review 2018, and if external assurance column contains “Yes”, please find statement on SR pg. 39 AR = Annual report & accounts 2018, and if external assurance column contains “Yes”, please find statement on AR pg. 81-87 * Our Sustainability Review 2018 content is defined by the topics which our internal and external stakeholders collectively found to be most important, during our materiality analysis in 2017. However there are some further aspects and indicators which are also material to our business. We have reported our actions on these aspects in our GRI disclosure report which can be found here: dssmith.com/company/sustainability/ sustainabilityreport/GRI-disclosure-report DS Smith Plc Online communications 350 Euston Road Results and presentations, investor and shareholder Regent’s Place information are available in the investors section London of our website: NW1 3AX dssmith.com/investors Telephone +44 (0)20 7756 1800 www.dssmith.com Annual reports Current and archived annual reports are available in the Keep in touch investors section of our website: dssmith.com/investors/annual-reports People DS Smith is made up of a team of c. 28,500 employees across 37 countries. More information about our people and career opportunities is available in the people section of our website: dssmith.com/people Sustainability Current and archived sustainability reports are available on the company section of our website: dssmith.com/company/sustainability DS Smith worldwide Find out more about our global divisions and the countries in which we operate and get in touch with us: dssmith.com/contact/locations Printed in the UK by Principal Colour Ltd on Revive 100% recycled offset and Revive 100% recycled silk. Both manufactured at a mill certified to both ISO 14001 and FSC® accredited. Principal Colour Ltd are certified to the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System and FSC® accredited. Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc (London) www.blacksunplc.com +44 (0) 20 7736 0011
