CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Con ten t s C o n t e n t s .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 E d i t o r i a l P o l i c y .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 C o r p o r a t e O v e r v i e w .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 M e s s a g e f r o m t h e P r e s i d e n t .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 Material Issues for Casio.......................................... 11 C S R C o n v e r s a t i o n -Learning from Model CSR Companies: Fujitsu's Global Approach to Social Responsibility-.. . . 2 0 C a s i o ' s C o r p o r a t e C r e e d a n d A p p r o a c h t o C S R .. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 5 C a s i o ' s C S R M a n a g e m e n t .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 4 C S R I m p l e m e n t a t i o n S y s t e m .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 5 Corporate Governance................................................... 41 C o m p l i a n c e a n d R i s k M a n a g e m e n t .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 6 R e s p e c t f o r H u m a n R i g h t s .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 6 Social Initiatives: Action Plans and Performance........... 59 R e s p o n s i b i l i t i e s t o C a s i o ' s S t a k e h o l d e r s .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 5 R e s p o n s i b i l i t i e s t o C u s t o m e r s .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 5 P r o d u c t D e v e l o p m e n t a n d D e s i g n I n i t i a t i v e s .. . . . . . . . . . . 6 6 I n t e l l e c t u a l P r o p e r t y I n i t i a t i v e s .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 3 Q u a l i t y A s s u r a n c e .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 1 C u s t o m e r S u p p o r t C e n t e r : E n s u r i n g c u s t o m e r s a t i s f a c t i o n .. . . . 8 6 P r o v i d i n g S u p p o r t I n f o r m a t i o n a n d R e p a i r S e r v i c e s .. . . . . 8 8 S t a b l e S u p p l y o f P r o d u c t s .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 3 Responsibilities to Suppliers......................................... 96 R e s p o n s i b i l i t i e s t o S h a r e h o l d e r s a n d I n v e s t o r s .. . . . . . . . . . . 1 0 2 Responsibilities to Employees. .................................... 104 Global Human Resources Strategy. ......................... 105 B u i l d i n g W o r k p l a c e s f o r a D i v e r s e W o r k f o r c e .. . . . . . . . . 1 1 2 C r e a t i n g S u p p o r t i v e W o r k p l a c e s .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 1 9 Effectively appointing and deploying employees. .. 125 P r o m o t i n g h e a l t h a n d s a f e t y i n i t i a t i v e s f o r e m p l o y e e s .. . . 1 3 2 Responsibilities to Society. ......................................... 137 E n v i r o n m e n t a l I n i t i a t i v e s .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 4 9 E n v i r o n m e n t a l V i s i o n .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 4 9 Climate Change Action. ............................................... 154 Biodiversity................................................................. 158 D e v e l o p i n g P r o d u c t s t h a t S a v e R e s o u r c e s a n d E n e r g y .. . . . . . 1 6 6 Environmental Action Plan ( Targets and Performance)...... 169 M a t e r i a l B a l a n c e .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 7 3 Environmental Data..................................................... 175 S c o p e 3 .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 8 8 E n v i r o n m e n t a l A c c o u n t i n g .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 9 5 D e s i g n a n d P r o c u r e m e n t .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 9 8 L o g i s t i c s .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 0 3 Collection and Recycling............................................. 207 P r o d u c t R e c y c l i n g i n E u r o p e .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 0 8 O f f i c e s .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 0 9 E n v i r o n m e n t a l M a n a g e m e n t .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 1 3 Environmental Compliance.......................................... 215 Environmental Communication.................................... 219 V e r i f i c a t i o n S t a t e m e n t .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 2 3 Independent Opinion on the Sustainability Report 2017..... 224 G 4 G R I C o n t e n t I n d e x .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 2 7 CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 2 Editorial Policy Casio discloses information to stakeholders about its corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives aimed at building a more sustainable world. By constantly improving communication with stakeholders, Casio expects to further improve its CSR performance. Casio provides three channels of CSR reporting to meet the needs of different readers: the Sustainability website, the Sustainability Report, and the CSR Communication Book. Sustainability Website An easily searchable site that offers comprehensive information on Casio’s CSR initiatives. Sustainability Report 2017 A report containing information from the Sustainability website that can be downloaded in PDF format. It may be printed in part or in its entirety, for your reader convenience. Click here to download the report. CSR Communication Book 2017: “Welcoming the Challenge of Helping to Build a More Sustainable Global Society” Highlights of Casio's CSR initiatives are presented based on the Charter of Creativity for Casio. The content is presented in a way that is easy to understand. CSR Communication Book 2017: “Welcoming the Challenge of Helping to Build a More Sustainable Global Society” Click here to download the report. An independent opinion from an outside expert has been obtained and included as an objective assessment of the report overall. Third-party verification of environmental performance data has also been obtained to ensure reliability. Independent Opinion on the Sustainability Report Third-party Verification Certificate （PDF / 136KB） For details on Casio’s management and financial information, visit the Investor Relations site. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 3 Scope of the report • Period This report covers fiscal 2017 (April 1, 2016 to March 31, 2017), and also includes some information pertaining to years before and after fiscal 2017. • Issued December 2017 (Previous publication: December 2016, next publication planned: November 2018) • Boundary Some information in this report applies only to the parent company, Casio Computer Co., Ltd., while other material refers to the entire Casio Group. Further clarification is provided in each case, as needed. The name “Casio” in this report indicates the Casio Group, while “Casio Computer Co., Ltd.,” refers specifically to the parent company. The scope of the environmental accounting and impact data in this report includes 10 sites of Casio Computer, Co., Ltd., in Japan, 10 group companies in Japan, and 26 group companies outside Japan. Guidelines used as a reference • G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) • Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2007 Edition) issued by Japan’s Ministry of the Environment • Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005 issued by Japan’s Ministry of the Environment • ISO 26000 Guidance on Social Responsibility (GRI Guidelines and ISO 26000 content indices are posted on the website.) Inquiries Casio Computer Co., Ltd. http://world.casio.com/ CSR Promotion Office Address: 1-6-2 Honmachi, Shibuya-ku, Tokyo 151-8543 Japan Tel.: +81-3-5334-4901 E-mail csr-report@casio.co.jp Forecasts and forward-looking statements The future forecasts and forward-looking statements published in this report for Casio Computer Co., Ltd., and the Casio Group are based on information available at the time of publication. These forecasts and statements include potential risk and uncertainty, and the reader should be aware that the actual results of business activities may differ from these predictions. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 4 Corporate Overview Company data Name Casio Computer Co., Ltd. Headquarters 1-6-2, Hon-machi, Shibuya-ku, Tokyo, Japan, 151-8543 Established June 1, 1957 President and COO Kazuhiro Kashio Chairman and CEO Kazuo Kashio Employees * 2,754 (consolidated: 12,287) Paid-in capital * ¥48,592 million Net Sales * ¥321,213 million (consolidated) Operating income * ¥30,636 million (consolidated) Ordinary income * ¥26,239 million (consolidated) Net income * ¥18,410 million (consolidated) Timepieces, Electronic Dictionaries, Calculators, Label Printers, Electronic Major Products Musical Instruments, Digital Cameras, Handheld Terminals, Cash Registers, Office Computers, Page Printers, Data Projectors, Molds * as of March 31, 2017 CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 5 Group companies by region CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 6 Message from the President Taking on the Challenge of “Creativity for Contribution”—Maintaining Casio Originality while Transforming for Future Growth Creating a Business that Focuses on Being Useful to People Casio Computer Co., Ltd. celebrated its 60th anniversary in June 2017. Our history began with a relay calculator, in the days when all devices were analog. We then used our digital technology to create innovative products such as electronic calculators, electronic musical instruments, electronic dictionaries, and digital cameras, enabling us to achieve growth by making lives more comfortable and convenient. Based on our corporate creed of “Creativity and Contribution,” we have remained consistently dedicated to the monozukuri product development approach of “creating something from nothing,” leveraging ideas that go far beyond the conventional. In recent years, the market environment has changed dramatically. Most analog products have already been replaced with digital ones, and new value no longer stems from mere digitalization or advanced functions. In the mass market, every manufacturer has struggled as they release various products. With the advancement of globalization, similar products can be made with similar quality anywhere in the world. The era of “dominating the market by making superior products” is over. Today, our goals are not just about developing products. Instead, we set goals with a mindset that asks how we can help people and contribute to the world through our products and services. We call this kotozukuri, a term that refers to the craftsmanship of systems for delivering new experiences and intangible value. By moving away from the “productout” approach where we as a manufacturer produce the things we want to make, we are embracing the “market-in” approach, where we search for what customers and markets truly want, and identify the kind of needs that will arise in the future. Consequently, “Creativity for Contribution” has become more important to us than ever before. Distribution methods have also changed significantly. With Internet access now ubiquitous, customers obtain their own information online. In order to earn customer confidence to the point where people want to buy Casio products by name, we need to completely review the distribution network we have built on relationships of trust over many years. It is very important to create channels that directly connect with end users. The key to achieving kotozukuri in the future will be building “co-creator” relationships with end users, thereby creating new value that no one has ever envisioned before. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 7 Revising the Casio Charter of Creativity in Pursuit of Even Greater Advancements In our timepiece and education businesses, we have achieved success in a way that is distinctly Casio. Our other business areas, however, seem to be lagging amid changing market environments. Accurate response to change is an important key to the survival and development of enterprises today. As we celebrate our major milestone of 60 years as a company, we need now to seriously return to Casio's unique origins in “Creativity and Contribution,” and reform our business structure for even greater advancement. I became the 4th president of Casio in 2015, where all of our previous presidents were from the company's founding generation. To realize the true generational change represented by my appointment, and while still recognizing the importance of our history over the last 60 years, our job is to set the course for a new era and the next phase of Casio's development. Looking back on its history, Casio originality lies in our ability to discover hidden needs, to bring people amazement and joy, and to create new cultural phenomena. G-SHOCK, differentiated by its high practicality and toughness, continues to evolve in conjunction with the sporting cultures of various countries. Meanwhile, the TR series of digital cameras, optimized for self-portraits, are spreading joy among legions of young Chinese women. Both of these products started trends that became social phenomena. Thanks to specialized features for outdoor pursuits, the Casio smart watch released in 2016 provides unprecedented value as a functional timepiece that serves a real need. The businesses in which we have succeeded are those that have become a part of the cultures where their products are sold and created new markets. Casio needs to learn from these successes well into the future. As part of our 60th anniversary, we are currently revising the Casio Charter of Creativity in order to better share Casio's heritage across the company and deepen the awareness of the value we have offered to society. At the same time, it will also redefine our reason for being and where we are heading. The new charter will clarify Casio's vision, desired direction, and business domains, and create a system for initiative-taking across the entire company. Through the revised Charter of Creativity, we will dig even deeper into “Creativity and Contribution,” fully promote the spirit of Casio in and outside of the company, and declare our full aspirations as a technology company. Aligning Business Execution with Solving Social Issues We must also pay attention to global movements when considering our future direction. It is important to consider the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted at the United Nations, and the Paris Agreement negotiated at the 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP 21). These outline issues that society must solve over the next few decades. While these global issues create various business opportunities for our company, they can also become risks if we do not respond appropriately. Casio has been promoting business management based on its corporate creed of “Creativity and Contribution,” but now we can use the 17 SDGs to make our contribution targets even clearer from a global perspective. For example, the educational projects being promoted by our electronic dictionary and scientific calculator businesses have been doing more than just selling educational devices. We have worked together with educators in various regions in the world to help optimize their educational systems. This falls under SDG 4 (quality education), and it is also related to SDG 1 (no poverty) and SDG 8 (decent work and economic growth). Currently, the objective for our education business is clearly spelled out: “improving the academic ability of students in markets where the business is operating.” In the case of scientific calculators, the goal is to raise the quality of mathematics learning and enhance mathematical skills at educational sites that have adopted Casio scientific calculators. To that end, we have provided educational materials that match the mathematical levels of each target country, and have engaged in various activities. By working together with classroom teachers and government officials, we are helping to create mechanisms for effective learning. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 8 With this approach, sales volume and market share become merely incidental. If we can fulfill our objective of improving mathematical skills and contribute to the target countries, Casio sales will naturally increase as a result. As the world population continues to grow, the potential market is vast. While applying the lessons learned from our success stories, we believe that our mission in the educational products business is to improve education in even more countries. The academic development of students, who will be the leaders of tomorrow, fosters the development of the countries in which they live. In the future, in businesses other than education, we will also take advantage of Casio's strengths while keeping the SDGs in mind, and will practice “Creativity for Contribution.” To that end, in fiscal 2018 we will compile a list of how our business activities relate to the SDGs, making it possible not only for executives, but also for all employees, to understand the opportunities and responsibilities presented by the SDGs. On that basis, we will progressively link the SDGs to our business plan, accomplish the plan while helping to solve social issues, and work to keep increasing corporate value. Emphasizing a Group-wide Mission and Reforming the Business Structure What kind of products and services should Casio focus on in order to create new value that is useful to people? And as we do so, how should we execute our businesses? By working backward from these goals, we will place great emphasis on reforming our business structure. In our system equipment business, which is undergoing dramatic renewal, we withdrew from the office printer and office automation sectors in fiscal 2017, in order to concentrate management resources where we truly can contribute to the lives of users. On the other hand, we intend to strengthen services for small businesses. This includes our office processing system, Rakuichi, for issuing slips and tallying sales, and our sales tallying management service, which leverages our electronic cash registers. Casio has a large share of the business hardware markets both in and outside Japan, including handheld terminals and electronic cash registers. Most of these customers are small businesses and sole proprietors. Rather than just selling hardware, we aim to offer truly useful solutions to these customers who, unlike major corporations, are unlikely to introduce large-scale accounting and other elaborate systems. We will further enhance services that contribute to small business management and will support the creation of environments that allow customers to concentrate on their core business. For many years, Casio was like a collection of independent divisions. It could be described as a case of “big corporation syndrome,” and the reality was that each division operated its own business separately without a sufficient understanding of where Casio was heading as a whole. In order to reinvent this outdated organization that was vertically divided, in February 2017 we created the Consumer Development Headquarters and established it across the camera, signage and musical instrument businesses. By combining know-how and experience in three product fields, Casio can now generate synergies even in new genres such as home theater systems. We believe that it is important to collaborate on various technologies and make effective use of them across the board. It is necessary to revise our evaluation system, which has not been optimal on a group-wide basis so far. While it is important that departments and individual teams and employees improve their performance, there must first be a group-wide mission, and the growth of individual organizations needs to contribute to growth of the entire group. The same thing applies to CSR initiatives, which also require a group-wide perspective. In fiscal 2017, we identified issues with materiality (significant CSR issues) by incorporating opinions from a variety of stakeholders and experts, and we will continue to promote awareness of these issues throughout the Group. Since fiscal 2016, we have selected and developed certain employees from various departments to be CSR Leaders, serving as core human resources for raising CSR awareness. In fiscal 2018, we will further develop these efforts and expand the system to group companies in and outside Japan. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 9 Aiming to Create Value with Stakeholders Casio values communication with a wide range of stakeholders, and we have been conveying our initiatives and business approach via our Sustainability site and other channels. Meanwhile, in recent years, attention has increasingly been focused on the impact of environment, society, and governance (ESG) factors on sustainable corporate growth. Institutional investors in particular are increasingly focusing on non-financial information in order to appraise the medium to long-term value of companies. That is why, starting this fiscal year, Casio will look at ways to further improve its corporate communications. We want to enhance disclosure of ESG information by issuing integrated reports that combine financial and non-financial information. After clarifying the communication objectives and target audiences, we will promote effective disclosure of the appropriate information. In addition, we will integrate the use of communication tools that have been separately utilized by several divisions in the past, and, with a unified voice, fulfill our responsibilities for disclosure. Finally, I am always asking that all employees heighten their awareness that Casio's future depends on them. Each department has a role to play under the company's vision and policies, and we must always remember that every employee is a critical part of Casio. With a shared vision of what we want Casio to be 10 or 20 years from now, we are aiming to become a company that provides even more value, through the full participation of our employees. Casio is facing the future as a unified team. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 10 Material Issues for Casio As a company with a global reach, it is extremely important for Casio to pursue initiatives that meet the expectations of the international community. The worldwide movement to build more sustainable societies continues to evolve, year by year. Companies today are expected to carry out strategic initiatives as part of their core business activities. Casio is no exception. Even more so, as a company known for “creating something from nothing,” Casio must strategically implement social contribution measures that are integrated with its business activities. Responding to these trends, Casio has specified the issues with the greatest significance (materiality) to its practice of social responsibility, in accordance with the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines issued by GRI in May 2013. Going forward, the company will take action on each of the specified issues, and will apply the plan-do-check-act (PDCA) cycle to these efforts to ensure the highest level of socially responsible management. KPI and Performance Evaluation ◎: All targets met, ○ : Most targets met, △ : Remaining issues outweigh results, × : No progress made Material Issues for FY2017 Targets and KPI FY2017 Performance Evaluation FY2018 Targets and KPI Casio (1) Reduce energy consumption (1) Reduce the FY2018 CO2 per unit of floor area by 13% emissions for the entire (equivalent kL of crude oil) for Achieved a 9.8% reduction △ Casio Group by 8.25% the entire Casio Group, compared with FY2014. compared to FY2011 Realizing a lowcarbon society As a result of recalculation (2) Implement energy after coefficient revision, the (2) Maintain same level of CO2 conservation diagnosis at CO2 emissions for FY2017 emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) as major sites in Japan to were 36,668 tons, compared △ the previous fiscal year for the clarify the energy savings to 35,460 tons in FY2016, entire Casio Group potential, then create an yielding an increase of 1,208 energy reduction roadmap. tons (1) Maintain the Casio Green (1) Maintain the Casio Green Casio Green Star Product Star product sales ratio at 50% ○ Star product sales ratio at sales ratio: 57% or more 60% or more Building a recycling society (2) Promote the development of (2) Promote the Number of new models new Casio Super Green Star ○ development of new Casio registered: 20 Products Super Green Star Products CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 11 (1) Ensure that 40% of (1) Ensure that 30% of product Ratio of certified paper in product catalog paper used catalog paper used in Japan is △ catalogs in FY2017: 15% in Japan is FSC® certified FSC® certified paper paper Selected a survey company in FY2017, and by July 2017 Living in harmony had conducted a survey of 7 with nature (2) Set specific activity sites: the headquarters, initiatives for biodiversity (2) Begin biodiversity studies at Hamura R&D Center, preservation based on the the locations of major sites in Hachioji R&D Center, Casio ○ results of the biodiversity Japan Electronic Manufacturing, surveys at major sites in Yamagata Casio Japan, and launch activities. (headquarters and Yamanashi site) and CBS Kofu site Implemented CSR education (1) Implement CSR (1) Implement CSR education at at Casio sites and at education at Casio sites and Casio sites and at suppliers, suppliers, and held at suppliers, and hold and hold awareness raising ○ awareness raising campaign awareness raising campaign campaign during one vendor during one vendor meeting during one vendor meeting meeting in China in China in China Implemented annual audit follow-up Conducted follow-ups for Promoting CSR CSR audits requested by procurement customers at 53 production (2) Annual audit follow-up sites (2) Implement annual audit Continue audits requested In China, conducted onsite follow-up and confirmation prior by customers at production inspections at 87 suppliers, ○ to the annual audit (including sites covering 60.8% of suppliers documentation) Continue onsite audits at on a transaction value basis, suppliers since the start of the onsite inspections In Thailand, conducted onsite inspections at 6 suppliers (1) Achieve rate of employee Achieved a rate of employee (1) Achieve rate of employee return after childcare leave of return after childcare leave ○ return after childcare leave 90% or more of 100% of 90% or more Company-wide employee Providing turnover was 3% supportive Measure 1: Extended length workplace (2) Keep employee turnover at of childcare leave (until the environments and less than 5% child is 3 years old, instead promoting diversity (2) Keep employee turnover • Plan measures to reduce of 1.5 years) ○ at less than 5% turnover due to childcare Measure 2: Extended period reasons of shorter working hours for childcare reasons (until the child finishes 6th grade, instead of 3rd grade) CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 12 (3) Achieve implementation rate The rate of follow-up of follow-up measures of 80% measure implementation for (3) Achieve implementation or more. employees who had rate of follow-up measures • Implement employee follow△ significant findings in their of 80% or more by urging to up measures based on the annual health check-ups reserve re-check up results of annual health was only 63.5% check-ups (4)Promote stress Promote stress management management • Ascertained the actual (4) Promote stress • Ascertain the actual mental illness rate management mental illness rate • Implemented e-learning • Ascertain the actual mental • Implement e-learning training for new illness rate training for new employees and • Implement stress employees and managers ○ management seminars for managers • Implemented stress managers • Implement stress management seminars • Implement work skill management seminars for managers improvement training for for managers • Implemented work skill young employees • Implement work skill improvement training for improvement training for young employees young employees (5) Implemented stress Providing (5) Implement stress checks checks supportive • Ascertain the rate of workplace • Ascertained the rate of employees with high environments and employees with high stress promoting diversity (5) Implement stress checks stress • Ascertain the health risk • Ascertain the rate of • Ascertained the health rate (by department) employees with high stress risk rate (by department) ○ • Implement industrial • Ascertain the health risk • Provided industrial physician consultations rate (by department) physician consultations to interested employees to interested employees with high stress with high stress • Implement workplace • Implemented workplace analysis and feedback analysis and feedback (6) Achieve female science graduate employment rate of 20% or more • Survey awareness related to active roles played by (6) Achieve female science women. Female science graduate graduate employment rate of • Implement measures to recruitment ratio: 11% 20% or more promote career awareness Participated in recruitment × • Implement measures to among potential female seminars for female science strengthen recruitment candidates for professional students of women for technical positions positions • Implement measures to help strengthen the employment of women for technical positions CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 13 Maintained legally mandated (7) Maintain legally employment rate of people mandated employment rate (7) Maintain legally mandated with disabilities at 2% or of people with disabilities at employment rate of people with more 2% or more disabilities at 2% or more • Actively employed • Actively employ people • Actively employ people with people with disabilities, with disabilities, disabilities, including those including those with including those with with mental disabilities, and mental disabilities, and ○ mental disabilities, and achieve the legally achieved the legally achieve the legally mandated employment rate mandated employment mandated employment • Implement measures for rate (From June 1, 2016 rate to March 20, 2017) retaining employees with • Implement measures for disabilities • Implement measures for retaining employees with Providing retaining employees with disabilities supportive disabilities workplace environments and Rate of senior employees promoting diversity seeking continued employment after retirement age: 80.8% (42 out of 52 employees) (8) Rate of senior employees seeking continued employment Calculation method after retirement age (80% or Among those who reach the ○ more) retirement age concerned,* • Verify the Senior Employee the number that apply for the System regular Senior Employee System * Not including applicants for the special Senior Employee System Checked human rights issue (1) Check human rights (1) Check human rights issue and implemented feedback: issue and implement and implement feedback: Implemented at all 8 ○ feedback: All production group companies production group companies All sales group companies (100%) (100% complete) (100%) Respecting human Implemented human rights rights education for CSR leaders: (2) Implement human rights Casio Computer Co., Ltd.: (2) Implement human rights education for CSR leaders: 3rd Leader Meeting education for CSR leaders: ○ Casio Computer Co., Ltd. Business and human rights, Casio Group companies in (100%) and LGBT training (91% Japan (100%) completion based on attendance rate) CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 14 Developed a grievance mechanism a) In Japan: Ensured thorough understanding of (3) Develop a grievance (3) Develop a grievance the mechanism for grievance mechanism mechanism handling, through CSR a) In Japan: Raise Respecting human a) In Japan: Raise awareness training awareness ○ rights b) Outside Japan: Ascertain b) Outside Japan: b) Outside Japan: Ascertain current situation and create Ascertained the current current situations and create grievance handling route situation for grievance grievance handling handling mechanisms at mechanisms each site, using a questionnaire concerning human rights issues Developed bribery prevention manuals for (1) Develop bribery prevention group companies and manuals for group companies confirm the content △ (1) Develop anti-corruption and confirm the content 22 out of 28 target educational materials and Preventing companies have developed carry out specialized training corruption manuals (82% complete) (2) Check corruption risk at all production group companies (100%) Checked corruption risk at (2) Check corruption risk: All all 29 sales group ○ sales group companies (100%) companies (100%) Materiality specification process Step 1: Specification of issues with significance to the company In fiscal 2015, Casio made a detailed list of CSR issues with reference to its business areas, and prioritized them based on relevance to its own activities. Step 2: Specification of issues with significance to stakeholders In fiscal 2016, Casio sent a questionnaire to its stakeholders and conducted interviews in order to organize the issues by their significance to stakeholders. Step 3: Summarization and finalization Based on the results of the processes in steps 1 and 2, in fiscal 2016 Casio formally specified its material issues with the approval of the director in charge of CSR. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 15 Step 4: KPI formulation and implementation Casio formulated key performance indicators (KPI) with reference to the specified material issues, thereby enabling each responsible department to evaluate its CSR initiatives quantitatively. In fiscal 2017, Casio is implementing related activities using the plan-do-check-act (PDCA) cycle. Step 1: Specification of issues with significance to the company Regarding the 46 “aspects” indicated in the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines from GRI, Casio analyzed the risks to the company for each aspect and the degree of impact that they would have on Casio. The aspects were used to evaluate matters at various levels, including business segments, value chains for each segment, and regions of operation. This shaped the identification of the most significant aspects. The departments charged with CSR responsibilities also examined the identified aspects, and finalized them for use in their own processes. Step 2: Specification of issues with significance to stakeholders Based on the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, the 46 aspects were divided into six areas: economic, environment, labor practices, human rights, society, and product responsibility. The importance of each area was then identified through dialogue with stakeholders closely related to Casio. Questionnaires were also given to customers and employees, and aspects with high significance to stakeholders were identified. In addition, questionnaires and interviews with experts were carried out on the respective topics. These processes enabled Casio to identify society’s expectations, resulting in a list of issues with significance to Casio stakeholders. Economic Environment Labor Practices Takeshi Mizuguchi, Professor Sadayoshi Tobai Hiroki Sato, Professor Takasaki City University of Economics Conservation Director, WWF Japan Chuo Graduate School of Strategic Management More detail More detail More detail CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 16 Human Rights Society Product Responsibility Makoto Teranaka, Visiting Professor Kaori Kuroda, Executive Director Kikuko Tatsumi, Executive Advisor Tokyo Keizai University CSO Network Japan Nippon Association of Consumer Specialists More detail More detail More detail Step 3: Summarization and finalization By mapping the aspects identified in steps 1 and 2, Casio specified eight material issues, with a focus on aspects given a high priority. Finally, with the approval of the director in charge of CSR, the issues with medium-term materiality to the Casio Group were defined. Material Issues for Casio CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 17 Boundary Material Issues for Casio Material Aspects Internal External Building a recycling society Products and services ● ● Energy ● ● Realizing a low-carbon society Emissions ● ● Living in harmony with nature Biodiversity ● ● Supplier environmental ● ● assessment Supplier assessment for labor ● ● practices Promoting CSR procurement Supplier human rights ● ● assessment Supplier assessment for impacts ● ● on society Providing supportive workplace Employment ● environments and promoting diversity Diversity and equal opportunity ● Investment ● ● Non-discrimination ● ● Freedom of association and Respecting human rights ● ● collective bargaining Child labor ● ● Forced or compulsory labor ● ● CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 18 Human rights assessment ● ● Respecting human rights Human rights grievance ● ● mechanism Preventing corruption Anti-corruption ● ● Maximizing economic Economic performance ● ● performance Step 4: KPI formulation and implementation KPI Formulation Casio investigated key performance indicators (KPI) with reference to the specified material issues, in order to enable the responsible departments to evaluate their initiatives quantitatively. With the approval of the CSR Officer, the KPI were finalized, and efforts are underway in fiscal 2017 to ensure high performance. For more information on KPI, see KPI and Performance above. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 19 CSR Conversation Learning from Model CSR Companies: Fujitsu’s Global Approach to Social Responsibility In June 2017, Sogo Fujisaki, Senior Director of the CSR Division at Fujitsu Limited, visited the head office of Casio Computer Co., Ltd., to talk with us about CSR. With 160,000 employees worldwide, Fujitsu has long been known as one of Japan’s leading electronics companies and ICT vendors, and it has also captured the social spotlight for its advanced CSR activities. Noriaki Kimura, Manager of Casio’s CSR Promotion Office, talked with Mr. Fujisaki about Fujitsu’s initiatives. He asked about the Fujitsu Way, the corporate philosophy that supports Fujitsu’s global approach to social responsibility, and about what Fujitsu is doing to help achieve the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Sogo Fujisaki, Senior Director, CSR Division, Fujitsu Limited (right), and Noriaki Kimura, Manager, CSR Promotion Office, CSR Promotion Department, Casio Computer Co., Ltd. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 20 Establishing FUJITSU Way and gaining employee understanding Kimura Thank you for being here today. To start off, please tell us how the Fujitsu Way was established. Fujisaki The first edition of the Fujitsu Way was established in 2002, when the term “CSR” was just becoming popular. Prior to that, we had a company policy, “Reliability and Creativity,” that stood for offering outstanding technology to customers who put their trust in us. Instead of neatly arranging that phrase with new terminology, we decided to take the opportunity to integrate documents such as our Corporate Vision and Corporate Values, since we wanted to preserve these original concepts. Kimura In particular, I feel that the key phrase, “contribute to the creation of a networked society that is rewarding and secure,” in your Corporate Vision is unique to Fujitsu. Fujisaki I agree. Of course, the core purpose of our business is to provide value to our customers through networks using ICT. Many of our customers are social infrastructure administrators such as government agencies, hospitals, and financial institutions, so we have a strong commitment to providing ever-better products to them. Kimura The Fujitsu Way has been translated into multiple languages and you have various mechanisms for ensuring employee understanding within the company. What kind of initiatives have you launched so far? Fujisaki I think there are several levels of employee understanding. In the initial stage of introducing the Fujitsu Way, the main measures involved preparing posters and small cards, and conducting e-learning. We repeatedly informed employees in various settings that the Fujitsu Way had been created, and explained its content. However, in terms of employee understanding on the practical level, we are still trying out various approaches. The suitable approaches vary by country, and sometimes there are challenges. Kimura On the executive level, was a consensus quickly reached on establishing the Fujitsu Way as the foundation of Fujitsu’s management? Fujisaki Yes, that went quite smoothly. I think the top management quickly understood that the values represented by the Fujitsu Way were very important and needed to be properly shared. Kimura Did your CSR Division play a central role during its establishment? Fujisaki Because the CSR Division did not exist at the time, it was enacted as a cross-divisional measure with the involvement of the human resources and legal departments. So, nobody felt that it was a decision made in some particular part of the company. Kimura That probably made value sharing a smooth process at Fujitsu. Which department was put in charge of promotional activities, such as material translation and poster creation? Fujisaki That was performed by the Fujitsu Way Unit, which was created at the same time. However, the Fujitsu Way contains so many elements that it cannot be promoted by one department alone. For example, the legal and compliance departments are largely responsible for the Code of Conduct, and our CSR Division is in charge of areas related to the Corporate Values. The allocation of roles sort of fell into place naturally. In addition, there is a Fujitsu Way Promotion Committee, in which managing directors and above participate. This committee reviews the content of the philosophy three times a year. Kimura I have heard you also have an organization called the CSR Global Community. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 21 Fujisaki We renamed the CSR Promotion Leaders, who had been appointed at sites in and outside Japan, as part of an effort to give them a more practical role. One leader from each site or department and persons at a general manager level position participate in the Community, which aims to promote individual measures in collaboration among relevant departments. In the Community, they share best practices within their organizations. Kimura I see. As a global initiative, Casio has been holding CSR Leader Meetings for about a year and a half, and we would like to extend this measure to Casio’s group companies in and outside Japan as well. The meetings provide intensive training for CSR Leaders, who then return and share new insights with their respective organizations. What do you think about this kind of bottom-up approach? Fujisaki I think it is very important, and we are also very concerned about how to achieve this. So far our focus has just been on promoting awareness of the Fujitsu Way, through efforts such as posters and workshops. However, measures relating to vertical governance, as required to satisfy global norms, such as ISO 26000 and the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Code of Conduct, are gradually growing in importance. On the other hand, while the younger generation’s CSR awareness is very high, we are still figuring out how to foster bottom-up activities and encourage their participation. Combining both top-down and bottom-up activities is a serious challenge. I think we would like to learn from Casio’s efforts in this respect. Kimura Your CSR Policy lists five priority issues. How was it enacted? Fujisaki It was enacted in 2010, through cross-organizational efforts involving our newly established CSR Division, as well as human resources, legal affairs, and procurement. However, at that time, the definition of CSR had not yet been firmly established, and there were a few missing areas such as the defensive posture of CSR. Specifically, we feel that the management cycle approach is still not spelled out well enough, so we’d still like to revise the policy in the future. Understanding the SDGs Kimura I’d like to talk about the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Since being adopted at the United Nations in 2015, I feel they have rapidly become a common reference point for people around the world. What kind of initiatives is Fujitsu working on? Fujisaki We are promoting both top-down and bottom-up efforts related to the SDGs. One example is that we are holding executive-level round-table discussions and forums on how Fujitsu should position the SDGs as important management objectives. The other day we invited guests from the United Nations Development Programme and the World Economic Forum to our Fujitsu symposium to discuss the topic of how companies should work towards SDG achievement by 2030. One key point raised was the need to scale up problem-solving efforts. Rather than just being satisfied that the company is performing some beneficial activities, we should identify critical global problems that need to be addressed, in accordance with the scale of the company and the expectations of society. Especially in the case of Fujitsu, we are transitioning from a conventional product business that creates and provides products, to a service business that helps solve problems by providing services. When thinking about what issues to address, I felt that a “common reference point” like that provided by the SDGs is very important. The executive officer in charge of Fujitsu management strategy was also at the symposium. He said, “The SDGs provide an important common reference for Fujitsu employees worldwide. With over 100,000 employees in almost 100 different countries, the SDGs will enable us to pull together and work towards shared goals, while also engaging people outside the company.” CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 22 Kimura How about your bottom-up efforts? Fujisaki At present, we are working together with our environmental headquarters and others. As part of the environmental management system, we are asking each division to list initiatives that can contribute to the SDGs, and we are advancing internal promotional activities with the marketing headquarters. Workshops are also being held for sales, system engineering, and other departments. Kimura There are 17 SDGs, as you know. Are any of them a particular priority for Fujitsu? Of course, with a company of your scale, I’m sure most of them are relevant. Sogo Fujisaki, Senior Director, CSR Division, Fujitsu Limited Fujisaki As you say, almost all of them are relevant to us in some way. While trying to address all of them is good for raising awareness, it’s not very suitable as a way for the company to set targets and transform itself. The goals we should be aiming for are the ones that best match our interests and capacities as well as society’s expectations of us. So, an example that immediately relates to us are the goals related to food. Currently our Akisai Food and Agriculture Cloud service is used by about 350 agricultural providers, and there may be other contributions we can make on the distribution side to eliminate food waste. Based on this, we want to contribute to the SDG 2, “zero hunger,” as well as SDG 3, “good health and well-being.” We now have a network with about 7,000 medical institutions and nursing caregivers, so I think that there is something we can do using that. Then there is the SDG 9, “industry, innovation and infrastructure” which is the work we are doing in our main business. SDG 11, “sustainable cities and communities,” is also related to our work on disaster prevention, transportation optimization, and smart city development. Those are probably the main priorities for us. We’d like to issue a clear statement about this in the very near future. Kimura Is it a statement of how your company going to promote SDG initiatives? Fujisaki It will be a definition of how Fujitsu understands the SDGs and embraces their importance. Within the company, more and more departments are starting to talk about the SDGs by linking them with their businesses. This is the first step, recognizing that issues we thought were other people’s problems are actually also our own. In some cases, however, the process gets stuck at this stage, and the SDGs become just a PR tool. If you just utilize the SDG wording, but do not connect it with the organization’s self-transformation, then it becomes a meaningless arrangement of the latest jargon. I think a statement is necessary to call attention to this point. Kimura It seems that recognition of the SDGs is still low. Have you made any efforts to improve that at Fujitsu? Fujisaki We address the SDGs at workshops and in-house lectures, in addition to the executive-level round-table discussions I mentioned earlier. Various elements need to come together for employees to thoroughly understand that the SDGs will actually become a part of their business activities; otherwise it is impossible to generate momentum. This is why we want to incorporate SDG elements into our management policy. Even at the round-table discussion with our outside directors held last year, one of them made a very critical comment, saying he could not see the overall strategic picture concerning the SDG initiative. With that in mind, I think awareness among top management is increasing regarding the need to explain our objectives properly in words. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 23 Translating global norms for internal stakeholders Kimura You have been preparing integrated reports since 2015. Did you experience any internal difficulties in the transition to integrated reporting? Fujisaki Four or five years ago when we first started talking about adopting integrated reports, the IR team remarked that it wasn’t necessary as investors never ask about non-financial information. Kimura How did you persuade them? Noriaki Kimura, Manager, CSR Promotion Office, CSR Promotion Department, Casio Computer Co., Ltd. Fujisaki The opportunity for me to press for integrated reporting at Fujitsu was in the existence of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC); we are a member of its business network. It was not an idea that I came up with on my own. I initially told others at Fujitsu that integrated reporting was becoming commonplace internationally, and if we didn’t do it, external stakeholders would criticize us, and there would be risks involved. So I convinced them that we had better consider it. I talked about things in this way not just regarding integrated reports, but also about our CSR activities overall. I explained that I was not just talking about what they needed to do as a department, but also the upper layer of global stakeholder expectations, or corporate norms, such as the ISO 26000 standard. You could say I was using repeated persuasion, while highlighting the risks. I had to help people understand that there were gaps between global expectations and the current situation at Fujitsu, and that we needed to close these gaps. Kimura Is it the role of the CSR department to “translate” and convey such external norms to those inside the company? Fujisaki You may be right. After all, when faced with something they do not understand or they cannot do, people tend to not want to do it or look at it again, especially when there is both lack of understanding and capacity. I think it is important to first help people understand the need for change and then increase what they can do about it. It took quite a while for us to get integrated reporting going, but it seems the turning point came when the IR team realized that integrating CSR elements into the annual report was also useful for their own work. Before reaching that point, many executive-level round-table talks were held with long-term investors and others. Then, as time went by, executives who initially only talked about integrated reporting using borrowed phrases, gradually began to speak about it in their own words. Then, even when talking with customers, those executives likely realized that comments that had previously gone straight over their heads were now making sense. That was the point where things really changed. Kimura That is a very helpful story, since we are now considering integrated reporting at Casio. Finally, as someone looking at Casio’s CSR activities from the outside, could you share with us your opinions and expectations? Fujisaki I think it goes without saying that Casio has a very strong track-record in terms of activities that link its products with society based on “Creativity and Contribution.” I’d like to hear more detail about this. If I had to say something, I’d say that, since the Casio brand is known worldwide and you have a core strength in devices, I think Casio could collaborate more with companies from different industries and with UN agencies to widely publicize the various activities that you already do. A host of new possibilities could be opened up by combining your strengths with the different strengths of other companies and organizations. Kimura Thank you for taking time to talk with me today. This was a very valuable experience. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 24 Casio's Corporate Creed and Approach to CSR Making life richer and more convenient by creating innovative products—this was the aspiration of Casio’s founders, and it is summed up in the corporate creed, “Creativity and Contribution.” Casio believes that part of its social responsibility is to pass down this corporate creed to all of its employees without fail. Casio is determined to ensure that its businesses, which make something from nothing, or go from “0” to “1,” continue to make a consistent contribution to a more sustainable global society. Welcoming the challenge of helping to build a more sustainable global society In recent years, there has been widespread concern over the sustainability of human civilization in its current form. While economic activity has enriched the lives of many people, it has also put great strain on the global environment and social systems. Cooperation is needed to overcome this global crisis and leave a sustainable global society to future generations. In order to achieve this, proactive initiatives need to be taken by individuals, companies, governments, and international organizations. A company has a much larger impact on society than an individual, and corporate activities are responsible for some of the current impact on the planet. This is why society now has much greater expectations for companies to actively implement their own initiatives to help resolve sustainability issues, or in other words, to fulfill their corporate social responsibility (CSR). Today, a company’s performance on social responsibility impacts its corporate value. Firms that fail to fulfill their corporate social responsibilities are no longer valued or allowed to survive by society. Casio’s corporate creed of “Creativity and Contribution” contains the company’s founding idea of social contribution through the provision of innovative products that have never existed before. Everyone working at Casio fully appreciates this corporate creed, and the company is always striving to help build a more sustainable global society by pursuing business activities designed to make something from nothing, or go from “0” to “1.” This is Casio’s CSR approach. To ensure that it continues to deliver on the commitments of its corporate creed, Casio has established three key documents. The Charter of Creativity for Casio outlines the basic principles behind the mindset and conduct expected from everyone at Casio, while the Casio Common Commitment provides specific conduct guidelines for implementing the Charter. The Casio Group Code of Conduct establishes norms for ethical conduct and requires all Casio Group executives and employees to comply with relevant laws and internal rules. With recent changes in the external environment, in June 2013, and again in November 2016, Casio revised the Code of Conduct to reflect the higher expectations of the international community with a focus on the areas of human rights, supply chain management, and anti-corruption measures. Casio has established four specific keywords, shown below, to guide its efforts to address social and environmental issues that relate directly and indirectly to its business operations. By addressing these issues the company aims to help build a more sustainable global society. The world today is faced with many complex economic, environmental and social problems of a very serious nature. Humanity as a whole needs to consider its own best future, and then find ways to move in that direction. If economic activities are to be maintained on this planet with limited resources, every member of society must try to help achieve sustainability. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 25 Casio is determined to do its part to find solutions for social and environmental issues while continuing to provide new value to society, based on its corporate creed of “Creativity and Contribution.” Casio will steadily pursue specific initiatives while always seeking to conceive of ideal solutions for each issue. Keywords for a sustainable world and Casio’s main initiatives • Resource recyclability (social and economic activities on a planet with limited resources) Reducing daytime power consumption through the use of geothermal electricity and the installation of power storage equipment, etc. • Biodiversity (respecting the uniqueness of all living organisms and recognizing their interdependence) Establishing an Environmental Action Plan, and evaluating the entire impact of the business, etc. • Fairness across generations (the current generation properly appreciating the legacy of previous generations and passing it on to future generations) Setting medium and long-term CO2 reduction targets, and promoting next-generation development and education, etc. • Fairness across regions (fairly distributing wealth and assets across regions) Being a member of the UN Global Compact, and conducting CSR activities globally, etc. Casio’s CSR Approach Casio’s CSR approach is one where the group works to meet the expectations of society by helping to solve environmental and social issues through business operations, while achieving sustainable growth. Casio must continue to be useful to society, while also maintaining the respect of its employees. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 26 Medium-Term CSR Policy (FY2017 – 2018) The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were adopted at the United Nations in September 2015, while the Paris Agreement, the result of the 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP 21), entered into force in November of the same year. Given this background, along with the global trend toward investment based on economic, social, and governance (ESG) factors, Casio has formulated the following medium-term CSR policies for the next two years. • Promoting concrete initiatives associated with the SDGs to solve social and environmental issues based on materiality linked with business management • Establishing achievement scenarios linked to long-term environmental targets, and continually improving environmental performance through implementation of environmental management systems (EMS) • Strengthening the business foundation by gathering compliance and ESG information from Casio Group companies and continuing to improve performance levels • Raising the awareness of all Casio Group employees, and promoting behavioral changes Following these medium-term policies, Casio will specifically address the following three issues as the top priority issues. 1. Initiatives based on SDGs 2. Initiatives to achieve medium and long-term environmental targets 3. Initiatives for disclosure of corporate ESG information Casio will establish KPIs for each policy and will promote and manage initiatives using plan-do-check-act (PDCA) cycles. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 27 Casio’s CSR Platform Charter of Creativity for Casio and Casio Common Commitment In 2003, Casio adopted the Charter of Creativity for Casio and Casio Common Commitment, a promise from everyone working at Casio. They are designed to ensure that Casio employees will be aware of the corporate creed at all times, and act upon it. These promises cover the three key aspects of CSR—economy, environment, and society—as well as the company’s approach to compliance. Charter of Creativity for Casio First Chapter We will value creativity, and ensure that our products meet universal needs*. Second Chapter We will strive to be of service to society, providing customers with delight, happiness, and pleasure. Third Chapter We will back up our words and actions with trustworthiness and integrity, and work as professionals. * To create innovative products that everyone needs but no other company has ever produced. At Casio, this is the mission not only of product development, but of every other part of the business. Charter of Creativity for Casio and Casio Common Commitment CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 28 Engaging employees in Casio’s unique CSR approach To ensure thorough application of these principles, the directors and department heads sign the Charter of Creativity for Casio and Casio Common Commitment every year, and together recite a pledge to abide by the Charter and Commitment and familiarize their subordinates with it. All employees also sign a card printed with these promises, to carry with them at all times. There is also a site on the company intranet entitled CASIO STYLE which includes messages about the corporate creed and the Charter and Commitment from the four brothers who founded the company, along with other simple, compelling stories presented once a month. This helps all group employees to better understand and identify with Casio’s essential character. Every other year, Casio conducts a comprehensive questionnaire survey to learn what group employees in Japan think about the Charter of Creativity for Casio and Casio Common Commitment, the Casio Group Code of Conduct, and the Whistleblower Hotline. The results are analyzed to determine how thoroughly employees have embraced the company’s approach to CSR. The next questionnaire will be conducted in fiscal 2013. The CSR Communication Book has been issued mainly for employees every year since 2012. By presenting specific cases to illustrate each chapter of the Charter of Creativity, it helps employees better understand the charter. CSR Implementation Framework Casio joined the UN Global Compact in 2010. The company upholds the ten principles of the Global Compact, which concern human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption, and it has also fully adopted the corporate commitments. Casio has been working to enhance its CSR programs to meet the requirements of the international community. The company draws on the ISO 26000 guidance standard on social responsibility in implementing CSR, and uses Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines to select subjects for disclosure. The company is currently working to comply with the latest G4 version of the guidelines. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 29 United Nations Global Compact Updated on April 4, 2016 Casio products are made through cooperation not just within the Casio Group, but with many other parts and consignment manufacturers. Through global distribution, over 100 million Casio products are sold each year in 140 countries around the word. In order for consumers worldwide to purchase Casio products with confidence, the company believes that it must support and adhere to common global principles for sustainable growth for the international community, beginning with Casio’s global supply chain. This is why, in December 2010, the company president signed a letter of commitment to support the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. With that step, Casio joined the compact, and it has been making employees thoroughly aware of it ever since, group-wide. While pursuing specific initiatives for the realization of the Global Compact principles, Casio is also appropriately disclosing progress. Casio is also active at the local network level of the UN Global Compact, serving as a member of the Japanese Global Compact Network Japan (GCNJ). 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Standards 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; 5. the effective abolition of child labor; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. FY2016 participation in Global Compact Network Japan (GCNJ) Subcommittees • Human Rights Due Diligence Subcommittee • Women's Empowerment Principles Subcommittee • Reporting Research Subcommittee United Nations Global Compact CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 30 SDG-Based Initiatives In September 2015, the United Nations Sustainable Development Summit was held at the UN Headquarters. With the participation of over 150 member countries, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development was unanimously adopted by world leaders at the summit. This global agenda includes 17 SDGs and 169 targets. The SDGs outline priority global issues to be resolved by 2030 and clarify shared objectives for the world. They indicate specific opportunities to put the planet on a sustainable path, including the elimination of poverty and hunger, and the achievement of clean energy, climate action, and peaceful societies. The SDGs have made it easier for Casio to establish targets for its contribution to the world, as part of its corporate creed, “Creativity and Contribution.” Going forward, in order to link its business plans to the SDGs, Casio will look into how its business activities are specifically related to these goals. It will clarify the opportunities and responsibilities associated with the SDGs, and undertake initiatives involving the efforts of all employees. The company will head towards integrated management that can achieve business plans and help solve social issues at the same time, while aiming to further improve corporate value. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 31 Main stakeholders of the Casio Group Casio strives to ascertain and understand how its operations impact the environment and society and what kind of contributions it can make. It then identifies stakeholder groups and strives to implement appropriate measures for each. Companies must not become complacent in their efforts to pursue social responsibility and maintain social trust. The first step in earning stakeholders’ understanding and trust for the initiatives of the company is listening to what they have to say. Good communication is a necessity, and it is not a one-way street. Companies must find solutions that benefit both their stakeholders and their business, as well as the global society as a whole. By actively disclosing information to stakeholders, and creating opportunities for dialogue with them, Casio finds out what stakeholders expect, evaluates its existing activities, and plans future initiatives. Main Stakeholder Main Dialogue Opportunities / Information Main Casio Group Responsibilities Group Disclosure Providing appealing, safe, and reliable products Ensuring stable product supply Daily sales activities Providing the proper information Customer Support Center Customers regarding products Customer satisfaction surveys Improving customer satisfaction Casio’s official website Providing fast and accurate support to customers Properly managing customer information Fair and equitable transactions Daily procurement activities Suppliers Requesting CSR implementation and Holding vendor conferences providing support CSR questionnaires General Meeting of Shareholders Briefings for investors Timely and appropriate information Investor Relations website Shareholders and disclosure Issuing financial reports (shareholder investors Appropriate profit returns newsletter) Responding to CSR questionnaires from socially responsible investors CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 32 Respecting human rights Casio intranet Promoting diversity and inclusion Group Workers’ Labor-Management Promoting balance of work and family life Conference Human resource recruitment and Employees Occupational Safety and Health utilization Committees Fair evaluation and treatment Career challenge system Industrial health and safety and employee Internal newsletter health promotion Respecting and preserving regional cultures Factory and workplace tours Activities that contribute to local School visit program Local communities Internships communities Preventing accidents and disasters at Employee participation in local sites community events Providing support to disaster-stricken regions where sites are located Environmental consideration in product development Global Environmentally responsible production － environment activities Complying with environmental laws Protecting biodiversity Protecting the environment, human Responding to questionnaires rights, and biodiversity Holding dialogues NPO/NGO Support for local communities and Implementing social contribution cultural activities programs together with NGOs and NPOs CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 33 Casio's CSR Management Casio is committed to earning the confidence of all of its stakeholders, including the broader society. In order to further enhance the effectiveness of its CSR activities, the company is engaged in various initiatives such as the improvement of corporate governance. CSR Implementation System Corporate Governance Compliance and Risk Management Guided by ISO 26000, Casio is Through various initiatives, Casio responding to today’s rapidly is working to strengthen the Casio is pursuing total compliance changing world by identifying the soundness and transparency of its through integrated management of specific issues that it must address management. three foundations of employee to meet the expectations of society. conduct: the Casio Group Code of Conduct, risk management, and the Whistleblower Hotline. Respect for Human Rights Social Initiatives: Action Plans and Performance Casio has established a basic policy on respect for human rights. Each fiscal year issues are Casio works to raise awareness of identified, and promotion plans are human rights while thoroughly drafted and implemented to ensure implementing the policy groupthat CSR activities are steadily wide. Casio is also creating a carried out. framework for human rights due diligence. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 34 CSR Implementation System Guided by the ISO 26000 international guidance standard on social responsibility, Casio is responding to today’s rapidly changing world by identifying the issues that it must address to meet the expectations of society and implementing management cycles designed to resolve these issues. Steps in CSR Implementation 1. Evolution from preventative CSR to proactive CSR (2004 to 2010) Since the establishment of its CSR Promotion Office in 2004, Casio has been implementing CSR activities while expanding the themes to be undertaken and the scope of their impact. In the initial stage, there was an emphasis on protecting corporate value through compliance and risk management (preventative CSR). Starting in fiscal 2011, Casio began focusing on using CSR to improve corporate value (proactive CSR). 2. Evaluation of initiative progress on core ISO 26000 subjects (2011) In fiscal 2012, Casio appointed managers and team leaders who have responsibility for implementing CSR in order to advance CSR globally at group companies around the world. At the same time, Casio evaluated and analyzed the status of initiatives at each company based on the core subjects under ISO 26000. 3. Prioritization of initiatives to promote respect for human rights (2012 to present) In fiscal 2013, Casio once again surveyed its group companies concerning CSR activities with a focus on respect for human rights, among the priority issues identified in the previous year. Based on an evaluation and analysis of the survey results, Casio has been making group-wide efforts to improve sensitivity to human rights issues, making this a priority since fiscal 2014. As part of those efforts, in June 2013 Casio implemented revisions to the Casio Group Code of Conduct reflecting the latest global standards relating to respect for human rights and fair business practices. In July 2014, it established and announced the Casio Group Basic Policy on Respect for Human Rights (Casio Human Rights Policy), in order to show its commitment to human rights problems in and outside the company. Casio has also developed its own tool for checking the status of human rights, and utilizes it to determine the situation for human rights protection measures at group companies. Going forward, human rights checkups will be performed on a regular basis. Casio will strive to improve its human rights due diligence across the entire group by implementing a process of evaluation, analysis and feedback. Casio Group Policy on Human Rights （PDF / 42.1KB） CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 35 4. Implementation of measures for the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (2014 to present) Additionally, Casio made efforts to identify materiality for the group. First it held an employee workshop and a CSR Committee workshop to explore materiality in the eyes of employees in April and May of 2014. Then it held a meeting with experts in different areas to hear stakeholder perspectives on materiality in June 2014. From here on Casio will continue these kinds of initiatives in an effort to increase the precision of its output (Casio’s materiality). In May 2015, Casio started sending out questionnaires to various experts, employees, and customers, in order to gather opinions on Casio materiality from various stakeholder perspectives. The aim is to increase the precision of the output (materiality) of the efforts Casio makes. The specification of materiality will be completed by the end of 2015. This is reflected in the Sustainability Report 2016, which was produced with reference to the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. 5. Establishment of new group-wide CSR promotion system Casio is now creating a CSR Leader system, a new initiative in 2015. About 100 employees will be selected from each department to receive priority CSR training to help them become CSR Leaders. By fostering these leaders as core CSR human resources and promoting discussion among them concerning the future direction of Casio’s CSR activities, Casio expects that they will become key agents for promoting CSR awareness within their departments. The new system was deployed first at the head office in fiscal 2017. In fiscal 2018 and beyond, it is being expanded to Casio group companies in and outside Japan. The aim is to improve group-wide CSR literacy, worldwide. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 36 Implementing CSR initiatives CSR Committee Casio has established a CSR Committee under the board of directors, headed by the general manager of the CSR Promotion Department (an executive officer). As the central body for implementation of CSR, the committee is tasked with identifying social issues to address and implementing solutions, in order to meet the expectations and demands of society. The CSR Committee is composed of CSR chiefs and managers from staff-related departments at Casio Computer Co., Ltd., and all Casio group companies worldwide, and is administrated by a Secretariat. At the start of the fiscal year, the Secretariat checks progress made on various CSR themes in the previous year. It then creates an overview of conditions for future progress, the expectations of society, and environmental changes. Priority themes for action are determined for each fiscal year, and a specific action plan is formulated. Under the action plan, ongoing themes are continued and new themes are introduced. New themes are established upon ascertaining the current situation and challenges, and also according to requests from CSR-related departments. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 37 CSR Committee As of March 31, 2017 In fiscal 2017, Casio continued to address five CSR themes that it had been working on since the previous fiscal year: “respect for human rights” and “fair business practices,” which are core objectives of ISO 26000, as well as “ensure compliance with the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines’ disclosure requirements in fiscal 2017,” “increase and utilize employee diversity,” and “ensure no conflict minerals are used.” The third theme, “compliance with the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines,” was completed with the announcement of Casio’s material issues in August 2016. There were also two themes related to compliance: “take action to reduce OSS risk” and “ensure compliance with Japan’s revised Act against Unjustifiable Premiums and Misleading Representations.” These were completed in the first half of fiscal 2017, and two new themes were established: “create a global compliance system” and “comply with the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).” The following table outlines the progress made on these themes in fiscal 2017, along with the fiscal 2018 plan. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 38 Individual themes for fiscal 2017 and implementation status and fiscal 2018 plan № Theme Fiscal 2017 performance Status Fiscal 2018 plan Fair business practices: Implemented corruption Implement corruption 1 take action to prevent risk assessment (29 Ongoing risk assessment (8 group corruption group sales companies) production companies) Create system for Checked human rights Check human rights 2 checking respect for issues (8 production Ongoing issues (29 sales human rights companies) companies) Increase and utilize 3 Enhanced diversity Ongoing Enhanced diversity employee diversity Implement measures to Implemented the fourth Implement the fifth 4 ensure no conflict Ongoing supplier survey supplier survey minerals are used Ensure compliance with the GRI G4 Released material issues 5 Completed Sustainability Reporting (August) Guidelines Summarized CSR Take action to reduce 6 activities and planned Completed OSS risk future operation (August) Ensure compliance with Promoted item Japan’s revised Act subcommittee activities, against Unjustifiable 7 implemented education, Completed Premiums and and put mechanisms into Misleading operation Representations Implement issue (New) Create a global Implemented Global 8 New feedback and response compliance system Compliance Survey measures CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 39 Established working (New) Comply with the group and ascertained Study issues for EU EU General Data the actual situation of 9 New GDPR compliance and Protection Rules collection and measure implementation (GDPR) processing of EU personal data System Revision Since the start of fiscal 2018, the CSR Committee has been chaired by the president, and the committee members include all the directors, corporate auditors and executive officers. The committee deliberates and approves mediumterm policies, annual policies, and previous years’ performance reports (starting from the following fiscal year), related to CSR. The decisions taken by the new CSR Committee will be handed down to the previous CSR committee (currently being renamed), which will consist of the heads of relevant departments and affiliated organizations, as well as group company CSR managers. This subordinate committee will set themes based on the medium-term CSR policy, formulate and implement the annual plan to achieve those themes, and will develop and promote activities such as ensuring thorough understanding of social responsibility and environmental information. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 40 Corporate Governance Casio recognizes that quick decision-making and appropriate execution of business operations are vital. Not only these capacities are needed, however, strengthening of oversight to improve management soundness and transparency is equally important in ensuring that business goals are reliably achieved and corporate value continues to grow. Corporate governance framework Casio is a company with an Audit & Supervisory Board. In addition to the management oversight function of the Board of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board, Casio is working to further strengthen its corporate governance by expanding the role of outside directors and enhancing the executive officer system. The Board of Directors has delegated most of its authority relating to important business execution to the executive officers to enable fast and efficient business execution. However, the supervisory function of the Board of Directors has been substantially secured through its retained authority to pass resolutions on matters set forth in law and in the articles of incorporation, and on particularly important business execution matters. Also, as part of efforts to strengthen the management oversight function of the Board of Directors, a nomination committee and compensation committee have been established with the requirement that outside directors serve among their members. To ensure the effectiveness of its management oversight function, the membership of the Board of Directors must include people with diverse perspectives, experiences, and abilities. In addition to directors who are thoroughly familiar with Casio's business, the Board must also include outside directors with broad insight and rich experience. As of June 30, 2016, the Board of Directors is composed of 11 directors, two of whom are outside directors. The term of office for directors is one year so as to clearly delineate the responsibility that they have for management and to facilitate quick responses to changes in the business environment. In order to ensure the soundness and transparency of business management, Audit & Supervisory Board Members perform rigorous audits by attending Board of Directors meetings, and other important meetings and committees, as well as by interviewing directors and others and reviewing reports and important resolution documents. This is done in accordance with audit policies and allocation of responsibilities set out by the Audit & Supervisory Board. The audit function is also being further strengthened through the provision of full-time staff to support the Audit & Supervisory Board Members, in addition to the gathering of information from and exchange of opinions with the outside directors as necessary. More than half of the Audit & Supervisory Board Members are required to be outside auditors, and they must include auditors with finance and accounting knowledge to strengthen the audit function. The current Audit & Supervisory Board is composed of three members, two of whom are outside auditors. The outside directors and outside auditors are independent officers registered with the Tokyo Stock Exchange in compliance with regulations. Accounting auditors perform external audits according to generally accepted Japanese auditing standards. The Internal Audit Department carries out audits to ensure that the organizations are appropriately operating in compliance with laws and regulations as well as group-wide standards. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 41 Corporate Governance Framework System of internal controls The Casio group has established the Charter of Creativity for Casio, Casio Common Commitment and Casio Code of Conduct based on the corporate creed of “Creativity and Contribution.” The following systems have been implemented to ensure proper business operation. 1. System to ensure that performance of duties by directors and employees of the company and group companies comply with the articles of incorporation and relevant laws and regulations a. Based on laws, the articles of incorporation, and rules for the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors decides important issues relating to legal requirements and management of the company and group companies and prevents violations of the law or the articles of incorporation by monitoring the performance of duties by the directors. b. In order to comply with relevant laws and regulations regarding the performance of duties, specific documents such as policies and rules are prepared. After deliberation and consideration by various committees, such as the CSR Committee, awareness of the rules is promoted throughout the company and each group company. c. The Whistleblower Hotline has been established inside and outside the company and operates as the point of contact for inquiries and reporting on problems related to infringements of legal compliance and other compliance matters. The company ensures that whistleblowers are not penalized. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 42 d. The company and group companies have absolutely no contact with organized criminal elements, which pose a threat to social order and public safety, and the entire organization is resolved to refuse any improper demands. e. The validity and operational adequacy of the above-mentioned rules are improved through internal audits and continual review, in order to prevent any misconduct. 2. System for saving and managing information relating to performance of duties by directors and employees of the company and group companies Based on the Document Management Rules and other rules, each department saves and manages information relating to the performance of duties by the directors and employees concerned. 3. Risk management rules and other systems at the company and group companies a. The company and group companies have a system to manage risks that can have a significant impact on management. The system is promoted in a unified way by the relevant departments and the Secretariat under the CSR Committee, based on the Risk Management Rules. b. Fundamental Policies on Product Safety and an implementation system have been established with an understanding that maintaining customer confidence in product safety is an important management issue. 4. System to ensure the efficient performance of duties by directors and employees of the company and group companies a. Attended by the company’s directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members, meetings of the Board of Directors are held to discuss and decide important management issues facing the company and group companies, at least once a month in principle, and perform prompt and reasonable decision making. b. The company’s executive officers, directors, and Audit & Supervisory Board Members attend meetings of the executive officers to discuss and decide important matters of business execution. They ensure group-wide coordination and smooth implementation of measures. c. Detailed execution procedures are outlined in the Executive Decision Making Authority Rules and the Group Company Decision Making Authority Rules. d. Group companies have created a system for performance of duties based on consolidated management plans, the Group Company Decision Making Authority Rules, and various basic group policies. 5. System to ensure proper operations at the company and group companies a. To ensure proper operations, the company and group companies have various rules based on the Charter of Creativity for Casio, Casio Common Commitment, and Casio Code of Conduct. b. The company assigns certain directors or executive officers based on a system whereby directors and officers are responsible for specific group companies. The relevant directors and executive officers perform group company management through a system that requires reporting to and approval by the company, in accordance with the Group Company Decision Making Authority Rules. They also perform monitoring as necessary. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 43 c. The company and the group companies have built a system to ensure the adequacy and reliability of financial reporting. After inspection of internal controls related to business flow and financial reporting, documentation, evaluation, and improvement is carried out. 6. System for employees that assist the Audit & Supervisory Board Members in the performance of their duties, and the independence of those employees from the directors a. Employees are appointed to assist the Audit & Supervisory Board Members in their duties. b. Matters concerning the appointment, transfer, evaluation or discipline of employees who assist the Audit & Supervisory Board Members require the prior consent of the Audit & Supervisory Board. 7. System for the company’s directors and employees and group companies’ directors, auditors and employees to report to the Audit & Supervisory Board Members, other systems for reporting to the Audit & Supervisory Board Members, and systems to ensure that audits by the Audit & Supervisory Board Members are performed effectively a. Whenever something is discovered that is likely to cause significant damage to the company or group companies, whenever there is a violation of the law or the articles of incorporation, or whenever an illegal business execution is performed, the company’s directors and employees must immediately report it to the Audit & Supervisory Board Members. b. Whenever something is discovered that is likely to cause significant damage to the company or group companies, whenever there is a violation of the law or the articles of incorporation, or whenever an illegal business execution is performed, the directors, auditors and employees of a group company must immediately report it to the company’s officer with responsibility at the group company, and the officer with responsibility must immediately report it to the Audit & Supervisory Board Members. c. Whenever a group company’s directors, auditors and employees determine that a management action or guidance from the company may be in violation of the law, or there is a compliance issue, they must report it to the Audit & Supervisory Board Members. d. The company’s directors and employees and the directors, auditors and employees of group companies provide the required reports and information in response to requests from the Audit & Supervisory Board Members. e. The company’s Internal Audit Department periodically reports the results of audits of the company and group companies to the Audit & Supervisory Board Members. f. The Whistleblower Hotline Secretariat reports the status of whistleblower reports and measures taken to the Audit & Supervisory Board Members. g. The company and group companies ensure that people who have made a report to the Audit & Supervisory Board Members are not penalized. h. The company promptly processes any requests it receives for the prepayment or refund of expenses arising from the performance of duties by the Audit & Supervisory Board Members. i. The Audit & Supervisory Board Members can attend any important internal meeting of the company. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 44 j. Important approval documents of the company and group companies are reported to the Audit & Supervisory Board Members after approval. For more details on corporate governance, visit the following site. Corporate Governance Reports 「Corporate Governance Reports」 (Tokyo Stock Exchange: Search for Corporate Governance Information) CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 45 Compliance and Risk Management Casio’s effort to achieve total compliance management is based on the Casio Group Code of Conduct, a risk management system and the Whistleblower Hotlines. Casio Group Code of Conduct Casio established the Casio Group Code of Conduct to make explicit its expectations that all executives and employees follow international norms, laws and ordinances applicable in each country and region, as well as all company rules, and also act with high ethical standards and good sense in their day-to-day work. On June 1, 2013, Casio revised the code, in order to better meet the expectations of the international community and capture trends in the social environment including the issuance of ISO 26000, the international guidance standard on social responsibility, in November 2010; Casio having joined the UN Global Compact in December 2010; and Casio having adopted the UN’s Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights in June 2011. Since then, Casio has been working to ensure everyone is fully aware of the revised code, group-wide. Here are the three main revisions to the Code of Conduct. (1) Points concerning issues of high concern to the international community such as human rights, supply chain management, and anti-corruption were revised (2) The respective roles of executives and employees were clearly stipulated (3) Content was improved to indicate common policies that apply to the worldwide group Also, on November 1, 2016, Code of Conduct provisions for respect for human rights were partially revised. This was based on changes to international norms concerning human rights that affect the Casio Group, including enforcement of the UK’s Modern Slavery Act in 2015. The revised Code of Conduct was prepared in Japanese, English, and Chinese, and is translated into other employee languages as necessary. Education on the new code is carried out across the entire group, with the aim of further deepening understanding of its content. Along with this education, a compliance questionnaire is conducted once every two years. The results and identified issues then are shared group-wide to promote continued improvement. Provisions of the Casio Group Code of Conduct Ι. General Provisions 1. Purpose 2. Scope 3. Compliance CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 46 ΙΙ. Code of Conduct 1. Enabling Value Creation 1-1. Provision of Products and Services Beneficial to Society 2. Fulfilling Our Corporate Social Responsibilities 2-1. Respect for Human Rights 2-2. Environmental Conservation 2-3. Sound Initiatives across the Entire Supply Chain 2-4. Harmony with Society 3. Building Customer Trust 3-1. Provision of Safety and Peace of Mind to Customers. 4. Establishing Sound Workplaces 4-1. Establishment of Employee-friendly Workplace Environments. 5. Ensuring Correct Actions 5-1. Compliance with Laws 5-2. Prohibition of Bribery and Restrictions on Business Entertainment and Gift-giving 5-3. Fair Competition and Transactions 5-4. Prohibition of Insider Trading 5-5. Thorough Security Trade Control 5-6. Prohibition of Involvement with Anti-social Forces 5-7. Separation of Personal Affairs from Business 5-8. Information Protection 5-9. Protection and Utilization of Intellectual Properties. 6. Building a Relationship of Trust with Society 6-1. Promotion of Communication with Society ΙΙΙ. Maintenance 1. Establishment, Revision and Abolishment of this Code of Conduct 2. Reporting of Violations 3. Handling Violations Casio Group Code of Conduct CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 47 Misconduct by Former Casio Employees It was recently discovered that former employees of the company were taking improper actions in transactions with business partners. Casio regrets that such a situation occurred at the company, and it deeply apologizes for any concern and inconvenience it may have been caused. *Click here for more information: (in Japanese) Education and Awareness Raising Casio provides e-learning and other educational programs on corporate social responsibility (CSR) once a year to group employees worldwide. The objectives are to promote and instill understanding of the corporate creed and CSR and to ensure awareness of and compliance with the Casio Code of Conduct. In addition to the basic CSR approach, in fiscal 2017, the programs focused on materiality (significant CSR issues), namely, respect for human rights, anticorruption including prohibition of bribery, and realization of low-carbon society. After the misconduct incident above, in April 2017, Casio conducted e-learning for group executives and employees worldwide, in order to promote awareness and understanding of the whistleblower hotlines. Casio will continue to improve the CSR literacy of employees while promoting the corporate creed, through group-wide education and awareness raising activities. Risk management Based on its Basic Risk Management Policies, Casio has built a system for efficient management of risks, with an emphasis on compliance risk. To build this system, Casio identified 70 laws relating to its businesses and listed measures being taken to comply with each law. Casio determined priorities based on the possibility of a risk materializing and its potential impact on company management. Casio then planned and implemented individual measures and developed an overall management system. In the risk management process at Casio, departments responsible for certain risks develop measures in a planned way to avoid and reduce these risks. The Risk Management Secretariat performs comprehensive management through the use of plan-do-check-act (PDCA) cycles. The Internal Audit Department also audits this entire mechanism. Accordingly, as of the end of fiscal 2011, it was confirmed that the relevant departments had the necessary measures in place for management of all risks, and an overview of the entire situation was obtained. Now, however, Casio is changing its method of implementing risk management for Japanese laws. It is transitioning to a system in which the Secretariat checks new and revised laws, develops themes and carries out measures on important issues. Complementing this, the Secretariat takes inventory of risks as necessary, regularly monitors the risk management measures implemented to date, and confirms whether there are any deficiencies in their implementation. In addition, based on Japan’s revised Companies Act that entered into force in May 2015, Casio is shifting the focus of risk management to overseas compliance. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 48 Risk management system Business Continuity Plan (BCP) initiatives In order to respond to emergencies with the resources of the company organization, Casio has created a Crisis Management Manual for securing the safety of all employees, executives, and their families, preserving corporate assets. Sequential updates of the manual keep pace with changes in the business environment, and the company is taking practical initiatives at the same time. Specifically, the following measures have already been undertaken: • Implementation of regular evacuation drills and general lifesaving classes for employees • Distribution of emergency assistance kits to employees and additional disaster stockpiling • Disaster prevention drill with the local community and provision of an open area for a temporary evacuation site However, in the Great East Japan Earthquake, which struck in March 2011, circumstances were encountered that far exceeded previous expectations. Casio used the lessons learned to identify various points for improvement. These points were reflected in a largely-revised Crisis Management Manual based on the premise of responding to a major earthquake with Tokyo at its epicenter. Casio also produced the Disaster Handbook for the families of its employees to deepen understanding of disaster countermeasures in the home and promote disaster readiness. Together with the initiatives above, Casio is working to enhance its business continuity plan (BCP). In the event of an emergency that interrupts business operations, such as a major earthquake with an epicenter in the Tokyo area, the plan outlines measures for the rapid confirmation of executive and employee whereabouts and well-being, as well as damage conditions, and the quick recovery and maintenance of operations. This mechanism is focused on Casio’s global supply chain. For example, if the headquarters suffers a disaster, an emergency headquarters is set up at the appropriate key site, based on a priority determined in advance. Under the direction of the headquarters, the aim is to minimize damage by continuing to provide products and services to customers worldwide based on limited resources. Through rapid restoration of business operation, the confidence of business partners and customers is maintained. Information system disaster response measures To ensure business continuity, it is vital to protect information systems against earthquakes and other disasters. In addition to an internal data center, Casio utilizes a secure external data center that features seismic construction and self-contained power generation. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 49 As a measure to reduce disaster risk, Casio finished moving all its important servers, including those for mission-critical tasks, to external data centers and established an environment that can continue to operate even after a disaster. It also moved its e-mail system, an important means of communication, to an external provider. The company also performs disaster drills in conjunction with the group-wide business continuity plan. Information security Casio is aware of its important social responsibility to maintain the security of all Casio information assets, including information that it collects from customers and other stakeholders in relation to its business activities. Casio has established Information Security Rules and implemented regular education for employees to continuously raise awareness of information security and ensure the implementation of safety measures. Education and Aawareness Rraising While information security relies on technical measures, it is also important for everyone handling information to know the required safety procedures, and to incorporate them into their work habits. At Casio, all officers and employees receive regular information security training through e-learning. The training covers general information security, as well as protection of personal information and other compliance matters, based on changes in society and in the company's business environment. Information security is being improved by providing this training content in a timely manner. Similar training is also provided for at Casio Group companies. This year an information security handbook was prepared for employees to raise awareness and further deepen their understanding of information security. Initiatives to prevent information leakage By first establishing internal rules to prevent information leakage and then carrying out training as described above, Casio is strengthening organizational measures to prevent human error and improper information management. This is done by ensuring that safety procedures are well known and thoroughly utilized by all employees handling information. The procedures cover proper information disposal, limitations on sending emails externally, as well as preventing information or information devices from being taken off company premises. Casio is strengthening its technical measures for information system safety through the introduction of mechanisms to block cyber-attacks at the company's Internet portals. They include measures to prevent targeted attacks, as seen in recent years, and other external attacks such as those from malware. Internal measures include the installation of security software and patches on company PCs, and a multi-layered defense has been created. Information security certification and initiatives Casio has focused on established a system for prioritizing the protection of personal information, publically disclosed its Privacy Policy on its website, and remains committed to the safe and appropriate handling of personal information. In December 2005, Casio Computer Co., Ltd. obtained Privacy Mark*1 certification and has maintained it since. Casio's Information Systems Department obtained information security management system (ISO 27001)*2 certification in November 2007. The aim of applying for certification was to evaluate fulfillment of responsibility by the department, which takes care of information assets for the entire company. Since then, the department has made continual improvements using PDCA cycles. The fitness and effectiveness of Casio’s information security management system CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 50 was reconfirmed with a certification renewal audit in January 2017. This included an expansion of information security activities to cover all group companies. Information Technology & Engineering Department Casio Computer Co., Ltd. Internal information systems at Casio Computer Co., Ltd. and each group company, and the network infrastructure of the Casio Group JQA-IM0536 *1 Privacy Mark: A program where the Japan Information Processing Development Corporation, a public-service foundation, evaluates the adequacy of corporate protective measures related to the handling of personal data. Companies that are found to have adequate protective measures in place are certified and permitted to display the Privacy Mark. *2 A program whereby a company establishes a system for using, maintaining, and protecting information within the applicable scope (e.g., business, locations) based on international standards for information security management systems, and a certification body conducts audits of the system and issues certifications. Whistleblower Hotline As a way to help ensure compliance, including respect for human rights, Casio set up a Whistleblower Hotline in April 2006. The hotline has been functioning with neutrality and fairness across all of its internal and external contact points. Operating on a basis of impartiality, the hotline follows up on all whistleblower reports and consultations, and takes resolute measures against any improper behavior discovered. Effort is put into preventing issues before they grow into real problems. In fiscal 2017, the hotline received five calls. The whistleblowers were interviewed, details were investigated, and corrective measures were taken. The issues were resolved with the whistleblowers’ understanding. The company will continue to watch for any latent problems and strive to improve its corporate culture. The contractor operating the external contact point of the Whistleblower Hotline was changed in April 2015. Now Casio employees can utilize online whistleblower consultation and report filing in English and Chinese, and telephone consultation and reporting is also available in English. This has given employees at group companies outside Japan better access to the hotline. To ensure even greater hotline awareness, Casio will strive to further increase group-wide understanding of the system in fiscal 2016, using a special intranet site with information on whistleblower protection in Japanese, English, and Chinese. In addition to internal hotlines, in fiscal 2018, an external whistleblower hotline will be established exclusively for suppliers. (Scheduled to be ready in October 2017) Sexual harassment or power Violation of employment Fiscal 2017 Report Details harassment regulations 3 2 CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 51 Whistleblower Hotline Export control Export control, or security trade control, aims to maintain international peace and security. It involves regulations on the export of goods and technology that could be diverted for the development of weapons of mass destruction or other weaponry. The regulations are designed to prevent such goods and technology from reaching countries and regions of concern or terrorist organizations. In 1987, the Export Control Security Program of Casio Computer Co., Ltd. (a compliance program) was established in order to make sure proper measures are taken to ensure the security of exports. The program has since been continually updated along with changes in the Japanese Export Control Regulation. Casio has appointed employees responsible for export control in relevant departments as part of an internal system to ensure observance of the program. As the Exporter Compliance Standards took effect in April 2010, Casio has been striving to maintain and manage its system by conducting voluntary annual audits while ensuring thorough legal compliance, in response to the revision of applicable laws and regulations. Efforts include the strengthening of training activities at group companies in Japan. Casio has also established a management system for complying not only with Japanese export laws but also with US Export Administration Regulations. The company is working to improve global export management, including the implementation of export management training in fiscal 2013, at group companies in the UK and Germany, and in fiscal 2014 at a group company in the US. The Center for Information on Security Trade Controls (CISTEC) is a Tokyo-based non-profit which conducts research and analysis. Each year, it sends research delegations overseas, alternating between Europe and the United States. Casio has dispatched employees to participate in these missions since 2012. By meeting with officials at various export control organizations, government agencies, and major companies, Casio is participating in a social contribution activity that gathers useful information for export managers in Japan. In July 2015, it was discovered that Casio headquarters exported one covered item (with a total value of US$37.62) to Iran without permission. Casio immediately reported this to the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI). At the same time, Casio investigated the causes of the violation and launched measures to prevent a recurrence. It was determined that the causes of the violation were a problem with the operation of the company’s IT system and human error on the part of the person who took the order. Steps were taken to prevent a recurrence and a final report was given to METI in CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 52 September. The issue was brought to a conclusion with the submission of a report in the president’s name in November. Casio sincerely regrets this violation and will strive to ensure that no similar violation ever occurs again. In October 2016, Casio received an onsite inspection by METI to check for compliance with laws and regulations. Despite a few indications to improve management methods concerning transaction audits and customer checks, the inspection confirmed Casio’s good management and operations company-wide. Initiatives for compliance with fair trade and advertising laws In order to promote proper transactions as well as fair, transparent and free competition, it is essential for sales employees to have a proper understanding of Japan’s Act on Prohibition of Private Monopolization and Maintenance of Fair Trade and Act against Unjustifiable Premiums and Misleading Representations. The sales offices of Casio Computer Co., Ltd., in Japan are strengthening their measures to ensure compliance with these laws. A revision of Japan’s Act against Unjustifiable Premiums and Misleading Representations in 2014 required companies to maintain and strengthen internal management systems. Casio Computer Co., Ltd. established a committee with members from all relevant departments tasked with ensuring compliance with the revised Act throughout the company. Casio is striving to ensure proper product representations and labeling through the establishment of rules for selfregulation and awareness-building programs such as intranet education. Internal guidance is also being provided by a consultation desk and improvement examples are being shared. Sales departments at Casio have distributed a Sales Compliance Card to their employees as a tool to promote appropriate and fair competition and trade. These employees are required to carry the card, to help ensure understanding and familiarity with fair competition and trade. In addition to the Charter of Creativity for Casio and excerpts from the Casio Group Code of Conduct, the card contains a compliance test, as well as contact information for a consultation service, and the number for the Whistleblower Hotline. Whenever a salesperson is in doubt over a course of action during daily sales activities, he or she can use this card as a guide to quickly perform a selfassessment or consult with a knowledgeable expert. Additionally, training sessions by internal instructors are held at sales locations in Japan, and persons transferred to sales departments outside Japan are given training on competition law in general, including cartel behavior, bid rigging, resale price restriction, and forced trade with exclusive conditionality. This training is implemented continuously. A dedicated department conducts internal inspections to make sure that there is no unfair trade or action being taken not compliant with Japan's Antitrust Act and other laws, as a means of regular monitoring. The department also strives to ensure that Casio provides appropriate product information by checking to make sure that there are no representations that could cause misunderstanding on the part of customers regarding product information, including in advertisements, catalogues, websites, and other messages from the company. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 53 Casio Sales Compliance Card (revised version) Subcontract Act compliance initiatives Casio has established a Compliance Committee on Japan's Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, Etc., to Subcontractors (Subcontract Act) which includes group companies, and is striving to ensure all transactions comply with the law. Under the annual basic plan of the Committee, each group company in Japan drafts its own action plan, and maintains proper transactions with subcontractors based on the use of PDCA cycles. In particular, employees that deal directly with suppliers and outsourcers are provided with the necessary knowledge through in-house seminars and classes sponsored by the relevant government authorities In fiscal 2017, 3,602 Casio employees attended in-house seminars, and 24 people also participated in classes sponsored by the Japan Fair Trade Commission and by the Small and Medium Enterprise Agency. This training helped to raise compliance awareness and provided employees with the knowledge they need. Various efforts were made to encourage understanding, such as conducting training sessions with original teaching materials prepared to suit the unique transaction conditions of various group companies. The Compliance Committee also obtains the latest information from government websites and email notification services, and sends the information directly to committee members. The news is also posted on the committee's website, and shared with the entire group. In offices where subcontract transactions are handled, independent audits are carried out on an ongoing basis. Casio confirms that proper, compliant transactions are executed, by inspecting the document record of the entire series of transactions from ordering to payment. The goal is to ensure that no problems occur. In fiscal 2011, group companies drew up their own action plans under the basic plan of the Subcontract Act Compliance Committee, establishing courses of action for maintaining proper subcontracting transactions using the PDCA cycle. Casio will continue to promote understanding of the Subcontract Act among its employees, and work to strengthen its system for even better compliance. The company will strive to promote even sounder transactions and create value with suppliers, based on revisions to the Subcontract Act compliance standards in fiscal 2017, along with the revised Act on the Promotion of Subcontracting Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and its standards, etc. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 54 Corruption Prevention Initiatives Based on ISO 26000, the international guidance standard for social responsibility, from 2012 to 2013 Casio took stock of the main CSR challenges facing each group company in and outside Japan, assessing and analyzing the status of their initiatives. The issue that rose to the surface as a challenge warranting priority attention alongside respect for human rights was fair business practices–in other words, corruption prevention initiatives. The Casio Group Code of Conduct prohibits bribery and sets restrictions on business entertainment and gift-giving. Still, in light of recent developments including the ongoing globalization of business, the tightening of regulations, and more robust efforts to detect bribery, there is a need to further strengthen the handling of bribery risks throughout the Casio Group. Accordingly, Casio issued the Casio Guidance on the Prohibition of Bribery (for the Casio Group) in July 2014 and the Manual on the Prohibition of Bribery (for Casio Computer Co., Ltd.) in October 2014. The Casio Guidance on the Prohibition of Bribery articulates the Group’s basic stance and philosophy on the prohibition of bribery, including the prohibition of facilitation payments. The Manual on the Prohibition of Bribery specifies the structure and mechanisms for the prevention of bribery, including the designation of persons responsible for compliance, education and training, auditing, and the Whistleblower Hotline, as well as specific rules such as a limit on the monetary amount of business entertainment and gift-giving. Additionally, Casio headquarters encourages each site to produce local rules and manuals in an effort to strengthen the mechanisms for the prohibition of bribery throughout the group. Utilizing the knowledge of internal and external experts, in fiscal 2016 Casio prepared its own Corruption Risk Check Sheet with reference to the FCPA guidelines, and Bribery Act guidance, etc. The aim was to ascertain the corruption risk in each country where Casio operates, and to ensure thorough understanding of anti-corruption measures within group companies. Using this tool, corruption risk was assessed at 29 group companies in fiscal 2017. Issues were identified and analyzed, and feedback was provided in order to promote improvements at the group companies concerned. The recent survey revealed some variation between group companies concerning recognition of corruption risk in their own countries based on the Corruption Perceptions Index of Transparency International, use of education opportunities to prevent corruption, and awareness of facilitation payments. However, Casio will continue to promote anti-corruption efforts using this mechanism in the future. Tax Affairs The Casio Group Code of Conduct stipulates that all officers and employees in the Casio Group must comply with international norms, applicable laws in each country and region, and company rules in their daily activities as the Casio Group engages in its global business. This also applies to tax affairs. The Group strives to maintain its tax compliance by paying taxes appropriately in compliance with each country's tax laws, including transfer pricing taxation and anti-tax haven measures, as well as international rules and other statues. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 55 Respect for Human Rights Casio established the Casio Group Basic Policy on Respect for Human Rights on July 1, 2014. Casio strives to raise awareness of human rights while thoroughly implementing the policy throughout the group. Casio is also creating a framework for human rights due diligence. Policy on Rrespect for Hhuman Rrights Casio recognizes respect for human rights as an important CSR issue as it continues to expand its business globally. Accordingly, it is stepping up its efforts in this area based on international norms relating to human rights. Since December 2010, Casio has been a signatory to and participated in the UN Global Compact, which consists of 10 principles related to human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption advocated by the United Nations. Moreover, Casio long ago spelled out its commitment to the prohibition of discrimination, the prohibition of child and forced labor, and the prohibition of harassment in the Casio Group Code of Conduct and put that commitment into practice. In June 2013, as part of an overall reconsideration of the content of the code, Casio revised its Code of Conduct, explicitly stating a commitment to uphold and respect international norms relating to human rights, such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and to respect basic labor rights. Recognizing the importance of ensuring effectively functioning global governance related to respect for human rights going forward, Casio held dialogues with group employees outside Japan and experts*1 in the process of drafting the Casio Group Basic Policy on Respect for Human Rights. The policy specifies, among other things, the group’s commitment to supporting and respecting international codes of conduct for human rights, including the International Bill of Human Rights (Universal Declaration of Human Rights and International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR)), the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR), and the Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work from the International Labour Organization (ILO). It also specifies the group’s commitment to carrying out initiatives related to respect for human rights based on the UN’s Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and to continuously performing human rights due diligence*2 after the framework for that purpose is established. From here on, Casio will thoroughly communicate this policy throughout the group and carry out initiatives in accordance with it. Casio’s codes and policies are reviewed on a regular basis. On November 1, 2016, they were partially revised based on changes to international norms concerning human rights that affect the Casio Group, including enforcement of the UK’s Modern Slavery Act in 2015. Going forward, Casio employees will be made thoroughly aware of these revised codes and policies and various initiatives will be taken. Casio also recognizes the importance of spreading the idea of respect for human rights outside its organization together with its entire supply chain. All suppliers have been made aware of Casio’s Supplier Guidelines, which clearly mandate respect for human rights and prohibit discrimination. In addition to requesting compliance, Casio strives to verify implementation using questionnaires and other means. *1 See the feature story, “Casio’s Commitment to Human Rights” in the 2013 Sustainability Report for details. *2 Human rights due diligence refers to the continuous process for recognizing, avoiding and mitigating any negative impacts Casio has on society using preventative means. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 56 Casio Group Code of Conduct Casio Group Policy on Human Rights （PDF / 42.1KB） Responsibilities to Suppliers Checking for human rights issues Casio has been taking stock of human rights issues since 2012, using ISO 26000 as a guide. In order to strengthen its due diligence, Casio sought the advice of experts and, in February 2014, created its own tool for checking the status of human rights, taking the Danish Institute for Human Rights’ Human Rights Compliance Assessment Quick Check as a reference. Casio will use the new tool to make effective assessments and conduct education relating to human rights. Using the tool, Casio took stock of the status of initiatives addressing human rights issues at Casio Computer Co., Ltd. and at group companies in and outside Japan in fiscal 2015. The secretariat performed issue analysis based on the gathered data, and the results were provided as feedback to the group companies. In fiscal 2017 and beyond, Casio will check for human rights issues at all group production companies, and then at Casio Computer Co., Ltd. and all group sales companies, alternating year by year. In fiscal 2017, a human rights checkup was conducted at eight group production companies and feedback was provided by the secretariat. Going forward, each site will make improvements based on the feedback by applying the PDCA cycle, in order to enhance human rights due diligence throughout the group. Education and awareness raising Casio provides internal education for Casio Computer Co., Ltd., and group companies in and outside Japan, in order to instill awareness of respect for human rights. The annual CSR learning program conducted in August 2014 focused on respect for human rights as an important topic. Participants studied documents such as the Casio Group Basic Policy on Respect for Human Rights established in July 2014, and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. The program also evaluated the employee comprehension of the material. Meanwhile, Casio invited Keiichi Ushijima, CCaSS Leader at Ernst & Young Japan, to the CSR Committee meeting in May 2015. He gave a lecture entitled, Business and Human Rights, and discussed the background and global trends concerning the growing importance of human rights in business, as well as how Japanese companies should approach human rights issues in a global era. His lecture included human rights issues he had encountered in the past, and his experience dealing with them. The talk enabled the committee to further deepen its understanding of human rights for business. In addition, education on human rights is conducted during training sessions at Casio Computer Co., Ltd., for new hires as well as before and after promotions or appointment as a manager. Casio Computer Co., Ltd., welcomed Hideki Matsuoka, a specially appointed researcher at the Asia-Pacific Human Rights Information Center, to the CSR Leaders Meeting held in May 2016. He gave a lecture entitled, “Companies and Human Rights,” and discussed what human rights issues in CSR are and what kind of philosophy “business and human rights” is. This was followed by group work in which participants discussed potential human rights challenges in Casio’s business activities, considering the whole value chain. Afterward, Gon Matsunaka, representative of the nonprofit “good aging yells,” gave a lecture about lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) issues, which is an area of human rights concern. The talk enabled attendees to acquire a better understanding of the LGBT community. The CSR leaders who participated in this CSR Leaders Meeting are feeding what they learned back to their respective departments in an effort to spread understanding of the issues discussed. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 57 As a member of the Human Rights Due Diligence Subcommittee of the Global Compact Network Japan (GCNJ), Casio gave a lecture on its human rights initiatives to this subcommittee and to the Human Rights Education Subcommittee, in fiscal 2017. Like this, Casio is also implementing external educational activities concerning the respect for human rights and human rights due diligence. Preventing sexual harassment and power harassment Casio has stipulated in the Casio Group Code of Conduct that it will not engage in any acts that ignore individuality, and will not countenance sexual harassment and power harassment. The company has issued Guidelines to Prevent Sexual Harassment and established a hotline. A full-time hotline officer is available to respond to issues raised by telephone, fax, e-mail and postal mail, demonstrating Casio’s determination to prevent harassment and quickly address any issues which arise. Moreover, in its employment regulations, Casio has specified that persons who commit sexual harassment or power harassment will be subject to discipline. Awareness of preventing harassment is especially stressed in training sessions for managers. Establishment of employee hotline Casio has established a special hotline on the company’s intranet for employee concerns and inquiries on corporate culture, human relations, pay and working conditions. Additionally, the Whistleblower Hotline provides consultation about and responds to reports of human rights infringements. Whistleblower Hotline CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 58 Social Initiatives: Action Plans and Performance Evaluation ◎: All targets met, ○ : Most targets met, △ : Remaining issues outweigh results, × : No progress made Management FY2017 Targets & Plans FY2017 Performance Evaluation FY2018 Targets & Plans Conducted corruption risk Conduct corruption risk assessments assessments at 29 group sales at group production companies, Conduct corruption risk assessments, companies, analyzed the data, provide issue feedback to all which are a new mechanism in the provided issue feedback to all companies, and promote social issue of fair business companies, and promoted △ improvements. practices. Continue to create local improvements. Continue to promote the preparation rules at group companies outside Created rules for the manual on the of manuals on the prohibition of Japan. prohibition of bribery for 22 out of 28 bribery at group companies outside applicable group companies outside Japan. Japan. Recently, not only domestic laws but also the laws of other countries could In order to ascertain the legal Provide feedback on issues from the have an enormous effect on business compliance situation at group global compliance survey to management due to their companies outside Japan, conducted overseas group companies. Share ○ extraterritorial application. Accordingly, a global compliance survey at 28 expertise and information on risk start by conducting an investigation to group companies and analyzed the management, and compliance, etc. ascertain an accurate picture of data. at Casio Computer Co., Ltd. compliance from a global perspective. Implemented group-wide regulations for employees. In addition, in order to Strengthen the group's information Strengthen the group's information ensure employee awareness, an security governance and promote ○ security governance and promote information security handbook was related safety measures. related safety measures. issued, and awareness raising was promoted. Promote ongoing IT-BCP drills and Promoted migration of core business Promote ongoing IT-BCP drills and ○ education. servers to highly reliable equipment. education. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 59 Customers FY2017 Targets & Plans FY2017 Performance Evaluation FY2018 Targets & Plans Strengthen system of internal safe Strengthened framework for internal Strengthened framework for internal design standards (Casio Safe Design safety design standards. ○ safety design standards. Standards). (Casio Safety Design Standards) (Casio Safety Design Standards) Ensure the same kinds of problems Shared past issues to thoroughly Promote thorough prevention of that occurred in the past do not prevent reoccurrence (zero accident ○ reoccurrence. happen again. reoccurrence). Eradicate new problems. Strengthen quality control systems. Enhanced functions for the online repair request service. Continue to improve customer Set up a maintenance booth at the Continue to improve customer satisfaction and convenience based G-SHOCK STORE GINZA, a directlysatisfaction and convenience based ○ on the customer satisfaction managed store. on the customer satisfaction questionnaire. Began covering shipping costs for questionnaire. repair items during the warranty period. Share overseas customer feedback by System introduced in Taiwan in July, Plan expansion of the global call gradually expanding adoption of a after China. Implemented ongoing tracking system to include Europe ○ global call tracking system to other reporting of customer feedback at the and the US, and promote the sharing sites outside Japan, besides China. monthly internal meeting. of customer feedback. Promote the active company-wide use Started internal utilization of worldwide Establish a mechanism for of customer feedback from in and customer feedback using the new disseminating information from the ○ outside Japan based on the new system. Began quality analysis and customer's point of view based on system. results sharing, etc. accumulated customer feedback. In order to stabilize watch production in China, established Casio Shaoguan Create a system for stable product and started production. supply based on the promotion of Continually promote reduction of Meanwhile, due to the expansion of measures to diversify the risk of China concentration risk to ensure a factories in Thailand and production in production concentrated in China. stable supply of products. Japan to reduce China concentration Enhance manufacturing at Casio • Global standardization of risk, the China production ratio ○ production sites to achieve optimum production methods decreased from 71% to 63%. global production (automation and • Procurement expansion in ASEAN Promoted in-house processing of efficiency improvement). watch metal cases at Casio • Expansion of internally made Expand in-house part production. Dongguan, which contributed to the components stable supply of parts and the accumulation of processing know-how. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 60 Suppliers FY2017 Targets & Plans FY2017 Performance Evaluation FY2018 Targets & Plans The questionnaire for companies outside Japan was revised, and both domestic and overseas questionnaires Implement CSR performance were continually implemented. Implement CSR performance monitoring, based on continued use of Domestic questionnaires were sent to monitoring, based on continued use ○ CSR questionnaires in and outside 238 companies, and the response rate of CSR questionnaires in and outside Japan. was 100%. Japan. Questionnaires were sent to 317 companies in China and Thailand, and the response rate was 100%. Onsite inspections were conducted at 7 companies in China. Continue onsite inspections outside Continue onsite inspections outside Onsite inspections were conducted at Japan. Japan. 6 companies in Thailand. ○ Ensure thorough understanding of Ensure thorough understanding of Thus far, mostly completed to Casio's CSR policies through Casio's CSR policies through surveys. implement onsite inspections for major surveys. suppliers. Explained Casio's CSR Procurement Firmly establish CSR procurement Policy at the supplier meetings and Firmly establish CSR procurement throughout the supply chain, through representative suppliers presented throughout the supply chain, through ○ good two-way communication at case examples of their CSR initiatives good two-way communication at suppliers meetings. in order to share issues and knowsuppliers meetings. how. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 61 Employees FY2017 Targets & Plans FY2017 Performance Evaluation FY2018 Targets & Plans ■Global Make proposals for implementation of Headquarters' HR division promoted the Casio Global HR Policy at each integrated administration of multiple ○ group company outside Japan. sites in the same country. Try assigning personnel from the HR Headquarters' HR personnel have ○ department to sites outside Japan. been posted to sites outside Japan. • Post HR personnel to sites outside Japan (ongoing). Hold global human resources meeting Held a global human resources • Establish a consolidated ○ (production area). meeting (production companies). overseas personnel/labor cost management system. (Verify and manage overseas Reconstruct the consolidated personnel/labor cost plans, and personnel and labor cost management Rebuilt system for consolidated continue making adjustments to systems outside Japan. overseas personnel/labor cost and proposals for • Implement validation and management. personnel/labor cost plans from management of overseas • Verified and managed overseas an HR perspective.) ○ personnel and labor cost planning. personnel/labor cost plans. • Where necessary, make • Made adjustments to and adjustments and proposals for proposals for personnel/labor cost personnel and labor cost planning plans from an HR perspective. from the HR perspective. ■Diversity ●Persons with disabilities ●Persons with disabilities Continue to recruit persons with Persons with disabilities Continue to recruit persons with disabilities through job fairs. Also Hired 3 people with disabilities. Once disabilities through job fairs. Also consider strengthening the follow-up in 6 months, consultations were ○ consider strengthening the follow-up system to increase the retention rate provided and departmental system to increase the retention rate as the types of disabilities become questionnaires were conducted. as the types of disabilities become more diverse. more diverse. ●Seniors Seniors ●Seniors ・Revise consolidated senior Partially revised the consolidated ・Revise consolidated senior employee system. senior employee system. employee system. ○ ・Continue to provide rehiring Reemployment rate for retirement-age ・Continue to provide rehiring opportunities to employees who have employees who wish to continue opportunities to employees who have reached mandatory retirement age. working: 100%. reached mandatory retirement age. ●Child care support Maintain percentage of eligible Maintain percentage of eligible Childcare leave usage rate for eligible ◎ employees taking childcare leave employees taking childcare leave employees: 100% above 90%. above 90%. ●Non-Japanese Ascertain new issues faced by non× Japanese employees. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 62 ■Health care Ensure thorough follow-up measures Percentage of employees with highEnsure thorough follow-up measures (improve targeting at least 80% risk health checkup results who took (improve targeting at least 80% △ implementation rate) for those with follow-up measures: Remained at implementation rate) for those with high-risk health checkup results. 63.5% high-risk health checkup results. Local communities FY2017 Targets & Plans FY2017 Performance Evaluation FY2018 Targets & Plans Boost nationwide roll-out of activities Rolled out activities nationwide and Enhance activities for educating the by continuing to implement programs provided learning opportunities to a ○ next generation. for educating the next generation. total of 8,000 people. Provided 40 research grants, totaling Continue to support cutting-edge Continue to support cutting-edge 60 million yen, through the Casio ○ science and technology research. science and technology research. Science Promotion Foundation. * For KPIs for material issues, see “Specification of Materiality.” * For environmental targets and performance, see “Environmental Action Plan (Targets and Performance).” CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 63 Responsibilities to Customers Casio is recognized by the market for its commitment to treating customers right. The company constantly strives to ensure its business management is worthy of customer confidence. Product Development and Intellectual Property Activities to Improve Design Initiatives Initiatives Customer Satisfaction Casio develops products with new Casio implement proactive Casio has established an value and helps create new cultural intellectual property programs in organization dedicated to customer phenomena. Casio's product accordance with its management satisfaction which reports directly development concept is simple: strategy, aiming to protect its to the president and is pursuing going from 0 to 1. business and increase profit. greater customer satisfaction by implementing its basic policy consisting of three major customer satisfaction initiatives. Quality Assurance Customer Support Center: Repair Service Ensuring Customer In order to maintain the confidence To please customers and ensure Satisfaction of customers and ensure the their peace of mind when using its reliability of its products, Casio Deeply valuing long-term products, Casio is working to takes an integrity-based approach relationships with customers, Casio improve its system for providing to constant quality improvement. strives to improve the skills of customer support information, support employees and uses while enhancing the service skills customer feedback in the of its staff. development of products and services. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 64 Stable Supply of Products Casio is working to strengthen its global supply chain to meet rising product demand. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 65 Product Development and Design Initiatives Casio aims to develop products that meet the latent needs of customers. To do this the company is constantly improving its ability to generate new ideas. Casio’s primary objective is to make products that work reliably in any environment, and can always be used with safety. From the initial engineering phase to the release of the final product, Casio takes great pains to ensure there are no compromises on manufacturing quality. Product development incorporates insights from the classroom Global Teachers Meeting 2015 Nearly every year since 2007, Casio has invited teachers from outside Japan who are passionate about mathematics education and research to a Global Teachers Meeting held at its Hamura R&D Center. The purpose of these meetings is to contribute to the development of mathematics education by incorporating the perspectives of teachers with realworld insights from the classroom into Casio products. The overarching goal is to provide products that are optimally suited to the diverse educational settings worldwide. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 66 In 2016, the meeting was held in Hamburg, Germany, on July 28 and 29. The theme of the event was mathematics education using information and communications technology, and the participants engaged in a lively discussion about Casio's role in realizing even better education amid anticipated changes to educational environments. There was some discussion concerning new calculator functions that can be used in the classroom, including 3D Graphing, which can help to increase student understanding of three-dimensional figures. Casio developers delivered specification outlines for new products, and the teachers provided a variety of opinions on whether the specifications matched their curricula, and offered suggestions to make the products even more useful. This feedback was utilized to further improve the fxCG50, which was released in March 2017. Casio's aim is to continue developing its scientific calculator business in the future, while contributing to mathematics education development around the world. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 67 Going beyond universal design to human-centered design Casio works to develop products using human-centered design (HCD) in conformity with ISO 13407 processes, with the objective of improving product ease of use as part of the product’s overall quality. In the HCD process, Casio seeks optimal ease of use by determining important issues from customer feedback and observation of product use in realworld situations. Through repeated evaluation and verification, Casio works to develop highly desirable products. Before developing a calculator for shopkeepers (mom-and-pop establishments) in emerging-market regions, Casio carried out market research. It visited such stores to assess the calculator usage environment, and conducted questionnaire and interview surveys, with the aim of developing the most convenient calculator. In order to improve ease of input, the keys for frequently used functions were enlarged, and the color scheme contrast was increased to make the calculator easier to read, even in dim environments. The angle of the display was set for easy viewing both when standing to serve customers, and when sitting to use the calculator. AA was selected for the battery type, as it is easy to obtain in those markets. The body was designed to be held comfortably in the hand, when showing price calculations to customers. It also features a non-slip textured treatment. Exword-Rise_XDR-A20/A10 CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 68 Creating New Value to Meet the Needs of Different World Regions With varying cultures and customs around the world, it is only natural that needs will differ as well. By carefully responding to regional needs, Casio aims to provide products that will be used by even more people and to strengthen its competitiveness in global markets. Calculator with Indian digit grouping Worldwide, long numbers are usually divided into groups of three digits using commas for ease of reading. In India, however, the custom is to use a comma after the thousand position and then after every subsequent two digits (e.g., 10,00,000). Casio was the first to release a calculator that can display numbers in this way. The many shopkeepers who use calculators instead of cash registers in India appreciate the convenience of a device that displays prices in the familiar local format. Display with Indian digit grouping MJ-120Da CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 69 Calculators that speak aloud in Chinese In China, Casio sells speaking calculators that read aloud the calculation details in Chinese. This allows the store clerk and the customer to simultaneously check whether any calculation mistakes are being made. DY-120 Scientific Calculators in Different Language Models Casio develops scientific calculators that display computational expressions in high resolution in the local language instead of English. Following the launch of a model in China, different language models are being released in Europe and emerging country markets. Indonesian model Arabic model Spanish/Portuguese model CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 70 Oriental Keyboard Casio’s Oriental Keyboard features 54 tones and 83 rhythms that are characteristic of the major musical regions of the Middle and Near East, namely, the Arab / Maghreb (Middle East and North Africa), Oriental (Turkey, Greece, and Central Asia), Iran, and Khaleeji (Persian Gulf) regions. This enables Middle and Near Eastern musicians to enjoy the familiar traditional tones of their own regions. AT-3 PRAYER COMPASS This wristwatch, developed especially for Muslims, has the following special features: (1) it indicates daily prayer times based on the position of the sun; (2) it shows the direction of Mecca; and (3) it displays the date in the Islamic calendar. It is sold in 30 countries, including countries in Asia, the Middle East, Latin America, and Africa. CPW-500H-9AV CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 71 Technology Technological expertise is needed to turn an innovative idea into a new product. Utilizing its five core technologies, Casio creates products that were not possible before. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 72 Intellectual Property Initiatives Casio is actively promoting intellectual property activities in line with its management strategy through cooperation between its R&D and business divisions. Based on these activities, the company aims to protect its businesses, and contribute to corporate profitability. Policies for promotion of intellectual property activities Casio takes a mediumto long-term perspective in order to increase its technology management ability, and is systematically promoting research and development for the creation of future business. While recognizing R&D results as intellectual property, Casio is taking steps to ensure that they are properly managed and utilized in order to secure profits. Casio places importance on intellectual property as an important measure of corporate value. In order to effectively promote intellectual property activities, Casio has set the following goals for promoting intellectual property activity, and implements them group-wide for effective utilization of intellectual property. Intellectual property goals Casio is working to increase its intellectual property capacity using the following goals. • Increase the intellectual property capacity of Casio • Protect technology and products globally with strong intellectual property capacity • Guarantee creative technology and product development through strong intellectual property capacity Role of the Intellectual Property Department Since its founding, Casio has worked to develop innovative new technologies and products that are completely original and have never existed before. The protection of these development results through the creation of intellectual property rights is vital to ensuring corporate competitiveness. At the same time, protecting Casio brands and designs from counterfeiting by securing intellectual property rights is also an important activity for the company. The Intellectual Property Department aims to secure intellectual property rights on a global level. Its role is to utilize patent, design, and trademark rights in order to help establish competitive advantage for corporate management. The center also broadly manages intellectual property (rights) such as copyrights and trade secrets as well as general intangible properties, while signing contracts with third parties and resolving disputes. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 73 Intellectual property activities Casio implements various intellectual property activities. Casio actively utilizes the intellectual property that it has accumulated over the years, and carries out activities to protect its businesses. The company conducts ongoing R&D necessary for sustained growth, and has put in place various systems for producing new intellectual property. 1. Patent application and rights acquisition activities Casio constructs patent nets based on patent application and registration in priority fields (selection and concentration), and actively promotes activities for the acquisition of effective patents based on quality improvement. The company carries out patent application and rights acquisition activities worldwide, including in the USA, China, South Korea, Taiwan, and other Asian countries. Global patent portfolio (fiscal 2017) CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 74 2. Intellectual property rights utilization In addition to securing intellectual property rights for its inventions and other proprietary developments, Casio works to ensure freedom of operations by preventing legal claims from other companies and earns profits by licensing its technologies to other companies (including cross licensing). The company also uses intellectual property as a barrier to deter other companies from entering the same business, and carries out activities to establish competitive advantage for corporate management. In particular, Casio takes stringent measures to combat counterfeit products, and cooperates with government agencies to remove fakes from the marketplace. 3. Patent expert system Meeting for patent experts Casio initiated a patent expert system in 1994 in order to promote the ongoing creation of outstanding intellectual property. With the aim of business strengthening through stronger intellectual property, engineers with high-level understanding of technologies and leadership skills have been assigned to each division as patent experts. While cooperating with the Intellectual Property Department from positions within their respective divisions, these patent experts work to strengthen the intellectual property abilities of their respective organizations. Here are details of specific activities. 1. Patent activity planning based on ascertainment of technology and development trends at Casio and other companies, as well as target management 2. Discovering and updating inventions 3. Evaluation of patent applications, determination of direction for patent creation according to business strategy, as well as evaluation of patent maintenance 4. Surveys of patents at other companies, patent infringement avoidance, and patent risk management 5. Creation of new businesses centered on intellectual property CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 75 4. Techno Power Techno Power exhibition Casio's in-house Techno Power technology exhibition began in 1992 and is held annually to stimulate engineers, and foster sharing and cross-fertilization of technology. By creating a place for engineers to present their results to top management, and an opportunity for outstanding engineers and designers to receive recognition (i.e., awards based on the suitability of intellectual property results), the exhibition is a source of pride and motivation for engineers and encourages them to take on the challenge of developing new technologies. 5. Invention award system Since 1968, Casio has had an award system for those employees that contribute to inventions and designs. By increasing the incentive for inventors and designers, the system fosters the desire for in-house engineers to take on the challenge of discovering new technologies. In accordance with Article 35 (Inventions by Employees) of Japan's revised Patent Act, which took effect in April 2005, Casio has revised its environment for employee inventors. It updated its intellectual property rules and created a consultation process in which the employee inventors can voice opinions in the revision of the rules. It also implemented a system for employee inventors to file an objection to monetary reward amounts. Additionally, Article 35 (Inventions by Employees) of Japan's newly revised Patent Act, which is intended to resolve instability in the attribution of rights to inventions by employees, took effect in April 2016. Accordingly, Casio updated its rules specifying that the attribution of the right to receive patents originally goes to the employer (Company), in order to resolve such problems as “procedures for joint inventions made with employees of other companies” and “double transfer of inventions by employees.” The rules are revised as needed to respond to the expectations of employee inventors and adapt to the changing times and evolving environment. 6. Intellectual property training system In order to create a stronger awareness about the acquisition of intellectual property, Casio holds intellectual property seminars to deepen employee understanding and interest in intellectual property. The company also distributes relevant information online (through intellectual property website content), and uses outside educational organizations CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 76 such as the Japan Intellectual Property Association and the Japan Institute of Invention and Innovation. In this way, the company is promoting various intellectual property education activities. 7. Brand support activities Protecting rights to the Casio brand In order to promote smooth corporate operations on a global level, Casio has obtained 1,784 registered trademarks in 187 countries around the world, most of which are product trademarks, in order to protect the Casio brand. To further strengthen protection of rights to the Casio trademark, the company has been seeking official recognition of the Casio mark as a well-known trademark in various countries. This type of certification has already been obtained in several emerging countries. In recent years there have been more trademark applications by other companies—mainly in emerging economies such as China and India—which try to mimic the well-known Casio brand. As a result Casio has been strengthening its monitoring activities and its efforts to prevent the trademarking of look-alike brands. Trademarking of the Casio Brand Design rights acquisition (as of March 31, 2017) Casio has registered the Casio brand for product trademarks in the countries indicated in blue. In the countries indicated in yellow, trademark examination has been delayed in some fields, there is no trademark registration system, or applications are not being accepted due to the politician situation. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 77 Activities for minimizing risk entailed by new product naming and design, as well as rights acquisition While avoiding the risk of infringing upon the design or trademark rights of other companies, Casio is actively promoting business support activities based on the strengthening of Casio's own design and trademark rights. Design rights acquisition (as of March 31, 2017) By product type By region/country CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 78 Trademark rights acquisition (as of March 31, 2017) By product type By region/country Counterfeit product removal and consumer protection activities The development of information and communications technology in recent years has facilitated the extensive spread of counterfeit goods on the Internet. Casio products are no exception to the damage caused by counterfeits. In order to guard consumers from the damage of fake products and to protect the Casio brand and increase its value, Casio has established a department tasked with counterfeit countermeasures and is taking action to get counterfeits off the market. Casio will continue to actively cooperate with efforts by government authorities to stamp out counterfeits by exposing factories that make counterfeit goods and stores that sell them, intercepting counterfeits at customs, and monitoring and eliminating counterfeits sold on the Internet. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 79 Activities to Improve Customer Satisfaction Casio has established an organization dedicated to customer satisfaction which reports directly to the president and is pursuing greater customer satisfaction by implementing its basic policy consisting of three major customer satisfaction initiatives. Activities to improve customer satisfaction Aiming to further improve customer satisfaction (CS), Casio has focused on strengthening the three major CS initiatives listed below since fiscal 2009. It is working to improve after-sales service and product quality, and to incorporate the voice of the customer more than ever before in the creation of even better products. Under these three major CS activities, Casio is making various efforts to ensure that customers are satisfied with its after-sales service. These efforts include enhancing staff training programs to improve product knowledge, repair technical skills, and customer service skills. Casio is also working to boost customer service quality by having staff acquire public qualifications and by improving customer service sites (after-sales CS). Casio is also striving to ensure that customer feedback from in and outside Japan is always delivered directly to the right place within the company, and to take unified improvement measures. Casio is also constantly working to improve product functions (functional CS). Casio compiles and analyzes information on customer inquiries and product defects in and outside Japan. It focuses on early detection, rapid response and prevention of recurrence of problems (quality CS). CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 80 Quality Assurance In all of its business processes, Casio always takes the customer's perspective and bases its actions on the Principle of the Five Gens —in Japanese, genba (on site), genbutsu (actual goods), genjitsu (reality), genri (theory) and gensoku (rule). Casio focuses on operational improvement in order to provide customers with reliability and peace of mind, and to meet customer demands with speed and integrity. Casio Quality —world-class quality assurance In order to deliver products and services that offer reliability and peace of mind to customers, Casio is constantly working on operational improvements to pursue the best solution for customers. Quality assurance at Casio Casio believes it is important not only to provide products and services that delight customers, but also to win acceptance from the whole of society and achieve mutual prosperity. Toward this end, Casio Quality includes everything from the quality of individual products, to environmental protection and recycling. The role of quality assurance is to deliver quality that satisfies customers in every possible way. Quality assurance system In order to carefully maintain and improve Casio Quality, the company has created the quality assurance system shown in the diagram below. The Promotion Committee for Group-wide Quality Enhancement meets twice a year. It pursues activities such as making quality data accessible and easy to understand, and sharing quality information, while passing resolutions on quality policy and measures. The results are used for quality assurance activities in each division. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 81 Quality assurance framework As the division in charge of group-wide quality management, the CS Headquarters, which reports directly to the president, has been linked with the Engineering Department (within the Production & Purchasing Division). Casio is working hard to ensure quality, with the cooperation of all departments, while always pursuing the best solutions for customers. In order to create a common group-wide awareness of Quality First being the foundation all operations, strong leadership is essential from top management and those responsible for quality. The Promotion Committee for Groupwide Quality Enhancement implements training to ensure employees understand and are widely aware of regulations and standards relating to quality and safety, and to learn technology expertise. This includes holding presentations for the improvement of quality management skills. Casio's production plants carry out plan-do-check-act (PDCA) cycles using the ISO 9001 Quality Management System. In order to deliver reliability and peace of mind to customers that use Casio products, Casio employees focus on quality improvement. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 82 List of ISO 9001 Certified Sites Classification Certified and Registered Sites Initial Version Registration Date Product Solution Department, System Product Division, Casio June 25, 1999 Computer Co., Ltd. Development, Production and Service Sites in Japan Yamagata Casio Co., Ltd. December 16, 1994 Casio Techno Co., Ltd. May 21, 2004 Casio Electronic Technology October 26, 2006 (Zhongshan) Co., Ltd. Production Sites outside Japan Casio (Thailand) Co., Ltd. July 13, 2012 Casio Electronics (Shaoguan) Co., April 5, 2017 Ltd. Pursuing top quality Casio's efforts to achieve premium quality are guided by a clearly articulated Quality Concept and Quality Management Policies, which provide indices for evaluating all quality initiatives. Quality Concept Casio maintains a strong quality assurance system, based on its belief in Quality First. This system requires all employees to make quality their first concern in every task they perform, enabling the company to offer products and services that please and impress customers. The company's commitment to quality supports its corporate growth and makes social contributions possible, while at the same time winning customers' trust and giving them peace of mind. Quality Management Policies • To build a good corporate image, we offer products and services that please and impress our customers, gain their strong trust, and ensure their peace of mind. • We respond to our customers' requests and inquiries with sincerity and speed, and reflect their valuable comments in our products and services. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 83 • In all our business processes, we base our actions on the Principle of the Five Gens —in Japanese, genba (on site), genbutsu (actual goods), genjitsu (reality), genri (theory) and gensoku (rule)—and adhere to the basics of business operations. • We capture and analyze quality assurance activities quantitatively, using reliable data, and use the analysis to make continuous improvements. We also maintain a quality information system that enables the sharing of quality information and prevention of problems before they occur, and prevents recurrence of quality problems. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 84 Offering users peace of mind Casio makes every effort to ensure product safety so that customers can always use Casio products with peace of mind. As shown in the diagram below, Casio works to ensure product safety in each process from product planning, development, and design, to trial manufacture, evaluation, production, and delivery. In order to maintain and enhance these efforts, the company performs safety audits* and works to prevent potential problems from occurring, or issues from reoccurring. * Safety audits: Design audits conducted based on the Casio Safe Design Standards New products are divided into products with “new technology components” and products of the “usual rank.” Then, products that contain new technology components undergo an objective safe design review based on Casio’s own safe design standards. Usual rank products are checked for safe design by their respective business division, thereby ensuring that all products undergo a safe design review. Product safety system To comply with the legislative intent of Japan’s recently revised Consumer Product Safety Act, which went into force on May 14, 2007, the Casio board of directors has adopted the Fundamental Policies on Product Safety. Based on these policies, Casio has put in place the Product Safety Voluntary Action Plan which specifies the details of the steps to be taken. The company has also reengineered its response systems for handling those unusual situations when a product-related accident occurs, and has established procedures for managing such situations. These include the steady, timely collection and dissemination of accident information, the issuance of notifications and reports to customers and relevant administrative agencies, prompt, appropriate response measures, efforts to identify causes, and measures to prevent any future recurrence. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 85 Customer Support Center: Ensuring customer satisfaction The Customer Support Center is working to improve the quality of its service to ensure that Casio products continue to deliver enjoyable new experiences to customers. In addition, by providing customer feedback to relevant departments within the company, the center is actively working to ensure that the voice of the customer is reflected in product creation and service development. Customer Service Initiatives in Japan Emphasizing the sensibility of “consideration” The Customer Support Center respects customers and is working to serve them based on the wish to be helpful. At the same time, the staff do not simply answer callers’ questions; they strive to accurately grasp the core reasons for each inquiry, and to propose appropriate solutions, while emphasizing good interpersonal communication. As customers become more diverse, staff are also working to acquire new methods to serve various kinds of customers. Sharing customer feedback and making improvements from the customer’s perspective The center shares opinions and inquiries received from customers with relevant departments such as the development and sales departments. This customer feedback is then used to make even better products and services. At the same time, in 2016, Casio gathered customer opinions on social media and also worked on analyzing and sharing their spontaneous and frank opinions. Based on the customer's perspective, the center is also encouraging relevant departments to take measures to improve not only products, but also user manuals, catalogs, and webpages, in order to make them easier to use and understand. Customer Support Center Breakdown of Customer Inquiries in Japan (Fiscal 2017, Consumer Products) CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 86 Supporting Customers Outside Japan Cooperation with support centers outside Japan The Customer Support Center in Japan cooperates with similar centers at Casio sales companies in other countries. In China, the center responds to customer inquiries not only by telephone but also through instant messaging apps. To further improve convenience for customers there, in fiscal 2017 the service was expanded to weekends, and communication lines now remain open until 9 p.m. instead of 6 p.m., every day. Casio will continue striving to build systems that allow support centers to establish even better relationships with customers worldwide. The following shows a breakdown of the percentages of inquiries received for each product category. Watches account for a large proportion of inquiries. Breakdown of Product Inquiries (Fiscal 2017, Overseas/Japan) Fiscal 2017 Item Overseas Japan Timepieces 50.6% 36.7% Digital Cameras 19.4% 9.7% Calculators 9.1% 3.5% Other Consumer Products 9.0% 30.2% System Equipment 11.9% 19.9% Total 100.0% 100.0% CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 87 Providing Support Information and Repair Services While further improving the service skills of its employees, Casio is building after-sales service systems that reassure and delight customers. Customer satisfaction initiatives in Japan The service departments at Casio, which are responsible for customer satisfaction in after-sales service, strive to increase customer satisfaction by providing service that precisely addresses customer needs and lifestyle preferences. In September 2012, Casio began returning repaired products to customers with a questionnaire directing them to a customer feedback website. Customers are invited to provide an immediate evaluation of the service they have received. By listening to the evaluations and valuable opinions of customers who have actually experienced the company’s repair service, Casio makes continuous efforts to improve its repair service and enhance convenience, in order to provide customers with quick and accurate service. Pursuing convenience for customers In 2015, an online repair request service was launched for customers of Casio products. In fiscal 2017, new functions were added to the site. Previously, payment of repair fees was limited to cash on delivery. However, through the addition of online payment by credit card, customers no longer need to prepare cash and pay a transaction fee when taking delivery of a repaired item. Another feature was added that allows customers to pay for and receive a special recyclable shipping box for sending an item to the repair center. The box is easy to assemble and includes packing material. This has made it easier for customers to send in items, while avoiding any further breakage during transportation. In addition, Casio now covers the shipping costs for items sent to the repair center during the warranty period. As a result, repair request procedures are much easier and customers need not worry about repair center hours. Casio is striving to further improve customer convenience while reducing repair costs. Special box for sending in repair items In April 2016, a watch maintenance booth was set up at the G-SHOCK STORE GINZA. A repair technician is on duty at the booth every day the store is open, and assists customers with quick battery replacement and other watch maintenance. Previously, unless a customer visited a service location, battery replacement would take several days, including shipping. Now it is possible to replace a battery in about one hour at the store, for a quick maintenance CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 88 experience. In March 2017, a second maintenance booth was set up, this one at the G-SHOCK STORE SAPPORO. Repair technicians are available there mainly on weekends and holidays. In addition, purchasers of Casio projectors who register their customer information at the Casio website can have their one-year warranties extended to two years. Going forward, Casio will continue to revise and enhance the content of its services to match customer needs with respect to each product so that customers can enjoy using Casio’s products longer. Maintenance booth at the G-SHOCK STORE GINZA Reliable technical skill Casio is working to improve repair technical skills, product knowledge, and customer service skills (through training programs and in-house competitions, for example) in order to maintain customer confidence, meet the needs of the changing times, and handle the constant advance of product features —ultimately, to realize the kind of service quality that today’s customers expect. As the company responsible for repairing Casio products, Casio Techno Co., Ltd., encourages its employees to obtain public certifications and professional qualifications, such as national certification through the level 1 or level 2 exams for timepiece repair technicians and business etiquette certifications. By promoting the acquisition of a wide range of qualifications, the company is developing outstanding employees with proficiency not only in repair skills, but also in customer service and product knowledge. Casio Techno is committed to providing detailed high-quality service to customers. Every Casio Techno employee acquires a high degree of technical expertise, motivated by a sincere desire to please customers and earn their confidence. By continuing to work tirelessly in this way, Casio Techno can promise service that both reassures and delights customers. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 89 Site group technical training Customer satisfaction initiatives outside Japan Outside Japan, a total of 902 companies, including 11 local subsidiaries and 891 repair partners, carry out after-sales service for Casio brand products (as of March 2017). Casio holds regular technical skill courses for service technicians in each region in order to raise repair skill levels, aiming to ensure that Casio customers around the world receive high-quality repair services. Meanwhile, Casio is working hard to continually assess and improve repair time, quality, and costs at each repair center. Casio holds regular technical skill courses in each region in order to improve the acquisition of repair technical skill and to raise skill levels to ensure that Casio customers around the world receive high-quality repair services. In May 2016, a meeting was held in Tokyo for the heads of sales company service departments located outside Japan, and in June a meeting was held in Bangkok, Thailand, for the heads of distributor service departments located in the Asia and Oceania region. In January 2017, a meeting was held in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, for the heads of distributor service departments located in the Middle East and Africa region. Casio will continue to work with its service sites to further improve the after-sales service for Casio products worldwide. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 90 Repair centers for local subsidiaries 【Singapore: Piano repair 【Germany: Piano repair technique Asia and Oceania meeting: June Middle East and Africa meeting: technique training】May 2016 training】May 2016 2016 January 2017 To ensure that customers outside Japan feel comfortable and confident in their use of Casio products, support information is provided online in 21 languages other than Japanese. The headquarters in Japan uses a system that allows it to maintain this support information directly to ensure overall uniformity and speedier provision of information. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 91 Online support sites CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 92 Stable Supply of Products Casio's primary mission is to deliver the products desired by customers at the right time. The company is working to strengthen its global supply chain, and to continue providing cutting-edge products without interruption. Approach to stable product supply Delivering a stable supply of products to consumers is one of the most important responsibilities of a manufacturer, and is required to ensure customer satisfaction and loyalty. As part of Casio's mission to provide delight, happiness, and pleasure to customers through its innovative products, the company is promoting the following policies. Policies on Stable Product Supply 1. We strive to shorten production lead-time and improve planning and execution accuracy by using IT to optimize the supply chain (procurement-production-logistics-sales-service). 2. We build good relationships with component suppliers to ensure stable procurement. 3. We maintain the flexibility needed to address various risks involved in manufacturing by: • building a production system with at least two production sites for each product; • producing multiple products and improving capacity for high-mix/low-volume production at each Casio Group production site • maintaining in-house production and inlining of key devices and components. Supply network is highly responsive to changes in demand Casio uses supply chain management (SCM) at production sites in response to changes in market conditions and demand for high-mix/low-volume product offerings, seeking to speed up the planning cycle and provide a stable supply of salable products. Specific initiatives include efforts to standardize work processes such as parts delivery controls, materials warehouse management, and manufacturing process management. Casio aims to achieve integrated manufacturing (total optimization) by using the same systems and same methods at different production sites. These initiatives are necessary to increase shipment precision, shorten production lead times, and shrink unused assets, and are already CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 93 becoming mission-critical systems. The timepiece business in particular, which conducts production at multiple sites, in Yamagata (Japan), China, and Thailand, must respond rapidly to the changing environment in each region. Smooth operation of SCM enables the deployment of standardized IT tools and production equipment as well as the appropriate distribution of supply capacity. Casio will move to multisite production in other product categories in the future and build an even more sophisticated SCM system. Diversifying production risk and producing core components in-house Casio maintains a stable supply of products by having each production site manufacture multiple product items, and by ensuring that two different sites can produce any given Casio product. The company is also increasing the internal production of components in order to protect newly created technologies and to reduce parts procurement risk. Production sites for individual products CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 94 Production Sites Casio (Thailand) Co., Ltd Casio's new plant in Nakhonratchasima, Thailand, is located on high ground, making it less susceptible to floods. Casio has added the new plant to its existing major production sites with a view to enhancing business continuity planning (BCP) and diversifying risk through global manufacturing. Casio will continue to expand the plant’s production scale and functions. In fiscal 2015, Casio started production of calculators and electronic dictionaries at a new third plant on the site, in order to provide a more stable, high-mix supply of products. Casio Timepiece (Dongguan) Co., Ltd. Casio Timepiece (Dongguan) Co., Ltd., was launched in 2015. Located in the city of Dongguan, Guangdong Province, China, it supplies metal cases for watches to group sites in Japan, Southeast Asia, and China. As the Casio Group’s first plant processing metal components, it is working at accumulating processing technology (cutting and polishing) and developing new technology. It mainly produces cases for high-end products. Casio Electronics (Shaoguan) Co., Ltd. Launched as a watch assembly plant in 2016, this company is located in Shaoguan, Guangdong Province, China. As one of Casio's main watch factories in China, it is helping to maintain a stable production scale, mainly for regular and popularly priced digital models. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 95 Responsibilities to Suppliers Casio procures various materials from a large number of suppliers in and outside Japan. In order to develop long-term business relationships based on its Procurement Policies, Casio is working to strengthen CSR activities across its entire supply chain, while improving measures for proper transactions. Socially responsible procurement at Casio Casio has established Procurement Policies in order to execute its social responsibility to conduct fair and equitable transactions throughout the supply chain. The policies cover matters including legal compliance, respecting human rights, labor, safety, and health, as well as environmental protection such as biodiversity preservation and risk control of chemical contents and information security. Casio constantly improves its socially responsible procurement by obtaining the understanding and support of suppliers for the policies and building strong partnerships. Procurement Policies Casio aims to fulfill its social responsibilities, including compliance with relevant laws and social norms, and protection of the environment, through fair and equitable transactions throughout the supply chain by strengthening partnership with suppliers. 1. Fair and equitable transactions Casio carries out fair and equitable transactions by providing equal opportunities to all suppliers (and candidates) in and outside Japan in accordance with its internally established procedures. 2. Compliance with laws and social norms Casio's procurement activities comply with all relevant laws, social norms, standards and treaties worldwide, including the protection of human rights, the prohibition of child labor, forced labor and discrimination, and avoiding the use of conflict minerals, and respect for freedom of association, the right to associate, and the right to collective bargaining, as well as ensure that absolutely no contact is made with organized criminal elements. Therefore, Casio requires its suppliers to observe the same legal and social requirements. 3. Environmental protection Casio helps to protect the global environment through environmentally friendly procurement, which is based on the Casio Environmental Vision and Casio's Environmental Declaration, in cooperation with suppliers. 4. Strengthening partnership with suppliers Casio builds up relationship of trust with its suppliers through reciprocal efforts, such as merging and complementing mutual technological development abilities, supply chain cooperation, compliance with laws and social norms and protection of the global environment, which will benefit both parties. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 96 5. Policies on supplier selection and transaction continuation Casio initiates and continues transactions with suppliers based on comprehensive evaluation criteria, which include compliance with laws and social norms, environmental protection, proper information security, respect for intellectual property, sound and stable corporate management, superior technological development ability, right price and quality, stable supply capabilities and electronic transaction systems. 6. Securing right price and quality Casio endeavors to secure right price and quality in order to provide its customers with stable supply of optimal products, which ensures that Casio gains the full confidence of customers around the world. 7. Prohibition of personal-interest relationships Casio does not allow any employees to have personal-interest relationships with any suppliers. Fulfilling social responsibilities together with suppliers In order to ensure compliance with the Procurement Policies together with its suppliers, Casio has established the Supplier Guidelines (available at link below). All of Casio's suppliers in Japan and elsewhere have agreed to these guidelines to help Casio fulfill its social responsibilities. Casio is also managing its supply chain more successfully by introducing a regular monitoring system that ensures that these guidelines are properly fulfilled. Supplier Guidelines Disseminating supplier guidelines Casio carries out the majority of its production outside Japan at Casio plants and manufacturing subcontractors (electronic manufacturing services). Every year, Casio holds briefings on its Procurement Policies in Southern China. Initially, these briefings simply involved Casio explaining its business policies to suppliers and asking them to undertake initiatives. Since fiscal 2010, however, Casio has been using these briefings as an opportunity for two-way communication. Suppliers are invited to participate actively, for instance by asking those with exemplary CSR initiatives to present examples of their efforts to promote and improve CSR. This enables the sharing of useful case studies and know-how for addressing CSR. By working collaboratively with its suppliers in this way, Casio is continually improving the level of CSR performance in its supply chain. The most recent meeting was attended by the manager of Casio’s CSR Promotion Office, who gave a presentation on human rights issues. He explained the need for major distributors outside Japan to regularly conduct CSR audits at Casio overseas production sites. The distributors must keep a close watch on response to human rights issues on the production lines and in the supply chain. He also explained the potential for serious business and credit risk arising from any improper protection of worker rights, and presented specific examples of human rights issues to be looked at in the supply chain. The aim was to promote thorough understanding of the importance of taking steps to protect human rights. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 97 In June 2009, Casio revised the Basic Business Agreement it signs with suppliers in Japan. Clauses were added to require measures such as legal compliance, respect for human rights, and environmental protection. The new agreement is being rolled out steadily. Briefing on Procurement Policies Award ceremony at the Procurement Policies Presentation on human rights issues by Noriaki briefing Kimura, Manager of the CSR Promotion Office Comprehensive management of CSR performance In fiscal 2008, Casio started conducting a questionnaire survey* of principal suppliers in Japan on CSR performance in order to confirm the status of CSR procurement. In fiscal 2010, the survey was expanded to include suppliers in China and Thailand. Based on the fiscal 2012 survey results and changes in society’s expectations, the questionnaire for suppliers was revised in fiscal 2013. Overlapping questions were eliminated and a new theme, policies for avoiding conflict minerals, was added. The fiscal 2017 questionnaire was sent to 238 companies in Japan, and the response rate was 100%, clearly indicating suppliers’ high level of interest in CSR fulfillment. In China and Thailand, responses were received from 317 companies, also for a response rate of 100%. Again, the great concern for CSR fulfillment among suppliers is clear. Casio compiles and analyses the response data, and shares the results with suppliers, along with Casio's approach to CSR procurement. Since fiscal 2011, Casio has been conducting onsite audits of major suppliers in China and Thailand with local staff members of the CSR promotion projects launched at sites in those countries. In fiscal 2012, the company started planning onsite inspections performed mainly by local Casio staff, and the number of visits is increasing. In fiscal 2017, Casio conducted onsite inspections at 7 companies in China. In Thailand, it conducted onsite inspections at 6 companies. Even with the suspension in inspections caused by the flooding, it has cumulatively covered almost all suppliers in Thailand. Going forward, Casio will continue onsite inspections with the aim of instilling commitment to CSR throughout the supply chain. Additionally, Casio underwent CSR-related audits at 3 of its production sites at the request of 3 major distribution customers. * The questionnaire was prepared in accordance with a Supplier Checklist for CSR Procurement based upon the Guidebook for Supply Chain Implementation of CSR Procurement published by the Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA). It covered: (1) human rights and labor conditions; (2) health and safety; (3) the environment; (4) fair transactions and ethics; (5) quality and consumer safety; (6) information security; and (7) social contribution. A list of the items included in each category of the questionnaire is available here. （PDF / 10.8KB） CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 98 Questionnaire results Questionnaire given to a total of 537 suppliers Responses to all questions received from 537 suppliers (100% response rate) Status of responses by CSR category Items Score 0 Overall Promotion of Corporate Social Responsibility 4.1 Ⅰ Human Rights and Labor 4.6 Ⅱ Occupational Health and Safety 4.6 Ⅲ Environment 4.6 Ⅳ Fair Trading 4.5 Ⅴ Product Quality and Safety 4.7 Ⅵ Information Security 4.5 Ⅶ Contribution to Society 4.0 Total 4.5 CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 99 Status of responses by CSR category Improving CSR across the supply chain CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 100 Supplier message Ryosan will continue to develop activities not only from an economic perspective but also with a strong awareness of social and environmental issues. To that end, we believe that it is important for each and every employee to strive to maintain a high awareness of these issues while carrying out their daily work. This is based on the concept that the corporation is a public institution, which is the foundation of our CSR activities. Ryosan is more than a trading company; it is a coordinator of electronic systems. While following technological trends, we will provide value to society by serving as the main organization in ensuring the optimal pairing of Saito Kazuhiro, Executive Officer, Director of the East Japan 2nd Marketing and Sales electronics technology with people's needs. Headquarters, and General Manager of the Nishitama Sales Branch, Ryosan We support Casio's procurement policy and will continue to take the Company, Limited necessary action as a strong partner of Casio. Avoiding any use of conflict minerals Some minerals, such as tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold, produced in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and neighboring African countries have become a source of funding for armed groups and anti-government forces carrying out atrocities. They are called conflict minerals because of their potential to promote conflict, human rights violations, and environmental destruction. Wanting no part in human rights violations and environmental destruction, Casio’s stance is to completely avoid the use of conflict minerals. The group will continue its efforts to avoid the use of such minerals by working closely with suppliers. In January 2013, Casio revised its Procurement Policies and Supplier Guidelines, adding a ban on the use of conflict minerals. A question about policies to avoid the use of conflict minerals was also added to the CSR questionnaire sent to suppliers in Japan. In fiscal 2014, Casio group companies surveyed suppliers worldwide about the use of conflict minerals, using the EICC & GeSI* Conflict Minerals Reporting Template. Worldwide, 646 responses were received in fiscal 2017. The response rate was 100% in fiscal 2017 (96% in fiscal 2016). In the first year of the survey, many companies reported conflict mineral use as unknown. In the second year, there was a noticeable shift towards yes or no responses, rather than unknown. There are inherent difficulties in conflict mineral investigation, as strict survey implementation requires going all the way back up the supply chain to the smelters. Casio will continue to collect relevant information including customer reactions and industry trends in the US, EU and other regions. As a member of the Responsible Mineral Trade Working Group of the Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA), Casio is also working to improve conflict mineral survey activities in the supply chain through industry collaboration. * Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI): An international strategic partnership to create and promote technologies and practices for economic, environmental and social sustainability, working with members from major information and communication technology (ICT) companies and organizations. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 101 Responsibilities to Shareholders and Investors Casio discloses information promptly and fairly to shareholders and investors, and always strives to increase shareholder returns. Basic policy for shareholder returns Casio considers the maintenance and expansion of returns for all of its shareholders an important management issue, and constantly strives to improve its business performance and financial structure. The company's dividend policy calls for maintaining stable dividends, and Casio determines the allocation of profit by taking into account all factors such as profit levels, financial position, the dividend payout ratio, and future business development and forecasts. Considering this policy, Casio paid dividends of ¥40 per share in fiscal 2017, the same dividends as the previous fiscal year. Casio again plans to pay dividends of ¥40 per share in fiscal 2018. Inclusion in SRI Indexes FTSE4Good Index The FTSE4Good Index, developed by FTSE Russell, an index and data provision services company capitalized by the London Stock Exchange Group, evaluates corporate sustainability in terms of social, environmental, and governance aspects. Casio Computer Co., Ltd., has been included in the FTSE4Good Index since June 2016. MSCI Global Sustainability Indexes MSCI Global Sustainability Indexes, developed by MSCI (Morgan Stanley Capital Investment), consist of companies that are excellent in ESG (Environment, Society &, Governance) aspects. Casio Computer Co., Ltd., has been continuingly included in the MSCI Global Sustainability Indexes since September 2014. Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index (MS-SRI) Casio Computer Co., Ltd., has been continuingly included in the Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index (MS-SRI) since September 2004. Morningstar Japan selects 150 companies from among all listed companies in Japan based on their social responsibility track records, and indexes their stock prices. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 102 SNAM Sustainability Index In June 2017, Casio Computer was selected for inclusion in the SNAM Sustainability Index created by Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Asset Management Co., Ltd. (SNAM). Based on this unique active index, SNAM launched the SNAM Sustainable Investment Fund in August 2012. This is a responsible investment product for pension funds and institutional investors that invests in a wide range of companies with high ratings based on environmental, societal, and governance (ESG) factors. After the companies are selected with a focus on the results of ESG surveys by research firms, the portfolio weights are determined based on the SNMA Sustainability Index. Communication with shareholders and investors IR events Every quarter, Casio holds a financial results briefing for institutional investors and securities analysts on the same day that the company announces its results. The president or the director responsible for investor relations is the main speaker at these briefings, and explains the financial results and forecasts. Casio also holds meetings with institutional investors and analysts worldwide, while occasionally providing factory tours and business briefings. Improving IR publications To provide IR information for shareholders and investors, the company issues an Annual Report, semiannual business reports (Japanese only), and quarterly Consolidated Financial Results. Casio's Investor Relations website also features these publications and other IR information. Casio also updates its Investor Relations site in a timely fashion to reflect market changes and make the information more accessible and useful. Investor Relations Reaching out to individual shareholders and investors Casio is carrying out various initiatives in order to deepen the understanding individual investors and shareholders have of its business. At its General Meeting of Shareholders, the company described its main products and key businesses. On the Japanese Investor Relations website, a section was added specifically for individual investors in an effort to make information disclosure clearer. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 103 Responsibilities to Employees At Casio, the human resources mission is organized around two themes: contributing to the development of the company through the growth of all employees based on their desire to always take on challenges and make improvements; and achieving both corporate development and employee growth under optimal conditions. Global Human Resources Building Workplaces for a Creating Supportive Strategy Diverse Workforce Workplaces Casio has started creating a global Casio has launched a diversity Casio develops various support human resources strategy as it project focused on enabling all systems and is committed to looks to further expand its business employees to perform at their full creating a culture of mutual outside Japan. potential and reach even greater acceptance of diverse styles of heights. working. Effectively appointing and Promoting health and safety deploying employees initiatives for employees Casio works to maintain a healthy Casio seeks to build work corporate culture where fairness environments where all employees and impartiality are valued in all of the group can work with peace promotion decisions. The company of mind. uses a merit-driven system combined with a performancebased approach to evaluate employees and determine compensation. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 104 Global Human Resources Strategy Casio is reinforcing its global expansion in all business fields, including existing and new businesses. In light of its continuing business expansion outside Japan, Casio has started creating a global human resources strategy. This project includes the enhancement of human resources functions at group companies outside Japan and the establishment of a system for developing human resources who are prepared to meet global standards. Vision of global talent Casio’s employees around the world must always think from the headquarters’ perspective in order to demonstrate leadership. The human resources department uses various opportunities and tools to convey and share with employees messages on the importance of thinking of Japan as just one area in the world and of changing one’s mindset to work with a global outlook. Example: Company intranet C’s ☆ CAFÉ “Vision of Global Talent” CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 105 CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 106 Establishment of standards for the roles of persons sent on assignment outside Japan It is important to increase the number of human resources with the aptitude for assignment outside Japan. At the same time, however, Casio is endeavoring to develop local employees and create more opportunities for their promotion. It does this by sending people on assignments outside Japan only to perform roles that cannot be done by local employees and by clarifying their division of roles with local employees. Casio will establish a table of standards and develop a check system to enable its employees around the world to shine by placing the right people in the right jobs. Example: Image of the use of the table of standards for the roles of persons sent on assignment outside Japan Establishment of a structure for developing employees in Japan who can play an active role on the world stage Casio is committed to accelerating the globalization of employees in Japan in terms of recruitment, placement, and development. At present, Casio is enhancing the educational content at each stage and deepening coordination between stages in an effort to create systematic human resources development. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 107 Positioning of stage-based education Casio implements measures such as the following at each stage in order to achieve this kind of human resources development. Provision of local information to persons going on assignment outside Japan and development of multicultural management skills Casio systematically provides grade-based training to persons going on assignment outside Japan according to their mission at the location of assignment. In fiscal 2014, it added Training for Presidents outside Japan for top management, Site Management Skills Training for senior management, and Multicultural Management Skills Training and Assignment Location Situation for all persons going on assignment outside Japan. Additionally, in 2014 Casio stepped up safety measures, the provision of educational information for accompanying children, and other efforts to strengthen on-location living support. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 108 Training system before assignment outside Japan CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 109 In the Multicultural Management Skills Training, members of completely different ages and assignment locations engage in heated debate, revealing their enthusiasm for going on assignment outside Japan. The educational content is made more practical by engaging participants in discussions of issues that seem likely to actually occur and by learning the specific stories of the instructors’ experiences. Training for Presidents outside Japan provides education to candidates for positions as future presidents of companies outside Japan. Nearly all the participants were extremely satisfied with the training, which included systematic lectures covering not only management but also the roles of presidents outside Japan and the thinking of business managers as well as case studies based on real-life examples. Casio will continue to enhance the education it provides to persons who will be appointed as presidents to raise their awareness as business managers and convey the importance of management. Improvement of global business skills in candidates for assignments outside Japan (registered candidates) Casio is registering candidates for assignments outside Japan more systematically than ever before and will further strengthen systematic education, including global aptitude checks and acquisition of necessary skills, with a view to sending candidates on assignments a few years later. Encouraging all employees working in Japan to adopt a global mindset In order to promote more systematic development of human resources prepared to work outside Japan, Casio will continue to implement screening and personnel development measures, not only for persons to be sent on assignment outside Japan, but also for persons working in Japan. This includes checking employees for global adaptability, as well as helping them to improve strengths and overcome weaknesses through training and to learn the necessary skills. Global career path In order to continuously develop global human resources, it is not enough to use a direct approach from the human resources department to employees; people who can develop global human resources must be developed and promoted as managers so that employees can grow through their work in the field. Accordingly, Casio has developed its conventional career path into a global career path. So that employees in addition to those involved in sales outside Japan will have even a broader perspective, the company has enhanced personnel placement to give employees wideranging experience before they become section chiefs, department managers, and division managers. This approach will be used in future human resources development and placement planning. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 110 Example: Company intranet C’s ☆ CAFÉ Global career path (sales) Strengthening human resources functions at group companies outside Japan The strengthening of human resources functions is becoming an increasingly important issue at group companies outside Japan, which are increasing in number and growing in size rapidly around the world with the continued expansion of Casio’s business outside Japan. In this environment, Casio is working at enhancing human resources functions throughout the group, ensuring that they reflect the shared Casio corporate creed, by sharing its global human resources philosophy and know-how. This effort includes restructuring human resources systems to make them suitable to each company, taking into consideration each country’s values, laws, and other characteristics. Global human resources governance system Casio actively engages in exchanges of opinions on what the Casio Group perspective should be about local problems and circumstances. The headquarters human resource division also directly dialogues with and provides advice on system design to members of human resources departments at local companies. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 111 Building Workplaces for a Diverse Workforce Casio makes products used by people around the world. As values and ways of thinking become ever more diverse, the global market is also increasingly changing. In order to respond to the wide range of market needs, companies must recruit people with diverse ideas, knowledge and experience into their corporate cultures, in order to continue developing successful new products. This is why Casio works so hard to create conditions where all employees can work enthusiastically and enjoy job satisfaction, regardless of gender, nationality, age, or level of ability. A project has been launched to help achieve this goal. Some progress has been attained through various activities led by the Working Group for Female Employee Advancement, as the first step in promoting diversity. Casio is now focusing on enabling all employees—including seniors, persons with disabilities, and non-Japanese employees, not just women—to perform to their full potential and reach even greater heights. Supporting advancement of female employees Casio actively and continuously carries out a variety of measures with the aim of supporting all female employees so that they can fully demonstrate their abilities. Casio actively promotes ambitious and talented employees, and the number of women in senior staff positions increased from four in fiscal 2011 to 24 in fiscal 2017. In order to promote the advancement of women even more in the future, Casio has established the goal of doubling the percentage of women in senior staff positions by 2020. The company plans to actively implement measures to foster ambition for promotion among female candidates for senior staff positions and to take measures to support the career formation of young women. Additionally, in some years, the percentage of female engineers is somewhat low in the hiring of new graduates. Accordingly, Casio has set goals for the percentage of women in the hiring of new graduates joining the company every spring from fiscal 2019 of at least 20% in engineering positions, at least 50% in sales positions, and at least 30% overall. The company plans to expand the number of its female engineer applicants by aggressively targeting technically minded women in its PR. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 112 Female employees in senior staff positions (Casio Computer Co., Ltd.) (FY) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Number of female employees in senior 4(3) 13(5) 16(8) 20(10) 20(9) 24(10) 24(11) staff positions (number of managers) Percentage of female employees in senior 0.4% 1.3% 1.7% 2.0% 2.1% 2.6% 2.6% staff positions (0.9%) (1.5%) (2.1%) (2.0%) (1.9%) (2.1%) (2.3%) (percentage of managers) * Casio regards senior staff as professional staff and classifies them as: managers, or professionals who control an organization; and specialists, or professionals that belong to an organization. * A manager means a person at the department manager level or higher. Hiring and encouraging non-Japanese employees to play active roles Aiming to stimulate and internationalize the company, Casio is actively hiring foreign students studying in Japan who wish to work at Casio. During the selection process, Casio makes careful efforts to prevent disadvantages at the time of selection resulting from insufficient understanding of information due to differences in language, culture, and customs. This includes participating in recruitment briefings for non-Japanese students in Japan (12 such employees were hired in the last five years). Casio has established a working group under the Diversity Project that includes non-Japanese employees who are already playing active roles while seeking to improve the company’s systems from their point of view. Casio is working hard to build an environment in which non-Japanese employees can feel secure about continuing to work for a long time after joining the company. At present, Casio’s non-Japanese employees are playing active roles while displaying their individuality in many kinds of workplaces. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 113 Improved menu signage in the cafeteria Even for non-Japanese employees who are proficient in Japanese, it can be difficult to understand the names of food ingredients and cooking methods. Accordingly, Casio now displays cafeteria menus in both Japanese and English. This has also enabled employees of group companies and suppliers outside Japan who are visiting Japan on business, as well, to use the cafeteria more freely. Additionally, for the benefit of people with dietary restrictions due to religious precepts, menu displays now also include illustrations making it clear what kind of meat is used in each dish. English menu description (bottom); pork mark (upper right) New system of leave for returning to one’s home country Casio grants special leave to non-Japanese employees in Japan so that they can participate from time to time in important events in their home countries and to create opportunities for them to see their family and relatives in their home countries once every several years. Until now it was possible for non-Japanese employee to use paid vacation to return home, but establishing a system has made it easier for them to take leave by clarifying the purpose. Establishment of a prayer room Casio has prepared a room with space for Muslim employees to put down a prayer rug and pray. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 114 Description of applications to update one’s status of residence in Japan Non-Japanese employees must apply to update their status of residence in Japan every five years. Employees had to collect all the necessary documents and make a request to the company, and sometimes the procedures were difficult to understand. Accordingly, Casio has put up a description of the procedures on its company intranet. Working together with persons with disabilities Casio is creating workplace environments that allow every individual to display their full abilities and aptitudes. Upon request, it provides hands-on training in the workplace before hiring in an effort to dispel anxiety about actually working there and to eliminate gaps between expectations and reality. Casio has also adopted and uses a follow-up system for persons with disabilities throughout the group. This system is intended to constantly aim for the most suitable environment in light of the opinions of both the workplace and persons with disabilities by conducting periodic interviews after a person with disabilities joins the company so they are not left alone to face any anxieties or problems. The interviews help to quickly resolve any problems, check aptitude for work duties based on actual performance of those duties, and facilitate the provision of care if a disability has changed with the passage of time. This also helps to relieve the anxieties of the families and former schools of employees with disabilities. Casio also invites sign language interpreters to company events to help convey information to the hearing impaired. A working group in the Diversity Project is advancing community development for persons with disabilities. It is carrying out initiatives aimed at making Casio an easier place to keep working by incorporating the opinions of persons with disabilities regarding issues such as environmental retrofitting focused on ensuring safety, measures to increase awareness in workplaces where persons with disabilities work, and measures to further establish their position in the workplace. Furthermore, Casio introduced commuting support measures for employees with disabilities, thereby allowing them to work staggered hours. The aim was to reduce obstacles and secure safety during commuting, according to the nature of the employee’s disability. This move was in response to requests from employees with disabilities, and also addressed legal requirements to prevent discrimination against people with disabilities by providing reasonable accommodation of their needs. The company aims to create an environment in which all Casio employees can work enthusiastically and enjoy job satisfaction, regardless of level of ability. Casio actively hires people who display creativity and have the desire to work and take on challenges, and gives them a stage on which to play an active role. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 115 Percent of workforce with disabilities Since the employment rate for persons with disabilities is still insufficient, Casio is stepping up recruitment to increase this rate. As of April 1, 2015 As of April 1, 2016 As of April 1, 2017 Casio Computer Co., 1.74% 1.84% 1.87% Ltd. Group companies in 1.95% 2.04% 2.00% Japan Encouraging the hiring of seniors / supporting the lives and employment of seniors Casio has a Senior Employee Program to provide retirement-age employees with employment opportunities, and to effectively utilize the skills and know-how that these individuals have accumulated over the course of their careers. It revised this program following amendment of the Act for Stabilization of Employment of Older Persons in fiscal 2014. Under the post-revision program, Casio offers continued employment with reasonable treatment according to past performance and the roles and responsibilities assumed after retirement age. The system creates workplaces where seniors can continue using their career skills and expertise within the Casio group. As part of these efforts, Casio continues to promote the following initiatives. Clarifying roles when hiring senior employees Casio decided to clarify the procedure for re-hiring employees reaching retirement. The aim is further strengthen the potential of senior employees and to ensure job satisfaction after re-employment at a new compensation level. The company must now describe the skills and experience of each individual concerned, along with the corresponding job description, role, and expectations. These must be clearly documented and presented with the compensation conditions at time of re-employment. Raising awareness of the need for career planning when looking ahead to retirement and reemployment When employees reach mandatory retirement age and become eligible for re-employment as a senior employee, their roles and compensation levels will change. Therefore, Casio believes that it is necessary for employees to prepare in advance a forward-looking career plan, in order to continue working enthusiastically during the retirement transition from a regular position to re-employment as a senior employee. Life Plan Seminars are held each year for employees who have reached the ages of 53 and 58. At the seminars, an external instructor provides a lecture on personal finance planning covering things such as the pension system, post-retirement living expenses, taxes, and healthcare costs. Information on career development planning is also provided with a view to re-employment at Casio once the mandatory retirement age is reached. The seminars provide a good opportunity to raise awareness of retirement life planning at an early stage. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 116 Prioritizing local hiring and promotion at subsidiaries outside Japan Along with the globalization of its operations, Casio is actively pursuing local hiring at its sites outside Japan. The aim is to promote management that is responsive to local conditions in each country, as a truly global company. This is being done not just in manufacturing, but also in various other fields. Number of Casio Group employees (global breakdown) Number of Casio Group employees Casio Group employees by region (FY2017) Initiatives in hiring The Casio Group Code of Conduct states that we will respect all fundamental human rights, and will not engage in any form of discrimination. Casio provides equal employment opportunities to anyone with the desire to work. Casio also endorses the Japan Business Federation’s charter of hiring ethics. The company strives to avoid early hiring of undergraduate university students to minimize any impact on their studies. It also conducts voluntary explanation meetings at universities around the country and holds hiring events at different times during the day and week, splitting up selection periods into four or five different times. In this way, Casio is striving to provide hiring opportunities to as many students as possible. Human resources data Number of employees hired in Japan (As of end of March 2017) Casio Computer Co., Group companies in Total Ltd. Japan Male 2,335 954 3,289（83％） Female 419 249 668（17％） Total 2,754 1,203 3,957 CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 117 Number of employees hired in Japan (April 1, 2017) Casio Computer Co., Group companies in Total Ltd. Japan Male 47 0 47(62％) Female 12 0 12(38%) Total 59 0 59 Average years of service in Japan (As of end of March 2017) Casio Computer Co., Group companies in Total Ltd. Japan Male 20.3 17.7 19.6 Female 14.7 20.3 16.8 Total 19.5 18.6 19.1 Average employee age in Japan (As of end of March 2017) Casio Computer Co., Group companies in Total Ltd. Japan Male 47.6 48.4 47.8 Female 40.6 45.9 42.5 Total 46.5 47.9 46.9 CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 118 Creating Supportive Workplaces Casio regards it as crucial to create workplaces where employees can work enthusiastically with job satisfaction and in a state of physical and mental health. It has prepared a number of support programs and strives to foster a corporate culture that accepts diverse working styles. Recognizing its initiatives to date, in 2009 the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare granted Casio the Kurumin mark for helping to foster the next generation. This certification recognizes Casio as a company that actively supports employees’ efforts to balance work and family life. Kurumin mark for helping to foster the next generation Helping employees balance work and family life Casio has introduced programs that enable employees under restrictions caused by childbirth, parenting, and family nursing care to feel at ease and to demonstrate their full potential on the job. The company has developed programs that help employees balance work and family life, such as a shorter working hours system for childcare and nursing care and an hourly paid leave system. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 119 Childcare and nursing care leave programs (Casio Computer Co., Ltd.) CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 120 Number of employees taking leave (figure in parentheses is men) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Childcare leave and return 28(0) 35(1) 45(1) 46(0) 55(0) program Percentage of employees that return to work after 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% taking childcare leave Childcare leave and return 4(1) 2(2) 2(2) 3(1) 3(2) program Shorter working hours system for childcare and 75(3) 68(3) 76(0) 77(0) 78(1) nursing care Child nursing care leave 16(5) 9(2) 6(1) 13(1) 15(2) Nursing care leave 4(2) 3(2) 3(2) 3(2) 4(4) * Childcare leave return-to-work percentage does not include temporary workers Hourly paid leave system In June 2010, Casio adopted a system that permits employees to take annual paid vacation in hourly increments. The system is available to all employees and can be combined with half-day leave so that it is used effectively and flexibly. Employee Comments • Left an hour early for lunch to renew a drivers license “Previously, one had to take a half day off in order to attend to a personal matter during the work day. Now, one can take time off on an hourly basis, which is a more efficient way to use holiday time.” • Took hours off to take her two-year-old daughter for vaccinations and to meet with daycare staff It is handy to take time off by the hour, since I also want to save my holiday time in case my daughter gets sick. • Wanted to leave a couple of hours early to catch a ball game A great way to break up my work routine. I felt very energized when I returned to work the next day. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 121 Rate of taking paid vacation (Casio Computer Co., Ltd.) FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 （Jan. 2011 （Jan. 2012 （Jan. 2013 （Jan. 2014 （Apr. 2015 （Apr. 2016 Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. Mar. Mar. 2011） 2012） 2013） 2015） 2016） 2017） Rate of taking paid 68.3％ 70.9％ 67.9％ 65.5％ 71.1％ 72.2％ vacation * Calculation period was changed in fiscal 2016 Other vacation and leave programs Program Description The annual paid vacation expires in two years. However, employees can accumulate a Vacation Day maximum of 30 unused vacation days to carry over up to four days per year. The leave Accumulation days can be used if the employee gets sick or injured, in order to care for a family member, safe motherhood measures, or volunteering. This program grants five days of leave at the 10-year, 20-year, and 30-year milestones Refresh Leave of work. Leave to accommodate This system allows employees to take a leave of up to three years when the individual spouse's overseas will accompany his or her spouse on a posting outside Japan. assignment Infertility treatment This system enables employees to take a one-year leave of absence in order to leave undergo infertility treatment. In the case of overtime or holiday work, this system allows employees to reduce Time off in lieu working hours in the days that follow, in 15 minute increments. Extra allowance, such as overtime pay, is also provided accordingly. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 122 Participation in the Premium Friday campaign On Friday, February 24, 2017, the Japanese government, in cooperation with the Japan Business Federation (Keidanren) and other organizations, launched a campaign to allow employees to leave work early on the last Friday of every month. Premium Friday is designed to encourage workers to enjoy shopping, eating, drinking, travel, and other recreational activities after work. In response to this campaign, Casio has made even more effective use of its hourly paid leave and half-day leave systems on the last Friday of the month. It is making efforts to further enhance work-life balance according to each employee's work plan and lifestyle. Additionally, the company is striving to avoid unplanned and unnecessary meetings on the Friday afternoons concerned. Caregiving Seminars Casio held a “Seminar on Balancing Work and Caregiving” for the second time to provide employees with basic information on caregiving, so that they could acquire knowledge that will allow them to handle caregiving, the need for which often emerges abruptly. The seminar was held at the headquarters in November and at the R&D center in December, and was streamed live to sales offices around the country. More than 400 people took part, and a sign language interpreter was also on hand, allowing hearing-impaired employees to participate. Under the topic of preparing for unexpected nursing care needs, this second seminar reviewed basic information on nursing-care insurance, making it easy to understand even for first-time participants. Then information on facility care and home care was provided, along with examples of the costs involved. On a questionnaire given after the seminar, 94% of participants said that it was useful, and 33% said that they themselves or someone near them were currently involved in caregiving. Clearly caregiving is an immediate concern for employees, and it is important for them to continue working while getting the support of those around them. Initiatives to improve productivity Casio's Smart Work activities for improved productivity have been running for two years. This campaign is aimed at encouraging employees to take on the challenge of getting work done within regular working hours, without the need for overtime. When overtime is unavoidable, the campaign recommends using the morning hours and avoiding night work to improve operational efficiency. An online work management system is also utilized, which allows superiors to ascertain and manage personnel hours through the web. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 123 Average monthly overtime work (Casio Computer Co., Ltd., and group companies in Japan) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Overtime hours 15.09 16.20 16.10 15.70 14.70 Total annual working hours 1,964 1,952 1,950 1,931 1,917 （Casio Computer Co., Ltd） Communication between labor and management Casio operates on a union-shop basis; as a rule, all employees except for managers are members of the union. Through regular communication between management and the labor union, Casio hopes to raise the awareness of employees about their participation in the management of the company. Casio values close communication between labor and management and maintains a good relationship. At the core of this labor-management communication is the Group Workers' Labor-Management Conference, which is held four times a year (February, May, September, and November). At these conferences, management and labor, together representing the entire group, exchange opinions about current conditions at the company. Casio is also working toward even smoother operation of human resource systems by holding various regular labormanagement talks, including the Central Labor-Management Meeting, the Division Labor-Management Meeting, and the Sales Chapter Labor-Management Meeting. The labor-management agreement stipulates that the revision or elimination of human resource labor related systems is carried out via labor-management discussions. This process is carried out over a sufficient period of time and involves the sharing of issues by both labor and management. Changes in the proportion of labor union members (Casio Computer Co., Ltd.) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Percentage of all employees 66% 65% 64% 64% 64% Percentage excluding managerial 97% 96% 97% 98% 98% positions CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 124 Effectively appointing and deploying employees Casio works to maintain a healthy corporate culture where fairness and impartiality are valued in all promotion decisions. The company uses a merit-driven system combined with a performance-based approach to evaluate employees and determine compensation. Policy for fair evaluation and compensation Based firmly on a foundation of fairness, Casio aims to continuously improve its human resource system in light of changes in the social environment. Within that system, the present basic human resources policy combines a rolebased system that grades individual employees based on the extent of their roles with a performance-based approach to evaluation and compensation based mainly on outcomes of job performance within their roles. Additionally, the company puts a premium on the following points of view: • Respect of will: Grant significance to the individual's will and intentions • Human resources development: Create opportunities for the acquisition of knowledge and skills needed in work • Significance of abilities: Grant significance to abilities demonstrated through work • Right person for the right job: Reflect individual wishes in job requests • Priority distribution: Distribute limited management resources as efficiently as possible • Stable employment: Strive to create workplaces where employees can work according to their abilities In addition to the above policy, Casio will place a premium on these points of view as it pushes ahead with innovative personnel measures. By taking this approach, Casio aims to strike the optimal balance between the growth and revitalization of society and the expansion and growth of the company. Casio’s design and application of an impartial personnel system ensures fair rating, evaluation, and compensation according to the level of duties, regardless of academic background, years of service, or gender. Casio feels that goal management is important in its evaluation system and so it has supervisors and their subordinates share goal information via the intranet. Starting in fiscal 2015, goals are also being shared among colleagues in addition superiors and subordinates, which is useful for promoting innovation and synergy. The company evaluates each employee at an interview twice a year. Casio uses evaluation sheets based on goal management to notify employees about the results of evaluations, a mechanism designed to improve transparency and ensure that evaluation of employees is highly credible. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 125 Human resources system overview Education for fair evaluation and compensation Casio requires managers to take evaluator training in an effort to improve their evaluation, leadership, and interviewing skills, in order to operate its human resources system fairly and appropriately. Additionally, all managers are evaluated by their colleagues and subordinates about once every three years. The results are fed back to managers during training sessions to encourage continual improvement. An overview of the evaluation and compensation system is posted on the company intranet to keep all employees thoroughly informed about this system. The company not only works with evaluators, but has also cooperated with the labor union to produce a Goal Setting and Evaluation Interview Handbook to help deepen understanding between supervisors and their subordinates and ensure fairness in operations. Overview of human resource development Casio has various human resource development programs designed to develop creative employees who are eager to take on challenges and to train professionals with early tracking into specialized fields. Casio aims to develop professionals in the form of strategic generalists who pass on the company's corporate culture, and technical specialists who pass on the company's unique technology and know-how. For this purpose, based on the convictions that people grow through their work and that the source of growth is personal motivation, Casio helps employees improve their skills by providing environments that enable them to overcome challenges through personal determination and effort. Accordingly, the company emphasizes on-the-job (OJT) training to improve practical skills, complemented by off-thejob (off-JT) training to provide theoretical knowledge. In recent years, the training system has been improved to ensure even more effective, efficient skill development via a broader choice of training courses. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 126 Training System Casio conducts the necessary training for all the job grades in its in-house ranking system, and the company is working constantly to upgrade and enhance its human resource development system. As part of this system, Casio offers measures to train existing workers to make them professionals and training for specific job grades to all eligible employees. The human resource training page on the company’s intranet explains each system of training as well as showing comments from employees who have used the system. Casio endeavors to encourage utilization of the system and support employee education by presenting success stories and good news. In addition to the system above, Casio holds Life Plan Seminars for all group company employees in Japan when they reach the ages of 53 and 58 (243 employees in fiscal 2017: 138 aged 53 and 105 aged 58). The seminars help employees plan their lives after the company retirement age of 60, with information on areas such as retirement career planning, skills development, retirement benefits, the pension system, the re-employment system and health management. Ninety percent of the participants responded that they were glad they took the seminar, and several indicated that it was a good opportunity to consider retirement life planning. Casio will continue to provide this support in the future. Training participants (Casio Computer Co., Ltd.) *excluding Senior Life Seminars Male 86%, Female 14% in FY2017 CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 127 Annual average number of hours of training (Casio Computer Co., Ltd.) Proportion of employees receiving regular assessment of their performance and career development progress Surveys and verification relating to utilization and development of human resources In off-the-job training, questionnaires are given to employees every time they attend a training session, and their requests and opinions are used to help make improvements in the following fiscal year and beyond. In on-the-job training, when employees register for the Career Challenge System (described below), they can register their opinions about the system itself. Furthermore, when the company establishes new systems, it verifies the system through prior interviews and trial runs with the aim of achieving more effective operation. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 128 Fiscal 2017 summary and future issues In fiscal 2017, in addition to improving the content of conventional training, Casio revamped its technical skill selective training, extended training for specific job grades that is designed to strengthen management to all group companies in Japan, and also advanced initiatives to improve employee innovation. In fiscal 2018, the aim is to strengthen not only training, but also employee career advancement, as part of human resources development. Main human resource development programs Career Challenge System This system lets employees periodically register their careers, skills, and personal challenges with the company, and serves as an important reference for assisting managers to determine policies on developing their subordinates and future placement planning. Participants can also register challenges they would like to undertake in their current jobs. By allowing employees to share their goals with superiors, the system helps to create an energetic work environment. Career Challenge: Advanced This program preferentially places employees who have been in their current career position for a rather long time and hope to challenge themselves to pursue work environments and careers that require new skills, for the objective of self-improvement and making further contributions to the company, in their desired divisions, if their desires meet the needs of the new department. This program has been gradually extended to group companies and the number of employees wishing to take the challenge is growing every year. Casio will continue to facilitate revitalization within the group through this system. Job Posting System This system seeks to satisfy both the company's business needs and employees' career paths, and is a program for priority placement of suitable people, based on selection of candidates for jobs which the company offers. It is operated jointly with other Casio group companies. New Employee Training, Follow-up Training, Career Development Training Training for young employees becomes a place for learning the basics of being a Casio employee, and offers opportunities for employees to consider their own career paths, with training for new entrants as well as first-year, second-year and third-year employees. Skill Selective Training The training targets all regular employees, for the objective of effectively and efficiently acquiring diverse skills required for work operations, in a training program that allows employees to select from a large variety of training courses. The targeted skills are divided into three categories: specialized skills, strategic skills, and interpersonal skills. It also functions as an opportunity for network building within the company, as employees from different occupational categories attend the same training. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 129 Techno Power This is an event held annually for the objectives of stimulating engineers, and sharing and accumulating technology. It serves as a place for recruiting new technology and expertise created in-house and recognizing ideas with high originality, technical level, and usefulness. The event encourages engineers to embrace the challenge of new technologies through presentations of in-house technology, exhibition of new technologies, and keynote speeches. Past accolades (number of awards) FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Outstandi ng 2 3 2 3 4 2 5 Technolo gy Award Honorabl 6 5 8 7 9 8 7 e Mention Total 8 8 10 10 13 15 12 In-house specialist seminars These are lectures by outside trailblazers in advanced technology and innovators who were able to develop revolutionary new products and create new businesses. They are mainly for technology development engineers, for the objective of understanding technology trends and of fostering a development mindset and the will to take on challenges. The themes of the seminars include trends in advanced technology with high originality and technical level, and ways of thinking to create new products. In recent years the themes have been expanded to include such topics as market and product trends in regions where future market expansion is expected, especially in emerging countries. In fiscal 2017, six seminars were held, attended by a total of 900 employees. In June 2017, the 200th commemorative seminar was held. Language training The purpose of these training programs is to increase employees’ language skills. The company provides diverse language training suited to employee needs, such as online English conversation training that employees can take from home at any time and group lessons in English, Chinese, and other languages, as well as English conversation seminars. Over 100 employees take advantage of these training programs every year. The company periodically revises the training content, aiming to offer programs that are easier for employees to use. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 130 Intrapreneurship Program Casio established its Intrapreneurship Program to identify and foster talented human resources who can motivate employees and develop businesses and to quickly launch new businesses by providing an opportunity for employees to make business proposals beyond organizational boundaries. The program allows individual employees to make their own business proposals directly to top management. Those employees whose proposals are approved as promising themes become the project leaders, and then work to realize the goals they proposed. So far 96 proposals have been made, some of which led to business development. Casio intends to make use of this program as an ongoing business proposal tool in the future. Right person for the right job The Career Challenge System, Career Challenge: Advanced System, and Job Posting System are offered every year, and the company strives to place the right people in the right jobs by valuing employees' intentions. Additionally, career interviews are conducted with those who desire one and support provided as appropriate when employees consider their career direction. Casio also makes its intranet and database available to the managers of each department to allow them to conduct comprehensive assessment of the human resource development information on their subordinates, which they then utilize for training within the department. Additionally, in order to make it easier to reflect employees’ wishes in the ordinary course of business, employees declare a task that they would like to attempt and this intention is shared with their supervisors and made use of in task assignment and rotation. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 131 Promoting health and safety initiatives for employees Each and every employee must be able to work safely and in good health in order to perform at his or her full potential. Based on various laws and work regulations such as Japan’s Industrial Safety and Health Act, Casio makes group-wide efforts to create workplace environments where all employees can work with peace of mind, in order to maintain and enhance the health of employees and prevent occupational injuries or their reoccurrence. Group companies outside Japan comply with their local laws and regulations and also implement similar measures. Basic Policy on Maintaining and Promoting Health Section 4 of the Casio Group Code of Conduct calls on employees to proactively take part in initiatives to maintain and promote better health. Casio is promoting employee health throughout the entire group. Casio Group Basic Policy on Maintaining and Promoting Health We will proactively take part in initiatives to maintain and promote better health. We will be considerate of not only own health, but the health of those around us. Regular health checks Regular health checks for employees at Casio are more thorough than legally mandated: they include many additional items intended to help employees maintain their health and to prevent lifestyle-related diseases. Nearly 100% of employees come for the health checks every year. In fiscal 2016, the mobile health check clinic will be replaced with a new vehicle equipped with digital high-resolution X-ray equipment. Employees 35 and older will have their regular health checks at a hospital rather than in the mobile clinic, and for the gastric examination, employees can choose between high-resolution X-ray and endoscope. Employees 40 and older can opt to receive a full medical checkup, partially paid by the employee. The rules for follow-up are also being standardized, and Casio aims to improve the follow-up implementation rate for those whose health check revealed any concerns. Employees on overseas assignments are also required to undergo a routine health check once a year, with an industrial physician offering guidance based on the results. Initiatives to counter lifestyle-related diseases In the effort to prevent lifestyle-related illnesses, Casio, together with the Casio Health Insurance Association, is promoting initiatives that focus on exercise and healthy eating. Employees who have been given special health recommendations for treatment for metabolic issues by a healthcare professional are offered support for lifestyle improvement. This is done by having the employee review their lifestyle habits and set personal goals for Healthy menu exercise and diet. The employee cafeterias provide healthy menu choices featuring a balance of calories and nutrition. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 132 Additionally, Casio now conducts “Health Fairs,” a new program with the concept of helping employees to make effective use of the lunch break to get refreshed. The fairs include the provision of health information and events that allow employees to learn more about their own bodies, aiming to encourage them to take an interest in health and food so as to maintain and promote their health. Company officers also participated in the first fair. Quit smoking campaigns Casio is conducting quit smoking campaigns worldwide. Smoking is prohibited on the premises of all group companies in Japan and also prohibited during working hours, whether in or outside the company. Since fiscal 2011, Casio and its Health Insurance Association have been cooperating in the implementation of a practical Quit Smoking Encouragement Program that provides smokingcessation aids. In fiscal 2014, Casio Computer Co., Ltd., held a quit smoking seminar at its head office in Hatsudai, which was attended by nearly 200 people. Initiative to prevent working long hours Casio is carrying out an initiative to prevent the damaging health effects to the brain or heart which can be caused by accumulated fatigue due to long working hours. In order to ensure proper work schedules, all employees that work 80 hours or more of overtime in a month must be interviewed by an industrial physician. The physician then checks the employee's health condition, and provides the person with advice and guidance. In this way, Casio is working to prevent health problems from overwork, and to ensure employees observe appropriate working hours. Mental health care initiatives Casio has established a mental health education system to support the mental health of its employees. As part of this system, Casio Computer Co., Ltd., has initiated an e-Learning Program, a Self-Checkup, and a Stress Test by Organization for all of its employees, seeking to raise awareness of mental health issues. Specifically for the purpose of reducing the rate of mental health problems among younger employees, a Stress Management Program has been created for employees in their second year. The program includes lectures and practice exercises for improving interaction with superiors and colleagues, and it also covers communication skills and mental health issues. A separate e-Learning Program and a Program for Managers have also been created for those in leadership positions, including middle management, in an effort to ensure everyone understands the importance of stress management in organizations. Stress checks were carried out as part of a program that began in December 2015, and the results were provided as feedback to individual employees. Those deemed to have high stress were offered interviews with a healthcare professional if desired. In addition, Casio has an in-house mental health physician and an external Mental Health and Life Hotline in place to offer employees counseling in and outside the company at all times. Similar support systems are in place at group companies in Japan, and they are providing support so that employees can work with energy and satisfaction. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 133 Occupational health and safety activities Based on its safety and health rules, Casio promotes measures to keep employees physically and mentally healthy and to ensure occupational safety. These are performed to suit the features of each workplace environment, and employees receive timely information. Through discussion, labor and management are united in their efforts to prevent accidents while maintaining and improving the health of employees. Systems for promoting occupational safety, health, and health management Casio and its Health Insurance Association work together to promote employee safety, health, and health management. The Occupational Safety and Health Committees in each of its business locations are made up of people selected by the company and the Labor Union in equal proportions. Committee activities are reported to employees via the intranet. Casio also runs campaigns to raise employee awareness about occupational safety and health. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 134 Preventing occupational accidents Casio is committed to the goal of zero occupational injuries and operates regular safety programs with the aim of maintaining an accident-free record at all Casio work sites. In addition, each site and group company conducts fire and disaster prevention/evacuation drills. Disaster prevention drill at the head office Occupational injuries at Casio Computer Co., Ltd. (in the last five years) Number of Injury frequency rate *1 Injury severity rate *2 work-related (FY) fatalities Casio Manufacturers Casio Manufacturers Casio FY2013(JanDec.2012) 0.19 1.05 0.001 0.08 0 FY2014(JanDec.2013) 0.4 0.94 0.001 0.1 0 FY2015(JanDec.2014) 0.79 1.06 0.007 0.09 0 FY2016(JanDec.2015) 0 1.06 0 0.06 0 FY2017(JanDec.2016) 0.39 1.15 0 0.07 0 *1 Number of deaths and injuries, per 1 million actual cumulative working hours, resulting from occupational accidents. *2 Work days lost per 1,000 actual cumulative working hours; indicates accident severity * The term occupational injuries here includes injuries or illnesses (requiring at least 1 day off work) and deaths of workers in connection with the performance of their jobs. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 135 Number of incidents, by gender and department Number by gende Number by department Of which, number Development Sales Male Female Total Headquarters of worker days off department office FY2013 3 4 7 1 1 3 3 FY2014 7 0 7 2 0 3 4 FY2015 10 4 14 4 4 4 6 FY2016 5 5 10 0 0 0 10 FY2017 6 8 14 2 0 2 12 Initiatives for lifesaving activities by employees Example commendations Casio has placed automated external defibrillators (AEDs), which are used in cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) during a cardiac arrest, in all its facilities nationwide. Additionally, the company provides lifesaving classes and supports initiatives for lifesaving activities by employees, in order to be prepared for any eventuality. So far, AEDs at Casio facilities have been used three times to save the lives of people who had a heart attack, and in each case the person fully recovered. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 136 Responsibilities to Society Striving to be a model corporate citizen, Casio makes the most of its unique know-how and management resources to fulfill its various social responsibilities. Philosophy on social contribution Casio’s social contribution initiatives aim to help build a healthy, spiritually rich society. The five priority areas are education of the next generation, study and research, environmental conservation, community service, and culture and arts. Casio takes a proactive approach to these initiatives, seeking to communicate with various stakeholders in order to determine how it can be most helpful as a good corporate citizen. In this process, Casio seeks to make innovative social contributions, leveraging its unique expertise and management resources as well as the broad range of knowledge and experience possessed by its employees. Raising up the next generation Contributing to education through the core business In Casio's educational products business, centered on scientific calculators and electronic dictionaries, the goal is clearly defined: to improve the academic abilities of students in markets where Casio operates. In over 30 countries, Casio is now contributing to education through its products under a program called GAKUHAN. A typical example of GAKUHAN activities involves scientific calculators. Casio's strength lies in a high level of product customization to match the language and mathematics curriculum in each country, as well as product development based on feedback from classrooms. Since Casio's scientific calculators are developed for global deployment from the start, a major feature of the products is software that can be localized at the overseas factory level at the time of shipping. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 137 Moreover, the special feature of GAKUHAN activities is that they do not end once a product has been sold. Instead, a whole range of activities are also promoted for users. Merely selling scientific calculators does not ensure they can be utilized effectively in classes and examinations. Teachers and students need further support, such as showing teachers how the calculators can be utilized, and providing easy-to-understand teaching materials. Therefore, Casio begins by creating collaborative relationships with educational institutions in each country, cooperating with supportive mathematics teachers. Through these relationships, various activities are undertaken, including training teachers so they can instruct other teachers on GAKUHAN conference with invited participants from the education ministries of various how to use scientific calculators and introduce them in their classes. Other countries and key persons from education circles activities include the development of teaching materials according to the education level and system in the specific country, as well as the holding of trial classes using scientific calculators and verification of the benefits. GAKUHAN activities have so far been conducted through cooperation with the education ministries and teachers in each country concerned. However, Casio is now planning also to promote initiatives in collaboration with university research institutions and NPOs. Classes in the company, and school visits Beyond its main business, Casio is also actively engaged in other efforts befitting a good corporate citizen to contribute to the education of the next generation. Since 2007, Casio Computer Co., Ltd., has been offering original educational programs, primarily for elementary and junior high school students. These include school visits and classes offered at company facilities. In these programs, Casio aims to make a broader and more profound contribution to education. The school visit program is roughly divided into a three sections, on “connectedness, creativity and emotional growth,” “connection with life,” and “today’s world.” The first section seeks to make children aware of the value of life by facilitating dialogue among them. The second section of the program, on connection with life, seeks to give children opportunities to feel a connection with life and experience living through the senses, by using equipment to listen to the beating of the heart. The final segment, on today’s world, provides a forum for children to share and discuss their ideas about the global environment that supports human life and on the various problems children face around the world. This helps to encourage awareness and action on such issues as life, peace, poverty, and the environment. Since 2007, the school visit program has been conducted for over 65,000 children at a total of 604 schools (as of March 31, 2017). The classes offered at the Hachioji R&D Center, one of the Casio Group’s most advanced eco-friendly business sites, focus mostly on environmental initiatives. The program includes activities such as a tour of the thermal storage tank and rooftop garden as well as hands-on experience with taking apart and then reassembling environmentally friendly products. At other facilities, engineers lead classes in which they convey to children the fun of making things and the value of craftsmanship. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 138 School visit Developer tells the story of the creation of G-SHOCK *For more information on Casio school visits, see “Class on Life” in the Feature Story section of the 2013 report. *For more information on the classes offered at the Hachioji R&D Center, see the Environmental Communication section. Calculator disassembly and reassembly workshops at kid’s events Workshop With a desire to convey the excitement of product creation to children, the leaders of tomorrow, Casio Computer Co., Ltd. has been involved in kid’s events since 2014. These events are sponsored by the Mainichi Shimbun, Mainichi Media Cafe, and Mainichi Elementary School Newspaper. At the recent events held in August 2016 and March 2017, a Casio employee held a calculator disassembly and reassembly workshop under the theme of “Secrets of the Calculator.” About 120 children participated. In this workshop, the children took apart actual calculators with their own hands. Then they learned to how to reassemble them, how a calculator works, and what kind of environmentally friendly features it has. Supporting Key Person 21 Key Person 21 is a certified non-profit organization for youth career education. It promotes activities to bring out the potential in each child and nurture their ability to choose a future that suits them. As a company that focuses on educating the next generation and promoting educational initiatives, Casio shares the mission of Key Person 21, and so began supporting the organization. In fiscal 2017, Casio participated in the organization’s career education program conducted at three elementary and junior high schools in Shibuya, Tokyo, near the head office of Casio Computer Co., Ltd. Employees visited classrooms and engaged with the students. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 139 Classroom activity Cooperating in the private sector training of schoolteachers Casio Computer Co., Ltd., has cooperated in the private sector training of schoolteachers, organized by the Keizai Koho Center, every year since 2004. The purpose of this training is to deepen teachers’ understanding of the business world so they can then convey that experience to children and also make use of it in school administration. In 2016, the thirteenth year of its involvement, Casio welcomed 14 teachers for training over three days on July 25, 26 and 27. The teachers were given a tour of the head office facilities and the Toshio Kashio Memorial Museum of Invention and listened to lectures by employees from different departments about such topics as Casio’s product development, design, product display methods, and environmental and CSR initiatives. Afterwards, the teachers provided a range of positive feedback. One said, At the Toshio Kashio Memorial Museum of Invention, I learned about the importance of emphasizing tradition. I felt that striving to preserve tradition while innovating for the future is a universal approach, valid in any field. Another teacher expressed the wish to tell her students about the importance of contributing to society and not giving up even if they encounter failure. A third teacher said, I would like to plan exciting classes based on the Casio concept of valuing and increasing the number of fans. Another teacher noted, I realized the importance of continuing to evolve and take on challenges. I want to instill in my students a passion for continual self-improvement and challenge setting. Casio will continue accepting schoolteachers for training in the private sector in the future, in order to contribute to the education of the children who will be the torchbearers of the future. Observing a demonstration of the 14-A in operation at the Toshio Kashio Trying high-speed shooting with Casio digital cameras Memorial Museum of Invention CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 140 My Dream Backpack program Casio (China) Co., Ltd. began a charitable activity called “My Dream Backpack” in order to support the education of impoverished children in rural areas in September 2014. The activity involves providing each child with a school backpack they can use every day, filled with stationery and learning materials. Useful educational equipment is also donated to each school, according to its needs. These classroom tools include Casio digital pianos, calculators, electronic dictionaries, printers, short-focus data projectors, and digital cameras. Donations in fiscal 2017 ・Malang Elementary School, Gaofeng, Guianxing, Guiyang, Guizhou Province ・Guanxiangtuochang Elementary School, Haiyuan, Ningxia Province ・Shaozhai Elementary School, Yingju, Fengqiu, Xinxiang, Henan Province Casio (China) intends to continue supporting the growth and education of children through programs like My Dream Backpack, while demonstrating the corporate creed of “Creativity and Contribution.” Trying out an electronic dictionary School children CASIO Education Scholarship Foundation Foundation at Peking University, Shanghai International Studies University, Fudan University, East China University of Politics and Law, Beijing Foreign Studies University, Tianjin Foreign Studies University, and East China Normal University. The foundation provides scholarships for outstanding students and teachers who have produced high quality research. Through the establishment of the scholarship foundation, Casio aims to support the long-term development of these universities, which have a key role as institutions for the development of human resources. Looking to the future, Casio will provide support for scholarship across a diverse array of subject areas including languages, international finance and trade, international business administration, the mass media, law, and international education as it contributes to the development and revitalization of academic research. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 141 Fudan University Study and research Support for the Casio Science Promotion Foundation Casio is contributing to the development of science and technology by supporting the Casio Science Promotion Foundation. About the Foundation The Casio Science Promotion Foundation was established in 1982 by the four Kashio brothers and the former chairman, Shigeru Kashio. The Foundation provides research grants with the principle objective of fostering pioneering and creative research in the early stages by young researchers who are persevering with challenging research on limited funding. This is based on the philosophy that advanced R&D should be promoted in various fields, in order to fulfill the Foundation’s mission of helping Japan contribute to the world as a nation of advanced technology. The Foundation provides grants in a wide range of scientific fields−from electronic and mechanical engineering, to natural sciences related to health, to energy saving−as well as in the cultural sciences including human resources development and human behavior. Over the last 34 years, the Foundation has provided a total of about ¥1,651.09 million in 1,285 grants. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 142 The 34th grant presentation ceremony (fiscal 2017) Grants in fiscal 2017 In addition to its 21 basic categories in 5 fields, in fiscal 2017 the Foundation continued to support a special topic considered to be important based on recent social trends: New technology research that could promote industrial activation. After asking 222 universities to submit research topic proposals, 305 proposals were received from 114 universities. Based on a rigorous selection process, a total of 59.99 million yen in grants was awarded to 40 different proposals. Most of the grant recipients are in their thirties or forties, and many young researchers representing the promise of the next generation attended the grant presentation ceremony held in December 2016. Special topic 5 grants ¥25 million Group A (Electronics and 23 grants ¥23 million Mechanical Engineering) Group B (Medicine and 8 grants ¥8 million Physiology) Group C (Humanities) 4 grants ¥4 million CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 143 Grants from the Casio Science Promotion Foundation Message from a grant recipient I would very much like to thank the Casio Science Promotion Foundation for the research grant in 2016. We were very encouraged to have our research topic, Construction of innovative magnetization control technology using the spin-orbit effect, accepted as a special theme. For this project, we are conducting research to control the spin of electrons by utilizing the spin-orbit interaction in matter. We will continue to pursue research into electron spin control, to help bring about greater innovation for future electronics. Masamitsu Hayashi, Associate Professor Department of Physics, Faculty of Science & Graduate School of Science, The University of Tokyo Environmental conservation Casio continuously and enthusiastically engages in social contribution efforts in the area of environmental conservation, including supporting environmental organizations through the sale of special collaboration G-SHOCK and Baby-G models, planting trees in China, and adopting tulips and Ohga lotus plants. *For more information, see the Environmental Communication section. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 144 Community Service Support for Cherry Marathon in Higashine City Yamagata Casio has been supporting the Cherry Marathon in Higashine City since 2004. The company’s intention is to become an enterprise that is appreciated by the local residents not only for its corporate activities, but also for its contribution to the local community and Higashine City. At the 15th annual marathon held in 2016, many Casio employee runners and 30 water station volunteers participated in the event. In order to forge even deeper relationships of cooperation and trust with local residents, the company will continue to actively promote this kind of community contribution activity. Casio employees volunteering at a water station Culture and the arts By sponsoring symphony orchestras and cultural facilities, Casio provides people with opportunities to feel delight and deep emotion and promotes the development of culture and the arts. • Sponsorship of the NHK Symphony Orchestra • Sponsorship of the Tokyo Philharmonic Orchestra • Sponsorship of the Maison de la culture du Japon á Paris (Institute of Japanese Culture in Paris), and more CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 145 Other Product disassembly and separation work contracted to a welfare workspace Aiming to be a company that is good for people and environmentally friendly, Casio Business Service Co., Ltd., has contracted disassembly and separation work of Casio products to a welfare workspace operated by a social welfare corporation as part of its recycling initiatives in product disposal since 2000. Recently, the workspace has been disassembling and separating mainly used tape cartridges and ink ribbon cassettes collected at Casio Eco Stations. At the welfare workspace, which enrolls persons with disabilities, most of the work is light work such as making bags and presentation boxes and folding leaflets. Work such as disassembly and separation increases their concentration and ability to keep going on a task, which also gives the workers a high sense of fulfillment on the job. This initiative is considered to support the independence of workers through social education and the acquisition of morals and rules. As part of its CSR initiatives, Casio Business Service will continue contracting out this work to help support the independence of workers. Disassembly and separation of tape cartridges and ink ribbon cassettes Supporting bread and cakes sales by Hope Employment Center Shibuya’s Shibuya Marufukus Since October 2014, staff from Hope Employment Center Shibuya’s Shibuya Marufuku, which is located in Shibuya-ku Tokyo, have been visiting the headquarters of Casio Computer Co., Ltd., to sell bread and cakes once or twice each month. The proceeds help support the independence of people with disabilities. Hope Employment Center Shibuya’s Shibuya Marufuku is a support site for steady employment run by the non-profit Hope Worldwide Japan, which provides vocational training opportunities and employment to people with disabilities. Under the philosophy of happy workers create happy customers, the center makes and sells delicious and heartwarming traditional Japanese snacks (imagawayaki), as well as handmade breads and cakes. The people participating at the center are working towards their respective goals. The visiting bake sales are very popular with Casio employees, and the company plans to keep supporting the center. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 146 Bake sale table Supporting Respite Trip organized by Oyako Haneyasume The non-profit organization, Oyako Haneyasume, supports children who need medical care due to serious illness or disability, as well as their families. Respite Trip is a program where a third party provides temporarily nursing care for an eligible child, so the family can take a trip and rebound from the stresses of caregiving. In August 2016, after interested persons were recruited in a CSR Leader meeting, four members from Casio Computer Co., Ltd., participated as volunteers in the Respite Trip program. Casio will continue to support this program that offers time and space for relaxation to families with children who need home care. Support for People's Hope Japan People's Hope Japan is an NGO involved in international cooperation. It provides support for activities focused on educating people in developing Asian countries about insurance and healthcare. As a company that supports the organization's mission, Casio has been corporate sponsor since 2006. Assistance for disaster victims When a major natural disaster strikes, Casio provides relief to disaster victims, as well as support for rapid postdisaster reconstruction. ●Supporting victims of the Great East Japan Earthquake Donation to Tsunami Orphans In order to assist orphans who lost their parents in the 2011 Great East Japan Earthquake, Casio has been donating to the Ashinaga Great East Japan Earthquake & Tsunami Orphans Fundraising Campaign since fiscal 2012. In fiscal 2017, Casio donated 2 million yen, as it did the previous year. Casio will continue to donate to the campaign in the future. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 147 ●Supporting earthquake victims in Kumamoto, Japan A strong earthquake struck Kumamoto Prefecture, Japan in April 2016. Casio donated 2 million yen to the Japan Platform to support victim relief and post-disaster reconstruction. Additionally, the Casio Group collected donations from employees and made a matching gift from the Group. The donations collected from employees came to 2,837,427 yen. The Casio Group matched this with 3,000,000 yen and donated the total amount as relief funds to the Japanese Red Cross Society. The group also provided repair services at reduced rates for repairable Casio products damaged by the disaster. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 148 Environmental Vision In April 2012, Casio established the Casio Environmental Vision 2050, a long-term environmental management policy with a target year of 2050. At the same time, the company also issued the Casio Environmental Declaration 2020, which is its medium-term action guideline. Casio’s determination to become a leading environmental company is demonstrated by its commitment to visionary global initiatives to help build a more sustainable world. Fulfilling Social Responsibilities as a Leading Environmental Company by Strengthening Our Focus on Global Issues Reviewing Greenhouse Gas Reduction Efforts and Setting Even Higher Targets In February 2017, we reviewed greenhouse gas reduction targets based on our long-term environmental management policy, Casio Environmental Vision 2050. A new target was set for an 80% emissions reduction by fiscal 2051, compared with fiscal 2014. By changing the base comparison year from fiscal 2006 to fiscal 2014 (when emissions were below the fiscal 2006 level), we in effect have set significantly higher targets. In accordance with this change, we also updated our medium-term targets. Instead of a 30% emissions reduction by fiscal 2021 compared with fiscal 2006, as stated in the Casio Environmental Declaration 2020, a much higher emissions reduction target of 26% by fiscal 2031 compared with fiscal 2014 was established. One of the major aims of the 2015 Paris Agreement is keeping a global temperature rise this century well below 2 degrees Celsius above preindustrial levels. In light of this, the Japanese government adjusted its goal Makoto Kobayashi for reducing greenhouse gas emissions to 26% by fiscal 2031 compared with Executive Officer fiscal 2014. Casio decided to align its targets with this national goal. General Manager CSR Promotion Department In fiscal 2017, Casio had already mostly achieved the goals of the Casio Environmental Declaration 2020. In addition, with the various business restructuring efforts carried out over the last decade, Casio's business structure is now significantly different than it was in fiscal 2006, the previous target base year. By changing the base year to fiscal 2014, Casio is now able to measure its environmental impact in a more relevant way. Our new emissions targets are challenging ones that cannot be attained merely by extending our previous efforts. I think it is essential to implement environmental policies in all aspects of business management, including the CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 149 creation of products and services that take advantage of innovative ideas and advanced technology capabilities. In addition to manufacturing processes, we have to revise the distribution of products, the way business sites work, and how employees work. We must make our methods far more efficient and purposeful than they have ever been before. This latest target revision is a demonstration of Casio’s determination as a leading environmental company to take on a real challenge. I am convinced that Casio's corporate competitiveness can be dramatically enhanced by incorporating strategic environmental conservation efforts into business management. Promoting Environmental Activities Linked to Internationally Agreed Goals Environmental protection is a global issue that transcends national borders. Since Casio is also a company that actively promotes global development, we do consider how our efforts are related to international agreements. This is why we are firmly addressing two landmark documents: the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted at the United Nations in 2015, and the Paris Agreement from the 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP 21). It is very important to properly link Casio's material issues with the 17 goals that make up the SDGs. Casio's three material environmental goals are realizing a low carbon society, building a recycling society, and living in harmony with nature. These objectives are closely related to SDGs 6, 7, 12, 13, 14 and 15, namely, clean water and sanitation, affordable and clean energy, responsible consumption and production, climate action, life below water, and life on land, respectively. I believe it will become even more important for us to promote our business with a continual awareness of the global challenges that Casio needs to help solve. As mentioned above, our new emissions targets will help us to support the Paris Agreement, and we are now working to align our efforts even more closely with the efforts of the international community. For greenhouse gas emissions, the importance of managing the supply chain as a whole is increasing. We will therefore ascertain levels of indirect emissions from manufacturing and logistics processes, as well as emissions levels at each of our sites, and aim for reductions. Until recently our greenhouse gas emissions have been calculated based on certain coefficients. In order to further improve the validity of our statistics, we have now adopted the calculation methods of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, which is the international standard for calculating CO2 emissions from power plants. We are recalculating our numbers not only for future but also past emissions levels. It is not an easy task, but I think that this is an important step we must take before moving forward. In addition, we will formulate a scenario for achieving long-term goals with a view to acquiring science-based target (SBT) certification, which is becoming a new global standard for corporate emissions reduction targets. In addition, we are aiming to expand our provision of products and services that use renewable energy such as solar, wind, and hydro-electric power, while also utilizing such energy sources for business activities. Going forward, we will also consider joining international initiatives such as RE100 (Renewable Energy 100%), which aims for business operations using 100% renewable energy. Strengthening Group-wide Initiatives under a New Environmental Management System In fiscal 2017, we promoted substantial reform of our environmental management system (EMS) in order to focus more strongly on our three material environmental issues within a large group-wide framework. We had introduced an environmental management system (ISO 14001) as a tool for environmental management, but since it obtained ISO 14001 certification for each business site, it was difficult to link with group-wide activities promoted by the former Environment Planning Section, resulting in duplicate management. In addition, because it CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 150 involved department-based initiatives, the focus tended to be on a micro level. For departments without a large environmental impact, it was difficult to establish initiative themes related to business activities. In September 2015, the 2004 version of ISO 14001 was revised, making transition essential for Casio. Under the 2004 version, improvement of EMS mechanisms was required, but under the new 2015 version, improvement of environmental performance is required. To meet environmental standards that place greater emphasis on performance, Casio must now raise its environmental management to a completely new level. Consequently, Casio has carried out a company-wide EMS integration, and has reorganized its system to enable joint acquisition of ISO 14001:2015 certification by our three main sites: the head office, Hamura R&D Center, and Hachioji R&D Center. In addition, we have established three issue-specific committees, tasked with realizing a low carbon society, building a recycling society, and living in harmony with nature, respectively, by taking environmental action based on these material issues. By linking ISO 14001 directly to the activities of these committees, we have eliminated the gap between group-wide initiatives and departmental initiatives, which had been a problem. Through these reforms, we have been able to establish a system that effectively manages environmental activities for all of Casio. Our new EMS has already undergone preliminary review by the certification organization, and it was put into operation in fiscal 2017. As we share the objectives and goals throughout the Group, the entire Group is coming together, determined to achieve environmental performance that exceeds expectations. Steady Action on Three Material Issues In fiscal 2017, during the materiality identification process, we engaged in various discussions from the stakeholder perspective both in and outside the company. It was a very valuable experience to have opportunities for comprehensive dialogue with outside experts, and we learned a lot, especially in the environmental field. We are now making steady progress by setting long-term objectives for each of the three issues that are material to Casio (realizing a low carbon society, building a recycling society, and living in harmony with nature), and formulating goals and key performance indicators (KPIs) with a clear timeline. As part of our goal to help realize a low carbon society, Casio has long demonstrated its strength in making products with high energy-saving performance. However, we will now further enhance product performance to differentiate ourselves from other companies. In addition to energy saving through products, an important key for the future will be reducing greenhouse gas emissions in manufacturing and logistics processes. Energy conservation diagnosis has already begun at sites in Japan, and we will expand this to sites outside Japan in the future. Based on the results, we will formulate a roadmap for reducing our carbon footprint, share it with all relevant departments, and promote necessary measures. As part of efforts to build a recycling society, it is essential to aim for resource conservation and recycling throughout the entire product lifecycle, not just at Casio, but at suppliers as well. This is especially true for Casio, which has minimal involvement in resource input into the manufacturing process, due to the characteristics of its business. Moreover, the importance of resource utilization management across the entire supply chain grows every year. Although we conduct surveys of supplier efforts, there are increasing opportunities for distributors to ask about the status of our company's initiatives. As this beneficial external pressure increases, we must strengthen our efforts as a matter of course. Measures for waste recycling are also important. Although we have been working on this within the framework of ISO 14001, we will continue to actively consider what Casio can do beyond the measures required for certification. At Casio, we have pursued eco-product development right from the planning and design stages, and have created products that meet our standards as Casio Green Products and Casio Super Green Star Products. While continuing to CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 151 make these kinds of products in the future, we will also work to share product stories to show users what kind of value they can expect from these Casio-certified products. It is vital that we strengthen our connections with customers. As part of our efforts for living in harmony with nature, we will promote policies that take into consideration not only direct impacts but also indirect impacts throughout the value chain, based on our biodiversity guidelines. Currently, we are promoting environmental impact assessment for each business site, starting in Japan, and we are accelerating our response to the problems that have been delayed until now. Living in harmony with nature is also an area where it is easy to promote product-based collaboration with environmental organizations. In 2016, we launched a smart watch specially designed for outdoor activities. This has enhanced Casio's reputation as a company that adds new dimensions to the enjoyment of nature. Using our product brands, we intend to also communicate with relevant organizations and actively explore the possibility of collaboration. Helping to Build a Sustainable World by Raising the Awareness of Every Employee Based on our restructured EMS, we are now pressing forward together as a group to tackle our material issues and produce results. The key to success is that each employee understands why these issues are important and the course of action Casio needs to take. It is also important to set purposeful and satisfactory goals and KPIs for each issue. I think we should also consider how to link this effort with human resources evaluation, going forward. While serving as a roadmap for the entire world, the 17 SDGs can also be used to foster new awareness within Casio. We must see the SDGs related to worldwide energy and environmental issues not as something for distant countries that have nothing to do with us, but as issues vitally connected to Casio's day-to-day work. In today's global society, anyone’s careless actions can have unanticipated and wide-ranging effects. This is why we are working so hard to raise awareness across Casio about the relationship between our business and critical social issues. We must ensure that every employee fully realizes that efforts to address our material issues will also contribute to the SDGs. Casio's challenges under this new framework have only just begun. Our future activities will depend on our ability to make the new system function properly and on our performance. By taking strategic action from a group-wide perspective, we will steadily work to help build a sustainable world. Casio Environmental Vision 2050 and Casio Environmental Declaration 2020 In April 2012, Casio revised the Casio Environmental Vision and the Casio Environmental Declaration into the Casio Environmental Vision 2050 and Casio Environmental Declaration 2020, respectively, in order to further promote environmental management in response to the changing social conditions surrounding the company. Casio Environmental Vision 2050 With a target year of 2050, the Casio Group will create and implement its own visionary initiatives to promote the sustainable use of energy and resources and facilitate the healthy coexistence of all living things, the planet's greatest assets. Casio’s aim is to become a leading environmental company that contributes not only to a sound and sustainable global environment but also to the spiritual richness of people’s lives. Casio’s unique way of achieving this is by creating new value and lifestyle possibilities that give rise to markets and cultural phenomena never seen before. To become a leading environmental company, Casio will apply its spirit of going from “0” to “1,” or creating “something” from “nothing,” to develop unique environmental initiatives and create products and services that make the most of its innovative ideas and leading technologies, focusing in particular on the following areas: CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 152 • Realizing a low-carbon society • Building a recycling society • Living in harmony with nature Casio Environmental Declaration 2020 *Action guidelines for 2020* 1. Realizing a low-carbon society The Casio Group will provide products and services that make an even greater contribution to the reduction and absorption of CO2 emissions. In addition to expanding products and services that use energy sources that are friendly to people and the planet, including solar, wind, and hydro power, Casio will incorporate these renewable energy sources into its own business operations. 2. Building a recycling society The Casio Group intends to further enhance resource productivity through the efficient use of water and other precious resources of the planet, including the reuse of resources and the utilization of alternate materials. 3. Living in harmony with nature The Casio Group is promoting awareness of the need to take care of the planet through biodiversity preservation activities, while working to achieve harmony between business activities and the cycles of nature. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 153 Climate Change Action In order to ensure that the next generation inherits this irreplaceable planet, Casio has established and is implementing Climate Change Action with mediumand long-term targets to be achieved by fiscal 2051. Mediumand long-term targets In February 2017, Casio revised the mediumand long-term reduction targets for the Casio Group’s greenhouse gas emissions, which were set based on the Casio Environmental Vision 2050 and the Casio Environmental Declaration 2020 established in April 2012. The revisions are shown below. These revisions were made for two reasons: to make the targets more relevant to the current situation by changing the base year to 2013, since Casio’s business structure is now significantly different than it was in the original base year of 2005, and to align with the Japanese government’s mediumand long-term targets. Casio group's mediumand long-term targets for greenhouse gas emissions reduction Medium-term target: To reduce the total volume of global greenhouse gas emissions from business activities To reduce the total volume of global greenhouse gas emissions from Medium-term target business activities by 26% compared to fiscal 2014, by fiscal 2031 To reduce the total volume of global greenhouse gas emissions from Previous target business activities by 30% compared to fiscal 2006, by fiscal 2021 To reduce the total volume of global greenhouse gas emissions from Long-term target business activities by 80% compared to fiscal 2014, by fiscal 2051 To reduce the total volume of global greenhouse gas emissions from Previous target business activities by 80% compared to fiscal 2006, by fiscal 2051 * Business activities: This indicates activities of production sites and offices in Japan and overseas (scope 1 and 2), and does not include CO2 emissions from logistics, product usage, or employee travel. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 154 Managing risks and opportunities As a result of the March 2011 Great East Japan Earthquake and the ensuing accident at the Fukushima nuclear power station, virtually all nuclear power stations across Japan have suspended operations. Japan is faced with such risks as rising electricity tariffs and power shortages in summer and winter. Moreover, the greenhouse gas emission coefficient for electricity has risen as a result of the decline in the utilization of nuclear power generation, resulting in an increase in real CO2 emissions. This translates into greater risk of incurring emissions trading costs under the Ordinance on Environmental Preservation to Secure the Health and Safety of the Tokyo Metropolitan Area (Environmental Preservation Ordinance). Also in 2011, there was major flooding in Thailand, which may be partially attributable to global warming and upstream deforestation. Consequently, global risks have become apparent including threats to the value chain for production and parts. In order to avoid these risks, Casio plans to expand the introduction of renewable energy, and secure alternatives in the value chain. On the other hand, the greenhouse gas reduction effect at time of product usage offered by Casio products which promote paperless lifestyles, such as data projectors and electronic dictionaries, has been identified as a significant opportunity to address climate change over the product life cycle. Casio will work to further expand its business in these products. In order to minimize the various risks mentioned above, and expand opportunities, Casio must contribute to the sustainability of the planet and its human societies. Casio recognizes that this is an extremely important issue for further strengthening its business foundation, and will make even more strenuous efforts in the fight against climate change. Measures for achieving mediumand long-term targets Casio has set medium and long-term targets for achievement by 2030 and 2050. Among the three areas that the Casio Environmental Declaration 2020 focuses on, Casio will put the highest priority on realizing a low-carbon society. Realizing a low-carbon society The Casio Group will provide products and services that make an even greater contribution to the reduction and absorption of CO2 emissions. In addition to expanding products and services that use energy sources that are friendly to people and the planet, including solar, wind, and hydro power, Casio will incorporate these renewable energy sources into its own business operations. Casio Europe has been operating geothermal cooling and heating in its office building since January 2009. Casio will also begin investigating initiatives for the use of renewable energy including solar. Regarding other indirect CO2 emissions (GHG Protocol Scope 3 emissions), Casio will work to expand the scope of disclosure of other indirect CO2 emissions generated during distribution and product usage, which it already discloses, based on the calculation guidelines being considered currently by the electrical and electronics industry associations. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 155 Measures for 2030 Casio is studying the potential of the following initiatives to achieve the medium-term target for 2030. It will start to formulate scenarios for achieving the long-term target for 2050. 1. Environmental contribution through product usage • Reducing the amount of electricity used by products • Minimizing and optimizing the amount of product packaging • Increasing the percentage of products that run on solar cells • CO2 absorption effect based on the expansion of paperless products (reducing demand for logging, etc.) 2. Reduction of CO2 emissions in various business activity processes • Materials procurement, product manufacturing, transport and distribution, product usage, recycling, and disposal • Expansion of the scope of CO2 emission data gathering on logistics, transport efficiency improvement, and modal shift • Visualizing reduction potential through eco assessments at main offices and production sites 3. Energy savings and increasing the percentage of renewable energy use at business sites • Shifting to electricity derived from renewable energy • Installation of LED lighting • Installation of solar panels • Installation of highly efficient air conditioning equipment CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 156 Casio Wins Low Carbon Cup 2016 “Best Long-Term Target Award” Casio was awarded the Best Long-Term Target Award in the Low Carbon Cup 2016 organized by the Executive Committee for Low Carbon Cup, which is chaired by Hiroshi Komiyama. This award recognizes Casio as an organization that has set and is actively working toward a long-term target for reducing CO2 emissions. Casio was chosen out of 256 companies in the corporate division. Executive officer Atsushi Yazawa attended the awards ceremony held on February 17 and received the award from the committee chairman. Going forward, Casio will keep working to achieve its long-term environmental target, “To reduce the total volume of global greenhouse gas emissions from business activities by 80% compared to fiscal 2006, by fiscal 2051.” CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 157 Biodiversity Biodiversity Guideline The 10th Conference of Parties (COP10) to the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) was held in Nagoya, Japan in October 2010, and it adopted a new Strategic Plan for Biodiversity (2020), and the Aichi Biodiversity Targets (2050). Following up, business corporations have become more active in their efforts to preserve biodiversity. Casio followed up with the Casio Group Biodiversity Guidelines, established by its Environmental Conservation Committee in March 2011. Since then, Casio has been engaging in more concrete biodiversity conservation efforts. Casio Group Biodiversity Guidelines Basic Policy The Casio Group recognizes that its existence and business activities depend on the benefits afforded by biodiversity, and that these activities also have an impact on biodiversity. Casio emphasizes biodiversity preservation activities as well as efforts to fight climate change. By including biodiversity preservation in environmental management and creating a system for implementation, the Casio Group is working to build a more sustainable world. Specific Initiatives 1. Business Activities: Casio will help to build a more sustainable world by creating and providing products and services that encourage consumers to care more about the environment. This will be done by learning from nature and developing technologies that utilize this wisdom. • Facilitating a paperless society • Contributing to resource saving by developing original technology • Developing products with care for nature 2.Impact Assessment: Casio will survey and analyze its impact on biodiversity through activities including R&D, design, procurement, manufacturing, logistics, sales, product use, disposal, and recycling, and at its office and plant locations. It will establish improvement measures and implement them starting with areas of highest environmental impact and benefit. • Actively taking initiatives for proper procurement of parts (leather, wood, paper, etc.) and materials (mineral resources, etc.) that depend on ecosystem services. • Conducting questionnaire surveys across the supply chain in order to check ecosystem protection efforts for parts and materials that make up products. • Establishing impact assessment methods (checklists and indices) for the Casio Group CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 158 3.Information Disclosure: Casio will strive to improve social awareness of biodiversity, by actively disclosing the results of its environmental activities. 4.Community Involvement: Casio will actively support activities that contribute to biodiversity preservation by NPOs and NGOs, government agencies, and local citizens. 5.Full Employee Participation: Casio is aiming for activities that involve the participation of all employees, by increasing understanding of biodiversity preservation, and training employees to act on their own initiative. March 31, 2011 Yukio Kashio Chairman, Casio Environmental Conference Risks and opportunities While benefiting from biodiversity, corporate activities also have a significant impact on it. By fully understanding this relationship, Casio aims to avoid the risks associated with failing to make efforts in the area of biodiversity and, instead, to identify the opportunities that these efforts present. Example risk: Problems in the upstream supply chain identified from the perspective of biodiversity preservation could make it impossible to use certain resources, materials, and parts, and Casio could lose customers because it is perceived as having a negative impact on the environment. Specifics: • Use of carelessly sourced paper contributes to global forest decline. • Due to the toxicity of the mercury used in projector light sources, its use is legally restricted. Example opportunity: Casio takes the lead ahead of other companies in implementing policies that allow it to more safely and reliably procure resources, materials, and parts, as well as substitutes for the same, and is therefore able to highlight the environmental friendliness of Casio products when appealing to customers. Specifics: • Efforts that address environmental impact, such as the formulation of a paper procurement policy, are well received by the general public. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 159 • Through original development of a light source that does not use mercury, Casio is able to supply projectors that are legally compliant. • By supporting NGOs and NPOs with Casio products, for instance by issuing collaborative wristwatches that support dolphin and whale conservation, Casio is able to strengthen its product brands. Business site impact study Casio conducted a biodiversity study at the Group’s main sites to investigate impact on biodiversity. As shown in Table 1, the results found that, even at the Headquarters in Shibuya Ward, Tokyo, over 50 species of insects and around 70 species of plants find their home. Golden Orchid (Cephalanthera falcata), which is included on the Ministry of the Environment’s species red list, was found at the Hamura R&D Center in Hamura, Tokyo. Rare plants and insects including the plant Lespedeza tomentosa Sieb. ex Maxim. and the insect Canthophorus niveimarginatus (Scott), which are included on the prefectural species red list in Yamanashi Prefecture, were found at the Yamanashi Office in the city of Fuefuki. According to Ryokusei Research Institute Inc., to which the study was commissioned, habitat for these plants and insects has been maintained as a result of the greenery management at the sites, which is having a positive impact on biodiversity conservation. In light of the study’s results, the Casio Group will continue to carry out biodiversity conservation activities, including protecting the rare species discovered, with expert advice. Golden Orchid Protective fence established around a Golden Lespedeza tomentosa Sieb. ex Maxim. Orchid CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 160 Results of business site biodiversity study Number of species site Insects Plants Casio Computer Co., Ltd. Headquarters 55 82 Hamura R&D Center 105 187 Hachioji R&D Center 51 110 Yamagata Casio Co., Ltd. Headquarters 82 173 Yamanashi 91 149 Casio Electronic Manufacuring Co., Ltd. 58 108 Casio Business Service Co., Ltd. (Kofu) 82 160 List of plants at the Casio Group’s main sites in 2017(PDF) （PDF / 372KB） List of insects at the Casio Group’s main sites in 2017(PDF) （PDF / 331KB） CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 161 Paper Procurement Policy established Casio established the following Paper Procurement Policy, which is based on the Casio Group Biodiversity Guidelines, in June 2015. Casio Group Paper Procurement Policy Purpose: To preserve biodiversity by protecting and sustainably using the forest resources which provide the raw material for paper. Scope: All paper products procured by the Casio Group worldwide Policy: Casio will procure paper for use in its business activities according to the following standards: 1. Paper must be made from trees harvested in accordance with the laws and regulations governing the logging area concerned, 2. Products must not come from companies that are destroying any forest with high conservation value or that are a source of serious environmental or social issues, 3. Priority must be given to reliable certified paper or recycled paper. Results of activities in fiscal 2017 Expanded scope of investigation of manufacturers of paper products and addressed noncompliance As in the previous fiscal year, Casio continued to investigate manufacturers of paper products. It was discovered that paper products from certain companies that Casio had deemed to be involved with serious environmental or social issues were included in some of the paper products procured from suppliers that were newly included in the expanded scope of investigation. Casio finished the process of changing sources in June 2017 by clarifying procurement instructions to suppliers. Expanded use of FSC®-certified paper Casio has switched to FSC®-certified paper for business cards at all sites in Japan. Activities in fiscal 2018 In fiscal 2018, Casio will start to establish targets for the percentage of FSC®-certified paper used in product catalogues and will work to increase the percentage by systematically switching over. Casio will also continue to regularly investigate manufacturers of paper products to maintain the use of paper products in line with its procurement policy. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 162 Participation in the Consortium for Sustainable Paper Use In June 2014, Casio joined the Consortium for Sustainable Paper Use, which was established to promote the use of paper in a way that is both environmentally and socially responsible throughout society. Casio has been working hard as a dedicated member of the Consortium. The Consortium was established in November 2013 by five companies that are making progressive efforts related to their use of paper, the WWF Japan, and Response Ability, Inc, which promotes corporate sustainability. By enabling each member to promote uses of paper that are environmentally and socially responsible from their various perspectives, the Consortium hopes to expand the sustainable use of paper throughout the broader society. The Casio Group Paper Procurement Policy, formulated in 2015, was also based on exchange of information with member companies and other such external input. Activities of the Consortium From fiscal 2015 through fiscal 2016, the Consortium engaged in dialogue with suppliers of paper products, and in July 2016 it organized a symposium entitled “Corporate Collaboration in the Supply Chain: Toward Expanding Sustainable Use of Paper.” Over 100 participants attended the symposium Participating Companies (as of March 2017 in Japanese phonetic order) Ajinomoto Co., Inc. AEON Co., Ltd. Kao Corporation Casio Computer Co., Ltd. Kirin Holdings Co., Ltd. JSR Corporation Sony Corporation Nikon Corporation At a consortium meeting Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Ltd. Operations Advisor: Response Ability, Inc. Details regarding the consortium can be found on the WWF Japan website below. “Consortium for Sustainable Paper Use” WWF Japan website CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 163 The Biodiversity Working Group, The 4 Electrical and Electronic industry Associations In fiscal 2017, Casio started taking part in The Biodiversity Working Group, The 4 Electrical and Electronic industry Associations (JEMA: The Japan Electrical Manufacturers’ Association, JEITA: Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association, CIAJ: Communications and Information Network Association of Japan, JBMIA: Japan Business Machine and Information System Industries Association). Through the working group’s activities, Casio will contribute to biodiversity conservation in addition to continuing to expand the scope of its own biodiversity initiatives, taking into consideration the efforts of the pioneering companies that are taking part in the working group. Details regarding the working group can be found on the JEMA website below. The Biodiversity Working Group, The 4 Electrical and Electronic industry Associations Supporting environmental protection groups Based on a theme of “Love the Sea and the Earth,” the G-SHOCK and BABY-G brands support the activities of two environmental protection groups, the International Cetacean Education Research Centre (ICERC Japan) and Earthwatch Japan, with collaboration models that promote these groups. ICERC collaboration model Earthwatch collaboration mode In July 2017, Casio participated as a volunteer investigator in Earthwatch Japan’s “East Japan Green Recovery Monitoring Project (Mudflat Study).” This study will continuously survey ecosystems in regions affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake in order to record the effects of the disaster and environmental changes in the subsequent recovery process as scientific data, aiming to make that data available for use in future conservation activities. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 164 Ecosystem survey Team Tyura Sango (Beautiful Coral) Since 2016, Casio has been participating in a coral regeneration project that aims to revive coral in Okinawa’s beautiful seas, where a sharp decrease in coral has been seen in recent years. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 165 Developing Products that Save Resources and Energy Since its foundation, Casio has created products which have minimal impact on the environment by striving to make its products more compact, lightweight, slim and energy efficient. Products made 10,000 times lighter, using 15 million times less power This section features Casio’s Green Star Products and products that comply with external systems and laws and have obtained environment-related marks. From Casio's first calculator to today's products Casio's first calculator, the 14-A, had 342 relays and weighed 140 kg. Fifteen years later, through large-scale integration of the calculation circuits, the Casio Mini calculator weighed only 315 grams. With the SL-800 credit-card size calculator in 1983, all the parts were incorporated into a film, and it measured just 0.8 mm thick. This product weighed just 12 g, which is less than 1/10,000th the weight of the original 14-A. Not only that, it operates on just 0.02 mW, which is 1/15,000,000th the power consumption of the 14-A. Making products smaller saves resources and also reduces the energy required for shipping. Cutting-edge functionality powered by solar energy Solar power is one of the most attractive next-generation energies. Casio has been using solar power to drive its timepieces for more than 20 years. Rather than using a primary (single-use) battery, these products keep time using the power of light, thus consuming a minute amount of energy best CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 166 measured at the microwatt level. Even if such products were to be used by 100 million people simultaneously, they would still only use as much power as a single 100-watt light bulb. Casio's mass capacity solar rechargeable battery system is not only used to power its timepieces. It also powers their radio-controlled function, which keep accurate time by receiving radio waves, as well as sensors that measure air pressure and altitude. These products therefore achieve both energy conservation and cutting-edge functionality. G-SHOCK Paperless electronic dictionaries Electronic dictionaries require neither paper nor ink. Casio dictionaries offer the convenience of looking up words while on the go, at any time. If this kind of data were to be provided in printed form, it would result in a heavy and unwieldy published product. Casio has used the power of digital technologies to eliminate the need to carry around large amounts of information and also to reduce consumption of paper. With today's dictionaries capable of functions only made possible by digital technologies, such as pronunciation assistance and handwritten text recognition, electronic dictionaries are continuing to evolve. EX-word Digital cameras make film obsolete In 1995, Casio released its QV-10, the world's first consumer's digital camera with an LCD display. It required neither film, nor developing solution, nor paper for printing. The benefits of being able to immediately see a picture that had just been taken quickly won support for this entirely new kind of camera. In 2002, sales of digital cameras surpassed that of film cameras, formally ushering in the age of digital photography. QV-10 No matter how many hundreds of photos one might take, digital photos eliminate the need to worry about wasting resources. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 167 Handheld terminals seek ease of use Optimally shaped for easy grip Design is weighted to provide the greatest sense of stability when the device is held in the user's hand. The back has a concave shape to give the user's fingers a natural place to rest, allowing a firm grip on the device. This device strives for gripability and stability, allowing the user to naturally move between a series of actions: picking up, holding, and carrying the handheld terminal. It is truly comfortable to hold. Handheld terminal Printer realizes ease of use and global economic and ecological value Total pursuit of global economic and ecological value in a printer that realizes superior ease of use while reducing costs and conserves energy and protects the environment, including returnable toner cartridges with a carbon offset. At approximately 0.4W*1 in sleep mode, lowest*2-in-class energy performance Uses biomass plastic for tabs, etc., on consumable items *1 Standard configuration, sleep mode level 2 Printer *2 As of June 2013. A3 color page printer, 30 color pages/minute (A4 width) class for Japanese market. Casio survey. Setting the new standard for data projectors: hybrid light source With its original mercury-free Laser & LED Hybrid Light Source, Casio has developed a long-life light source (about 20,000 hours) that improves cost performance. It can reach maximum brightness in just eight seconds, which greatly shortens the time required to achieve screen projection. Furthermore, since no cooling is required when the power is switched off, it can be shut down completely during short presentation breaks. Data projector High quality sound from a small unit Casio has saved resources and energy by creating a slim, compact design. The compact design also greatly reduces CO2 emissions during transport. Electronic musical instruments CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 168 Environmental Action Plan (Targets and Performance) Under its Environmental Vision 2050, Casio has established Environmental Action Plan targets from a global perspective, and is carrying out environmental activities accordingly. Here are the targets and performance for fiscal 2017, along with the targets for fiscal 2018 based on the current results. Fiscal 2018 Casio Environmental Action Plan When Casio identified material issues in 2015, it took the opportunity to reconsider its basic approach to setting targets. Based on that review, the Group decided that in the future it would consider, “what roles society expects of Casio,” set mediumand long-term targets as a vision, and then establish annual targets as milestones toward that vision. Based on that approach, Casio overhauled its environmental action targets by taking into consideration coherence between environmentally material issues and KPIs. First, with respect to the reduction of greenhouse gases (CO2) to contribute to the achievement of a low-carbon society, Casio reconsidered the numerical adequacy of its greenhouse gas emissions (CO2) published in the past, in order to create a clearer vision for the future, in light of the Paris Agreement coming into effect in November 2016 and the Japanese government’s announcement of new reduction targets. As a result, the Group changed from its past calculation method to one with higher adequacy and recalculated its emissions by country and fiscal year, going back to 2005, and thereupon set its targets. Next, with regard to “building a recycling society,” Casio set targets focusing on the promotion of recycling through expansion of Casio Green Star Products and Super Green Star Products, which are Casio’s eco products, and focusing on the promotion of recycling in business activities. With respect to “living in harmony with nature,” considering that Casio has little direct impact on biodiversity due to the nature of its business, it established a target for expanding the use of sustainable paper, which has a large indirect impact in the supply chain. Also, in light of the results of biodiversity assays at its main sites, Casio established a target for carrying out specific measures that will help to grow Casio’s brand value. Finally, with regard to water resources, about which there is high social concern, the Group did not establish a medium-term target, since water resources were removed from its material issues due to the nature of Casio’s business. However, a target for fiscal 2018 was established due to the actual conditions of business activities at product sites. Product Targets | Plant and Business-site Targets | Biodiversity Preservation Targets CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 169 Product Targets 1. Mediumand long-term targets (1) Achieve a recycling rate of 100% by fiscal 2031 (2) Increase Casio Green Star product sales to 70% of total sales for fiscal 2021 2. Targets for fiscal 2018 (1) Increase Casio Green Star product sales to 60% of total sales (2) Promote development of new Casio Super Green Star products Plant and Business-site Targets 1. Mediumand long-term targets for greenhouse gas emissions reduction Long-term target To reduce the total volume of global greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1 and 2) from business activities by 80 % compared to FY2014, by FY2051 Medium-term target To reduce the total volume of global greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1 and 2) from business activities by 26 % compared to FY2014, by FY2031 Targets for fiscal 2018 To reduce the total volume of global greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1 and 2) from business activities by 8.25 % compared to FY2014, by FY2018 * This does not include greenhouse gas emissions from logistics, product usage, or employee travel (scope 3). ２. Resource conservation targets (water) Japan production sites Use no more than 56,000 m3 of water in fiscal 2018 Production sites outside Japan Use no more than 421,000 m3 of water in fiscal 2018 ３. Waste reduction targets Medium-term target Achieve a recycling rate of 100% by fiscal 2031 Targets for fiscal 2018 Investigate the actual status of recycling with such aims as design standardization for rational recycling. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 170 Biodiversity Preservation Targets 1. Sustainable use of paper • Use FSC certified paper for 40% of paper for product catalogs in Japan • Set specific action themes and commence activities to preserve biodiversity based on the results of biodiversity assays at principal sites in Japan. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 171 Fiscal 2017 Casio Environmental Action Plan Performance Progress assessment key ①Target was achieved and a new, higher target was established.・・・・・・・・・・・・☆☆☆☆ ②Target was achieved. ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・☆☆☆ ③Making progress toward achieving target.・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ ・・・・・・☆☆ ④Target not achieved.・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ ☆ ⑤Same as or worse than base value. ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ ▲ Target achievement Status of target Progress Theme Target Base value Target value progress inFY2017 achievement assessment Development target for eco-products Maintain Casio Green Star product 50% 57% Fully achieved ☆☆☆☆ sales of 50% of total sales. Raise share of Green Eco-products Star Product sales in total sales. Promote development of new Casio Super Green Star 20 models ☆☆☆ products. Plant and business-site targets Reduce the total volume of global Reduce greenhouse gas greenhouse gas emissions from 47,887 33,521 36,682 Reduced by Reduction of emissions over the ☆☆ business activities by 30% by 23.4% medium term. greenhouse gas FY2021 compared to FY2006. （Tons-CO2) （Tons-CO2) （Tons-CO2) emissions over the medium and Reduce greenhouse gas Reduce the total volume of global emissions over the greenhouse gas emissions from 47,887 6,577 36,682 Reduced by long term ☆☆ long term. business activities by 80% by 23.4% term. FY2051 compared to FY2006. （Tons-CO2) （Tons-CO2) （Tons-CO2) Energy Reduce energy usage (crude oil conservation Reduce energy usage equivalent kL) by 13 % per unit of 0.0462 0.0402 0.0392 Reduced by ☆☆☆ (electrical power, (All sites). total floor space compared to 15.4% fuel, etc.) FY2011, by FY2017. (crude oil (crude oil equivalent equivalent (crude oil equivalent kL/m2) kL/m2) kL/m2) Reduce water usage Reduce water usage by 5% 65 61 55 Reduced by (Japan production ☆☆☆ compared to FY2011, by FY2017. 14.7% sites). (Thousand m3) (Thousand m3) (Thousand m3) Reduce water usage Resource (production sites Reduce water usage by 5% 428 407 370 Reduced by conservation ☆☆☆ outside compared to FY2011, by FY2017. 13.6% (water, paper) Japan). (Thousand m3) (Thousand m3) (Thousand m3) Reduce office paper Reduce volume of office paper 71 63 61 Reduced by usage used by 12% compared to FY2011, ☆☆☆ 13.9% (Japan sites). by FY2017. (Tons) (Tons) (Tons) Reduce generation of Reduce volume of waste by 4% 1,460 1,402 1,487 Increased by waste ▲ compared to FY2012, by FY2017. 1.8% (Japan sites). (Tons) (Tons) (Tons) Waste reduction Reduce generation of waste Reduce volume of waste by 48% 791 411 1,457 Increased by (production sites ▲ compared to FY2011, by FY2017. 84.2% outside (Tons) (Tons) (Tons) Japan). Logistics-related Reduce CO2 emissions Reduce CO2 emissions volume per global warming (*1) unit of sales by 20% compared to 20% 38.8% Fully achieved ☆☆☆ countermeasures (distribution in Japan). FY2011, by FY2017. (*1) The scope of target for logistics-related global warming countermeasures is distribution for product sales. Overall business activity targets Sustainable use of paper ・Use FSC certified paper for 30 % achievement rate 30% 15% ☆ of paper for product catalogs in 50% Japan Preserve biodiversity Biodiversity and preservation target 7 Sites ecosystem services. Ecosystem surveys of sites ・Casio Computer Co., Ltd. Headquarters ・Casio Computer Co., Ltd. Hamura R&D Center ・Undertake biological diversity 7 Sites ・Casio Computer Co., Ltd. Hachioji R&D Center Fully achieved ☆☆☆ surveys on locations of the ・Casio Electronic Manufacturing Co., Ltd. ・Yamagata Casio Co., Ltd. Headquarters main sites in Japan. ・Yamagata Casio Co., Ltd. Yamanashi Office ・Casio Business Service Co., Ltd. Kofu Office CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 172 Material Balance This page provides an overall picture of the environmental impact of the Casio Group's business activities. What is a material balance? The material balance shows the overall picture for energy and resources used in the process of Casio’s business activities including R&D, design, parts procurement, manufacturing, distribution, recovery and recycling, and the energy used in the process of product use by customers (inputs) plus the environmental impacts that are produced in each of those processes (outputs). CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 173 CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 174 Environmental Data Third-party verification In order to ensure the reliability of its environmental data reporting, in fiscal 2011 Casio began requesting third-party verification. Casio relied on SGS Japan Co., Ltd., for the audit in fiscal 2017. The audit covered greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1, 2 and Categories 1, 4 and 11 of Scope 3), water intake, waste and emissions of atmospheric pollutants. Of the sites covered, on-site surveys were conducted at the Hachioji R&D Center of Casio Computer Co., Ltd., and the Kofu Office of Casio Business Service Co., Ltd. The 21 leased-office sites in and outside Japan are not included in the scope of water intake calculation because water usage was difficult to ascertain. See the third-party verification statement （PDF / 136KB） Environmental Performance In fiscal 2017, Casio Electronics (Shaoguan), a production site acquired from another company, began operations, causing a net increase of environmental impact for the Group as a whole. This ended up offsetting the reductions in CO2 emissions achieved at other sites through efforts such as switching to LED lighting and upgrading to high efficiency air conditioners. On the other hand, Scope 1 and 2 emissions were down compared to the material balance in the previous year’s report. This was because Casio reconsidered the method for calculating CO2 emissions and uniformly applied the GHG Protocol’s fiscal yearand country-specific emission factors for CO2 emission calculations for electricity. In order to appropriately evaluate change over the years, the graph on the environmental data page shows recalculated figures for past years. Waste increased substantially, above the net increase caused by Casio Electronics (Shaoguan). This was due in part to omissions in the reporting of valuables at Casio (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Casio (Thailand) experienced flooding in 2011 and thereafter moved its production site to a distant location with no risk of flooding. At that time, Casio’s headquarters did not immediately discover the reporting omissions, which were caused by the destruction of work documents in the flood damage and by the transfer of personnel with the move to the new site. Accordingly, data was corrected retrospectively for waste, as well. Since April 2016, Casio has been restructuring its environmental management implementation system, including integrating ISO 14001, and has strengthened its initiatives to improve environmental performance under a newly established basic policy. As part of that effort, it is reevaluating past performance, as necessary, and when errors or omissions are discovered, it will issue corrections at an appropriate time, such as when reports are published. CO2 | Waste | Water resources | Paper | Scope of data | Calculation standards CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 175 CO2 Medium-and long-term greenhouse gas reductions Casio has set the following medium-term target for Scope 1 and 2 emissions: “To reduce the total volume of global greenhouse gas emissions from business activities by 30% compared to fiscal 2006, by fiscal 2021.” The target level was reached two times: in fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2014. However, with increases and decreases due to fluctuations in the amount of activity and the establishment of new production sites, there was a need to revise the target, including reduction measures. At the same time, the Japanese government released new emissions reduction targets in fiscal 2017, accompanying the Paris Agreement coming into effect. In response, Casio changed its target year to fiscal 2031 and took the opportunity also to revise the method of calculation. Specifically, in the past it had adopted the average of the Federation of Electric Power Companies of Japan for sites in Japan and, in effect, a country-specific fixed coefficient for sites outside Japan. Now, considering changes in the circumstances of power generation, including with the spread of renewable energy, Casio has decided to uniformly apply the GHG Protocol’s fiscal yearand country-specific factors, and figures for past fiscal years have been recalculated. Looking at the Group’s performance through fiscal 2017 based on the recalculated results, although there were unusual changes in the amount of activity due to the flooding in Thailand in fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2013, excluding that, emissions increased two years in a row in fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2017. This increase in emissions resulted from the start of operations at two new productions sites outside Japan one after the other—Casio Timepiece (Dongguan) in fiscal 2016 and Casio Electronics (Shaoguan) in fiscal 2017—which offset emissions reductions made by switching to energy-saving equipment at other sites. Going forward, Casio will carry out reduction measures aimed at achieving its target for 2030 while making appropriate investment decisions by scrutinizing cost effectiveness based on more objective analyses of reduction potential. Casio also set new environmental action targets for fiscal 2018 and beyond, including the change of base year. Since Casio Electronics (Shaoguan), which began operations in fiscal 2017, is a production plant acquired from another company, in next fiscal year’s report Casio will adjust the base-year figures in accordance with the GHG Protocol, and add emission amounts for years after the base year but before the plant was acquired, based on Casio’s standards. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 176 Greenhouse gas emissions The CO2 calculation method was revised, and emissions were recalculated back to the base year (2006). Because of this, the relationship between the target value and the performance data for each year has changed slightly from the situation announced in the previous fiscal year’s report. Greenhouse gas emissions per unit of sales Generally, there are expectations regarding CO2 emissions per unit of sales as an indicator of CO2 emissions efficiency associated with business activities. However, a feature of Casio’s business is that its sales, which are the denominator in that equation, can fluctuate greatly depending on whether it has a hit product in the market. As a result, this measurement does not fit as a long-term assessment and so it is treated as reference data. In fiscal 2017, emissions per unit of sales worsened, as this was right after a new plant outside Japan commenced operations. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 177 Energy Conservation Casio revised its Environmental Action Plan in fiscal 2014 and established an energy conservation target that covers all of its sites. The goal is to reduce energy usage (crude oil equivalent kL) per unit of total floor space by 13% compared to fiscal 2011 by fiscal 2017. In fiscal 2017, it reached 0.0402 (kL/m2), which is the target achievement line and the level of fiscal 2012, when there was a temporary decline due to the Great East Japan Earthquake. So, even though energy consumption increased with the establishment of new sites, floor area increased even more, resulting in a decline in energy usage per unit of floor space. When this target was established in fiscal 2014, it was set as a target management indicator, focusing on the fact that it is not easily influenced by fluctuations in sales performance, in contrast to energy usage per unit of sales, for which past targets had been established. However, due to the differences in the type of work conducted at production sites and offices, energy usage per unit of floor space differs greatly. Establishing a per-unit indicator for the total of all sites in this way makes it difficult to use as a target management indicator for each individual site. Accordingly, it was decided to remove this as a Group-wide target in fiscal 2018. Energy Conservation Reducing CO2 Emissions in Logistics The target for CO2 emissions from logistics activities in Japan is a 20% reduction per unit of domestic sales in fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2011. Emissions were about 39% lower, achieving the target. Going forward, Casio will keep working to further reduce CO2 emissions. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 178 CO2 emissions and emissions per unit of sales for logistics in Japan Waste Reducing waste Casio refers to the combined total of waste and valuables as “waste.” In fiscal 2014, Casio established absolute volume goals for this waste at sites in and outside Japan. These goals are intended to reduce environmental impact by reducing the volume of waste generated. However, main sites that have continued to operate an environmental management system for many years have already minimized their environmental impact in terms of the volume of waste generated in usual business activities by a considerable level. Casio has therefore reached the situation where there are big fluctuations only in years with circumstances that differ from usual business activities. Looking ahead, Casio will aim to contribute to a recycling-oriented society through viewpoints and techniques that are more advanced than reducing the generation of waste. [All sites in Japan] The target for waste from sites in Japan (production sites plus offices) established in fiscal 2014 was a 4% reduction in fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2012. In fiscal 2017, the level of waste at Yamagata Casio returned to normal, the effect of having disposed of stocked products and other waste en masse the previous year. At Casio Electronics Manufacturing, on the other hand, disused articles were disposed as it wound down its business. Waste from all the target sites combined was therefore about the same amount as in fiscal 2016 and thus remained about 2% short of the target compared to the base year. [Production sites outside Japan] The target for waste from production sites outside Japan established in fiscal 2014 was a 48% reduction in fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2011. Very unfortunately, waste increased substantially in fiscal 2017 compared to the base year and compared to the previous year due to two reasons. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 179 The first was a net increase in production due to the start of operations at Casio Electronics (Shaoguan), a new production site outside Japan, in fiscal 2017. Here, Casio anticipates that waste will gradually head toward minimization as the new site’s organizational structure gets put into place. The second cause was the discovery of omissions of valuables in reports from Casio (Thailand) over several years. Even though the valuables had been disposed of properly as such, they had been omitted from reports because a part of the work knowhow in the organization responsible for environmental performance reporting had been lost when personnel were transferred at the time the plant was moved to a remote location to avoid the risk of another flood following the flood damaged that occurred in 2011. Accordingly, change in the data on valuables over the years has been corrected for fiscal 2013 onward. Both of these causes are due to the fact that management system support does not always go as imagined at sites outside Japan. However, Casio plans to deal with this in the future through closer communication, including the creation of monthly reports. Generation of waste and volume of final landfill disposal (all sites in Japan) Generation of waste and volume of final landfill disposal (production sites outside Japan) CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 180 Water resources Reducing water usage Casio has set and managed absolute volume goals for water usage. Based on the characteristics of Casio’s business, the majority of water usage in its business activities is used by employees, with water usage for production activities limited to such things as washing a few components. For this reason, minimization of water usage at the main sites that have continued to operate an environmental management system for many years has advanced to a certain level. Casio has therefore reached the situation where there are big fluctuations only in years with circumstances that differ from usual business activities, such as the discontinuation or new establishment of sites. Based on this kind of business characteristic, Casio removed the perspective of water resources from its material issues. However, it will reanalyze the risk in the future and will aim to contribute to a recycling-oriented society through viewpoints and techniques that are more advanced than reducing water usage. [Production sites in Japan] The goal for production sites in Japan, established in fiscal 2014, was by a 5% reduction in water usage in fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2011. In fiscal 2017, water usage decreased compared to the previous year and the target line was achieved for the second year in a row for the reduction target against the base year. [Production sites outside Japan] The goal for production sites outside Japan, established in fiscal 2014, was by a 5% reduction in water usage in fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2011. In fiscal 2017, water usage increased by about 57% over the previous year with the addition of Casio Electronics (Shaoguan) as a new production site. However, at 407,000 m3, water usage came in below the target line, as it had the previous fiscal year. Since revising the target in 2013, a big reduction occurred with the closure of the Panyu Factory of Casio Computer (Hong Kong). And now the opening of Casio Electronics (Shaoguan) has brought water usage numerically back to the level of fiscal 2012. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 181 Usage of water resources and recycled industrial water (production sites in Japan) Usage of water resources and recycled industrial water (production sites outside Japan) Paper resources Reducing usage of paper resources Casio manages paper with total volume goals. The goal for sites in Japan, established in fiscal 2014, was to reduce the volume of office paper used by 12% in fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2011. In fiscal 2017, the target line was achieved with a reduction of around 14% compared to fiscal 2011. Therefore, Casio plans to shift to qualitative initiatives such as expanding the use of certified paper as part of its measures to preserve biodiversity. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 182 Office paper usage (all sites in Japan) Usage of parts, materials, instruction manuals and packaging materials Usage of parts and materials Usage of instruction manuals Usage of packaging materials CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 183 Scope of Data For the calculation of environmental performance figures including material balances, data was gathered from the following 46 sites for the period of April 1 2015 to March 31, 2016 (fiscal 2016). Numerical data on environmental performance for each site is listed separately. ・Yamagata Casio Co., Ltd. Production sites in Japan (3 ・Yamagata Casio Co., Ltd. (Yamanashi) sites) ・Casio Electronic Manufacturing Co., Ltd. ・Casio Computer Co., Ltd. (Headquarters) ・Casio Computer Co., Ltd. (Hamura R&D Center) ・Casio Computer Co., Ltd. (Hachioji R&D Center) ・Casio Computer Co., Ltd. (7 sales sites) (Kudan, Osaka, Sendai, Saitama, Nagoya, Hiroshima, Fukuoka) ・Casio Techno Co., Ltd. (Headquarters) ・Casio Techno Co., Ltd. (Technical Center) Office sites in Japan (18 ・Casio Marketing Advance Co., Ltd. sites) ・Casio Business Service Co., Ltd. (Headquarters) ・Casio Business Service Co., Ltd. (Kofu) ・Casio Information Service Co., Ltd ・CXD Next Co., Ltd. ・Hatsudai Estate Building * Data for Casio Human Systems Co., Ltd., and Casio Communication Brains Co., Ltd. have been included in the data for the sites where they are located. Asia (3 sites) Production sites outside ・Casio (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Japan (3 sites) ・Casio Electronic Technology (Zhongshan) Co., Ltd. ・Casio Timepiece (Dongguan) Co., Ltd. Asia (9 sites) ・Casio Electronics (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. ・Casio Computer （Hong Kong） Ltd. ・Casio (Guangzhou) Co., Ltd. Office sites outside Japan ・Casio India Co., Pvt. Ltd. (22sites) ・Casio (China) Co., Ltd. ・Casio Taiwan Co., Ltd. ・Casio Soft (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. ・Casio Singapore Pte., Ltd. ・Guangzhou Casio Techno Co., Ltd. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 184 Europe (8 sites) ・Casio Europe GmbH ・Casio Electronics Co., Ltd. ・Casio France S.A. ・Casio Espana S.L. ・Casio Scandinavia AS ・Casio Benelux B.V. ・Casio Italia S.r.l. ・Limited Liability Company Casio Office sites outside Japan (22sites) Middle East (1 site) ・Casio Middle East FZE Americas (4 sites) ・Casio America, Inc. ・Casio Canada Ltd. ・Casio Brasil Comercio De Produtos Eletronicos Ltda. ・Casio Mexico Marketing, S. de R. L. de C.V. Calculation Standards 1. Overall (1) Items with no input, usage, handling or discharge performance have been left blank. (2) Figures are rounded off to the second decimal point, in the specified units (figures shown as “0.0” are less than “0.05”). (3) When total Casio Group values for VOC inputs/emissions and PRTR are 1 ton or more, data is shown separately for the individual site. 2. Inputs (1) Energy input amount All fossil fuels and power used in business activities are totaled for sites indicated in the Scope of Data. Includes fuel usage by company vehicles, but does not include energy used for contracted logistics services, commuting, and business trips. Crude oil equivalents are calculated based on Japan's Energy Conservation Act. Energy used at sites outside Japan is calculated on a crude oil equivalent by applying coefficients pursuant to Japan's Energy Conservation Act. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 185 (2) Water resource input amount Usage amounts of tap water and industrial water are combined. (3) VOC input amount For substances subject to follow-up surveys related to VOC emission controls by the four main electrical and electronics industry associations, those whose annual usage at each site exceeds 50 kg are included in the tabulations. (4) Paper usage amount Managed and tabulated based on the purchased amounts of paper used in printers, fax machines, and copy machines each year. The weight of one sheet is determined for each paper size, and weights are calculated based on the amounts purchased. (5) PRTR substance input amount Calculated for chemical substances subject to Japan's PRTR Act whose annual amount handled per substance is 0.05 tons or more at each site. 3. Outputs (1) CO2 emissions Used the fiscal yearand country-specific CO2 emission factors for electricity listed in the GHG Protocol’s calculation tool (GHG emissions from purchased electricity 4.8) to calculate CO2 from electricity. The latest factors for a given country are temporarily used for fiscal years not listed in the calculation tool. Regarding CO2 equivalent for fuel, CO2 conversion coefficients were calculated using the emission coefficients and unit calorific values by fuel type based on Japan’s Global Warming Act, and then applied to different fuel types and totaled. (2) Air pollutants Calculated at sites that have smoke generating facilities based on the concentration measurements and gas emissions at each facility. Yamagata Casio, Hamura R&D Center and Casio (Thailand) are included in tabulation of results. Concentrations of dust emissions, NOx, and SOx, which must be managed by law, are measured at target sites, to confirm that they are below regulation levels. The following substances are not used at any Casio site: dichloromethane, trichlorethylene, tetrachlorethylene, chloroform, vinyl chloride monomer, 1,3-butadiene, benzene, acrylonitrile, 1,2-dichloroethane, formaldehyde, trinickel disulfide, nickel nitrate, and acetaldehyde. (3) Wastewater Calculated from values at sites that measure wastewater amounts. Sites that do not measure wastewater amounts but can ascertain tap water use treat the amount of tap water used as their wastewater amount. At sites with special facilities that fall under the Water Pollution Prevention Act and/or the Sewer Act, water quality surveys are conducted based on applicable laws, and confirmation is made that emissions are below regulatory limits. Since fiscal 2014, the applicable facilities have not been operating. In the case of discharge into public sewer systems, BOD is left blank, but figures are shown if voluntary measurements are taken. (4) PRTR Release and transfer quantities are calculated for each chemical substance subject to Japan's PRTR Act whose annual usage is 0.05 tons or more. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 186 (5) Waste Waste is tabulated as the total amount of industrial waste generated when product is transferred from a Casio site to the processor, general waste derived from sites, and the quantity of valuables. Because sales sites are small in size and mixed waste is handled by a contractor, it is difficult to get accurate figures for recycling quantities and landfill waste quantities. Thus, all waste from these sites is conservatively treated as landfill waste for calculation purposes. (6) Base year figures For the evaluation of greenhouse gases and energy conservation, emissions and usage of divested businesses are excluded from data in and after the base year in accordance with the GHG Protocol. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 187 Scope3 Scope3 Building a low-carbon society is one of the mediumto long-term goals of the Casio Environmental Vision 2050 and the Casio Environmental Declaration 2020. This will require not only efforts from within the Casio Group, but also a commitment to reducing CO2 emissions both upstream and downstream in the supply chain. For this reason, Casio has calculated emissions for each category in an effort to help everyone involved visualize CO2. CO2 emissions for the entire Casio Group supply chain in fiscal 2017 were 826,837 t-CO2. • Scope 1 direct emissions (e.g., fossil fuels, natural gas) were calculated at 5,076 t-CO2. • Scope 2 indirect emissions (e.g., electricity) were calculated at 31,606 t-CO2. • Scope 3 other emissions (e.g., use of sold products and end-of-life treatment of sold products, transportation and distribution, employee commuting, lease assets, and investments ) were calculated for 11 of 15 categories (with four lowest-impact categories excluded). When CO2 emissions were calculated pursuant to the GHG Protocol that serves as the international standard, emissions for fiscal 2017 stood at 790,155 t-CO2, down 2.4% from the previous year. As a result, Scope 3 accounted for more than 96% of entire supply chain emissions. Within Scope 3, purchased goods and services accounted for the greatest share, about 70%. In the future, the following issues will be addressed: • Improve calculation accuracy in each category • Propose and implement emission reduction measures for each category within Scope 3 • Develop measures for reducing emissions both upstream and downstream in the value chain GHG Protocol: International standards for calculating and reporting greenhouse gas emissions CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 188 CO2 emissions for the entire Casio Group supply chain CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 189 Efforts to Ascertain Scope 3 CO2 emissions in fiscal 2016 Category ｔCO2 rasio Scope 1 5,076 0.61% Scope 2 31,606 3.82% Scope 3 790,155 95.57% Purchased goods and 1 581,045 70.27% services 2 Capital goods 16,686 2.02% Fueland energyrelated activities not 3 2,618 0.32% included in Scope 1 or Scope 2 Upstream 4 transportation and 85,637 10.36% distribution Waste generated in 5 1,297 0.16% operations 6 Business travel 1,597 0.19% 7 Employee commuting 1,253 0.15% Upstream leased 8 2,134 0.26% assets CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 190 Downstream 9 transportation and － － distribution Processing of sold 10 － － products 11 Use of sold products 77,431 9.36% End of life treatment of 12 14,020 1.70% sold products Downstream leased 13 － － assets 14 Franchises － － 15 Investments 6,437 0.78% Total 826,822 100% Category 4: The breakdown for transportation and shipping (upstream) is shown below. (Unit: t-CO2） Japan: Truck: 850, Railway: 49 Overseas: Railway: 1,143 Airplane: 67,544 Ship: 16,052 Scope 3 calculation methods Amount of activity: Amount of purchased consumables, raw materials, and packaging materials, salaries of temporary staff, purchased tap water, industrial water, and advertising expenses. Unit: Calculated by multiplying each item by the emissions unit of Purchased goods Category 1 the purchased amount and adding together the total. and services Emission factor database for calculating organizational GHG emissions throughout the supply chain ver 2.4 issued by Japan’s Ministry of Environment and CFP COMMUNICATION PROGRAM DB ver1.01. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 191 Amount of activity: Amount of capital investment by all consolidated subsidiaries. Unit: Calculated by multiplying the emissions unit corresponding Category 2 Capital goods to the amount of capital investment. (Emissions unit DB ver2.0) Emission factor database for calculating organizational GHG emissions throughout the supply chain ver 2.4 issued by Japan’s Ministry of Environment. Amount of activity: Amount of purchased electricity and fuels. Unit: Calculated by multiplying the emissions unit of each type Fuel-and-energyand adding together the total. (CFP COMMUNICATION related activities PROGRAM DB ver1.01) Category 3 (not included in Emission factor database for calculating organizational GHG Scope 1 or 2) emissions throughout the supply chain ver 2.4 issued by Japan’s Ministry of Environment and CFP COMMUNICATION PROGRAM DB ver1.01. Amount of activity: Amount of domestic and overseas shipment. Unit: Calculated by multiplying the weight and transportation Upstream distance by the emissions unit of each transportation type and Category 4 transportation adding together the total. and distribution (Trucks: Specific fuel consumption using the improved ton/kilo method. Trains, ships and airplanes: CO2 emissions output level using the conventional ton/kilo method) Amount of activity: Emissions of each type of waste. Unit: Calculated by multiplying the emissions unit of each type Waste generated and adding together the total. Category 5 in operations Emission factor database for calculating organizational GHG emissions throughout the supply chain ver 2.4 issued by Japan’s Ministry of Environment. Amount of activity: Number of domestic and overseas employees. Unit: Emissions unit per employee. Category 6 Business travel Emission factor database for calculating organizational GHG emissions throughout the supply chain ver 2.4 issued by Japan’s Ministry of Environment. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 192 Amount of activity: Transportation expenses paid to employees. Unit: Calculated by estimating the train/car ratio from employee commuting style, multiplied by the emissions unit of the amount Employee of transportation expenses for each style and adding together the Category 7 commuting total. Emission factor database for calculating organizational GHG emissions throughout the supply chain ver 2.4 issued by Japan’s Ministry of Environment. Amount of activity: Domestic G-SHOCK stores, sales area for digital paintings and other and number of business days. Unit: Calculated by determining the total sales area, and Upstream leased multiplying the emissions unit of the sales area. The number of Category 8 assets business days is calculated on a pro-rate basis. Emission factor database for calculating organizational GHG emissions throughout the supply chain ver 2.4 iss5ed by Japan’s Ministry of Environment. Transportation to retailers from the distribution hubs of regular Downstream sales companies is outside the scope of Casio's expense Category 9 transportation payment. Since this is difficult to ascertain and the CO2 emissions and distribution are deemed to be fairly small compared to Category 4 upstream transportation and distribution, it is not included in calculations. Although one of our group companies provides name printing and Processing of Category 10 other services, emissions of CO2 and other substances from this sold products business activity is included in Scopes 1 and 2. Amount of activity: Number of products by category. Unit: Use of products is calculated by multiplying the emissions unit of each product for the supported period (five years). Regarding the use period, relevant industrial standards are followed. In cases when such an industrial standard does not exist, Casio defines the use period. Regarding electricity, CO2 emissions were calculated by applying the GHG Protocol, which Use of sold is the international standard. (Factors were used for Japan, Category 11 products Europe, Asia, the UK, and North America.) Regarding products that require battery replacement, CO2 emissions related to manufacture of the battery are also included in the calculation. (The purchased cost for the manufacturer of each battery is used in the calculation.) Emission factor database for calculating organizational GHG emissions throughout the supply chain ver 2.4 issued by Japan’s Ministry of Environment. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 193 Amount of activity: Emissions from the product itself and container packaging materials. End of life Unit: Calculated by multiplying the emissions unit of each type Category 12 treatment of sold and adding together the total.(Emissions unit DB ver2.0) products Emission factor database for calculating organizational GHG emissions throughout the supply chain ver 2.4 issued by Japan’s Ministry of Environment. Downstream Due to the diposal of relevant buildings, it is not subject to Category 13 leased assets calculation from fiscal 2016. Category 14 Franchises The franchise formula is not used. Amount of activity: Emissions from equity method affiliates and companies which hold specific annual stocks and constructive Category 15 Investments stocks. Unit: Calculated by multiplying the emissions from investment destinations by the equity method ratio or the share holding ratio. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 194 Environmental Accounting Overview of fiscal 2017 performance In fiscal 2017, environmental accounting showed that investment in environmental conservation increased from the previous fiscal year while costs and the economic benefits (real effects) associated with environmental conservation measures decreased. Investments in environmental conservation, including energy monitoring systems, were valued at ¥109 million. The costs of environmental conservation included ¥609 million for recycling products, parts, and toner cartridges and other consumables and ¥451 million for energy saving, air and water pollution measures and the like, bringing the total to ¥1,060 million. The economic benefits associated with environmental conservation measures were ¥694 million and included business revenue from recycling activities as real effects. Moving forward, Casio will accurately ascertain and inform people about the effects of its environmental management activities from an economic perspective and will strive to engage in efficient and effective environmental conservation efforts. Environmental conservation costs (April 2016 March 2017) Category by business activity Environmen Environmen tal tal investment expenses Main initiatives (¥ million) (¥ million)*1 ■Business area costs (costs arising in the main areas of business activity 109 254 (manufacturing, processing, sales, distribution etc.)) (1) Pollution prevention cost Preventing air and noise pollution 3 33 (2) Global environmental Maintenance of energy-saving 106 158 conservation cost systems Processing, reducing in volume, (3) Resource circulation cost and recycling of general and 0 63 industrial waste Collection and recycling of ■Upstream/downstream cost*2 609 products, parts, supplies Secretariat operation costs, ■Administration cost environmental information 0 180 disclosure CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 195 R&D for reduction of environmental ■R&D cost 6 impact Participation in, donations to, and ■Social activity cost support for environmental 11 conservation organizations ■Environmental remediation cost Improvement of soil Total 109 1,060 *1 Depreciation costs are included in the expenses. *2 Costs arising before and after the processes of the main business activities. Economic benefits of environmental conservation (April 2016 March 2017) Type of benefit Amount (¥ million) Actual benefit (benefit that contributes to profits as a result of the promotion of environmental conservation measures)*3 Business revenue from recycling Profits 630 of used products, etc. Cost reduction through energy 60 saving activities Cost reduction Reduction of waste processing costs arising from resource 4 saving or recycling Total 694 *3 Starting in fiscal 2016, only economic benefits that could be aggregated were included, and deemed benefits based on estimates were not included. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 196 Environmental conservation effect Environ Environmental mental Types of environmental performance Unit FY2016 FY2017 conserv conservation effects indicator ation effect*4 Environmental conservation effect Water Thousa relating to resources used in 393 523 -130 resources nd m3 business activities CO2 TonsEnvironmental conservation effect *5 35,460 36,682 -1,222 emissions CO2 relating to environment impact and waste generated by business activities Waste Tons 2,835 3,571 -736 emissions *4 A new consolidated subsidiary was included in the scope in fiscal 2017. Environmental performance indicators for fiscal 2017 increased as a result. *5 As of this time, the country-specific coefficients published in the GHG Protocol’s calculation tool are used in the calculation of CO2 emissions, and CO2 emissions for fiscal 2016 were also revised. See “Calculation Standards” in the “Environmental Data” section for details. Scope of data compilation for environmental accounting: Casio Computer Co., Ltd., and consolidated subsidiaries in and outside Japan. Reference guideline: Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005, Ministry of the Environment, Japan. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 197 Design and Procurement In compliance with global laws and standards, Casio is striving to achieve environmentally compliant product design and green procurement. Environmental laws and regulations relating to Casio products and green procurement As a company with operations around the world, Casio must comply with the laws and standards of many different countries. This is why Casio starts with the design and procurement stages to ensure that its products comply with restrictions on specified chemical substances in parts and materials, while complying with obligations for labeling, information provision and energy-saving standards for finished products. Covering the procurement stage, Casio has formulated Casio Green Procurement Standards to cover the legal regulations for the chemical substances contained in Casio products, and is procuring its parts and materials in accordance with those standards. To ensure that Casio products comply with the latest laws and standards around the world, the Casio Green Procurement Standards are constantly reviewed and updated. Thus, by procuring parts and materials that meet its own strict standards, Casio can be confident that its product development meets legal requirements worldwide. Casio also ensures the compliance of its products by scientifically verifying and analyzing the content of chemical substances in parts and materials used. In the design stage, the company confirms that all parts and materials that will go into a completed Casio product meet the Casio Green Procurement Standards. Products are approved for production only after confirmation using a database of the chemical substances contained in procured materials. Casio selects recyclable materials and provides symbol marks and the necessary information to ensure separate collection, complying with the relevant laws and standards worldwide on product recovery and recycling as well as on chemical substances contained in products. In response to laws and regulations requiring more energy-saving designs (such as the ErP Ecodesign Directive), Casio is creating technical documents and other internal standards. The table below shows the principal environmental laws relating to the distribution of Casio products in countries around the world. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 198 Major environmental laws and regulations related to Casio products (as of May 2017) Product Packaging Battery Collection Collection Collection Hazardous Energy Hazardous Hazardous and and and Substances conservation Substances Substances Recycling Recycling Recycling RoHS REACH Biocidal EU Directive on Packaging EU WEEE Products ErP Batteries directive and Packaging Waste Regulations POP Regulation Chemical Norway substance regulations Turkey packaging Turkey batteries Turkey Turkey WEEE & RoHS Turkey ErP regulations regulations Serbia Serbia WEEE & RoHS Serbia batteries directive Ukraine Ukraine RoHS Customs Union Customs Customs (Eurasian Union: Union: ErP Economic RoHS (draft) Commission ) Each state's mercury regulations, California's California Rigid Plastic Proposition US federal Packaging 65, law, and Container Each state's Each state's Each state's California external recycling packaging rechargeabl TV/PC SB50, power program, US and heavy e battery recycling California supply and rigid metal recycling laws regulations efficiency plastic regulations regulations on regulations container formaldehyd in each state labeling e, safer regulations consumer in each state product regulations CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 199 Products Containing Each state's External Each state's Mercury Products electric power packaging Regulations, Containing Canada appliance energy material Canada Mercury recycling efficiency collection Chemical Regulations regulations regulations programs substance regulations Energy consumption labeling regulations, External Mexico power energy efficiency regulations (draft) Brazil Brazil's Solid Brazil's Solid Brazil's Solid Brazil batteries Waste Law Waste Law Waste Law regulation Argentina Argentina Argentina Argentina WEEE WEEE batteries (draft) (draft) regulation Peru Peru WEEE Paraguay Paraguay batteries regulations Columbia Columbia Columbia batteries batteries regulations regulations Israel Israel Israel WEEE packaging regulations Jordan Jordan Jordan WEEE Jordan ErP RoHS (draft) (draft) UAE RoHS UAE (draft) Dry-Cell China China Battery China China RoHS Energy China RoHS WEEE Mercury Label Regulations CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 200 South Korea South Korea South Korea South Korea South Korea Energy South Korea Recycling Recycling batteries RoHS/WEEE/ELV Conservatio Law Law regulations n Law Regulations Battery Taiwan on heavy Taiwan recycling RoHS metal in regulations batteries External power Australia energy efficiency regulations India India's e-waste law Viet Nam Viet Nam Viet Nam Viet Nam WEEE RoHS WEEE Household Indonesia waste regulations Singapore RoHS, Singapore Singapore Singapore batteries Mercury regulations Regulations (draft) Thai WEEE Thailand (draft) Philippines Philippines WEEE (draft) Act on Small Container Preventing Electronic Energy and Recycling Environment Japan Devices Conservatio Packaging Law al Pollution Recycling n Law Recycling from Act Law Mercury CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 201 Convention on Persistent Global Organic Convention Mercury conventions Pollutants on POPs Convention (POPs), Mercury Convention As an initiative to help prevent climate change in the procurement stage, Casio requests suppliers not to use greenhouse gases in the manufacturing process, and also to ascertain and reduce their emissions of CO2. In the development and design stages, Casio promotes product development by setting targets that surpass its competitors' products with the best energy consumption efficiency in the same category. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 202 Logistics Casio is working to ensure its logistical operations have as low an environmental impact as possible by improving its inter-site parts-shipment routes and switching to more efficient modes of product transportation. Logistics process initiatives Casio is actively reducing its environmental impact by striving to reduce CO2 and waste emissions arising from logistics. In order to reduce CO2 emissions in the logistics process, Casio is promoting the following three action plans. • Shortening transport distances： Promoting direct shipping to customers from logistics centers in and outside Japan • Promoting a modal shift： Actively using modes of transport with low environmental impact such as rail for transport between sites • Improving loading efficiency and reducing transport volume： Improving the packaging design of digital cameras, electronic dictionaries, musical instruments electronic cash registers, and other products, and reducing the volume of packaging Relocation and Consolidation of Logistics Centers in Japan Casio’s logistics center in Mie Prefecture was moved to Saitama Prefecture, and then its distribution center in Tokyo was ultimately consolidated with the logistics center, a transition that was achieved in stages. In August 2011, the logistics center was moved from Suzuka City, Mie Prefecture, to Toda City, Saitama Prefecture. Then in January 2012, the company’s Eastern Distribution Center in Koto-ku, Tokyo, was consolidated with the logistics center. With this change, Casio reduced the number of consumer product distribution sites in Japan from five to four. This transition not only shortened transport distances, but also promoted a significant shift from truck to rail shipment, and has contributed greatly to CO2 emissions reduction. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 203 Promoting Modal Shift and Reducing Intermediate Transport Results of the Transfer and Consolidation 1. Elimination of intermediate transport Shortened the distance from the logistics center to the Hokkaido Distribution Center in Sapporo Intermediate transport no longer required from the logistics center to the Eastern Distribution Center in Tokyo 2. Promotion of modal shift Partial shift to rail between the logistics center and the Western Distribution Center in Osaka Switch to rail between the logistics center and the Kyushu Distribution Center in Fukuoka 3. Transport distance shortened Shortened the transport distance in the Kanto (Tokyo) region which accounts for about 46% of direct shipments from the logistics center (delivery direct to customers without going through a distribution center) * As a result of the efforts above, annual CO2 emissions were reduced by about 188 tons. In fiscal 2013, Casio began an initiative to send products manufactured outside Japan directly to the Western Distribution Center in Osaka. This allows transport distances to be shortened significantly by cutting out transit through the Toda Logistics Center. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 204 Introduction of reusable shipping cartons in Asian distribution To reduce packaging material, Casio is working to introduce the use of reusable shipping cartons in its Asian distribution operations. In an effort to switch to plastic reusable shipping cartons in its air freight shipments between Japan, Hong Kong, and Thailand, Casio launched the use of new cartons in September 2009. These cartons can be used to ship parts made in Japan to Hong Kong for use at Chinese production sites, and to ship timepiece parts from vendors in China, from Hong Kong to Thailand. By then transporting finished timepieces or timepiece parts from Thailand to Japan, the cartons never have to travel A reusable shipping carton employed for empty between the three countries. distribution in Asia Unlike traditional cardboard boxes, these cartons do not have to be discarded, and instead can be used many times over, thereby reducing environmental impact. Casio has now begun to introduce even larger shipping cartons. The large shipping cartons are mainly used for ocean transport. Packaging damage can be avoided through the use of LCL shipping (freight from different companies in one ocean shipping container), which also eliminates the need to use air transport when the shipping volume is small. Casio has been using these large shipping cartons to ship products since fiscal 2012, and in fiscal 2014 new shipping cartons with even greater strength were added to the lineup of shipping supplies. Shipping carton receives Chairman of Japan External Trade Organization (JETRO) Award On October 4, 2012, the large shipping carton shown here received the Chairman of Japan External Trade Organization (JETRO) Award at the Japan Packaging Contest 2012, one of Japan’s biggest packaging competitions, which is organized by Japan Packaging Institute. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 205 Four products obtain Eco Rail Mark certification On February 28, 2013, Casio obtained Eco Rail Mark certification from the Railway Freight Association for four products: clocks, digital pianos, electronic keyboards and electronic cash registers. The Eco Rail Mark indicates that a product or company is proactively addressing global environmental issues by using rail freight transport. Rail transport produces about one sixth of the CO2 emissions of commercial trucking, making it an environmentally friendly method of transport with a low environmental impact. The criteria for certification are utilization of rail for at least 30% of land freight transport for distances of 500km or more for a product, and utilization of rail for at least 15% of land freight transport for distances of 500km or more for a company. Casio obtained Eco Rail Mark certification as a company in October 2009 and successfully obtained product certification as a result of further expanding rail transport due to the relocation, amalgamation and closure of business sites. Casio now actively uses rail for transport from its logistics center in Saitama Prefecture to distribution centers in Hokkaido, Osaka and Fukuoka. Going forward, Casio will make active efforts to reduce environmental impact by pursuing environmentally friendly transport. Eco Rail Mark Promoting a modal shift to rail transport Environmentally friendly rail containers CO2 emissions for logistics (Environmental Data) CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 206 Collection and Recycling This section describes Casio’s initiatives in the area of product collection and recycling. Product recycling efforts The collection of used products includes activities that are performed to comply with relevant laws, and activities that are performed by companies voluntarily. This section introduces Casio's voluntary used-product recycling activities. Recycling with No Waste Disposal Product Recycling outside Japan Product Recycling in Europe CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 207 Product Recycling in Europe Product Recycling in Europe European recycling regulations include the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) Directive, the Battery Directive and the Packaging Directive. These regulations provide a framework under which manufacturers collect and recycle end-of-life products and are obliged to bear the costs of doing so. Casio fulfills its obligations by participating in collection and recycling organizations with government authorization. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 208 Offices All Casio office sites are engaged in efforts to reduce CO2 emissions and cut resource use by upgrading office equipment and improving work processes. Reducing power consumption through server integration Casio has vastly reduced its energy consumption by integrating the servers that had once been disparately located across the group. Server integration results A total of 1,140 servers had been integrated by March 2017. Effects of reducing power consumption through server integration This server integration effort resulted in a total reduction in power consumption of 1,710,000 kWh, yielding a reduction in CO2 emissions of 942 tons. Contributing to Green IT Through Server Integration Through Apr. 2016 Mar. Cumulative total Mar.2016 2017 Number of servers integrated (machines) 1,080 60 1,140 Annual power consumption reduction 1,620,000 90,000 1,710,000 (kWh)*1 Annual CO2 reduction (tons-CO2)*2 892.6 49.6 942.2 Number of Japanese cedars needed to 63,759 3,542 67,301 absorb this amount (trees)*3 *1 : Calculated based on a 1,500 kWh reduction per server per year. *2 : Calculated based on CO2 emissions of 0.551kg kg/kWh. Figures for past fiscal years have been recalculated using the GHG Protocol Calculation Tools. *3 : Based on a document published by the Forest Agency of Japan's Ministry of the Environment, Absorption Source Countermeasures for Greenery to Prevent Global Warming, indicating that a single Japanese cedar tree absorbs about 14 kg of CO2 annually. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 209 Initiatives at Casio America Casio America has been carrying out energy saving measures for many years. In 2016, it won an ENERGY STAR Award from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The award recognized Casio America’s efforts to ascertain data on and efficiently manage electricity usage at its data center, and its initiatives to use a building management system to more effectively use cooling and heating. This ENERGY STAR Award was the third the company has received, following 2012 and 2013. Going forward, it will continue to carry out environmentally friendly initiatives to help achieve a sustainable society. Casio Europe's energy-efficient building Casio's office sites have shifted from focusing on reducing CO2 per unit of production to cutting the total volume of CO2 emitted across the entire Casio Group. In January 2009, Casio Europe integrated its offices, distribution center, and service center, which had previously been separately located around Germany, into a new energy-efficient building. CASIO Europe This building has an innovative air conditioning system that uses Geothermal heat collecting equipment 130m below ground to pump water through pipes embedded in the concrete ceiling and floor of the building. The system pumps cool water in the summer and hot water in the winter to either cool or heat the building. Energy consumption in the building is further reduced by controlling room temperatures using blinds that open and close automatically according to the weather as well as proper ventilation. Geothermal heat usage model Hachioji R&D Center takes on the challenge of climate change and environmental preservation The Hachioji R&D Center was designed and constructed to reduce CO2 emissions in order to contribute to the fight against climate change. The center continues to take on the challenge of environment protection. Some of its innovations are highlighted below. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 210 Ongoing power-saving activities The Hachioji R&D Center completed in November 2003 is a research and development facility that incorporated environmentally friendly equipment from the initial design stage. It has been running efficiently for approximately 13 years since it opened, boasting energy-saving features such as high-efficiency vertical thermal storage tanks, a natural ventilation system, automatic blinds, lighting control and equipment control based on weather forecasting. Thus, instead of just relying on its hardware, the center has been enthusiastically pursuing other improvements such as finely tuned temperature control adjustments, and the revision of operation methods based on actual daily data. In fiscal 2013, interior lighting fixtures started being converted from fluorescent to LED, as part of effort to reduce energy consumption. Natural ventilation system maximizes use of outside weather conditions No heating equipment is needed at the Hachioji R&D Center. This is because the building has comprehensive thermal insulation, which prevents interior heat from escaping to improve thermal efficiency. Since room temperatures increase even in winter, due to body heat and heat from equipment such as computers, the interior is cooled by letting outside air in as needed through ducts on each floor. This provides ventilation through natural airflow using the chimney effect to lower room temperatures. Thus, the temperature is adjusted using hardly any electric power. Automatic blinds and a green wall of vegetation Automatic blinds reduce the air conditioning load by calculating the position of the sun and using sensors to detect its intensity to open and close automatically. The center has been using these blinds, combined with a green wall of vegetation, since 2012 in an initiative to reduce the cooling load in the summer. The center has also reduced unnecessary usage of electricity by regulating air conditioning to match the number of people in the building according to building entry data and by switching interior lighting on and off and adjusting brightness with sensors that detect room brightness and Automatic blinds human movement. The green wall of vegetation covers the surface with bitter gourd and morning glory. The initiatives of the Hachioji R&D Center make a significant contribution to reducing CO2 and energy conservation. They also play a further role in environmental education via descriptions given during facility tours for elementary and junior high school students from the local area and beyond and others who visit the Hachioji R&D Center. Related materials: See the “Environmental Communication” section for information about educational tours of the facility Environmental Communication CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 211 Installation of LED lighting Through the active adoption of LED technology within the Casio Group, energy consumption for lighting has been greatly reduced. As of March 2017, about 4,900 LED fixtures have been installed, saving about 101 tons of CO2 emissions per year compared to conventional fluorescent lamps. LED lighting in the lobby of the Hatsudai LED lighting in the Hamura R&D Center lobby LED lighting in the Hachioji R&D Center lobby headquarters Participation in Light Down Campaign Casio supports COOL CHOICE, a national movement promoted by the Japanese government, and the Fun to Share climate change campaign implemented by the Ministry of the Environment. The Group has also been taking part in the Light Down campaign since fiscal 2011. In fiscal 2017, 13 sites at five companies (Casio Computer Co., Ltd. [headquarters, Hamura R&D Center, Hachioji R&D Center, Fukuoka Sales Office, Shizuoka Sales Office, and Higashi-fussa Dormitory], Yamagata Casio [headquarters and Yamanashi Office], Casio Electronics Manufacturing, Casio Business Service [Hamura and Kofu], and Casio Techno [Akihabara and Inadaira]) took part in the campaign by turning off outdoor signs and other unnecessary lights. In fiscal 2018, 14 sites at six companies (the above plus Casio Marketing Advance) did the same. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 212 Environmental Management Implementation framework In April 2017, Casio Computer Co., Ltd. integrated the individual ISO 14001 certifications for three sites—Hatsudai Headquarters, Hamura R&D Center, and Hachioji R&D Center—and began integrated ISO 14001 management upon achieving compliance with the 2015 version of the ISO 14001 standard. Under this integrated ISO system, the Company established the following three company-wide committees to resolve environmentally material issues identified by Casio. • Realizing a low-carbon society (M1 committee) • Building a recycling society (M2 committee) • Living in harmony with nature (M3 committee) These committees are integrated with the Casio Environmental Conservation Committee, in which the entire Casio Group participates, so as to ensure group-wide efforts to raise performance. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 213 List of ISO 14001 Certified Sites Certified and registered site Date acquired Remarks Yamagata Casio Co., Ltd. November 1997 Casio Electronic Manufacturing September 1999 Co., Ltd. Casio Business Service Co., Ltd. January 2000 Hamura R&D Center, Casio October 2000 Computer Co., Ltd. Hachioji R&D Center, Casio In April 2017, Casio integrated ISO October 2000 Computer Co., Ltd. 14001 certifications for these 3 sites Headquarters, Casio Computer Co., Ltd. (including seven sales December 2000 sites) Casio Human Systems Co., Ltd. December 2001 Compliance with 2015 certification Casio Techno Co., Ltd. May 2002 Casio Computer (Hong Kong) Ltd. December 1999 Casio (Thailand) Co., Ltd. July 2012 Casio Taiwan Co., Ltd. December 2001 Casio Electronics (Shenzhen) February 2002 Co., Ltd. Casio Electronics (Zhongshan) April 2002 Co., Ltd. Compliance with Environmental Laws In fiscal 2016, Casio was not subject to any legal violations, penalties, fines, or lawsuits relating to the environment. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 214 Environmental Compliance Worldwide, environmental regulations are being strengthened to preserve the beauty of the Earth. Whether global or local, compliance with environmental regulations has become an integral part of the corporate mission. Companies today recognize the need to address issues such as risk management and environmental information disclosure, while complying with greenhouse gas emissions regulations, the prohibition of products containing harmful chemical substances and ISO 14001 legal requirements. Here is an overview of Casio’s environmental compliance initiatives. Standards management and audits: Regular internal audits and third-party audits There are 13 Casio sites which have obtained ISO 14001 certification. Of these, three sites belonging to Casio Computer Co., Ltd. (Headquarters [which includes seven sales sites], Hamura R&D Center, and Hachioji R&D Center) began working under integrated certification in fiscal 2018. Each of these sites regularly implements conditions management and improvement activities by measuring concentrations of dust, SOx, and NOx in exhaust emissions, based on voluntary standards and standards established by national and local governments. They also measure wastewater quality (water containing harmful substances). Moreover, the sites measure and report usage conditions for harmful atmospheric pollutants, as well as handling quantities and atmospheric emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs). Each site trains internal environmental auditors. In addition to carrying out internal audits, third-party audits by external organizations are also regularly performed, and improvement activities are carried out. Going forward, Casio will work to improve the environmental risk detection skills of its internal environmental auditors, as a way to improve its overall environmental audit capability. Casio will also seek to improve auditors’ understanding of various environmental laws, and provide training in worldwide laws relating to chemical substance control and information management. Casio intends these auditors to lead the way in environment compliance, starting at the local site, by discovering issues and proposing ways to improve. Compliance Audits in the Phases of Product Development, Design, and Manufacturing In recent years, laws and regulations on the environmental performance of products have become stricter. In addition to stricter regulations in EU nations and US states, stronger laws are also being discussed and enacted in the newly emerging economies of Asia and Latin America, referencing those already established by developed countries. In some cases, the newer laws are based on the established ones, but they often have small differences in the specific requirements. It is vital for Casio to interpret these regulations properly, and make whatever product adjustments are needed. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 215 Casio has established an Expert Sub-Committee on Environmental Law within its Product Regulation Committee. The sub-committee includes representatives from the CSR promotion, technology, development/design, procurement and sales departments. It studies measures to ensure compliance with environmental laws and regulations. The members share information, establish reasonable response policies, and confirm response progress not only for currently established laws and regulations but also for new laws and regulations currently being considered. Through these activities, they provide support for development, design, manufacturing, and sales departments. They also share information on product regulations other than those related to the environment (such as electrical safety, radio, and wireless regulations), in an effort to comprehensively rationalize Casio’s response to product regulations. The Expert Sub-Committee on Environmental Law performs the following: 1. Gathering and sharing legal information from and with sources such as industrial associations, sales companies in each region, information services, and other companies in the same industry 2. Analyzing and interpreting legal information 3. Ensuring obligations are met by manufacturing, import, export, and sales entities 4. Creating development and design standards, and conducting inspections 5. Improving the usage efficiency for design support tools (database of chemical substances contained in products, etc.) With the enactment of some regulations carrying severe penalties, Casio also recognizes the need to keep strengthening risk management. Casio carries out environmental assessments of each product before new products ship to market, to check to ensure environmental design that complies not only with laws and regulations but also with the Casio Green Star Plan. The environmental management departments also conduct environmental audits. The group also conducts audits of chemical substances to check whether products comply with laws and regulations on chemical substances in various overseas markets. Products are cleared for shipment on confirmation that all parts and materials satisfy standards on chemical substances. Compliance Relating to Chemical Substances Contained in Products Countries around the world have implemented new laws pertaining to chemical substances contained in electrical and electronics products, while existing laws continue to be strengthened each year. Individual laws and regulations vary in terms of the applicable chemical substances, regulated applications, exempt applications, threshold values, scope, and requirements (content restrictions, labeling, and information provision, etc.). Casio has consolidated the requirements of various laws on chemical substances contained in products and has incorporated them into the Casio Green Procurement Standards. The development and design departments are then able to comply with regulations worldwide by checking a database to see whether a part or material to be included in a product meets the Casio Green Procurement Standards. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 216 Compliance Relating to the Proper Collection, Recycling, and Disposal of Used Products Countries around the world also have regulations for the collection and recycling of used electrical and electronics products, packaging materials, and batteries. Companies must comply with the requirements of each law including product design to save resources and facilitate recycling, labeling and information provision to promote user participation in the sorted collection of products for recycling, as well as information provision for proper product disposal. Casio evaluates products in terms of resource savings, ease of dismantling, recycling potential, and recycled material content. Confirmation is also made to see whether the recycling labels and displayed information meet legal requirements worldwide. In response to the enactment of Japan’s Small Electronic Devices Recycling Act in April 2013, Casio has put together a project team including employees involved in every product category (such as designers), aiming to ensure products being developed are easily recyclable. Casio is asking intermediate processors and metal smelters who recycle used small household appliances to participate in interviews regarding dismantling methods and other issues. The lessons learned are being incorporated into internal design manuals, helping Casio to develop products that are easy to recycle. Compliance Relating to Power Consumption There are also regulations on power consumption and efficiency for electrical and electronics products including external power supplies and chargers, based on product categories and power source types. Companies must also meet various requirements relating to power consumption and efficiency, including regulations that require the meeting of minimum standards and those that mandate the display of power consumption information. Casio confirms the applicable regulations for each of its products, and carries out product development and design to meet the requirements. Approval applications and reports are made to the relevant agencies as necessary. Compliance Relating to Energy Saving and the Prevention of Global Warming Casio is committed to further consideration and strengthening of its voluntary efforts, such as the targets included in the Casio Group’s Environmental Action Plan, to reflect laws and regulations related to energy-saving and the fight against global warming. Casio has measures addressing regulations around the globe, but this section focuses on the steps Casio is taking to comply with the laws and regulations in Japan that apply to its relatively large business facilities. 1. Act on the Rational Use of Energy Pursuant to the requirements of the Energy Conservation Law, Casio is separately evaluating the rational use of energy at the business level. Casio Computer Co., Ltd. and Yamagata Casio are both currently designated as specified businesses. Since fiscal 2010, Casio has been regularly submitting reports and medium and long-term plans on this issue, and in accordance with the determination standards relating to the rational use of energy at plants and facilities, has been promoting the development of management systems, such as creating the new position of energy management supervisor. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 217 2. Act on the Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures Casio does not exceed the standards for emissions of greenhouse gases other than CO2 arising from energy use set by Japan’s Act on the Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. It is complying with requirements for the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions, by regularly submitting reports under the Act on the Rational Use of Energy. 3. Environmental Regulations in Tokyo In fiscal 2016, total energy usage for Casio’s small and medium-sized facilities on a crude oil equivalent basis (energy usage below 1,500kl/year on a crude oil equivalent basis) within the Tokyo Metropolis was below 3,000kl/year. Based on this result, Casio received a confirmation notice that it is not subject to the obligation to submit reports under the Global Warming Countermeasures Reporting Program from the Tokyo Metropolitan Government, and is exempt from such reporting. Casio will continue to take measures to counter global warming based on ordinances of the Tokyo Metropolitan Government. Compliance relating to environmental information disclosure There is a growing international movement calling for the creation of information disclosure standards for companies. Along with the need for Japanese standards to coincide with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), there is a movement calling for the provision of Management Commentaries (MC) as a form of disclosure of nonfinancial and corporate forecast information. In other words, companies will need to disclose non-financial data which describes the connections between the company’s current situation, business strategy, risks, and financial performance, and other relevant information. In order to provide its stakeholders with the proper environmental information in a way that it is easy to understand, Casio has the following aims. 1. To adopt more accurate indices relating to environmental impact, and to provide comparable information 2. To provide non-financial information including environmental information that indicates the connections with corporate strategy 3. To explain the capability of environmental information to improve corporate performance Along with working to disclose environmental information, Casio will promote international disclosure standards for non-financial information, and work towards standardization. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 218 Environmental Communication Casio understands the importance of communicating with all of its stakeholders about environmental issues. Asakawa Photo Contest In cooperation with the cities of Hachioji and Hino, Casio has been sponsoring the Asakawa Photo Contest in order to raise the profile of Asakawa, the home of the Hachioji R&D Center. The recent sixth year of the contest invited photo submissions on the theme, “Our Asakawa Connects to the Future,” and 409 entries were received. Casio Computer Co., Ltd. has sponsored the event every year since its inception, and a general affairs section chief presented the awards at a special ceremony. Awards ceremony Contest poster CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 219 Elementary school students visit the Hachioji R&D Center The Hachioji R&D Center at Casio Computer Co., Ltd., has developed an educational program for elementary school students in Japan. In August 2007, it began to offer learning opportunities that include site tours and school visit programs. The Hachioji R&D Center, the home of the program, is one of the most advanced environmentally friendly buildings in the Casio Group. Visitors can see the actual facilities the company is using and understand methods used to reduce environmental impact. The students not only learn about Casio, but also the history of calculators, while also getting to take apart and reassemble these devices. Through this activity, Casio is sharing the fun of product creation while creating new Casio fans. Young visitors enjoying the view from the Introducing Casio products Calculator disassembly and reassembly Hachioji R&D Center Adopting tulips and Ohga lotus plants Hamura City, located in Tokyo, is promoting cultivation of tulips and other plants as an effort to preserve fallow rice fields and to make effective use of rice fields after their crops have been harvested. As part of its social contribution, Casio has been a foster-sponsor for the tulips and for Ohga lotus plants since 2004. A number of varieties bloom in the greatest tulip field in the Kanto region, which is planted with approximately 400,000 bulbs in roughly 23,000m2 of rice fields, and many tourists visit the tulip festival held in April each year. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 220 Casio became the owner of about 500m2 of one 1,000m2 paddy field and helps to cultivate the Ohga lotus. The descendants of local farmers in Hamura city cultivate the Ohga lotus in fallow rice fields, and the flowers bloom from mid-July through to mid-August. A lotus viewing event was held early in the morning on August 1, and a large number of people visited from early in the morning to appreciate the lotus. The Ohga lotus plant is an ancient form of lotus from the Yayoi Period (about 2,000 years ago) discovered in the Kemigawa ruins in Chiba Prefecture under the guidance of the late Dr. Ichiro Oga in 1951. Tree planting Casio Electronics (Shenzhen) participates in tree planting promoted by local government organizations, including the Shenzhen City government in Guangzhou Province, China, with the aim of living in harmony with the global environment and the local community. In the tenth tree planting activity on June 17, 2017, fourteen employees and their family members volunteered and planted twenty nursery trees, despite the rain. The wetland park in Huaqiaocheng, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, where trees were planted this time, is an important wetland area in Shenzhen. This activity helps provide diverse habitats and food to birds and aquatic life in Shenzhen Bay. 14 employees and family members participated. Everyone worked together to plant trees. Tree-planting tag with Casio’s name CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 221 Initiative to save Otoguro cherry trees The Otoguro cherry tree got its name from the Otoguro Embankment where it used to bloom on the banks of the Fuefuki River, which flows through Chuo City in present-day Yamanashi Prefecture, in the late 19th century and early 20th century and had long been a favorite of the people in that region. It is a late-blooming cherry tree variety that comes into full bloom in mid-April with leaves that emerge at the same time as the large white blossoms measuring 5 to 6cm. With the improvement of the Fuefuki River in 1932, most of the Otoguro cherry trees were cut down. Mr. Matsuhiko Tanaka of Otoguro District grew grafted seedlings from a few remaining descendent trees in order to bring back the Otoguro cherry. His activities came to fruition, and a volunteer group for saving the Otoguro cherry was established in 2002. The Tamaho-cho (now Chuo City) Board of Education lifelong learning center led the whole community in initiating efforts to save and propagate the Otoguro cherry tree. As part of Kofu Casio’s environmental activities, the company offered to participate in cultivating this cherry tree for the purpose of preserving the variety and beautifying the landscape around the plant. Kofu Casio received a donation of trees from Tamaho-cho, and transplanted more than 30 Otoguro cherry trees over the three years from 2004. All the transplanted trees took root, and they provide a beautiful display of blossoms for people to enjoy on the grounds of the Kofu plant. Since fiscal 2013, the Kofu Office of Casio Business Service Co., Ltd. has managed the trees, including selection and fertilization. The Otoguro cherry serves as a symbol of the connection between Casio and the people of Chuo City. The company is proud of its early participation in helping to preserve the tree variety as part of its efforts on the local level. At the time of tree planting April 2017 CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 222 CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 223 Independent Opinion on the Sustainability Report 2017 The opinion presented here was written based on the content of this report and interviews with Casio personnel responsible for procurement, human resources, environmental and CSR initiatives. Casio is now at a stage where the plan-do-check-act (PDCA) management cycle, with a focus on reducing the company’s environmental impact and ensuring socially responsible procurement, should be used by top management and all employees to expand CSR initiatives group-wide. Commendable efforts by Casio • In 2012, the Environmental Vision 2050 and the Environmental Declaration 2020 were established to support Casio's medium to long-term environmental management policy and environmental management promotion system. They address Casio's three material issues of realizing a low carbon society, building a recycling society, and living in harmony with nature by preserving biodiversity. In addition to promoting initiatives by setting annual, medium-term, and long-term targets in the three areas of products, company sites, and biodiversity, the implementation system has been reorganized in order to link it to the three material issues. Going forward, when a new site is established, I hope Casio will strive to compensate for the increased environmental impact through emission reductions at other sites, and will steadily increase the ratio of FSC®-certified paper used in its catalogs. Furthermore, through use of its Super Green Star Products system, I would like to see the company help customers navigate the optimum product usage methods, while promoting information sharing among customers through social media, and other means. The company should continue to involve customers in its initiatives, for instance by working to improve the recycling rate at the time of product disposal. I continue to have great expectations for all these efforts and the achieving of the medium and long-term targets including reduction of environmental impact in the usage stage. • Looking at the group-wide CSR implementation structure, Casio has established a Basic Policy on Respect for Human Rights and has its own tool for checking the status of human rights, and it continues to provide feedback to group companies concerning the overall survey results. In addition, the Guidance on the Prohibition of Bribery and the Manual on the Prohibition of Bribery have been established, and the company has started to ascertain the actual status of efforts against corruption at group companies outside Japan, and has disclosed the number of reports to its whistleblower hotlines. Going forward, in order to make the guidelines and tools more effective on the frontlines, I recommend that they be incorporated into the targets for managers and into evaluation criteria, and also that they be linked with the CSR Leader system. I look forward to seeing the company build a compliance promotion system that is part of daily management. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 224 • Regarding CSR initiatives at its suppliers, Casio is continuing to use questionnaires with a five-point scale to ascertain supplier situations for reduction of environmental impact and measures to protect the human rights of workers. The company received responses from all 555 suppliers worldwide, provided feedback based on the overall results, and visited 13 companies in China and Thailand. It has continued to ascertain the situation and make it transparent, while introducing awards and case presentations at meetings to explain material procurement policy to suppliers. In the future, I recommend that Casio ask suppliers to provide data and other verifiable proof in their self-assessment of initiatives, and work to make the specific measures and issues even more readily visible and understandable. I also hope that Casio will further improve its system of interaction with suppliers with a view to making continual improvements. Points for improvement while commending progress to date • It is admirable that Casio is making preparations to appoint CSR Leaders at major group companies worldwide in order to create a CSR implementation infrastructure for the entire group. Going forward, in order to encourage initiatives on the front lines by the CSR Leaders, I recommend that messages from top management be translated into multiple languages and delivered to workplaces around the world. This will increase opportunities for front line employees to get a more immediate and deeper understanding of CSR trends at the head office and at sites in various countries. I also strongly recommend the creation of ongoing opportunities for executive managers to learn about the necessity and effectiveness of CSR promotion. • Casio has conducted surveys at major sites in Japan regarding the preservation of biodiversity. Going forward, based on the results of the surveys, I hope it will promote initiatives to actively encourage employee participation. I also strongly recommend the setting of KPIs for each item of the guidelines formulated in 2011, so that they can be put into practice as part of daily management on the front lines. Points for improvement • In the area of promoting employee diversity across the entire Casio Group, I am concerned that policies, targets, plans, and persons responsible have not been established, and no global HR meetings have been held. Going forward, I recommend concrete planning for portfolio-based global human resources management that crosses departmental and company boundaries, to be achieved within the 2020s. Casio needs an integrated system to promote the development, exchange and evaluation of human resources recruited worldwide, and to expand its human resource database to enable access to information on staff hired in each country. I hope that Casio will develop strategies and systems for the proactive utilization of human resource diversity. • In the area of employing persons with disabilities, I am glad to see that Casio finally exceeded the legally mandated rate of employment. I hope that Casio will continue to make improvements by holding employee interviews each quarter and introducing a staggered working hours system. I also continue to have strong expectations that Casio will pursue community-building efforts based on disability and job types and continue making workplaces more supportive in the future. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 225 • Regarding the environmental impact reduction data in this report, it is commendable that details are provided on the principal sites in and outside Japan including group companies. My hope, however, would be that Casio will continue to increase the level of accuracy of group reporting, by proactively disclosing not only environmental data, but also governance, personnel and procurement initiatives and data. Hideto DeDe Kawakita, Chief Executive Officer International Institute for Human, Organization and the Earth (IIHOE) Profile of IIHOE: International Institute for Human, Organization and the Earth (IIHOE) is a nonprofit organization (NPO) that has been supporting NPO management and CSR capacity building since 1994. http://blog.canpan.info/iihoe/ (in Japanese) CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 226 G4 GRI Content Index Casio’s CSR information disclosure is done in accordance with Core level of the 4th Edition of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines. GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Strategy and Analysis G4 Description Related Page Disclosure Statement from the most senior decisionmaker of the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent senior G4-1 Message from the President position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. Message from the President Material Issues for Casio Risk management Social Initiatives: Action Plans and Performance Basic Environmental Policies New environmental management initiatives and Policies Casio Environmental Vision 2050 and Casio Environmental G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Declaration 2020 Casio Green Star Plan Climate Change Action Biodiversity Casio Super Green Star Products Environmental Action Plan (Targets and Performance) Annual Securities Report (in Japanese only) Organizational Profile G4 Description Related Page Disclosure G4-3 Name of the organization. Corporate Overview Products G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Corporate Overview Corporate Report G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters. Corporate Overview CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 227 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has G4-6 Corporate Overview significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. Corporate Overview Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors G4-8 Corporate Overview served, and types of customers and beneficiaries). Corporate Overview Prioritizing local hiring and promotion at subsidiaries G4-9 Scale of the organization. outside Japan Building Workplaces for a Diverse Workforce • Total number of employees by employment contract and gender. • Total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. • Total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender. Prioritizing local hiring and promotion at subsidiaries • Total workforce by region and gender. outside Japan G4-10 • Whether a substantial portion of the organization’s Building Workplaces for a Diverse Workforce work is performed by workers who are legally Annual Securities Report (in Japanese only) recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. • Any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries). Percentage of total employees covered by collective G4-11 Annual Securities Report (in Japanese only) bargaining agreements. Casio is supplied with materials by approximately 500 G4-12 Organization’s supply chain. suppliers in around 20 countries around the world. Responsibilities to Suppliers Any significant changes during the reporting period G4-13 regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or None its supply chain. COMMITMENTS TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES Compliance and Risk Management Environmental Compliance Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle G4-14 Respect for Human Rights is addressed by the organization. Design and Procurement Green Procurement Related Documents CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 228 Externally developed economic, environmental and social United Nations Global Compact G4-15 charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the Avoiding any use of conflict minerals organization subscribes or which it endorses. Memberships of associations (such as industry G4-16 associations) and national or international advocacy United Nations Global Compact organizations in which the organization. Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4 Description Related Page Disclosure • All entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. G4-17 Scope of the report • Whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. • Process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. G4-18 Material Issues for Casio • How the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. Material Aspects identified in the process for defining report G4-19 Material Issues for Casio content. For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary G4-20 Material Issues for Casio within the organization. For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary G4-21 Material Issues for Casio outside the organization. Effect of any restatements of information provided in G4-22 Environmental Performance previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the G4-23 None Scope and Aspect Boundaries. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 229 Stakeholder Engagement G4 Description Related Page Disclosure Material Issues for Casio G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Main stakeholders of the Casio Group Material Issues for Casio Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with Welcoming the challenge of helping to build a more G4-25 whom to engage. sustainable global society Main stakeholders of the Casio Group Material Issues for Casio [Conversation] Pursuing Strategic CSR Initiatives Driven by Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, Materiality including frequency of engagement by type and by Product Development and Design Initiatives G4-26 stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the Responsibilities to Suppliers engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the Responsibilities to Society report preparation process. Environmental Communication Main stakeholders of the Casio Group Topics and concerns that have been raised through Material Issues for Casio stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has [Conversation] Pursuing Strategic CSR Initiatives Driven by G4-27 responded to those key topics and concerns, including Materiality through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that Product development incorporates insights from the raised each of the key topics and concerns. classroom Report Profile G4 Description Related Page Disclosure Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for G4-28 Scope of the report information provided. G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Scope of the report G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). Scope of the report Contact point for questions regarding the report or its G4-31 Scope of the report contents. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 230 GRI CONTENT INDEX • ‘In accordance’ option the organization has chosen. • GRI Content Index for the chosen option. G4-32 G4 GRI Content Index • Reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. ASSURANCE • Organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. • If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, scope and basis of any external assurance provided. G4-33 Third-party verification • Relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. • Whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. Governance G4 Description Related Page Disclosure GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE AND COMPOSITION Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body Corporate Governance Framework G4-34 responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or CSR Committee organizational oversight. Process for delegating authority for economic, G4-35 CSR Committee environmental and social topics from the highest. Whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, G4-36 CSR Committee environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body. Whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, Corporate Governance G4-37 environmental and social topics, and whether post holders CSR Committee report directly to the highest governance body. Composition of the highest governance body and its G4-38 committees. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 231 Whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, his or her function within the G4-39 organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria used G4-40 for nominating and selecting highest governance body members. Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed．Report G4-41 whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders, including, as a minimum. HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY’S ROLE IN SETTING PURPOSE, VALUES, AND STRATEGY Ｈighest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of the Corporate Governance Framework G4-42 organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, Environmental Management strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, CSR Committee environmental and social impacts. HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY’S COMPETENCIES AND PERFORMANCE EVALUATION Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest G4-43 governance body’s collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics. • Processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. Report whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency. Report whether such evaluation is a selfCSR Implementation System G4-44 assessment. Corporate Governance Framework • Actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice. HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY’S ROLE IN RISK MANAGEMENT • Highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Include the highest governance body’s role in the implementation CSR Implementation System G4-45 of due diligence processes. Corporate Governance • Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support Environmental Management the highest governance body’s identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 232 Highest governance body’s role in reviewing the G4-46 System of internal controls effectiveness of the organization’s risk. Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of CSR Implementation System G4-47 economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and Corporate Governance opportunities. Environmental Management HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY’S ROLE IN SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING Highest committee or position that formally reviews and G4-48 approves the organization’s sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered. HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY’S ROLE IN EVALUATING ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest Corporate Governance G4-49 governance body. Whistleblower Hotline Nature and total number of critical concerns that were G4-50 communicated to the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them. REMUNERATION AND INCENTIVES Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and Annual Securities Report (in Japanese only) G4-51 senior executives for the below types of remuneration. Corporate Governance Report※ G4-52 Ｐrocess for determining remuneration. How stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account Corporate Governance Framework G4-53 regarding remuneration. Annual Securities Report (in Japanese only) Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant G4-54 operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. Ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country G4-55 of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. * For Casio’s Corporate Governance Report, visit the Tokyo Stock Exchange website (in Japanese only) CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 233 Ethics and Integrity G4 Description Related Page Disclosure Casio’s Corporate Creed and Approach to CSR Environmental Vision Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of G4-56 Casio Super Green Star Products behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. Biodiversity Casio Group Code of Conduct Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on G4-57 ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to Whistleblower Hotline organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. Iternal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to G4-58 Whistleblower Hotline organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES GENERIC DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH G4 Description Related Page Disclosure G4Ｗhy the Aspect is material DMA CATEGORY: ECONOMIC G4 Description Related Page Disclosure Aspect: Economic Performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated AND DISTRIBUTED Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for Climate Change Action G4-EC2 the organization's activities due to climate change Annual Securities Report (in Japanese only) CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 234 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan G4-EC3 Annual Securities Report (in Japanese only) obligations G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government Aspect: Market Presence Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to G4-EC5 local minimum wage at significant locations of operatIon Proportion of senior management hired from the local G4-EC6 community at significant locations of operat Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts Development and impact of infrastructure investments and G4-EC7 Raising up the next generation services supported Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent G4-EC8 Environmental Accounting of impacts Aspect: Procurement Practices Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant G4-EC9 locations of operation CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL G4 Description Related Page Disclosure Aspect: Materials G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Material Balance Percentage of materials used that are recycled input G4-EN2 Material Balance materials Aspect: Energy Business Processes G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Material Balance G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 235 G4-EN5 Energy intensity Climate Change Action G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Business Processes Reductions in energy requirements of products and Climate Change Action G4-EN7 services Developing Products that Save Resources and Energy Aspect: Water Material Balance G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Environmental Performance G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Environmental Performance Aspect: Biodiversity Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent Material Issues for Casio G4-EN11 to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value Environmental Action Plan (Targets and Performance) outside protected areas Description on significant impacts on activities, G4-EN12 products,and services on biodiversity in protected areas Biodiversity and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored Biodiversity Total number of iucn red list species and national G4-EN14 conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by Biodiversity operations, by level of extinction risk Aspect: Emissions Climate Change Action Material Balance G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (SCOPE 1) Environmental Performance Scope3 Climate Change Action Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (SCOPE Material Balance G4-EN16 2) Environmental Performance Scope3 CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 236 Climate Change Action Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (SCOPE Material Balance G4-EN17 3) Environmental Performance Scope3 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Calculation Standards Environmental Vision Climate Change Action G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Business Processes Environmental Performance Scope3 G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Material Balance G4-EN21 Nox, Sox, and other significant air emissions Environmental Performance Aspect: Effluents and Waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination Material Balance Material Balance G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Environmental Performance G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the basel G4-EN25 convention2 annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of G4-EN26 water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the organization’s discharges of water and runoff Aspect: Products and Services Climate Change Action Material Balance Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of G4-EN27 Products products and services Scope3 Developing Products that Save Resources and Energy Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials Material Balance G4-EN28 that are reclaimed by category Casio Super Green Star Products CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 237 Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonG4-EN29 monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental Environmental Management laws and regulations Aspect: Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products Material Balance G4-EN30 and other goods and materials for the organization's Scope3 operations, and transporting members of the workforce Business Processes Aspect: Overall Total environmental protection expenditures and G4-EN31 Environmental Accounting investments by type Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using G4-EN32 environmental criteria Significant actual and potential negative environmental G4-EN33 impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Aspect: Environmental Grievance Mechanisms Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, G4-EN34 addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms CATEGORY: SOCIAL SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK G4 Description Related Page Disclosure Aspect: Employment Total number and rates of new employee hires and Material Issues for Casio G4-LA1 employee turnover by age group, gender and region Building Workplaces for a Diverse Workforce Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not G4-LA2 provided to temporary or part-time employees, by Creating Supportive Workplaces significant locations of operation CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 238 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by G4-LA3 Creating Supportive Workplaces gender Aspect: Labor/Management Relations Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, G4-LA4 including whether these are specified in collective Communication between labor and management agreements Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that G4-LA5 Communication between labor and management help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, G4-LA6 lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of workPromoting health and safety initiatives for employees related fatalities, by region and by gender Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related G4-LA7 to their occupation Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with Promoting health and safety initiatives for employees G4-LA8 trade unions Communication between labor and management Aspect: Training and Education Average hours of training per year per employee by G4-LA9 Effectively appointing and deploying employees gender, and by employee category Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that G4-LA10 support the continued employability of employees and Effectively appointing and deploying employees assist them in managing career endings Percentage of employees receiving regular performance G4-LA11 and career development reviews, by gender and by Effectively appointing and deploying employees employee category Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, G4-LA12 Building Workplaces for a Diverse Workforce age group， minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Aspect: Equal Remuneration for Women and Men Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by G4-LA13 employee category, by significant locations of operation CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 239 Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using G4-LA14 labor practices criteria Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor G4-LA15 Responsibilities to Suppliers practices in the supply chain and actions taken Aspect: Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms Number of grievances about labor practices filed, G4-LA16 addressed, and resolved through formal grievance Whistleblower Hotline mechanisms SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS G4 Description Related Page Disclosure Aspect: Investment Total number and percentage of significant investment G4-HR1 agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are G4-HR2 Respect for Human Rights relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Aspect: Non-discrimination Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective G4-HR3 Whistleblower Hotline actions taken Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining G4-HR4 Responsibilities to Suppliers may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights Aspect: Child Labor Operations and suppliers identified as having significant Responsibilities to Suppliers G4-HR5 risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to Respect for Human Rights contribute to the effective abolition of child labor CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 240 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant Responsibilities to Suppliers G4-HR5 risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to Respect for Human Rights contribute to the effective abolition of child labor Aspect: Forced or Compulsory Labor Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, Responsibilities to Suppliers G4-HR6 and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of Respect for Human Rights forced or compulsory labor Aspect: Security Practices Percentage of security personnel trained in the G4-HR7 organization's human rights policies or procedures that are relevant to operations Aspect: Indigenous Rights Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of G4-HR8 indigenous peoples and actions taken Aspect: Assessment Total number and percentage of operations that have been Creating and using a tool for checking the status of human G4-HR9 subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments rights Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using G4-HR10 human rights criteria Significant actual and potential negative human rights G4-HR11 Responsibilities to Suppliers impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Aspect: Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, G4-HR12 addressed, and resolved through formal grievance Whistleblower Hotline mechanisms CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 241 SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY G4 Description Related Page Disclosure Aspect: Local Communities Percentage of operations With implemented local G4-SO1 community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs Operations with significant actual and potential negative G4-SO2 impacts on local communities Aspect: Anti-corruption Total number and percentage of operations assessed for G4-SO3 Corruption Prevention Initiatives risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and G4-SO4 Corruption Prevention Initiatives procedures G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Aspect: Public Policy Total value of political contributions by country and G4-SO6 recipient/beneficiary Aspect: Anti-competitive Behavior Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, G4-SO7 anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonG4-SO8 monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using G4-SO9 criteria for impacts on society Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society G4-SO10 Responsibilities to Suppliers in the supply chain and actions taken CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 242 Aspect: Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, G4-SO11 addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY G4 Description Related Page Disclosure Aspect: Customer Health and Safety Percentage of significant product and service categories for G4-PR1 which health and safety impacts are assessed for Offering users peace of mind improvement Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and G4-PR2 safety impacts of products and services during their life Offering users peace of mind cycle, by type of outcomesAspect: Product and Service Labelin Aspect: Product and Service Labeling Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service Casio Super Green Star Products G4-PR3 information and labeling, and percentage of significant instruction manual product and service categories subject to such information requirements Total number of incidents of non-compliance with G4-PR4 regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes Activities to Improve Customer Satisfaction G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Customer Support Center Aspect: Marketing Communications Initiatives for compliance with fair trade and advertising G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products laws Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing G4-PR7 communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 243 Aspect: Customer Privacy Total number of substantiated complaints regarding G4-PR8 None breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with G4-PR9 laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services CASIO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 244
