UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT Alfagates became a signatory to the UN Global Compact in 2010 and we are pleased to submit our fifth Communication on Progress. Unease remains in our middle eastern markets following the removal of ISIS from Iraq because there is no evidence of their cause being deserted. The threat of further disruptive actions, not just across the middle east, is ever-present and investment and trading is stunted. Additionally, world oil prices have not yet recovered sufficiently to trigger wholehearted recommitment to invest by International Oil Companies. As a result, our legacy middle east frontier markets remain slow performers. However, we are pleased that our local staff and suppliers are now in a far better position to engage directly with international players and to shoulder greater responsibility whilst operating transparently. I am pleased to report that our emerging market impact in the renewable energy sector is yielding tangible results. We are trialling home scale solar services in Ghana. This brings affordable electricity to the typically peri-urban and rural unbanked community, generally viewed as being amongst the most impoverished elements of society. Equipment hire payments are made via mobile money, which has become an entirely normal method of money transfer within many emerging economies. Key founding stakeholders are BBOXX, experienced solar power consumer product manufacturers and service suppliers, and our joint venture partner http://pasbboxx.com. Our solar power replaces fossil fuels which previously provided heating only. For a similar or sometimes lower budget recipients now benefit from lighting, radio, TV and mobile phone charging. Studying and lifestyle are transformed. This is a genuine triple bottom line business and we are hopeful that a rollout becomes viable in Ghana, and elsewhere in sub-Saharan Africa. As I mentioned last year, the path forward is clearly not with fossil fuels. This is where nations, not rich in fossil fuels, can seek to be the global gamechangers, by the very virtue of not already having the burden of an existing infrastructure legacy reliant on fossil fuels. We act as catalysts for local and regional solutions reliant on working in harmony with the environment. Finally, in this last year we have developed an important relationship with OSG http://osgcompanies.com, which has added depth and breadth to certain business units, and to the size and complexity of project which we can undertake. The majority of our trading is now performed in special purpose vehicles. Page 1 of 8 The Ten Principles and the Compact We are specifically delighted that the ten principles and our modus operandi continue to fit together symbiotically and naturally. Above all, the UN Global Compact is a platform which we use to achieve common standards and empathy with, and therefore a mutual understanding between, all stakeholders and ourselves. I pay tribute to our local staff and trading partners who have had to work sometimes in extreme conditions. As ever, I salute them all. We hereby renew our support for, and commitment to, the Ten Principles and the Compact. Mark Berger Chief Executive, Alfagates Group M: +44 7971 032666 E: markberger@alfagates.com March 2018 Page 2 of 8 HUMAN RIGHTS Assessment, policy and goals Our assessment is that all people are to be treated as you yourself would like to be treated. This applies especially within the complex and broad ethnic environments in which we work. Our policy remains to disseminate information and educate whilst remaining as far as possible independent, apolitical, and disinterested. Our goal in the year 2018 is to continue to extend our methods to our new territories and types of business. Implementation We continue to apply the “two report” principle concerning any potential violations or complaints. One report from each of a local and a non-local will be sent to the line manager and the Human Resources Manager. In any case when we deem that the line manager does not have sufficient experience to handle this situation, the report is passed directly to a team led by the CEO for resolution. We encourage staff, and third parties unconnected with Alfagates, to try to obtain cross border access whether it is for holiday or work. We keep in contact with former members of staff, and will act as a sounding board to assist them develop their careers. We have identified former staff who have become career and family immigrants to the US, Europe, Asia and Australia. Our current staff receive help for family needs outside their contracts of employment. We show empathy with all local cultures, for example granting time off for family gatherings, offering financial assistance for overseas medical trips, and pastoral care especially in international matters such as immigration, and international career opportunities outside Alfagates. We include part time and home workers amongst our team, which broadens the potential work pool. We encourage skills such as IT and language and will make cash or equipment available for educational purposes. Measurement We have neither had reports of Human Rights violations, nor discovered any problems, nor been fined, nor been threatened with legal action or sanctions. Page 3 of 8 We uncover information through extensive discussion within our staff at all levels. The CEO and senior managers engage one-to-one with all branch management staff face to face in the relevant branch. Senior managers visit our staffed branches on a frequent basis and any problems are resolved on the spot. Page 4 of 8 LABOUR Assessment, policy and goals We assess the greatest values accrue to us by employing based on merit, and as far as possible on locality, introducing non-locals only where necessary. Our policy is that at least one member of staff may step into a colleague’s job at short notice and perform his role on a temporary basis from day 1 at 65% efficiency. This encourages diversity, skill transfer, and fosters a society of merit-based leadership. Our goal in the year 2018 is to extend our methods to our new territories and types of business. Implementation We have employed and will continue to employ, disabled people, women (including during and after pregnancy, granting maternal leave beyond the statutory minimum), and all persons whose skills and locality merit employment fitting our requirements. Local general managers at each branch recommend solutions to such issues as discipline, pay review, bonus, benefits, and time off other than pre-arranged holidays. The CEO takes great heed of these recommendations, mainly because managers visit and assimilate with all branch staff, and local customs and requirements, and are thereby more easily able to infuse their ideas and standards into the local labour market whilst maximising empathy. All staff are expected to be curious and to learn skills from other staff. All staff are expected to train other staff in their own skills. Productivity per person by almost any measure, is increasing. Measurement We have neither had reports of Labour violations, nor discovered any problems, nor been fined, nor been threatened with legal action or sanctions. Page 5 of 8 ENVIRONMENT Assessment, policy and goals Our host governments are increasingly aware of at least the moral obligations to ensure that environmental considerations are a component of their strategies. However, budgets in all but aid economy-dominated countries have been constrained in many instances and the limited available funds diverted to other ministries. Our policy is to ensure that we contribute the most within our resources to improve the situation. This involves basic housekeeping, staff education programmes, meetings with Government officials, and close liaison with project financiers. Our goal in the year 2018 is to extend our methods to our new territories and types of business. Implementation We focus on servicing our clients’ needs in order to retain them, but we comply with all local laws and we work together with all our responsible clients and suppliers to ensure that international standards are met as closely as possible within practical commercial constraints. Measurement We have neither had reports of Environment violations, nor discovered any problems, nor been fined, nor been threatened with legal action or sanctions. We make daily walk-through inspections and discussions to minimise waste, minimise accidents and spillages, which may cause an environmental problem. These inspections include interacting with our field staff, our facilities, our clients and our suppliers. Incident report forms log errors and omissions, and track the rectifying action to compliance with at least the local legal standard. Larger international clients, ethical financiers, and donor organisations provide a constant source of external audit. Page 6 of 8 ANTI-CORRUPTION Assessment, policy and goals All our senior managers know all of our staff with an ability to make procurement and client service decisions, so this acts as a simple, effective control. Our policy is that we do not permit corrupt practices. This is an immediate termination offence for staff; if we discovered that our suppliers were engaged in such practices we would seek to remove them; and we reject all offers of business which we suspect or know would support corruption. Our goal in the year 2018 is to extend our methods to our new territories and types of business. Implementation All our managers with a procurement ability watch over each other at all levels. The Chief Executive has direct oversight and is involved in constant discussions, education and oversight at head office and branch level. This is a core platform of our leadership. Our staff are bonded to Alfagates in the knowledge that the business, and therefore their jobs, exist through Alfagates’ reputation for undoubted probity. This is proving a most effective method of ensuring that corruption does not even become a temptation and is demonstrating that we can self-regulate from within the organisation. The bonus incentive scheme established in 2014 remains effective. The qualifications for payout include the pre-requisite that an un-reported breach relating to corruption by one is a disqualifying event for all. We offer unsolicited advice and guidance to our clients and expect the same in return in our attempts to create a virtuous circle of improvement. Measurement We have neither had reports of Corruption-related violations, nor discovered any problems, nor been fined, nor been threatened with legal action or sanctions. We conduct a monthly audit of cash expended at branch and head office level. The Chief Finance Officer regularly visits the branch offices. We continue to handle less cash proportionally to electronic money. Page 7 of 8 In the close community society in which we generally operate, staff actively monitor each other’s behaviour and spending habits to identify personal expenditure beyond the expected norm for that person. Page 8 of 8
