UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 REPORTING PERIOD 01 01 JAN DEC 2018 2018 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on progress 2018 Cees van Gent, CEO FOREWORD JF Hillebrand Group has been an active member of Environment and sustainability are major focus areas the UN Global Compact since 2011, joining companies across our business. In our last communication we around the world in a combined effort to promote reported a 24% reduction in carbon dioxide emissions corporate responsibility and positively contribute to per container since 2008. Our goal by 2025 is to reach societal growth. a 45% reduction. We are pleased to advise our efforts during 2018 have raised our achievement to 27% The UN Global Compact serves as an important according to Clean Cargo. strategic guideline across our portfolio of global logistics companies in setting a clear and consistent path to We aim to be at the forefront of sustainable transport follow in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and inspire our industries to create greener supply and anti-corruption. As Chief Executive, I continue to chains. With great investment, we have made uphold our commitment to continuing our membership significant progress by introducing carbon dioxide and to furthering our progress in these areas. (CO2), greenhouse gas, sulphur oxides (SOx), nitrogen oxides (NOx), particulate matter (PM10), Our actions at a global and local office level demonstrate non-methane hydrocarbons (NMHC) data into our our efforts to integrate the principles of the UN Global transport management system for our customers. Compact into our daily operations. Over the past year This new calculator allows the global beverage trade we have launched many initiatives to develop the skills to measure, report in compliancy with EN 16258 and of our workforce and further enhance our working compare transport routes with the aim to lowering the environments. We are committed to the industries in carbon emissions of their shipments. which we serve and offer our support to a number of related charities around the world. We also see it as our We are proud to be part of the UN Global Compact and responsibility to provide logistics services in response remain committed inciting positive change within our to global crisis or relief projects such as Caribbean global community. Hurricane Relief Fund. www.jfhillebrandgroup.com 1 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on progress 2018 PROFILE & HISTORY JF Hillebrand was founded in 1844 in Mainz, Germany. The company is the global leading service provider in the forwarding, transport and logistics of beverages and other products that require special care. Operating as a cohesive global network, JF Hillebrand Group generates revenues of EUR 1.200 million with a team of 2.400 professionals, located in 65 offices serving 90 countries. GUIDING PRINCIPLES We want to be the global leading service provider in forwarding, transport and logistics of wine, spirits, beer and other products that require special care. VISION Customers value us for the care we take of their products, our reliable and efficient solutions and our friendly and easy way of doing business. Our mission is to deliver our customers’ products in a reliable way, with ultimate care and the shortest possible transit times. MISSION We manage logistics and transport for any quantity from a single bottle to bulk, from all origins to all destinations, for all modalities. We make logistics simple for our customers. Passion Reliable Easy to deal with VALUES Care Knowledgeable Efficient Respect Proactive and Innovative www.jfhillebrandgroup.com 2 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on progress 2018 OUR BRANDS JF Hillebrand, the Group’s founding brand, in bulk. Moreover, the company leads the exists since 1844 and since inception way in the research and development of the company has been dedicated solely technology to improve the sustainability to the efficient and careful logistics of of its operations and the supply chains beverages. Christof Hillebrand, Chairman of its customers. Whatever the logistics of the Supervisory Board, represents the challenge, the global network of experts 5th generation of the Hillebrand family. JF situated in every major beverage production Hillebrand is the world’s leading logistics and consumption market in the world will provider to beer, wine and spirits industry. provide a reliable and cost effective solution. Working with a large network of local and Today, we are regarded as the world’s international carriers for sea, road, rail leading logistics provider to the beverage and air freight. JF Hillebrand offers a full trade, we work with some of the world’s range of logistics solutions and services leading retailers, producers and brewers to for beverages shipped in cases, kegs and manage the global flow of beverages. Trans Ocean was acquired by JF Hillebrand manages worldwide equipment recovery in 2007. Trans Ocean has been providing for reuse and recycling. This allows for fully integrated logistics for non-hazardous complete control over equipment supply liquids solutions since 1984. As the and quality, leading to the continuous only global bulk solution provider that is improvement of every aspect of its global vertically integrated, the company designs, operations. Currently Trans Ocean focuses manufactures, and fits tanks as well as on three broad product verticals: mineral providing end-to-end logistics. Going oils, chemicals and food products. beyond the point of delivery, the company Satellite Logistics Group became part of the its services, innovations and processes JF Hillebrand Group in 2013. Leading the solely to the brewing industry. way in innovative business solutions for the brewing industry since 1984, the company This is JF Hillebrand Group’s seventh utilises a global operations network annual Communication on Progress (COP). combined with intelligent information In this document we will disclose the actions software so that the brewing industry and policies that JF Hillebrand Group has can rely on a reverse logistics solution to undertaken over the past 12 months to manage and optimise an entire keg fleet. implement the Global Compact’s ten This platform allows customers to improve principles in the four areas: Human Rights, the sustainability of their supply chains Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. whilst increasing service performance. The We also assess and measure the outcomes company is a leader in its field, dedicating within the context of the COP framework. www.jfhillebrandgroup.com 3 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on progress 2018 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights PRINCIPLE 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS JF Hillebrand Group supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We recognise our responsibility to uphold human rights issues within our organisation and within our sphere of influence. IMPLEMENTATION MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Our new company-wide Code of Business We have taken active steps to devote financial, Conduct re-asserts our commitment to human and time resource to charitable and human rights and fosters the principles set humanitarian initiatives and activities. in the UN Declaration of Human Rights throughout our organisation. Our procurement team exclusively selecting We are actively managing our supply chain suppliers that are support and respecting human to ensure that they uphold to the same rights. human rights principles and ensure that our contracts include provisions allowing us to take appropriate sanctions and terminate the JF Hillebrand Group has not been complicit in any relationship in case of breach. human rights abuses, and has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents We have undertaken and supported involving human rights. humanitarian projects to provide local communities with education and health programmes, including financial and resource support to charities and organisations worldwide. www.jfhillebrandgroup.com 4 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on progress 2018 FUNDRAISING CALIFORNIA WILDFIRES, USA Our USA office joined forces with customer Schatzi beer and 8 kegs we collectively offered by the Wines to lead the fundraising effort that brought customers of JF Hillebrand, for sale ‘By the glass’ $47,000 to the North Bay Fire Relief. Dubbed through participating restaurants and retailers. The ‘By the Glass’, the initiative called for suppliers donations were split between charities Redwood who housed their products within JF Hillebrand’s Credit Union North Bay Fire Relief, Undocufund Fire Benicia warehouse, one of the only few remaining Relief, Rebuildwinecountry.org, Chefsgiving, and the functioning facilities at this time, to donate to Latino Community Foundation. this cause. 300 cases of wine, 40 cases of craft FUNRAISING HURRICANE RELIEF, CARIBBEAN Moved by the devastation in Saint Martin and Saint wine merchant Stansfeld Scott to coordinating the Barthelemy following hurricanes Irma and Maria, both shipment of basic relief supplies to the Caribbean category 5 storms, JF Hillebrand France and USA Hurricane Relief Fund. collaborated with the French Civil Protection and US 5 Containers were shipped courtesy of JF Hillebrand. CHARITABLE GIVING ARGENTINA Every year, all employees of Argentinian office prepare gift boxes for underprivileged families to enjoy on Children’s Day and during the festive holiday. The boxes are filled with food, toys and other luxury items. The project is run in collaboration with a local parish who manage the selection of the neighbourhoods and oversee the charitable giving to ensure they are received by the families most in need LOGISTICS FOR SUPPPORT FRANCE AND HONG KONG In support of “12 de Coeur”, the association that were auctioned in May. This event raised more than brings together over 100 prestigious French wineries 1 million euros in favour of charities Les Restos du raising money for charities, our teams in France and Coeur (France) and Teach for China (China). Hong Kong managed the transport of samples that www.jfhillebrandgroup.com 5 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on progress 2018 LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining PRINCIPLE 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour PRINCIPLE 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour PRINCIPLE 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS JF Hillebrand Group supports and advocates the International Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. We recognise the right to collective bargaining, and uphold the abolition of forced, compulsory and child labour, and the elimination of discrimination. JF Hillebrand Group offices comply with all local employment acts and regulations, local health and safety regulations and provide safety training to staff as appropriate. We do not and will not engage in activities with any organisation which uses forced or child labour. Our employees are given information on company rules, grievance and disciplinary procedures. We ensure that all employees are treated fairly and respectfully. We aim to create an inclusive corporate culture where our staff and employees are nurtured. www.jfhillebrandgroup.com 6 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on progress 2018 IMPLEMENTATION MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES We are an equal opportunity employer We have not been subject to any investigations, with a zero tolerance policy on workplace legal cases, rulings, fines or other relevant discrimination. events related to Labour or Health and Safety prosecutions. We have implemented risk management and disaster recovery programmes for the protection and safety of our staff. We support local community projects education and health programmes, aimed at eliminating child We promote and comply with all health and labour and any form of discrimination. safety regulations throughout our network of offices and sites. We have implemented a HR structure and policies/development programmes designed to nurture, train and develop our staff. All personnel are encouraged to develop their skills by attending appropriate training courses. We have implemented a talent and succession management programme for professional career review and development. We have introduced and developed health management and assessment programmes, promoting a healthy lifestyle to staff. We comply with all minimum wage regulations. We have implemented new policies, procedures and systems to integrate the principles and standards of the EU GDPR directive into our company policies related to personal data management. We have implemented a company-wide Code of Business Conduct that includes standards and policies on workplace integrity, health and safety, and speaking up. www.jfhillebrandgroup.com 7 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on progress 2018 GENDER EQUALITY UK Gender equality is something that we are fully UK operations, 55% of our workforce is female, committed to. In a traditionally male-dominated occupying positions from all areas of the business, industry, the UK offices are attracting an overall including top management roles, sales, operations, gender-balanced pool of employees. Across our customs, transport, finance and IT. PROMOTING CAREERS IN THE WINE INDUSTRY CHILE Since 2011 our office in Chile has been participating a tour for all students to our warehouse and port in a program together with “Viña Los Vascos” and facilities to show them the connection between the the local Government of Santa Cruz Province, to winery and the logistics process. In further support, motivate students of Public Schools to consider work five refurbished computers were donated to the within the wine industry. In 2018, the office arranged school, to improve the equipment offered to students. STUDENT TRAINING PROGRAMS MEXICO Since 2011, our office in Mexico has coordinated, to complete a field experience requirement to in association with Escuela Bancaria y Comercial graduate from University. They also offer a trainee & Instituto Politécnico Nacional a business program program where they employ graduate students so for students and graduates. The program offers a they can feel secure in a first work placement. scholarship for students in their last year of education www.jfhillebrandgroup.com 8 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on progress 2018 SALES EMPLOYEE RACE PROGRAM In addition to our strong customer centric culture, coaching on how to drive sales and perform to the JF Hillebrand Board launched a new customer their highest potential. The program empowers our focused employee program called RACE. employees to manage their priorities, work within our Encompassing our guiding principles within the corporate framework and challenge themselves to sales division, RACE stands for Results, Activity, achieve. A three day induction to RACE took place Capability, and Enthusiasm. The program was rolled in Barcelona during the Summer. out globally, with all 55 offices receiving personal PROMOTING WORK LIFE BALANCE SINGAPORE The office in Singapore actively promotes a good work-life balance to all employees and regularly organises recreational activities for the staff to enjoy. www.jfhillebrandgroup.com 9 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on progress 2018 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental changes PRINCIPLE 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility PRINCIPLE 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS JF Hillebrand Group is fully committed to undertaking initiatives to promote environmental responsibility. We aim to reduce the environmental impact of our operations and activities. JF Hillebrand Group supports a precautionary approach to environmental challenges through central and local risk assessment and risk management policies. We have undertaken environmental initiatives throughout our global network to ensure both we, and our partners, minimise our carbon footprint. We make our best efforts to maintain environmental awareness and responsibility among our staff in daily operations, management of our facilities and in new project implementation. We will, whenever reasonably practicable, mitigate possible impacts to the environment during planning, design and execution of our operations. By 2025 our goal is to reduce carbon dioxide emissions per container by 45% from 2008 levels. We have so far reached 27%. One of our key objectives is to reduce and eventually eliminate the number of Flexitanks ending up in landfills. We are increasing the number of the Flexitanks we mechanically recycle and the number of steel bulkheads we recover and re-use. We have invested in the development and use of environmentally friendly technologies e.g. insulation liners used as thermal protection for the cased beverage goods we ship. We aim to increase the recycling of our liners in 2019. www.jfhillebrandgroup.com 10 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on progress 2018 IMPLEMENTATION We strive to improve our environmental performance, through initiatives and best practice, either alone or in partnership with others. We collaborate with our customers to meet their logistics objectives while also creating bespoke solutions to lower carbon emissions worldwide. We participate in non-profit forums to promote environmental best practice. These include: • European Petrochemical Association • Clean Cargo (a B2B initiative managed by BSR/Business for Social Responsibility) • Fédération internationale des Vins et Spiritueux (FIVS) • Federation of Oils, Seeds and Fats Associations (FOSFA) • European Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC) In June 2017, JF Hillebrand signed a Carbon Pact with Maersk Line, the largest sea shipping line worldwide; in which the two companies commit to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 20% per container between 2017 and 2025. The Pact creates a partnership for achieving sustainable growth and a commitment to reduce the carbon dioxide emissions per container through JF Hillebrand’s shipments with Maersk Line. The 2017 2018 results are fully in line with this commitment. Our initiatives to reduce CO2 emissions include the following: • “Short-Sea” shipping through feeder services into smaller regional ports provides delivery closer to the final delivery point, minimises road miles and eases congestion at larger port and container terminals. • Inland waterways and barge services are used where possible to reduce road miles. • Using rail where possible to reduce road transport emissions. Examples of this include transport from Iberia to Sweden by rail. • Our Freight Procurement Group assesses and where possible prioritises ocean carriers with the best environmental performance according to the Clean Cargo scorecards. We develop technologies and solutions to minimise environmental impact: • We transport liquids in bulk with our Flexitank systems. Bulk transportation allows shippers to reduce transport costs while also decreasing the associated carbon emissions per litre of beverage shipped by up to 50%. Importing liquids in bulk and bottling them at destination using lightweight recycled glass or other materials further reduces carbon emissions. • We have a proactive and long-term equipment recovery management plan to drive the recycling of our Flexitank products. We have invested in recycling facilities, most recently in the Houston (USA) to actively promote creating more sustainable supply chain with our clients. Our new facility is projected to recycle 4,000 Flexitanks in its first year. • Our single layer Flexitank materials are 100% recyclable. Our multi-layer Flexitank is half of the weight of our single layer Flexitank and also fully recyclable. www.jfhillebrandgroup.com 11 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on progress 2018 IMPLEMENTATION • The Flexitank material is shredded, baled for granulation and cleaned before being palletized and manufactured into new products (circular economy). Our objective is to reduce to zero the number of Flexitanks used in landfill where practical. • We are actively managing and increasing the collection of steel bulkheads (used for Flexitank shipments), which are refurbished and reused throughout our network. • We have developed our own insulation liners as an environmentally friendly alternative to shipping in temperature controlled reefer containers (which require approximately 30% to 40% more energy to refrigerate on the basis of the same transported tonnage). The insulation liners are produced from a fully recyclable material and they are included in our global recovery and recycling programme. We have published a transport sustainability white paper for employees, clients and stakeholders. It offers guidance to reduce the emissions of shipments with a focus on land, sea and air. www.jfhillebrandgroup.com 12 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on progress 2018 IMPLEMENTATION MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES We have developed a number of IT tools Today we have lowered our carbon dioxide designed to help clients manage supply emissions per container by 27% and we are chains as efficiently as possible: continuously working towards achieving our goal to reduce carbon dioxide emissions per container by 45% from 2008 until 2025. LogiTrax. A freight management solution for keg We have recycled 75% of our polyethylene shipping. Flexitanks across our top 15 wine importing countries and recovered 53% of bulkheads worldwide (during the first 3 quarters of 2018). EcoBev. The only green solution for beverage JF Hillebrand UK/Scotland, JF Hillebrand disposal in the USA. Logistics AB Sweden and all Trans Ocean manufacturing facilities (China, South Africa) have received independent ISO 14001 (Environmental) Kegspediter is a solution that increases accreditation for environmental initiatives. the efficiency of the keg supply chain and helps brewers minimise their environmental All Trans Ocean manufacturing facilities (China, impact. Kegspediter only handles steel South Africa) have received independent ISO kegs. Their life expectancy is more than 30 22000 / FSSC 22000 accreditation, adopting years whilst most plastic kegs are for single a systematic approach to reducing physical, use. Steel is fully recyclable while plastic chemical, and biological hazards/risks in waste generated by plastic kegs is either production processes. landfilled or incinerated (with or without energy recovery). JF Hillebrand won the 2018 Drinks Business Green Award in the category of Logistics and Supply Chain Initiative of the Year. Satellite Logistics Group is a SmartWay® Logistics Company Partner. Through the SmartWay Transport Partnership, freight shippers, carriers, logistics companies and other stakeholders partner with EPA (the US Environmental Protection Agency) to measure, benchmark and improve logistics operations to reduce their environmental footprint.is either landfilled or incinerated (with or without energy recovery). www.jfhillebrandgroup.com 13 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on progress 2018 GUIDELINES ON GREEN WORKING GLOBAL In 2018 we started a program to guide JF Hillebrand Group offices and factories to decrease relative carbon emissions (irrespective of the evolution of their activities) in 3 key areas: energy use (not transport), purchased materials, waste management. We have published a document titled “How to go green at work” with guidelines on: • Saving energy • Switching energy supply to renewable sources • Use of lower emission or electric company cars • Use of energy efficient office and IT equipment • Waste separation • Recycling waste paper and sourcing paper from renewable sources • Recycling plastic • Reducing printing RESPONSIBLE WORKING MALAYSIA Our Malaysian office has made great steps to ensuring their working conditions are not only more comfortable for employees, but also better for the environment with the recent introduction of several office improvements: Air conditioning system – the 500sqm office was re-designed to only use 1 unit of air conditioning whereas the original design required 2. Each unit consumes about 7.9kWh of electricity. The 2nd unit has been permanently shut-down. Thermal film for windows – Situated on the 8th floor with 75sqm of glasses caused of a lot of heat to be trapped inside the office. An investment in thermal transparent film to cover the glass resulted in a heat reduction of 70% and an air conditioning reduction of 3˚C. Energy saving lightings originally designed with 34watt fluorescent tube of 376 kWh p.a. per tube but replaced with 112 LED Tubes of 16 watts, the lighting now has an annual consumption of 140.16 kWh p.a. per tube. A 67% reduction in consumption with a value difference USD$2,395 (USD$3,474 USD$1,079). www.jfhillebrandgroup.com 14 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on progress 2018 HELPING CUSTOMERS TO LOWER EMISSIONS GLOBAL We are proud to say we are continuing to move closer to our 2025 global target of a 45% carbon emissions reduction per container, having already lowered our carbon dioxide emissions per container by 27% since 2008. In response to this strategy, JF Hillebrand Group has created a new web-based transport management platform called myHillebrand, which documents and records the carbon emissions for every movement of beverages entrusted to us. This new platform is the latest in our efforts to guide customers in how to lower emissions and creating more sustainable supply chains.in 3 key areas: energy use (not transport), purchased materials, waste management. With this platform and feature, customers are now able to instantly quantify the emissions associate to their shipments, better analyse their global footprint and make steps to reduce the impact of their operations. The calculation of GHG emissions complies with the European Norm EN 16258: • GHG emission (CO2e) WTW (Well-to-Wheel) This data is accessible through the new myHillebrand and TTW (Tank-to Wheel) web-platform and calculations are presented for • Energy consumption in Megajoule for both WTW each leg of the journey from collection to delivery, and TTW so that our customers can review the impact of their transport decisions across various incoterms. Well-to-Wheel (WTW) = Well-to-Tank (WTT: operating Beyond displaying data on greenhouse gases phase) + Tank-to-Wheel (TTW = upstream emissions/ and carbon dioxide, which contributes to global energy from “production” of fuel and infrastructure). warming, this new tool provides emissions for air pollutants; sulphur oxides (SOx), nitrogen oxides For sea shipments, our GHG emissions align with (NOx), particulate matter (PM10), non-methane the methodologies used by general cargoes world hydrocarbons (NMHC), equally damaging to public logistics leaders the GHG Protocol and the Clean health and to the environment. Cargo Working Group (CCWG) methodology and data. www.jfhillebrandgroup.com 15 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on progress 2018 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS JF Hillebrand Group does not tolerate bribery, corruption and extortion in any form. We are committed to complying with international and local anti-bribery and anti-corruption standards, laws and legislation. We aim to create a corporate culture where an ethical and moral code is upheld by our staff. This is translated in our Group Code of Business Conduct. We are transparent in all company transactions and operations. IMPLEMENTATION Our new Code of Business Conduct clearly As a member of various trade and industry bodies in sets our principles and standard with respect the sectors in which we operate, we work with peers, to anti bribery and anti-corruption policies. It partners and independent organisations to create is applicable company-wide. transparent and level playing fields. We are encouraging our employees Several initiatives have been taken to train our staff in and stakeholders to report any potential anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws and regulations misconduct or breach of our Code of Business (e.g. FCPA in the US, UKBA in the UK). Ongoing Conduct principles through anonymous compliance e-learning will be launched as part of the channels (hotline and third party managed roll out of our new Code of Business Conduct and e-tools). We are actively managing any will be mandatory for all employees. incidents and take appropriate sanctions. www.jfhillebrandgroup.com 16 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on progress 2018 IMPLEMENTATION MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Globally, we have implemented standard JF Hillebrand Group has not been implicated in operating procedures to comply with any cases or incidents of or related to extortion, international trade sanctions and prevent corruption or bribery. any transactions with sanctioned countries or individuals. We have been subject to due diligence procedures by some of our larger customers with respect to We fully support anti-terrorism processes our policies and business practices in relation to including the C-TPAT and AEO. anti-corruption and anti-bribery and have been vetted by them as an approved supplier. Our Group Risk & Compliance Director oversees all these matters, implement global We are actively monitoring our supply chain to policies according to the highest standards ensure that they abide to the same standards as of the industry and is the referral to our staff we do. for all compliance matters. We strengthened our internal audit team by hiring a Group Head of Internal Audit in June of this year. www.jfhillebrandgroup.com 17 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on progress 2018 APPENDIX WE SUPPORT: 1. Le Club des Petits Déjeuner Canada 15. Buy a Cake, share a smile Singapore 2. Hands of Hope – New Jersey Food Bank USA 16. Pebbles Projects– South Africa 3. Viña Los Vascos and local Government of Santa 17. The Pinotage Youth Academy – South Africa Cruz to bring the high school to the wine industry – The route of the Carmenere Chile 18. Caritas Germany 4. Member of the “friends of the Sophia Children’s 19. Hochschule Ludwigshafen Germany Hospital” Erasmus Medical center Group –The Netherlands 20. Restaurants du Coeur France 5. Médecin du Monde – The Netherlands 21. Croix Rouge Française France 6. Dutch Cancer Foundation – The Netherlands 22. Personnimages France 7. The Cabinteely FC Mini World Cup Ireland 23. Kiwanis International France 8. The Greystones Ireland 24. Maison Rose de Bordeaux France 9. Wine and Spirits Trade Association (WSTA) UK 25. Zonta Association France 10. The Benevolent UK Drinks Industry Charity 26. La Maison pour Rebondir France UK 27. 12 de Coeur France 11. Headway Charity Bike Ride from London to Brighton UK 28. Beaune Handball France 12. Rescue helicopter services – New Zealand 29. CSB Beaune Rugby France 13. Climate Refugees – Korea 30. Livres en vignesFrance 14. B60 The believe Charity Run organised by 31. Cité du vin BordeauxFrance Care Community Services Society Singapore 32. Alize, Réseau EntreprendreFrance www.jfhillebrandgroup.com 18 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on progress 2018 CERTIFICATIONS / ACCREDITATIONS • AEO • ISO 9001 • OHSAS 18001 • ISO 14001 • FSSC 22000 • Kosher Certification • IDCP Halal Certified • GMP Good Manufacturing Practices • SQAS WE ARE MEMBER OF • European Petrochemical Association • The Federation of Oils, Seeds and Fats • Juice Products Association Associations (FOSFA) • PIP programme by CBSA • The European Chemical Industry Council • FENEX (CEFIC) • IIFA • Gulf Petrochemical Association (GPCA) • Helsinki Chamber of Commerce • American Fats and Oils Association (AFOA) • WSTA • American Feed Ingredients Association (AFIA) • The Clean Cargo Working Group (CCWG, a • Independent Lubricants Manufactures B2B initiative managed by Business for Social Association (ILMA) Responsibility) • The Marine Ingredients Organisation (IFFO) • Fédération internationale des Vins et Spiritueux • National Institute of Oilseed Products (NIOP) (FIVS) Sources: https://www.wineindustryadvisor.com/2018/02/28/glass-collective-fundraising-fire-relief www.stansfeldscott.com/about-us/press-centre/stansfeld-scott-and-supplier-partners-come-together-tosupport-hurricane-de www.slg.com https://www.epa.gov/smartway/smartway-logistics-company-partner-tools-and-resources Photo credits: JF Hillebrand Group AG www.jfhillebrandgroup.com 19 We value your feedback We welcome any questions, comments or suggestions you might have regarding this report. Please send your feedback to: JF Hillebrand Group Head Office Carl-Zeiss Strasse 6 PostFach 100254 55129 Mainz Hechtsheim Germany info@jfhillebrandgroup.com
