UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Index Statement of continued support ..................................................................................................... 2 Summary: our commitment to CSR ................................................................................................ 3 Organizational Governance ........................................................................................................... 4 CSR Memberships, Platforms & Tools ............................................................................................ 5 Supply Chain Sustainability ........................................................................................................... 7 Product compliance, Factory audits & Lab testing ........................................................................... 9 2019/2020 Sustainable products ..................................................................................................... 10 CSR Initiatives 2017-18 .................................................................................................................. 12 Labor practices ............................................................................................................................ 13 Fair Operating Practices ............................................................................................................... 14 Measurements ............................................................................................................................. 16 1 Statement of continued support Rotterdam June 5th, 2018 I am pleased to confirm that IGC International reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Hans Poulis CEO, IGC International 2 Summary: our commitment to CSR IGC International is a distributor of promotional products & corporate gifts, located in Rotterdam, The Netherlands. We service multinational clients. Protecting our client’s brand is our responsibility. We are part of a global network operating since 1956 with 50+ partners who collectively cover over 110 countries. We are accountable to our clients and to the (end)consumer for the quality and safety of the product we provide. With every project IGC adheres to strict corporate, social and product safety regulations. While adherence to these rules may not always result in the lowest priced product to the buyer, IGC is always able to show you why our item might be higher priced than a similar product from a noncertified vendor. We prefer to solely work with producers and suppliers who are able to deliver the highest quality products and are also able to offer eco-friendly materials, such as FSC paper, recycled PET bottles, or organically sourced cotton. We stay clear from harmful chemicals that may be detrimental to human health. We have a large network of local and international suppliers. As a result, we have an obligation to make sure that our products are ethically-sourced. All suppliers that we work with, are obligated to sign our Supplier Code of Conduct, demonstrating their commitment to our CSR program. This allows us to ensure compliance with human rights, labor, health & safety and environmental regulations. CSR has become one of the standard business practices of our time. It is a component of our overall business strategy and part of our company DNA. We believe CSR is a must-have not a nice-to-have. 3 Organizational Governance Mission Our company mission states: We want to be the leading full-compliance international distributor offering mid-sized and international operating companies superior value through high quality services from design to delivery. With full-compliance we mean compliance to laws, rules & regulations (whether its local, national, international or set up by our clients) but also going beyond compliance. We want to set the (CSR) standard in our industry. CSR motive Our reasons to put CSR into practice are: Innovation: creating sustainable solutions. Brand differentiation: our strategy sets us apart from competitors who do not adhere to the same standards and practices as we do. Customer/stakeholder engagement: we can raise awareness by sharing knowledge. We also support our client’s/stakeholders CSR goals and partner up with them for special projects. Long-term thinking: CSR is an effort to look at the company's long-term interests and ensuring the company is sustainable. As a business we must fulfil stakeholder expectations. Our multinational clients want us to respect their CSR policies. But this isn’t our main reason to make CSR a priority topic. We see CSR as a moral duty (intrinsic motive). Stakeholders Our stakeholders include: suppliers (e.g. manufacturers, wholesalers), our forwarder (transport), service providers, our IGC members and board of directors, the promotional product industry, our employees, our customers and indirectly the end users of our promotional products. This can be our client (staff) but also consumers buying a product from our client and receiving a gift (made by us) with their purchase. Scope In 2017-18 we focused on supply chain sustainability, tackling subjects like labor practices, human rights and fair operating practices. In 2019-2020 we will focus on creating environmental awareness amongst our stakeholders (clients) and promoting sustainable products. We will discuss both topics in this document. CSR team We have appointed a CSR specialist, who receives frequent training on relevant topics. Responsibilities include setting up policies, training of staff and managing all CSR platforms/ memberships. Reporting is done in cooperation with our management. We also have a dedicated ISO 9001 specialist, and a team member specialized in product compliance, quality & testing. We have external partners who give us support when needed. 4 CSR Memberships, Platforms & Tools ISO 9001 Quality Management System In June 2017 our quality management system was independently audited by Lloyd's Register Quality Assurance (LRQA) and awarded the ISO 9001 certification. As a certified company, we follow the requirements, specifications, guidelines and characteristics set forth to ensure that we are consistently producing products, processes and services that meet world class standards. EcoVadis Gold CSR Rating In order to make our activities transparent for our partners and customers, we put ourselves forward for assessment covering 21 criteria across four themes; Environment, Fair labor practices, Ethics/fair business practices and the Supply chain. We are proud of the fact that in July 2017 at the first attempt we achieved the highest EcoVadis certification the Gold CSR rating. This positions us in the top 5% of suppliers assessed by the international CSR platform. The below graph shows the position of IGC compared to the average of all companies assessed by EcoVadis in the same industry. We hope to achieve a higher rating this year as we have already implemented several improvements. Sedex (B) membership We are a member of Sedex, home to one of the world's largest collaborative platform for buyers, suppliers and auditors to store, share and report on information quickly and easily. The platform is used by more than 43.000 members in over 150 countries to manage performance around labor rights, health & safety, the environment and business ethics. Being a member of Sedex is a sign of our willingness to share information and to use this information to help manage and improve ethical standards within the supply chain. 5 MVO Nederland (CSR Netherlands) In January 2018 we became partners of MVO Nederland. MVO NL is the Centre of Excellence for Dutch companies that are striving towards corporate social responsibility. More than 2000 companies are affiliated with this networking organization. Our reason to join was to be able to access a local network. Via their platform we can discuss the topic of CSR in our native language and have access to valuable tools and training (e.g. ISO 26000) to give structure to our CSR policy. ISO 26000 ISO 26000 is an international standard that provides guidance on how businesses can operate in a socially responsible way. It defines 7 core subjects (37 CSR themes): organizational governance, human rights, labor practices, the environment, fair operating practices, consumer issues & community involvement and development. Conformatix We have implemented a new online platform in June 2018. It allows us to manage compliance in a smart and efficient way. This includes ISO, NEN, GDPR and other legislations/certifications. The program helps us organize: law, requirements, risks, standards, governance, regulations, transparency, policies and processes. 6 Supply Chain Sustainability This process/policy covers UN Global Compact principles 1 to 6 on human rights & labor and Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 12 on responsible consumption and production. We don’t manufacture products ourselves, but source our products in Europe and the Far East from a diverse range of suppliers (direct or indirectly through an intermediary). We recognize the risks connected to managing global supply chains. Which is why we need to work closely with our suppliers to address human rights, labor, health & safety and environmental issues. (Responsible) Supply Chain Management allows us to manage risk across global and complex supply chains. Scope Our supply chain is the area where we have our biggest impact and opportunity to influence social and environmental conditions. Our main focus is on our suppliers. Our ‘suppliers’ can be defined as the producers/manufacturers of promotional products. We will focus on the following risk areas: • Focus on the areas that present the greatest risk of adverse impact on people, environment and government according to the country, sector, activity, or type of relationship with the supplier. • Focus on top spend suppliers identify largest categories of procurement spend and categories that are critical to business operations in terms of little or no availability of alternative options (evaluation once a year). • Focus on suppliers of services and products that have or may have a high risk of negative impact on people and environment. Workflow • First dialogue with the supplier, this can be during a trade event or via telephone/online conference. • If we are interested in working with the supplier, we ask them to provide us with information like a catalogue (digital), access to their online platform and pricelists. • When we have genuine interest to work with this supplier we ask them to fill in our Supplier Checklist which gives us more insight (e.g. contact information, certifications). • All suppliers we work with must sign our Supplier Code of Conduct. • We will review information given by the supplier to see if they are a right fit for us and adhere to rules & regulations + are in line with our CSR policies (assessment framework shown below). • After we have approved the supplier, we can add them to our supplier mapping list. • Suppliers will be evaluated every year. When certifications are expired they must provide updated documents. 7 Supplier assessment When assessing our suppliers, we need to follow a few steps: • Is the supplier/factory from a high-risk country or not? The BSCI list of high risk countries is available as a check list. Printing facilities also need to be located in a low-risk country, if not they need to be audited. • The supplier/factory of choice is located in a low-risk country No further action is needed if products are from stock and/or are produced locally. • The supplier/factory of choice is located in a high-risk country We must ask this supplier/factory if they have valid audit certifications (e.g. SMETA 2 or 4 pillar, SA8000, BSCI) The certifications must not be older than 3 years. We must ask for the full set of documentation (at least 20 pages). • If the supplier doesn’t have the right documentation we need to check if they are easy to substitute and how much our spend is with this supplier. If we really need the supplier we can opt for an audit (by third party) and either share costs or fully pay for this audit. • Audit documentation is reviewed by a compliance specialist. Key supplier selection Our supplier mapping list includes all suppliers we work with + those who are of interest to our company (potential). Only several suppliers are seen as key suppliers. We prefer working with these suppliers because of several reasons. Criteria include: • Quality (best-in-class) • Discount • High rating (supplier evaluation) • Long-term relationship • Spend • Not easy to substitute • Innovation Key suppliers are our first choice in the sourcing process. Supplier evaluation & performance management In our ISO 9001 certified quality management system we have a supplier rating/evaluation platform. We can register issues and evaluate our key suppliers. We take different criteria in consideration when rating our suppliers including: quality, price, delivery, service/communication, CSR, innovation/creativity, flexibility. Evaluation is done once a year in cooperation with our sales team. 8 Product compliance, Factory audits & Lab testing It can be difficult to understand local and international product legislation. Different rules and regulations apply in practically every country in the world; for instance, a product that will be marketed in Europe has completely different standards than South America. It cannot be assumed that every product is automatically compliant to all applicable directives, regulations and harmonized standards. Some of these requirements, such as REACH, apply to all articles whereas other requirements are product specific such as EN 62115 which applies to electric toys only. Therefore, IGC teamed up with Asia Inspection and ProductIP. Asia Inspection (“AI”) is a global leading quality control and compliance service provider that partners with brands, retailers and importers around the world to secure, manage and optimize their global supply chain. AI handles all factory (social) audits, quality control and lab testing for IGC regarding bespoke and custom-made productions. ProductIP is a multi-user web-based solution enabling cooperation between supply chain partners. The platform allows IGC to manage and control the supply chain especially for stock productions. We are able to manage product compliance in a transparent, efficient and proactive way and are able to provide testing reports & factory certifications of products online. Collaborating with these two partners enhances our ability to provide “best in class” service to our clients on a regular basis. 9 2019/2020 Sustainable products Our 2019/20 project to promote sustainable items and create environmental awareness amongst our clients is in line with UN Global Compact principle 8 & 9 which states that we need to undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. It is also in-line with SDG 12, responsible consumption and production. The promotional product industry is slowly moving towards a sustainable future. Our suppliers are giving more and more attention to sustainability and a few are now able to provide sustainable products and/or materials/components. Our challenge lies in convincing our clients of the added value. We often receive the question ‘’why are your prices higher than your competitors?’’ Price plays a big role in the purchasing of branded products. We try to make our clients aware of the fact that finding a cheap product for the absolute lowest price, doesn’t mean that it is of good value. We make sure we find the right products for our clients. The branded products we provide are creative solutions. If you purchase a cheap product of inferior quality and of no use to the consumer it will end up in the trash, unused. We prefer functional, high quality products to disposable, cheap giveaways. We are able to explain why our prices might be higher than competitors who propose non-compliant items. Our products are sourced from suppliers who comply with social & environmental standards. Our suppliers respect our Code of Conduct. We conduct audits and do quality control and testing to guarantee quality. Our desire is to go beyond compliance. Our 2017/18 goal was focused on compliance. In the upcoming years we want to push for change by presenting sustainable products to clients and create environmental awareness by giving advice. What impact does their product choice have on consumer health & safety and the environment? Why should they go for e.g. a biodegradable pen instead of a normal pen? We will: • Actively promote the use of sustainable/certified materials e.g. PVC free, FSC paper, OEKO-TEX certified textiles, Fairtrade, GOTS, biodegradable or recyclable materials (see examples materials below) • Promote the use of sustainable (end) products: We will propose sustainable items whenever there is a product request from a client. We inform our clients about its benefits in comparison to a non-compliant product. This way we give them the opportunity to make sustainable choices. We can also give advice on packaging options. • Give honest advice: we give our clients honest advice about our products. E.g. our client requests an item which has a bad reputation in the market in this situation we advise them to opt for a safer/better option or advise against using this item. We are serious about our client’s reputation and the health & safety of their end-users. 10 • Promote sustainable consumption by embracing our sustainable marketing messages: not all branded products are created equally and if your branded product could talk, what would it say? • Communicate branded products as sustainable solutions e.g. re-usable water bottles vs plastic bottles. • Promote the recycling of promotional products. Make sure we develop products people want to keep for years or give-away to others instead of throwing away. Goals & How to measure (in 2019) • % sales sustainable products • % products made in Europe by European suppliers • % sustainable packaging Definitions Sustainable consumption is the use of products and services that have a minimal impact on the environment so future generations can meet their needs. Sustainable products are products that provide environmental, social and economic benefits while protecting public health and environment over their whole life cycle, from the extraction of raw materials until the final disposal. Examples of sustainable materials/regulations • The REACH regulation applies to (chemical) substances manufactured or imported into the EU in quantities of 1 ton or more per year. Products from stock holders must be REACH compliant. • Print preferably phthalates and AZO dye free. • Textile items in contact with the skin need to be OEKO-TEX® Standard 100 certified. • We prefer PVC free items as it is the most toxic plastic for our health and the environment. • All paper, wood and cardboard items need to be FSC certified. • We prefer FSC certified packaging and would rather not use packaging that contains PVC. • Toys must be safe for children to play with. EU legislation aims to ensure that toys meet safety requirements that are amongst the strictest in the world, especially in relation to the use of chemicals in toys. 11 CSR Initiatives 2017-18 2017/18 focus on Supply Chain Sustainability + training of sales/buying staff. ProductIP ‘’Buy responsibly’’ Campaign We were part of the campaign ‘’Buy responsibly’’ an initiative by ProductIP. April 2018 our posters were visible on The Hong Kong Star Ferry between Tsim Sha Tsui and Wan Chai. Hong Kong hosts a large number of trade fairs in April including the Hong Kong Gifts & Premium Fair. Over 1 million people saw our message. The purpose of this campaign is to make buyers aware. Their sourcing decisions have an impact on safety, health and environment of the people in the factory and the consumers they sell to. Green initiative Christmas 2017 In 2017 we wanted to close the year with a green initiative. We’ve sent a Christmas card made from plantable paper (biodegradable eco-paper embedded with seeds), printed with environmentally friendly inks. The message was to plant the card to achieve a greener office. Sharing CSR success stories via Social Media Our membership includes 50+ members located all over the world. Every member company has its own projects regarding CSR. Via our joined social media account, we often share projects of our member companies. Success stories to motivate and inspire others. We also share relevant information with our stakeholders via social media about different CSR topics. This way we spread the word. 12 Labor practices We are not a team because we work together. We are a team because we respect, trust and care for each other. Our labor practices support UN Global Compact principles on human rights and labor, SDG 8 on decent work and economic growth and SDG 3 on good health and well-being. Employee Handbook Our employee handbook contains information about our company policies and procedures. It also contains paragraphs on employee rights discussing topics like e.g. skill training, health & safety, leave/holidays, prevention of discrimination, bullying and harassment. Our terms of employment discuss benefits like our company pension fund. Employee Awareness Program (EAP) Our EAP supports UN Global Compact principles on Environment. Our employee awareness program (EAP) aims to inform our team about CSR. Our EAP gives us guidance on how we, as a company, can reduce our impact on the earth – our ecological footprint to be more specific. We have set up several guidelines when it comes to paper use and printing, waste management, use of office equipment, food, electricity use and other tips and tricks that promote a CSR state of mind. Healthy lunch program IGC provides their employees with a healthy lunch (including a choice of fruit) to promote a healthy lifestyle. Training of skills Our employees can apply for courses/training to improve their skillset. Management supports training in-line with the employee’s function and tasks. First Aid training Two members of our staff receive first-aid and CPR training on a yearly basis. Training is given by BHV Nederland. Internships We frequently welcome interns to introduce them to our industry. Students & young professionals get the opportunity to put their education to practice and develop new skills on the job. Work environment In 2018 we have planned several changes to our offices to create an even better, safer & healthier work environment for our staff. 13 Fair Operating Practices This chapter supports UN Global Compact principle 10 on Anti-Corruption. Our code of business ethics gives examples of problems that can arise in a business environment, how to act in these situations and preventive measures we can take. Our employees are expected to behave in an ethically responsible way. We use tools provided by the NGO Transparency International and United Nations initiative UN Global Compact to train our employees and give them guidance. As a global business we also fight corruption in our supply chain. If a supplier violates our Code of Conduct we have to step up and take measures. There are different cases in which unethical behavior can occur. Examples are manufacturers who falsify audit documentation, colleagues who take bribes, conflict of interest or manufacturers who corruptly bypass health and safety requirements. We must create an understanding that all forms of corruption and bribery are wrong and illegal. It has an adverse reputational impact on our organization and brand. Compliance with laws and rules We must abide by all laws of the countries we operate in, and all rules & regulations of IGC International as described in our employee handbook or stated in our CSR Policy. Anti-corruption The 10th principle of the UN Global Compact urges us to work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Transparency International gives the following definitions of corruption and bribery: Corruption The abuse of entrusted power for private gain. Bribery The offering, promising, giving, accepting or soliciting of an advantage as an inducement for an action which is illegal or a breach of trust. IGC International is committed to conducting business in an ethical manner. Employees are encouraged to report (compliance) violations at an early stage to our dedicated CSR specialist. Fair competition We respect our stakeholders & competitors. IGC complies with competition laws & regulations. We understand that fair competition between companies is based on factors like quality, price and service. 14 We respect (intellectual) property rights Intellectual property includes e.g. copyrights, patents, trademarks and publicity rights. Ways to protect property rights include non-disclosure agreements (NDAs), or passages in (sales) contracts. Conflict of interest should be avoided Situation where an individual or the entity for which they work, whether a government, business, media outlet or civil society organization, is confronted with choosing between the duties and demands of their position and their own private interests. Gifts and hospitality Gifts can improve working relationships, but they can also cause conflict between personal interest and professional duty. Gifts, hospitality, and entertainment must be modest, reasonable and infrequent (symbolic). Requirements: it should not be made with the intention of influencing the recipient, return of favor should not be expected, it should be given in the name of the company, not an individual, no cash/cash equivalent, appropriate type and value given at an appropriate time. Charitable contributions and sponsorships should be publicly disclosed. Fair treatment of suppliers We must maintain impartial and fair relationships with business partners (e.g. fair selection of suppliers, no favoritism). Transparency We must be honest, open and transparent in the disclosure of information, rules, plans, processes and actions. 15 Measurements IGC International has a unit in the Van Nelle Fabriek, a UNESCO world heritage site. This is a shared building. Measuring our impact on the environment e.g. energy, water, CO2 emissions are therefore difficult. We also use trusted partners for the manufacturing of products and transport of these items. We can’t disclose this information via this report, but can send the documentation on request if necessary. We can make an estimation of our electricity use, which is approx. +/7000 kWh (year). Compliance: We received no (monetary) fines in 2017 regarding compliance. We have passed all audits performed this year by our clients/third parties. Anti-Corruption: We have not been involved in any legal cases related to corruption and bribery. Supply Chain Sustainability: 95% of the suppliers we've worked with in 2017 have signed our CoC. Those who haven't will not receive any orders in 2018/19 unless they respect our CoC. 40% of our key suppliers produce in the EU (made in Europe products). Sustainable products: 20% of total products produced in 2017 can be categorized as sustainable. We wish to increase this number with our 2019/20 sustainable products project. Product recalls: 0% of total output. Demographics: gender/age breakdown Our team exists of 13 people (June 2018) at Rotterdam HQ. Gender: Female: 7 Male: 6 Our regional board of directors is 100% male. Age: 25-35: 4 35-45: 4 45-55: 3 55+: 2 We are a subsidiary of IGC Cooperative with 50 members. Their board of directors includes 2 women and 3 men. Member CEO/top management includes 15 women. *all documents mentioned in this COP report are available upon request. 16 Van Nelleweg 1, Unit 2.1.23 +31 (0)10 750 33 50 3044 BC Rotterdam igc-international.com the Netherlands request@igc-international.com
