Fine Hygienic Holding Sustainability Report 2017 Better today…better tomorrow This is Fine Hygienic Holding’s 10th sustainability report, and it covers the period from January 1, through December 31, 2017. This report was prepared using the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 Reporting Guidelines based on the comprehensive reporting level, and will be published publicly during October 2018. The data in the report pertains to the key sustainability aspects of our FHH operations and subsidiaries (where we exert full control while excluding joint venture and outsourced manufacturing) in Jordan, Egypt, Iraq, Lebanon, Morocco, KSA, and the UAE. The report is consolidated by the Corporate Communication Department at FHH’s headquarters, and the accuracy of data is conﬁrmed by the related reporting departments. For any information, you may contact us at: info@ﬁnehh.com. The GRI has not veriﬁed the contents of this report, nor does it take a position on the reliability of information reported herein. For more information about the GRI, please visit: www.globalreporting.org For more information about Fine Hygienic Holding, please visit: www.ﬁnehh.com Table of Contents Message from the CEO 1 Organizational Proﬁle 4 Our Vision, Our Purpose, Our Strategy, and Core Values 6 Our Products 12 Quality and Safety 15 Our Supply Chain 17 2017: At a Glance 19 Governance at FHH 22 BoD Members 24 FHH Structure 27 Internal Audit 28 Sustainability at FHH 28 FHH Sustainability Management Framework 29 Our Key Sustainability Trends: Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement 31 2017 Initiatives 33 Our Contribution to the World 34 Environmental Performance at FHH 34 Responsible Material Consumption and Waste Management 36 Sustainable Forestry 36 FHH Paper Mills 36 Zero Waste sent to Landﬁlls 37 Hazardous Waste Management 37 Energy Consumption & Climate Change 37 Financial Implications of Climate Change 40 Water Conservation 40 Supplier Sustainability Index 41 Compliance with Local Regulations 41 Our Contribution to the Community 42 Khair Al Koura Corporate Social Responsibility Program 43 Consultation Services to JOC 44 Human Energy 45 Training and Development 47 Diversity and Equality 48 Age Distribution 49 Local Hiring 49 Human Rights in FHH 50 Code of Conduct 50 Standard Entry-Level Wage 51 Participation in Public Policy 51 Health and Safety 51 Emergency Drills 52 Our Contribution to the Economy 53 Economic Performance of FHH 53 Direct Economic Value 54 Indirect Economic Impacts 55 Financial Assistance from the Government 55 Customer Satisfaction 55 Customer Complaint System 55 Fine Quality Actualization 57 Performance of 2017 59 List of Acronyms 60 Glossary of Terms 62 Data Scope, Sources, and Calculation Basis 64 FHH Stakeholder Council: Independent Assurance Statement 79 Message from the CEO At Fine, we are working tirelessly with equally socially conscious and like-minded global corporations as a part of our commitment to the UN Global Compact (UNGC). Our joint eﬀorts are making the world a better place by focusing on the main sustainable development goals of ending extreme poverty, ﬁghting inequality and injustice, and protecting our planet. For a company that relies so heavily on natural resources, it is not only our responsibility at Fine, but our global duty to operate in an environmentally and socially sustainable manner. While sustainable companies often see beneﬁts in all areas of business, we consider the biggest beneﬁt to be the long-term improvement of our community and our planet. Fine’s values go hand-in-hand with the UNGC’s vision and goals, and sustainability has been built into the framework of our company. Our vision at FHH is to be the leader in hygienic solutions for a better world today and tomorrow, and we achieve this vision by allowing our core values to guide all that we do. Our World, Our Way, and Our Pride are not just hollow words, but our driving principles, which are evident in all facets of our operations, and especially our sustainability eﬀorts. Our sustainability eﬀorts are two-pronged, with a focus on both environmental protection and our social responsibility. Fine is leading the way in environmental sustainability in the region, as is evident by the fact that we are the ﬁrst paper mill in the Middle East to join the UNGC. We are committed to environmental stewardship, and our focus on the long-term well-being of our planet has led us to abide by strong standards in all levels of operation. All of our paper products use pulp provided by responsible and sustainable plantations. Our suppliers plant an average of ﬁve trees for every tree used in production, and we have proudly reached our goal of zero landﬁll waste across all operations. We are the industry leader in minimizing water usage and we are constantly looking for new ways to conserve resources and diversify sources of electricity generation, which has reduced our CO2 emissions by an estimated 25,384 tons per year. Regarding social responsibility, our pinnacle eﬀort is our Khair Al Koura initiative, which has played a role in improving poverty and reducing inequality in Jordan for the past years. Around 6,000 individuals currently beneﬁt from this program. The initiative supports the community’s sustainable income-creation eﬀorts, which include a chemical-free farming project, a local restaurant, a soap factory, and diﬀerent food processing units. 1 At Fine, bettering our community begins with empowering our team, and we consider our employee advancement eﬀorts to be a critical part of our success. In particular, our women’s empowerment programs have worked to ﬁght inequality as well as strengthen both our company and our community immeasurably. In addition, by providing state-of-the-art technologies and processes, like our patented SteriProTM technology and “no-touch” manufacturing process, we are paving the way for improved professionalism, sustainability, and innovation. Concerning more recent updates, 2017 saw a slight downturn in revenue due to the increase in pulp prices as well as expanding competition. Even with this dip in revenue, we have high hopes for 2018, where we expect to be able to continue increasing value for all stakeholders and providing customers with the highest quality of hygiene products and services provided in the most environmentally responsible way possible. Speciﬁcally, we are excited about our recent digital developments such as the introduction of artiﬁcial intelligence, which will help us be both more sustainable and competitive in this fastgrowing industry. In 2018 Fine is celebrating its 60th anniversary, no small feat for a company that began as a modest trade business. As we look to the promising future, we cannot forget our company’s distinguished past and the framework of sustainable eﬀorts that has helped us get so far while at the same time ensuring our impact on the environment is a positive one. Our values will continue to guide our success, not just for FHH as a company, but for our communities, customers, employees, corporate partners, and stakeholders. Salim Karadsheh Chief Executive Officer – FHH 2 Salim Karadsheh is the Chief Executive Oﬃcer of Fine Hygienic Holding for the reporting year. Born in Amman in 1962, Mr. Karadsheh holds a bachelor’s degree in Electrical and Electronic Engineering from the University of Bath in the United Kingdom. He joined FHH in 1986 and has led a variety of projects including mill construction, feasibility studies, and operational management, with key achievements at Al Bardi Paper Mill, Al Keena Hygienic Paper Company, and Fine Hygienic Paper Company. Mr. Karadsheh is the Chairman of the board of directors of INJAZ, Jordan’s leading nonproﬁt organization for the creation of economic opportunities for Jordanian youth. He is a mentor at Endeavour Jordan, a founding member at Jo-Angels, and he contributes as a board member to two local schools and one university. FHH memberships: • Member of EDAMA, a local Jordanian NGO working for promoting sustainable business within the Jordanian context. • Member of the Network for Jordanian Industrial Sustainability. • Amman Chamber of Industry 5 7 3 Organizational Proﬁle Fine Hygienic Holding (FHH) is the MENA’s leading manufacturer of hygienic products. Our journey began in 1958, becoming the ﬁrst Jordanian company in the hygienic paper industry. With its commitment toward “creating a happier world”, FHH focuses on sustainability, state-of-the-art production processes, pioneering CSR programs, and award-winning products. The company oﬀers a diverse array of products including facial tissues enhanced with a touch of real cotton, napkins, kitchen towels, toilet paper, baby diapers, adult briefs, jumbo rolls, as well as away-from-home products to accommodate all types of private and public institutions. “We aspire to lead in hygienic solutions for a happier world, today and tomorrow.” FHH employs around 4,000 individuals located in several business units in the MENA region, with our headquarters (the Corporate Center), located in Amman, Jordan. FHH’s large scale industrial operations are continually expanding vertically to include the diﬀerent processes involved in hygienic product manufacturing, this involves mills and converting operations as well as nonwovens and packaging material. Furthermore, FHH continues to expand its presence globally and is serving over 70 regional and global markets including the Middle East, Africa, Europe, and the United States of America. 4 Exports Factories 1 Abidjan 20 Georgia 39 Maldives 58 Sierra Leone 2 Afghanistan 21 Germany 40 Mali 59 Somalia 3 Algeria 22 Ghana 41 Mauritania 60 South Africa 4 Angola 23 Greece 42 Morocco 61 South Sudan 5 Anguilla 24 Guinea 43 Mozambique 62 Sri Lanka 6 Australia 25 India 44 New Zealand 63 Sweden 7 Bahrain 26 Iraq 45 Nigeria 64 Tanzania 8 Bosnia & Herz 27 Ireland 46 Norway 65 Tunisia 9 China 28 Italy 47 Oman 66 Turkey 10 Comoros 29 Ivory Coast 48 Pakistan 67 UAE 11 Congo 30 Jordan 49 Palestine 68 Uganda 12 Curacao 31 Kazakhstan 50 Poland 69 UK 13 Cyprus 32 Kenya 51 Portugal 70 USA 14 Djibouti 33 KSA 52 Puerto Rico 71 Yemen 15 Egypt 34 Kuwait 53 Qatar 72 Zambia 16 Eritrea 35 Lebanon 54 Romania 73 Zimbabwe 17 Ethiopia 36 Liberia 55 Russia 18 Gabon 37 Libya 56 Senegal 19 Gambia 38 Madagascar 57 Seychelles 5 Our Vision, Purpose, Strategy, and Core Values Our Vision We aspire to lead in hygienic solutions for a better world today and tomorrow. Our Purpose Fine Hygienic Holding is devoted to providing customers with the best quality products and services while adhering to the highest ethical standards and environmentally responsible practices. We aspire to bring joy and prosperity to our customers and the world, reward our shareholders, invest in our employees, and serve our communities. Our Strategy Our focus at FHH is to fulﬁll demand, increase market share, deliver on the promises made to our shareholders, and become the preferred brand for consumers as well as the employer of choice. These goals are reﬂected in our strategy and programs including demand planning, customer retention and acquisition, key account management, cost eﬃciency models, and talent retention and development. Our Core Values Our values are a reﬂection of our vision and purpose, and guide us in our operations. Our World Our Way Our Pride 6 Our World (responsibility, accountability, commitment) • Responsibility toward our consumers: We listen carefully to our consumers’ needs, deliver the best brand experiences, and remain accountable for the improvement of people’s well-being and wellness. • Responsibility toward our employees: We are committed to fairness, equal opportunity employment, talent development, and employee empowerment, while preserving the dignity and recognizing the merit of all our employees. • Responsibility toward our community and the environment: We positively contribute to the community while reﬂecting a serious commitment to sustaining the environment through eco-friendly practices. • Responsibility toward our investors: We seek to maintain continuous growth and achieve proﬁtable results. 7 Our Way • Governance: We believe that good corporate governance is a main driver for any long term sustainable business performance. To support this endeavor, we commit to creating value for our communities, applying fair work practices, and securing a balanced and healthy work atmosphere. • Respect: We show respect for all individuals regardless of their backgrounds, and we strongly value our relationships with customers, employees, partners, shareholders, and communities. • People & Passion: We are passionate about people. We believe diversity and inclusion are essential to establishing a passionate dedication to our values and to continuously building a stronger FHH. • Integrity & Trust: Integrity and trust are at the core of all our endeavors and work. We value the trust we build with our stakeholders, and are diligent to uphold the integrity of our business, operations, and products. • Diligence: We fully understand where our priorities lie. We respect and honor all our commitments. We constantly work to deliver what is expected of us and beyond. We believe in being diligent and in strengthening our resolve and determination. 8 Our Pride • Heritage: We are proud of our long and unique heritage that dates back to 1958, a heritage dense in success stories and valued for its honorable reputation. With each passing year, we continue to reach new heights while adding more chapters to our book of achievements, focused on growth and innovation. • Leadership: We value strong leadership in all facets of FHH. Leadership at Fine is reﬂected through talent, passion, teamwork, creativity, accountability, and responsibility. • Innovation: We are happy to occupy a position as leaders in innovation in the industry. For almost 60 years, our innovations have secured state-of-the-art hygienic solutions for our consumers while always remaining aligned with our business strategies. • Pioneering: We possess a pioneering spirit in hygienic solutions. It is this attitude in an ever-changing market that pushes us to evolve and fulﬁll our consumers’ needs while proactively driving continuous growth. • Reputation: We have built a solid reputation for ourselves based on the trust of our customers. Our longstanding ethics and values will sustain our solid reputation, today and tomorrow. 9 We take ownership in all aspects of our operations, and Our “Ownership Drivers” are our daily motivators and key enablers that help us put our values into action. These drivers revolve around responsiveness, promptness, fulﬁllment of all promises, mastering the job, teamwork, synergy, creativity, and innovation. • Do right things important not urgent • Lead ﬁrst to market • Stay ﬂexible and agile • Seize new opportunities • Take calculated risks • Fully focus on the mission ZOOM • Be proactive, not reactive Faster than the rest • Stick in the mind of the consumer • Finish ahead of the deadline • Set the pace and deadline • I deliver to my stakeholders (suppliers, customers and employees) • Delight customers constantly • Meet their needs beyond expectation • Go the extra mile to “wow” them • Understand what is required DELIVER • Do things right To the dot. • Maximize available resources • Look for solutions to obstacles • Complete each task no matter what • Delight in each accomplishment • I do it right and on time • Insert quality into every action • Learn from mistakes and move on • Continuous & Never Ending Improvement (CANI) MASTER • Update to raise our bar Only the best • Perform better than the best • Anticipate the next level • Enjoy the ride, love the journey 10 • Make music like an orchestra • Acknowledge individual expertise • Capitalize on team strength & diversity • Openly learn & share • Provide & accept honest feedback • Ask, “how can I help you do your job better?” TEAM • Accept the group knows more Together we can • Celebrate the success of the team • W.I.N = Our common destiny • Be creative in delivering value to customers • Think ‘outside the box’ • Encourage people to explore new ideas • Challenge the status quo CREATE • Anticipate change The future & beyound • Consider every suggested improvement 11 Our Products Jumbo Rolls From our ﬁve paper mills in Jordan, Egypt and the UAE, we produce ﬁrst-class jumbo rolls, which we supply to a number of converting factories across the region. Our advanced production capabilities allow us to manufacture customizable jumbo rolls, tailored to the speciﬁcations of any hygienic paper product from paper towels to tissues and beyond. Tissues We provide a wide variety of tissue products to cater to diﬀerent consumers preferences. Our patented SteriProTM production method provides our consumers with highly sterilized products such as scented, lotioned, and cotton-infused facial tissues, as well as table napkins. We also oﬀer diﬀerent levels of absorbency and other distinguished features in our kitchen towels, and toilet ranges. 12 Baby Care Our Fine Baby line has been developed with utmost care and consideration for our babies' comfort and wellbeing. Our diapers are soft, lotioned, highly absorbent, and designed to prevent discomfort and irritation. Moreover, our SmartLockTM technology works to lock in wetness and prevent leaks. Being certiﬁed by the Medical Wellness Association is a proof of the high quality of our diapers which makes Fine baby the parents preferred choice for their babies. Adult Care Our adult incontinence products feature our DermaProTM technology, which works to prevent skin irritation and rashes, particularly for wearers with limited mobility. Thanks to this state-of-the-art innovation, our adult pads and briefs are pH-balanced, lotioned, carefully sterilized, and feature odor-control agents, meeting the unique needs of our consumers. 13 Business Solutions Our away-from-home (AFH) division, called Fine Solutions, is the region's most comprehensive supplier and preferred provider of hygienic solutions that guarantee exceptional performance and optimal cost of use. Fine Solutions is uniquely capable of accommodating all types of private and public institutions across the corporate, hospitality, healthcare, industrial, service and academic sectors. Packaging Perfect Printing Press showcases our wide range of highly specialized packaging solutions. We provide our commercial clients with a diverse array of modern packaging materials and cartons. From pharmaceutical, cosmetic, and toiletry products to fast food, frozen food, and dry goods, we produce high-quality packages carefully designed to serve their purpose. 14 Quality and Safety FHH thrives to provide customers with high quality products that can be safely used. To guarantee fulﬁlling this promise to customers, a team of professionals manage all processes within the value chain including receiving raw material, production, sale, and after sale to exceed customers’ satisfaction. At FHH, we believe that our customers are the source of all value creation and always seek to exceed their expectations. Accordingly, FHH deployed several tools as customer complaints system and FACT model to ensure that the voice of the customers is well received and considered as the cornerstone in improving our processes. FHH employs several technologies in manufacturing processes to ensure that the products are not being touched by any human hand before reaching the consumer and other technologies to delight consumers with high quality products and special features, such technologies are described brieﬂy next: Our patented SteriProTM technology is one of our proudest achievements, allowing us to provide our consumers with exceptionally sterile products. SteriProTM uses an ultraviolet sterilization process, which reduces the possibility of germ exposure. Furthermore, all of our products are untouched by human hands, adding yet another layer of germ prevention and care. We developed our DermaProTM technology to improve the safety and comfort of our adult incontinence products. DermaProTM products are designed to help consumers avoid skin complications, which is especially important for those conﬁned to bed or have limited mobility. All DermaProTM products are pH-balanced, gently lotioned, sterilized using our SteriProTM technology, and feature highly eﬀective odor-control agents. 15 As a leader in environmental sustainability, we were the ﬁrst to introduce WetProTM technology in the region. With WetProTM, our toilet tissue products are designed to stay intact during use, even when exposed to large amounts of water, but disintegrate when ﬂushed. Not only is this better for the environment, it is also better for your home. We developed an integrated system to lock in wetness, guaranteeing super absorbency and preventing leakage of diaper. 16 Our Supply Chain Fine Hygienic Holding has the advantage of being vertically integrated within its supply chain. Hence, certain materials necessary for our products, such as tissue jumbo reels, packaging, and nonwoven materials are being supplied internally to converting facilities to ensure oﬀering products with high quality at lower cost to consumers. We make a diligent eﬀort to source pulp from forests that are managed in an environmentally and socially responsible manner, mostly from Latin America and Scandinavia as the region we operate in have limited forests for pulp making. This sustainable pulp is the main input in paper mills and is processed to produce tissue jumbo reels, these reels are then sent to converting facilities in order to produce tissue paper products. Packaging material is supplied either from our Perfect Printing Press (PPP) factory or from local packaging suppliers, and is combined with glue, perfumes, and other inputs in the converting facilities to produce our facial, toilet, towels, and napkin products. In manufacturing our baby and adult diaper, nonwoven materials are sourced internally, and combined with super absorbent polymers, textile back sheets, ﬂuﬀ pulp, elastic tape and other materials sourced externally. Additionally, we use external suppliers for a number of products, such as adult pull-ups, wet wipes, soap dispensers, sanitizers, and bed sheets. Specialized providers from Europe, Asia and North Africa supply these products to FHH. These facilities make up FHH’s back-end supply chain, whereas the front-end supply chain is made up of a network of distributors, retailers, and customers. This network ensures being able to reach the end consumer in an eﬃcient and timely manner. 17 2017 2017: At a Glance Fine Adds a Touch of Real Cotton to its Tissues FHH has infused its tissues with a touch of real cotton. While many tissue manufacturers will assert that their products are ‘cotton soft’, Fine is now the ﬁrst to actually deliver on this claim. A revolutionary innovation in terms of both quality and manufacturing, Fine’s new tissues are the softest and most soothing ever made a true comfort to red, irritated noses everywhere. Fine Wins Superbrand Award Fine was named a top brand of 2017 by Superbrands Middle East, an independent authority and arbiter of branding excellence. This occasion marks the eleventh time that Fine has received this honor from Superbrands. Fine was among 64 elite companies operating in the UAE that were chosen to receive this prestigious award, beating out more than 2,000 businesses. 19 Market Expansion In 2017, FHH entered new markets in Africa, Europe, and Asia including Comoros Island, Mauritania, Tunisia, Romania, as well as India. Opening of Our Fifth Paper Mill FHH’s ﬁfth major paper mill, Al Nakheel, was inaugurated in September 2017 in Abu Dhabi, the UAE. With an investment of about $90 million, the state of the art mill will add 60,000 tons of tissue per year to our current production of toilet, facial, napkin, and towel tissues. Operations Cost Savings For the eighth year in a row, Generation-S, our manufacturing cost saving program, delivered tangible savings across the business. In 2017, we saved around 4,000,000 million dollars which assures business sustainability through better return on investment. This is reﬂected on our oﬀered prices to consumers and reduces negative impact on environment through using less resources. Unveiling of FHH Revamped Corporate Identity Building on the group’s strong brand equity, FHH launched its revamped corporate identity in line with its vision to grow the business and provide a larger number of consumers with a diversiﬁed array of hygienic products. 20 Business Technology Achievements ERP Rollout at Al-Nakheel The Business Technology (BT) department rolled out the group’s ERP system at our ﬁfth paper mill, Al Nakheel, by creating a new setup for the company on the uniﬁed instance. The system included the deployment and setup of all ﬁnancial, procurement, manufacturing as well as order management modules. Route Optimization Launch in Jordan The Route Optimization System was launched in Jordan and aims at reducing distribution costs and ﬂeet miles, increasing resource utilization, reducing the return orders for more than 60%, increasing customer satisfaction through delivering goods on time and within the time windows provided, as well as reducing the chances of human dependency and error. Deployment of Sales Execution Monitoring System The Business Technology department was responsible for the deployment of one of the most important projects for FHH in 2017 for sales execution monitoring system. The objective of this system is to enhance and track sales performance in the ﬁeld and ability to capture market data and competitor activity. Deployment of VAT Solution in the GCC In 2017, a new sales VAT was introduced in the UAE and KSA, therefore, the BT department was responsible for reﬂecting this new regulation on the group’s ERP system. The new VAT will be kicked oﬀ on production on January 1, 2018. 21 Governance at FHH Eﬀective governance of any organization ensures commitment to all of its stakeholders, leads to better decisions, eliminates any conﬂict of interest, and maintains accountability and clear communication within the organization. Board of Directors The board of directors (BoD) holds responsibilities towards FHH’s stakeholders to attain prosperous results by steering business decisions and overseeing strategy, continuity and contingency. The board of directors must also deal with challenges and issues related to corporate governance and corporate ethics. The roles, responsibilities, and modus operandi of the BoD are outlined in the BoD charter as well as the charters for the board’s audit, management development, and compensation committees. FHH board of directors is accountable for: • Maintaining the deﬁned corporate risk appetite • Overseeing the overall strategy • Evaluating and compensating FHH’s employees • Enhancing and safeguarding stakeholders’ interests Moreover, our three principles work to further enhance our continuous eﬀorts in corporate governance: • Board of Directors Charter: The Charter deﬁnes the board's relationship with the executive management, with clear separation of ownership and management. It sets the grounds for selecting independent members and serves as the terms of reference on issues regarding meetings, board term and term limits, attendance policy, voting, compensation of board members, avoiding conﬂict of interest, board committees, performance evaluation and communication with shareholders. 22 • Group Standard Manual (GSM): The GSM sets out in detail all policies and procedures that have been developed and customized for our group, encompassing all organizational functions and activities. The GSM covers 15 areas: Strategy, Organization, HR, Communication, Marketing, Operations, Procurement, Code of Conduct / Core Values, Safety, Security, IT, Archiving, Contracts and Legal Obligations, Insurance, and Finance. • Code of Conduct: We demand and maintain the highest ethical standards in carrying out our activities. We abide strictly by all local and international laws and regulations. Our code of conduct expresses the principles of conduct and is intended to assist all employees in meeting the highest standards of personal and professional integrity required of them. It is comprehensive, covering areas from ﬁnancial reporting to workplace ethics. Communication between employees and the Board of Directors is governed by the following three mechanisms: • The chain of command: employees can communicate concerns and / or suggestions through an outlined chain of command. • Annual meetings between the employees and board members. • The corporate integrity hotline: the integrity hotline is a specialized communication network that is comprised of several communication channels (e.g. a toll-free phone service, email,.. etc.). This network is designated to communicate any behavior that violates our code of conduct. The cases reported and associated actions are communicated directly to the audit committee of the board of directors on a case-by-case basis. 23 Board of Directors Members Born in 1962, Mr. Nuqul holds a bachelor’s degree in Industrial Engineering and an MBA from Purdue University (USA). Along with his role on the board at FHH, Mr. Nuqul is a member of numerous governmental councils and committees, and is personally involved in various local and international business associations and not-for-proﬁt organizations and initiatives. Among these are the Central Bank of Jordan, the National Council for Competitiveness and Innovation, the Advisory Board on Partnership between the Private and Public Sectors, the Jordanian Ghassan Elia Nuqul Hashemite Fund for Development, the Jordan Strategy Chairman Forum, and the Jordan Chapter of the Young Presidents’ Organization. Mr. Nuqul has served on His Majesty King Abdullah II’s Economic Consultative Council, and participated in developing the National Agenda. He is Chairman of the Board for Delta Insurance Co., Universal Modern Industries Co., Nuqul Automotive, Integrated Automotive, Nuqul Engineering & Contracting Co., Quality Printing Press Co., Packaging Industries Co., and US Global Ventures. He is also the Vice Chairman of Nuqul Group and the Vice Chairman of Kuwaiti Holding Co. Born in 1975, Mr. Labib is the Vice Chairman and member of the Remuneration Committee. Mr. Labib has 20 years of direct private equity and investment banking experience with leading international and regional institutions in the Middle East, including deep relationships with leading family groups, regulators, sovereign wealth funds and limited partners. Mr. Labib joined Standard Chartered Private equity in March 2010 and is Managing Director, Head of Africa & Middle East where he has invested and oversees approximately $1.5 Taimoor Labib billion direct investment portfolio in leading companies Vice Chairman across sectors in Africa and the Middle East. He actively manages and sits on the majority of the boards of these 24 companies headquartered in Botswana, Jordan, Kenya, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, UAE, UK, and Zambia. Previously Mr. Labib was the Head of Global Private Equity Portfolio Management (2013-2016) overseeing the global emerging market portfolio with investments in Asia, Africa and the Middle East. Mr. Labib began his career with Bear Stearns in New York, and the Carlyle Group in Washington D.C.. He holds a bachelor’s degree from Carnegie Mellon University. Born in 1967, Mr. Nuqul is a member of the board at Fine Hygienic Golding. He holds a bachelor’s degree in business administration and is a member of numerous local and international business associations. Marwan Elia Nuqul Board Member Born in 1981, Mr. Rifai is a member of the board at Fine Hygienic Holding and a member of the Audit Committee. Mr. Rifai has almost 14 years of private equity, hedge fund and investment banking experience in the US and Middle East with leading international institutions. Mr. Rifai is Head of Portfolio Management for Standard Chartered Private Equity overseeing a global emerging market portfolio with investments in Asia, Africa and the Middle East. Mr. Rifai has led numerous private equity investments in the UAE, Saudi Arabia, Jordan and Bahrain since joining Standard Chartered Private Equity in November 2008. Prior to joining Omar Rifai Standard Chartered Private Equity, Mr. Rifai was based in Board Member New York where he worked at DA Capital (Credit Suisse hedge fund) and CIBC World Markets. He has a master’s degree in Economics from New York University and bachelor’s degrees in Finance and Economics from Michigan State University. 25 Born in 1963, Mr. Laﬀerty is a board member of Fine Hygienic Holding and the CEO of British American Tobacco in the Philippines. He has often been described as one of the most unique and diversiﬁed CEO’s in the world today. He is not only a successful CEO He is an Olympic Coach. An award-winning journalist. A college professor. A competitive athlete. A philanthropist, husband and father of 5. Mr. Laﬀerty started his career with humble roots, as a youth James Michael Lafferty track and ﬁeld coach. Hired by Procter and Gamble in his Board Member native Cincinnati, Ohio, he was recruited from the ranks of ﬁtness instructor to enter P&G’s esteemed “Brand Management” program. After superb business and organizational results on the US business, Mr. Laﬀerty was transferred into an international career that took him to North Africa, Central and Eastern Europe, the Middle East, Western Europe, Africa and Asia. With a marketing and general management career that spans over 30 years, Mr. Laﬀerty is among the leading global experts on business-building, marketing and branding particularly in emerging markets. He has had a long and successful career building businesses and organizations across ﬁve continents for some of the world’s leading fast-moving consumer goods companies, including CEO roles within Procter and Gamble, and Coca-Cola. Mr. Laﬀerty continues to coach professionally, having coached national level athletes in his native USA as well as Nigeria, and most recently as a coach of the Philippines Olympic Athletics team at the 2016 Rio Games. He also remains active as a key part of a healthy lifestyle, having run over 30 full marathons, and was recent 2017 Philippines National Champion in Powerlifting. 26 FHH Structure Our organizational structure is a decentralized hierarchy, whereby our board of directors deﬁnes the strategic direction. Thereafter; the C-Suite ensures compliance with the chosen strategic direction. This structure ensures open communication channels across the diﬀerent levels. Our sustainability department reports to the CEO. BOD Compensation & CEO Internal Audit Development Committee Committee Executive Chief of Chief of Director of Director Chief of Chief of Human Energy Finance Compliance & Director of B2B Commercial Operations & Corp. of BT & M&A Sustainability & Export Communication Director of Director of Director of Org Director BT Team Export, BD & Supply Chain Development of Treasury @ BUs Franchising Director of Director of Director Operations Leadership Dev of Control Senior Executive Corp. Finance Team Executive Director Director of Mature Communication @ BUs of Fine Solutions Markets & Sales Manager Capability HE Team Director of Director of @ BUs Prod Develop S&M KSA Executive Director Director of of Marketing S&M Jordan Director of Facial Tissue / Director of Director of BD & ICC / Director S&M Egypt Marketing Excellence Director of Country Manager Sales Dev Markets S&M UAE GBM Morocco Director of BDM x3 (Leb,LG,Iraq) E-commerce 27 Internal Audit Our internal audit department is responsible for conducting audits on the implementation of proper internal controls across all departments and in all of our facilities. In cases where there is a corruption claim, an investigation is conducted, and if the claim is proven, the party is held accountable, and appropriate measures are taken. Sustainability at FHH For us, sustainability is synonymous with making every day better for our planet and the people through what we produce and how we act. Sustainability is integrated in our vision and our core value “Our World” where it demonstrates our commitment to sustainable growth and creating a better life for all our stakeholders today without compromising the needs of future generations. Furthermore, environmental stewardship is central to FHH’s identity. Given that we rely on ﬁnite natural recourses for our products, it is critical to ensure that we eﬀectively manage our resource consumption, utilize environmental responsible practices, and minimize waste and water consumption, while producing sustainable products. Environmental Product Life Stewardship Cycle Thinking Stakeholder Product and Engagement Process Innovation Human Resource FHH Key Anti-corruption Management Policies and Procedures Priority Areas Community Investment Customer and Development Satisfaction 28 FHH Sustainability Management Framework We adopted a ﬁve-point focused sustainability management framework to help us in working towards our commitment to sustainable business. This framework provides a comprehensive and holistic approach to help leverage our performance and continually review all our internal systems and procedures. Furthermore, we use this framework to compare our performance on key issues with that of peers and competitors, to make sure that we are working as industry leaders. The key priority areas are deﬁned by considering our core values and materiality assessment as well as key areas addressed by the industry globally as reported by associations as EDANA (European Disposables and Nonwovens Association) and sustainability practices from national regulatory requirements and international agreements (UN Global Compact). This framework translates into steps taken on the ground to fulﬁll our strategy, as analysis of sustainability trends are the main source to deﬁne major areas that impact our operations and sustainability growth, which includes environmental, social and economic issues. This is the foundation for us to build our way forward to achieve sustainability. The graph shows ﬁve-point strategy with an objective to achieve advancement in our performance along the diﬀerent areas of focus starting from the workforce as the base and placing our customers and communities as the main goal. Inspire Customers and Communities (Consumer Focus) Product and Service innovation (Product Focus) Strive for Maximum Sustainability (Performance Focus) Adopt Life Cycle Management (Process Focus) Inspire with Sustainability (Workforce Focus) 29 Strategy Point Purpose Actions in 2017 We aim to use sustainability elements Inspire with to foster an unprecedented wave of • Continued to communicate on key inspiration and focus within our sustainability aspects. Sustainability workforce, to be translated into beneﬁts for our stakeholders. • Continually sourcing raw material We aim to inﬂuence actors at all life such as pulp from suppliers who Adopt Life Cycle cycle phases to adopt this manage their forests in environmenmanagement approach in order to Management tally and socially responsible ways. achieve maximum sustainability for our products. • Zero waste sent to landﬁlls. • Initiate diﬀerent projects and We strive to reduce our net initiatives to reduce environmental Strive for environmental impact to zero over impact through eﬃcient energy use the long-term and better understand and water conservation. Maximum our economic and social impacts and Sustainability presence, systematically improving • Monitor resource consumption on them. a regular basis using an internally developed index. We aim to generate a new range of products driven by sustainability Product and insights and to build a brand • Infuse our facial tissues with real Service reputation where the use of our cotton to provide consumers and products serves as a respected signal customers with softer tissues. Innovation that the user is a conscientious champion of sustainability. • Khair Al Koura program is the ﬁrst of its kind sustainable development Inspire program in the region, which We aim to improve customer empowers local communities and Customers and satisfaction, while increasing overall ensures sustainable and high social appreciation for sustainability and Communities returns positive impact. The inspiring others to take action. program is now 100% sustainable and has been successful for the past several years. 30 Our Key Sustainability Trends: Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement FHH encourages the engagement of all stakeholders to generate sustainable value. The below map demonstrates main engagement activities for our key stakeholder groups. External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders Media communication Internal communication Promotions & campaigns channels Feedback channels Consumers Employees Product innovation platforms Special promotions Market visits by management Customers FACT model Supplier Sustainability Index Market visits with Business distributors Partners FHH Participation in national events Provide business advice to Society government entities Sourcing pulp from Board meetings environmentally Environment BOD Performance & progress responsible forests reports Water treatment and reuse Implementing environment-friendly practices As part of our continuous eﬀorts to enhance our business sustainability, while also engaging our stakeholders, we conducted materiality assessment for the ﬁfth time. This assessment is a tool to help in identifying the key priority sustainability topics according to our stakeholder, to ensure they are aligned with our vision and strategy. The key aspects were deﬁned as per the GRI G4 aspects. The rating of these aspects is shown in the ﬁgure. The assessment was steered with FHH’s stakeholders to identify the required sustainability trends and the main areas that inﬂuence our stakeholders, such assessment would tell the alignment with the set vision, each aspect’s impact and the importance of such aspect that is aﬀecting stakeholder’s areas. 31 For the ﬁfth year, our stakeholders did not foresee any major change, since most of FHH’s structure remained the same compared to last year’s focus areas. The aspects rated were the 53 main aspects as deﬁned by the GRI implementation book, which were then grouped in accordance to the categories illustrated below. The materiality matrix below shows the results of the survey. 4 Economic well-being/stability Resources eﬃciency Health and Safety Employees training and development Compliance Employment and employee Inﬂuence on FHH satisfaction Local Communities Business ethics marketing communications Customer Privacy Product safety Equality and Diversity 2.5 LCA for FHH’s products Sustainable supply chain Human rights Grievance mechanisms Local Suppliers Environmental Protection Investments in community infrastructure 1 2.5 4 Inﬂuence on Stakeholders The key focus areas were consistent with previous years’ assessment results, with the highest rated aspects being: • Economic well-being/stability • Resource eﬃciency • Employee training and development • Compliance • Product safety • Marketing communication Given their importance, the performance in each of these aspects is being monitored and evaluated regularly by the Sustainability and Compliance Department, which sets annual sustainability targets, and reports progress to senior management to ensure continual improvement. 32 2017 Initiatives Aspect Planned Initiatives / Programs • The internal and external communication was integrated under one Communication department the “Corporate Communication” which kept stakeholders informed and employees engaged • Continue developing the Corporate Impact Index (CII) to monitor our performance in environmental and social aspects Environment • Continue implementing the Supplier Sustainability Index based on the collected feedback from FHH’s suppliers • Revise FHH variable pay scheme • Optimize and synchronize business model Human • Enhance retention and engagement activities Resources • Introduce GROW Coaching and Feedback Process • Conduct several internal sales and leadership development programs • Signiﬁcant achievements in overtime optimization across FHH Health and • Enhance communication and knowledge sharing across business units in order to ensure that health and safety messages are shared with all FHH Safety employees • Improve productivity of existing production projects under Khair Al Koura ﬂagship program (Kitchen, Farm, Labeling and Packaging Unit) • Commercialize Khair Al Koura brand and products Community • Partner with local non-for-proﬁt organizations during the Holy Month of Contribution Ramadan by providing support to achieve their goal of eradicating hunger • Dedicate a percentage of tissue sales proﬁt to support cancer cause • Provide hundreds of students with literacy classes and oﬀer internship opportunities for students from technical schools Inorganic • Explore opportunities for inorganic growth Growth • Launch sales execution programs in all markets. The program ensures proper Sales & display, pricing, and availability of our products Marketing • Deployment of Sales Execution Monitoring System • Launch distribution expansion program 33 Our Contribution to the World FHH is responsible and committed toward its diﬀerent stakeholders from consumers, to employees, community, environment, and investors. It realizes that success and sustainability are interconnected and can only be achieved by recognizing that we are a small part of a large world, that’s why we listen carefully to the needs of our customers, we are committed to fairness and equal opportunity among employees, constantly developing them professionally and personally, in addition to following eco-friendly practices when it comes to the environment, and seeking to maintain growth and achieve proﬁtability to deliver on our commitment to our shareholders. This section covers GRI (G4) indicators: EN1 EN34 Environmental Performance at FHH FHH applies its commitment to preserving the environment through managing and reducing environmental impacts within diﬀerent operations and locations, as well as managing natural resource consumption to ensure the best usage without compromising the quality and availability for current and future generations. To that end, we made sure to develop environmental management systems, which are embedded in our operations and our culture through our Group Standards Manual (GSM) and procedures. Our systems are certiﬁed under the ISO 14001 environmental management systems certiﬁcation and undergo monitoring and periodic audits by internal and external parties to ensure compliance. 34 FHH’s integrated management systems and its Corporate Impact Index work hand in hand to optimize the usage of natural resources. This is especially important since FHH operates in a region that is characterized by the scarcity of water resources. Accordingly, several initiatives and projects take place annually to reduce, reuse, and optimize the consumption of water. These initiatives are measured against a set of targets to monitor their eﬀectiveness. Similar projects are being developed to manage energy use and reduce greenhouse gas emissions by FHH’s operations and ﬂeet. Corporate Impact Index is an internally developed measure to assess FHH’s companies impact in terms of proﬁt, planet and people. The index aims to push for higher eﬃciencies across business units to create the optimum value for all stakeholders. The index measures the impact for the following key aspects: Water Energy / Electricity Energy / Fuel Waste Consumption Consumption Consumption Measures speciﬁc water Measures speciﬁc Measures speciﬁc Measures yield waste, consumption per electricity consumption operational fuel ﬁnancial waste or product or per per product consumption or quality waste depending employee depending on distribution fuel on the nature of the nature of operation consumption per operations product as appropriate to the nature of operations A4 Admin Paper Accidents Accident Severity Sales Eﬃciency Consumption Ration Measures monthly Measures the frequency Measures the severity Measures the sales average A4 admin paper of accidents per of accidents based on achieved per employee consumption for all company the number of days lost for each company companies for each company 35 Responsible Material Consumption and Waste Management FHH’s commitment to the environment extends to the selection of our raw material suppliers, therefore, pulp material is being sourced from internationally recognized and certiﬁed suppliers to ensure that sustainable forestry practices are being followed. To that end, FHH developed a supplier sustainability index to monitor our supply chain and ensure that suppliers are following the best practices. Furthermore, our operations team worked diligently to deploy best practices to monitor and manage material consumption and waste using world-class systems such as Six Sigma and Lean Manufacturing Techniques. Sustainable Forestry Given that pulp is the main raw material in FHH’s manufacturing process, sustainable forests are important for our operations and sustainability performance. It is important for us to make sure that we are giving back to our planet more than we take from it; for every tree we use in production, our suppliers plant an average of ﬁve. All of our hygienic paper products use 100% virgin pulp provided by responsible, environmentally sustainable plantations and pulp providers. We carefully verify our suppliers' credentials, policies related to the management and preservation of the forest have to be validated and certiﬁed by a third party. FHH accepts certiﬁcations from: • FSC Forest Stewardship Council • PEFC Program for the Endorsement of Forest Certiﬁcation Schemes FHH Paper Mills While Al Nakheel Paper Mill was inaugurated in September, however, it did not contribute to the overall pulp yield of FHH. Pulp yields are an essential measure that allows us to monitor and adjust our actions to minimize the ratio of original pulp weight to dry pulp retrieved. In 2017, our average pulp yield ratio increased slightly in comparison to last year due to demand ﬂuctuation that aﬀected production levels and schedule. Pulp Yield Unit 2017 2016 2015 2014 Pulp Yield Ratio 1.07 1.061 1.058 1.056 36 Zero Waste sent to landfills FHH is deeply committed to responsible waste management, and work with trusted third-party contractors to ensure that the vast majority of the waste we generate is recycled for other uses. We are proud that our operations continue to send zero waste to landﬁlls. Instead, all waste generated is being collected by third party contractors to reuse in other manufacturing processes. This includes waste from all our business units: FHH converting, FHH paper mills, and Specialized Industries Company (SPIC). We make sure that third party waste contractors abide by our agreement that all waste is sent to recyclers that are complying with local and international environmental regulations. However, we make sure to work on decreasing the amount of waste our operations generate, and in 2017 due to the increased production, our business units increased their waste generation by 20%. Indicator 2017 2016 2015 2014 Total Solid Waste Generated (tons) 4,306 3,581 5,673 4,821 Hazardous Waste Management The use of printing dyes can generate hazardous waste in negligible quantities, despite the quantities, we make sure all hazardous waste is managed appropriately and is sent to government approved disposal facilities with specially equipped containers designated for safe transport. Energy Consumption & Climate Change FHH is committed to managing and reducing its energy consumption through adopting best practices and energy management systems as well as initiating several projects to achieve set of annual targets for energy and resource consumption. Our fuel consumption in 2017 decreased by 3.1%. On the other hand, our electricity consumption increased by 5.366% compared to 2016. Overall, our GHG emissions increased by 1.335%. 37 Below is our total energy consumptions in GJ, electricity consumptions per unit production, and GHG emissions. 2017 2016 2015 2014 Kerosene 21,737 63,934 36,145 140,455 Heavy Fuel Oil 283,167 270,990 280,067 273,329 Natural Gas 1,248,752 1,357,570 1,334,845 985,583 LPG 260,009 200,486 253,735 187,363 Sub Total 1,813,665 1,892,980 1,904,792 1,586,730 Diesel 73,806 66,432 59,888 61,458 Gasoline 64,913 55,539 46,121 51,546 Sub Total 138,719 121,971 106,009 107,866 Total1 1,952,384 2,014,951 2,010,801 1,694,596 Electricity 230,676 218,927 236,008 239,002 Product Indicator Unit 2016 2016 2015 Achievement Electricity Power Consumption per Ton KWh/Ton 1171 1136 1193 3.8% Tissue in Mills Thermal Power Consumption per Ton KWh/Ton 1917 1768 2150 8.4% Tissue in Mills Electricity Consumption per Ton Non-Woven KWh/Ton 1642 1288 1563 27.4% Electricity Consumption per Ton Packaging KWh/Ton 230 237 229 2.9% Electricity Consumption MWh/Million per Diaper 13.79 13.06 14.03 5.58% Diaper Electricity Consumption per Ton Facial MWh/Ton 0.24 0.46 0.45 47.8% Electricity Consumption per Ton Toilet MWh/Ton 0.26 0.37 0.32 29.73% Electricity Consumption per Ton Towel MWh/Ton 0.31 0.45 0.43 31.1% 1 The numbers for previous years were corrected due to misallocation of fuel between fuels categories; thus, the totals of previous years have changed (Heavy Fuel Oil). 38 2017 2016 2015 2014 GHG Emissions from Operational Fuel Consumption Kerosene 1,568 4,613 2,607 10,134 Heavy Fuel Oil 20,827 19,931 20,599 20,103 Natural Gas 80,481 87,494 86,029 63,520 LPG 16,420 12,661 16,024 11,832 Sub Total 119,296 124,699 125,259 105,589 GHG Emissions from Distribution Fuel Consumption Diesel 5,564 5,008 4,568 4,246 Gasoline 4,608 3,942 3,274 3,659 Sub Total 10,172 8,950 7,842 7,905 GHG Emissions from Electricity Consumption Electricity 155,876 147,936 159,533 161,502 Consumption Total GHG 285,344 281,585 292,634 274,996 Emissions Product Indicator Unit 2017 2016 2015 Achievement GHG Emissions from Per Ton Electricity Per Ton Tissue 0.658 0.735 0.810 -9.26% in Mills Tissue GHG Emissions from Per Ton Thermal Power per Ton 0.907 0.808 0.823 -1.82% Tissue in Mills Tissue GHG Emissions per Ton Per Ton 0.875 0.870 1.11 -21.62% Non-Woven Non-woven GHG Emissions per Ton Per Ton 0.160 0.160 0.156 2.56% Packaging Packaging GHG Emissions per Diaper Per Million 10.010 10.130 9.947 6.74% Diaper GHG Emissions per Ton Per Ton 0.352 0.339 0.306 10.78% Facial Facial GHG Emissions per Ton Per Ton 0.223 0.254 0.216 17.59% Toilet Toilet GHG Emissions per Ton Per Ton 0.541 0.335 0.291 15.12% Towel Kitchen 39 Financial Implications of Climate Change We understand and recognize the ﬁnancial implications imposed by climate change on our operations, such as the eﬀect on water resources, availability of forest areas, and temperature variations and their climatic consequences. While we don’t quantify the risks in ﬁnancial terms, we have incorporated those risks in our business approach through our business risks register so as to identify the most eﬀective means of reducing their ﬁnancial impact. When, and if such risks are identiﬁed as high-level risks (having a signiﬁcant impact on FHH and/or posing signiﬁcant ﬁnancial ramiﬁcations), the board of directors will ensure that mitigation plans are set in place in an eﬀort to avoid all negative impacts associated with these risks. Risks and Opportunities Associated with Climate Change Risks Unit Opportunities Fluctuations in rainfall leading to ﬂuctuations in Renewable energy, energy eﬃciency, and clean water availability technology investments Receding vegetative cover due to climatic variances, which could compromise raw material Carbon emission mitigation and trading availability Temperature variances which could impact our Sustainable supply chain and sustainable product manufacturing processes, product quality, and design durability Water Conservation FHH’s mill operations depend highly on water in order to make tissue papers. However, we employ measures to manage our water consumption responsibly. Our Operation Excellence team is continuously working to conserve water through several projects and initiatives. In 2017, we managed to reduce total water consumption by 17.4% as shown in table below: Water Consumption (m3) 2017 2016 2015 2014 Water from National Grid 530,100 539,743 539,910 560,450 Water from Ground Water Resources 317,910 486,870 557,155 677,535 (Artesian Wells) Total Water Consumption 848,010 1,026,613 1,097,065 1,237,985 40 The water used in FHH’s Jordan tissue operations is treated and reused for nondrinking/non-municipal uses by surrounding communities. Sludge produced during our operations is disposed according to national regulations and requirements. The table below provides ﬁgures regarding the sludge generated and wastewater recycled by our mills in Jordan. Indicator 2017 2016 2015 2014 Total Estimated Sludge Generated by FHH Paper 966.16 1400 1225 815 Mills Jordan (Tons) Total Wastewater Recycled by FHH Paper Mills 230,000 285,897 235,369 336,425 Jordan (m3) Supplier Sustainability Index Our annual Supplier Sustainability Index is an eﬀective tool used by our supply chain & procurement division, this tool tracks our suppliers’ social and environmental performance to ensure they adhere to international and local regulations and policies and apply the sustainability principles to their policies, management approach, and communication across their organizations. Our suppliers’ performances are assessed and given feedback based on FHH’s recommendations for areas of improvement on their sustainability eﬀorts. Moreover, the supplier sustainability index is an indicator for our procurement division’s bi-annual assessment. Compliance with Local Regulations In 2017, all FHH’s business units operated in full compliance with local and international environmental regulations and legislations, resulting in no ﬁnes addressed to any of its business units regarding environmental non-compliance. 41 Our Contribution to the Community At FHH, we believe that good corporate governance is a main driver for any long term sustainable business performance. We execute our work in utmost honesty and professionalism, and are committed to our customers and consumers. To support this endeavor, we are committed to creating value for our communities, we show respect to all of our stakeholders, and we relentlessly work to deliver what is expected from us and more. This section covers GRI (G4) indicators: LA1 LA16, HR1 HR12, SO1 SO11, PR1 PR9 42 Khair Al-Koura Corporate Responsibility Program FHH has always been committed to promoting comprehensive, sustainable development across all the countries and communities in which it operates. It has adopted a long-term strategy for CSR that aims to address wide-reaching development issues, with a particular focus on education and youth. FHH also prioritizes issues like health, wellbeing, family, and society, which it tackles through a diverse array of programs, initiatives, and outreach activities that focus on the most urgent needs of local communities, implementing these activities either individually or in partnership with public sector institutions and civil society organizations. FHH has created a unique model of wide-reaching social and economic development in Jordan’s Al Koura district, located in the Irbid governorate. Through its Khair Al Koura initiative, FHH has established Jordan’s ﬁrst public-private partnership for sustainable development, addressing the many diverse factors that can help improve the lives of local citizens. The program is supported by the Ministry of Municipal Aﬀairs and the Municipality of Dair Abi Saeed, as well as other governmental organizations and civic organizations in the local community. In 2007, we began community contribution activities and microﬁnance projects in Al Koura. However, in 2012, after consultation with stakeholders, and as part of our commitment and corporate citizenship, we decided to develop a deep, integrated, sustainability-centric approach tailored to this community. Our aim was to improve the quality of life for the community, and strengthen the local socio-economic infrastructure so that it can become self-sustaining. 43 The program includes countless projects across all socioeconomic sectors, including labeling and packaging unit, a chemical-free project, a food processing unit, country kitchen that prepares meals from local produce, as well as a soap and candle manufacturing operation and much more. Khair Al Koura has created wide-reaching growth and development, establishing sustainable employment opportunities, elevating capacities and oﬀering educational opportunities, and empowering communities to take charge of their overall wellbeing. In 6 years, the program is fully sustainable. Furthermore, chemical free farming project and food processing unit are commercializing their products. The table below demonstrates the ﬁnancial investments made in this program over the past six years: 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Community investments 251 287 335 400 414 387 (Thousands of USD) In 2017, Khair Al Koura program expanded its presence and activities to raise awareness regarding the program, bolstered by its success and positive impact. The local community has been able to present their products in local events and bazaars. Furthermore, the total number of beneﬁciaries increased, and so has the production capacity and product diversity. Consultation Services to Jordan Olympic Committee FHH team continued to voluntarily provide strategy and project management consultation services to the Jordan Olympic Committee (JOC). This is in line with FHH’s commitment to supporting the sports scene in Jordan and the region. 44 Human Energy Our people are the most important asset in our organization. Our Human Energy (HE) department strives to implement business models and functional strategies that support the organization’s vision to attract, develop, and retain talents vital to our success. It is the responsibility of the HE department to manage organizational design, recruitment, training and career development, performance management, compensation and beneﬁts, and succession planning among other activities. The HE department also ensures that FHH is in compliance with all regulations regarding human resources in each country of operation. We are proud that our work environment cultivates a competitive culture, with employees that are target-oriented, resulting in an atmosphere of excellence. In 2017, we had a total number of 4,085 employees in our FHH units that are located in the MENA region, of which over 100 newly joined. The department paid close attention to employee engagement in 2017, enhancing and expanding the non-monetary beneﬁts program, which aims at boosting employees’ morale, recognizing their eﬀorts, and emphasizing on the “One Family” concept that FHH is known for. The program included celebrating tenure, awarding outstanding performance, celebrating special family occasions such as birthdays and graduations, in addition to organizing health awareness sessions and check-ups, and many more. Similar to previous years, FHH has successfully built a healthy and mutually beneﬁcial relationship with the Paper Industry Union, during which we managed to deliver various requirements and help the organization improve. This included: • Developing a ﬁxed and variable pay structures to drive business results. • Managing employees’ performance and development through the planning, development, and review (PDR) system. • Developing employees’ beneﬁts and increase buy-in. • Holding many engagement programs for our employees. 45 We are always searching for the best talent. We partner with local academic institutions to provide internship opportunities to students and fresh graduates, through which we identify talents that match our work ethics. In 2017, the turnover rate decreased by 3.82% in comparison to 2016. Indicator Unit 2017 2016 2015 2014 Total Number of Employees 4,085 4,069 4,249 4,404 Employees Rate of New Hires % 16 20.37 30.03 14.38 FHH Turnover Rate FHH % 20.81 24.63 26.12 25.12 Total Our employees access several beneﬁts, these include, and are not limited to the below: Group Description • Tenure Awards: Celebrating employees’ service to the company on the joining date anniversaries with special recognition for long servicing periods. Performance • We Recognize Awards: we recognize and motivate the right behaviors and Awards activities that demonstrate FHH’s values and culture and drive developments at all fronts, acknowledging entrepreneurship, innovation, and creativity as main diﬀerentiators in the business. • Flexible Work Arrangement: we oﬀer special work arrangement for our employees, oﬀering ﬂexibility on attendance depending on the nature of their Work-Life job. Furthermore, special working arrangements are oﬀered to mothers to encourage return to work and enhance work-life balance. Balance • Ladies Day: Female employees are allowed to take one day oﬀ every month without a medical note. • Employee/Family Consolation: as a big family, FHH supports its employees and their families in cases of disability, death, or major personal losses through various moral and material support programs. • Marriage Gifts: as one family, FHH celebrates with its employees their One Family marriages with gifts in addition to special paid leaves. • Child Education: FHH believes in education, hence we cover our employees’ children education tuition in both school and university, this unique beneﬁt is provided in some countries and is being considered for expansion. 46 Training and Development Employees are FHH’s success driving force, therefore, the company remains committed to investing in their professional and personal development. The Human Energy department organized many training programs utilizing the expertise of its own employees as well as third party experts. The programs were tailored to the needs of the diﬀerent departments in all the business units spread across the MENA region. Some of the trainings held for the sales teams aimed at building their sales capacity, including Training of Trainers (T.O.T) program, in addition to assertiveness and advance conﬂict management and decision making sessions, while the HE team gathered from all countries to attend a number of workshops that aimed at rebranding the human resources function and using innovative talent management tools based on global best practices. On the other hand, the management team of our B2B arm, Fine Solutions, ﬂew from all countries to Jordan to attend a team building activity and workshop on the importance of synergy and aligning goals and eﬀorts. 47 Diversity and Equality FHH embraces equality and diversity. Employee recruitment is conducted in an inclusive manner with policies in place to ensure no discrimination takes place. All our employees are required to abide by our code of conduct, which revolves around respect and professionalism. We take great pride in the fact that all of our employees understand that, as an organization, we embrace all diﬀerences among us. In alignment with our code of conduct, we are an equal opportunity employer and we ensure that all prospective employees are selected based on merit. Discrimination of any form has no place in FHH, we have zero tolerance of any discriminatory behaviors in our workplace. FHH always strives to recruit and retain female employees through several initiatives. Additionally, we have a set beneﬁt system for working mothers including a reduced number of working hours per day for those who have served FHH for ﬁve years or more, and the option to include their spouses and children in our health insurance. The female employment rate in 2017 was 6.10%, which is slightly higher than 2016. Moreover, the rate of females in management positions has increased by 1.3%. Indicator Unit 2017 2016 2015 2014 Total Number of Female Employees Employees 249 246 271 265 FHH Percentage of Female Employees % 6.10 6.05 6.72 6.02 in the Workforce FHH Percentage of Female Employees % 10.30 9.0 6.1 6.74 in Management Positions FHH 48 Age Distribution Employees’ age distribution is illustrated in the below ﬁgure. As can be seen, around 50% of FHH employees are under the age of 35, which makes FHH a strong contributor to youth employment. 56 65 18 25 46 55 FHH Age Distribution 26 35 36 45 Local Hiring As part of our eﬀorts to empower local communities, most of our employees are local in the country of operation. However, in certain cases, we have expat hires especially where certain expertise is required. We abide by localization regulations where they exist, for example, in KSA, where the percentage of Saudi employees is 25.59% as follows: Indicator Target 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 • 26% or above (as Job of Sept. 2017) • 25% or above 25.59% 25.18% 25.00% 25.99% 25.4% Saudization (year 2016 and earlier) 49 Human Rights in FHH FHH is committed to adhering to human rights laws and condemns any human rights violations, including child labor and all forms of forced or compulsory labor. We support the right of collective bargaining wherever permissible by local laws and regulation. As an active participant and signatory to the UN Global Compact, all our operations are prohibited from encouraging any form of child labor and/or forced or compulsory labor. Moreover, all our operations are audited on an annual basis to ensure their compliance with our labor practices requirements. We operate in countries that support the International Labor Organization (ILO), and we are committed to achieving the goals of the ILO’s article CO29, addressing concerns regarding all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Furthermore, we comply with all local laws and regulations concerning forced or compulsory labor and collective bargaining. All of our facilities are required to abide by our code of conduct, which ensures their commitment to upholding human rights in all aspects of operations. As for our suppliers, we work with several international suppliers, ranging from the European Union, to North America, Japan, and Taiwan. We make sure our suppliers follow stringent local human rights regulations to ensure elimination of human rights violations; we verify this through our annual Supplier Sustainability Index. Accordingly, in 2017, we did not have any grievances related to human rights violations, furthermore, we did not face any incidents of discrimination, violation of the right of association and collective bargaining, or child labor and forced or compulsory labor, accordingly none of our operations were subject to human rights reviews. Code of Conduct Our code of conduct sets the ground for our employees to combat all forms of corruption in all of our business dealings, and our corporate integrity hotline ensures enforcement of our anti-corruption policies and requirements by providing the opportunity for all employees to report any unethical behavior. Our integrity hotline and grievance system ensures that all incidents related to human rights violation and discrimination are communicated promptly to our internal conduct committee, and our integrity hotline targets our internal as well as external stakeholders 50 and provides a clear and safe channel to report any incident of violation of our code of conduct. The code of conduct, company policies, and hotline and grievance system are part of the onboarding kit that is given to all new comers to read and sign before starting their jobs. Standard Entry-Level Wage As an organization aspiring to be the employer of choice, our salary scale is designed to be competitive. Furthermore, we make sure to pay above the local minimum wage for our entry level workers. We also ensure that our remuneration is based solely on merit, ensuring that both genders are paid equally for equal work. Participation in Public Policy We constantly engage in stakeholder consultations for diﬀerent public policy aspects as part of our presence as an industrial leader. Such engagements take diﬀerent forms, from government surveys, focus groups and round tables to engagement in advocacy with non-governmental bodies. However, our organization does not hold any oﬃcial position in public policy formation, and we do not participate in any lobbying activity. We abide by all local and regional laws and regulations, and we report that we incurred no monetary ﬁnes or non-monetary sanctions due to non-compliance with any laws and regulations. Health and Safety Strategy Structure FHH health and safety mission is to have zero accidents within our operations through adopting 7S plan Shared based on McKinsey model for Style Skills Values improvement which is focused on 7 elements. Systems Staﬀ 51 The improvement plan started by comprehensive gap assessment for the current safety status and the desired safety performance level that FHH seeks to achieve. Our Health and Safety team seeks to implement the highest precautionary measures to ensure that employees in all business units are working in an environment that conforms to world-class HS standards. Furthermore, we implemented the OHSAS 18001 standards in our operations to make sure that our spaces are safe and up-to-code. Our 2017 performance reﬂects the improvements we have made in HS measures, as we have had ﬁve sites free of accidents, and those are: Al Bardi, Al Sindian, Al Snobar, SPIC, and PPP. Furthermore, our safety ﬁgures show further improvement in our safety performance, as the total accident frequency ratio (AFR) has improved by 14.7%. In addition, the accident severity ratio (ASR) slightly improved by 4% in comparison to last year’s performance. The following table and graphs represent FHH’s performance in safety in 2017 as compared to previous years. Parameter 2017 2016 2015 2014 Incidents 16 17 28 31 Lost Days due to 278 258 291 529 injury Working Hours 15,216,291.70 12,067,794 13,167,044 11,969,053 AFR 0.29 0.34 0.51 0.622 ASR 4.93 5.13 5.28 10.607 Group ASR Per Year Group AFR Per Year 18 16 0.8 14 0.7 12 0.6 10 0.5 8 0.4 6 0.3 4 0.2 2 0.1 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2014 2015 2016 2017 Emergency Drills To ensure that our employees are always alert and ready for any unexpected emergency situation they might encounter, all FHH operating sites are subjected to frequent emergency drills where diﬀerent scenarios are done to test the readiness of our emergency plans and our employees. 52 Our Contribution to the Economy FHH employees possess a pioneering spirit, it is this attitude that pushes us to evolve and fulﬁll our consumers’ needs while proactively driving continuous growth through our unwavering commitment to innovation. To enable this, we run a value system, leverage technology, promote synergy, push for creativity and innovation. This section covers GRI (G4) indicators: EC1 EC9 Economic Performance of FHH Our eleven operating locations across the Middle East and North Africa are part of the economy in the countries we operate in, they create job opportunities and support the local communities. These actions come from our belief in sustainable growth and value for all of our stakeholders. 53 Direct Economic Value 2017 was a challenging year economically for FHH, due primarily to the increase in pulp prices, as well as the increasingly complex political situation in the region. These challenges, along with the ﬁerce competition in the markets we operate in, caused a slight decrease in our revenues. The table below represents our revenues, income taxes, and employee wages and beneﬁts. Indicator Unit 2017 2016 2015 2014 Million Total Revenues* 421 436 467 509 USD Income Tax Paid to Million 3 1 5.8 6.6 Government USD Employee Wages and Beneﬁts (including bonus, incentives, Million 68.2 72.4 77.2 79.4 pension, medical insurance, USD and education program) * Revenue values are restated to reﬂect the consolidated ﬁgures instead of the combined. The ﬂuctuations in payments to the government on a yearly basis are mainly due to changes in local tax laws and regulations in the countries where we operate. Whereas the reduction in expenses on employee wages and beneﬁts is mainly due to currency devaluation in Egypt. Our pension structure is dependent upon the local regulations concerning pension in the markets where we operate. All of our pension obligations have been fully met. The ﬁnancial obligations are included within employee wages and beneﬁts expenditure. Country Employer Contribution Employee Contribution Jordan 14.25% of wages 7.5% of wages Egypt 26% of ﬁxed wages 14% of ﬁxed wages 24% of variable wages 11% of variable wages 54 We abide by the regulations of the countries we operate in concerning pension plans, where we fully deliver our commitments to pension through an end of service remuneration or payments to government managed pension funds. Our ﬁnancial dealings with governments are determined through local laws and regulations. Indirect Economic Impacts As an organization that operates and sells across the MENA region, we acknowledge our responsibility in creating a positive economic impact for all our stakeholders, and strive to ensure that such impact is realized through our operations and products with the aim of contributing to sustainable economic growth for each stakeholder. Our commitment to this endeavor is exempliﬁed by the following: • Our increased demand on speciﬁc supplies has prompted some of our main suppliers to increase their productivity. • Our products target diﬀerent market segments, including low-income consumers. • Our partnership with INJAZ in Jordan has helped to develop the skills of youth in schools and universities to become more employable within the current job market context. Financial Assistance from the Government We receive tax deductions and relief as provided by local laws and regulations in the countries where we operate. As a privately-owned company, ﬁnancial information concerning the value of this assistance cannot be disclosed. Customer Satisfaction Being a partner of choice requires commitment toward delivering high quality products and diﬀerentiated services to our growing customer base. Thus, FHH’s operations should meet and exceed customers’ needs and expectations at each customer touch point. Our class-A tissue product “Fine” exempliﬁes the achievement of our goal to win consumers heart and being the brand of choice, this achievement and reputation should be sustained. In 2017, around 4,000 customers were surveyed across diﬀerent retail channels by a third party to monitor the delivery of our customer experience, ensure that our sales operations are eﬃcient, and engage our customers to make sure we are meeting their expectations. 55 Customer Complaint System FHH developed customer complaint system in 2012 to ensure that the customer’s voice is heard and that it contributes in the development and improvements of our products. An index for customer complaints, which measures values such as product complaint reoccurrences and responsiveness, was developed to provide indicative measures to FHH performance. This helps in elevating the level of customer centricity and allows us to respond in an eﬀective manner. The Customer Complaint Index became a part of the employee appraisal and incentive scheme in order to encourage employees to continually improve the product features to ensure customer satisfaction. The Compliance and Sustainability department is responsible for customer complaints and analyzing the performance monthly, identifying root causes and recommending corrective and preventive measures to improve customer satisfaction levels. Indicator 2017 2016 2015 2014 Number of Justiﬁed 176 157 189 312 Complaints (complaints) Average Lead Time to Resolve 6.22 5.78 6.28 6.6 Complaint (days) In 2017, the number of customer complaints for FHH converting operations (in Jordan, Egypt, KSA and the UAE) increased by 10.79% and the average lead time to resolve customer complaints is still within the set targets. In addition, the complaint root cause reacceptance percentage increased by 94.4% Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR). Number of Justiﬁed Average Lead Time to Product Complaints Complaints Resolve Complaint (Days) Recurrence % 6.6 10.91% 11.06% 312 6.28 6.22 189 176 6.40% 157 5.69% 5.78 2014 2015 2016 2017 2014 2015 2016 2017 2014 2015 2016 2017 56 The overall CCI performance has improved since its inception. However, 2017 witnessed a slight decline of 0.20% when compared to 2016. CCI Score 95.18% 94.99% 94.58% 91.57% 2014 2015 2016 2017 Fine Quality Actualization FACT model was launched successfully in 2015. It aims to measure and improve customer loyalty “Net Promoter Score”, customer satisfaction and sales process operations eﬃciency. In 2017, we continued with our previous scope that included all sales channels traditional trade, modern trade, pharmacy and wholesale, in addition to process mapping for diﬀerent selling channels, and identifying main touchpoints with customers to build questions that examine these touchpoints for each selling channel. In 2017, FACT model implementation catered to the deployment of the Sales Execution Monitoring System and served as the third eye to provide dynamic facts that reﬂect customer experience and feedback for the in-store execution. In 2017, with the existence of the Sales Execution Monitoring System, it has created a benchmark for us against the FACT model results. 57 2017 Performance of 2017 Key Performance Indicator 2017 2016 Percentage of Business Units Audited for Fiscal Responsibility 1.00 1.00 Percentage of Internal Audit Employees Trained on Anti-Corruption Policy and Procedures in 2016 0.00 0.00 Percentage of Business Units for which Sustainability 100% 100% Performance is Tracked on a Monthly Basis Water Consumption 848,010 1,026,613 Indirect Energy Consumption Electricity Consumption 230,676 218,927 Electricity Power Consumption Per Ton Tissue in Mills 1171 1136 Electricity Consumption per Ton Non-Woven 1642 1288 Electricity Consumption per Ton Packaging 230 237 Electricity Consumption per Diaper 13.79 13.06 Electricity Consumption per ton Facial 0.24 0.46 Electricity Consumption per ton Toilet 0.26 0.37 Electricity Consumption per ton Kitchen 0.31 0.45 Direct Energy Consumption Operational Fuel Consumption 1,813,665 1,892,980 Thermal Energy Consumption per Ton Tissue (FHH Paper Mills) 1917 1768 Direct Energy Consumption Vehicle Fuel Consumption 138,719 121,971 Direct GHG emissions (Operational and Distribution Fuel) 129,468 133,649 Indirect GHG emissions (Electricity) 155,876 147,936 GHG Emissions from Electricity per Ton Tissue in Mills 0.658 0.735 GHG Emissions from Thermal Power per Ton Tissue in Mills 0.907 0.808 GHG Emissions per Ton Non-Woven 0.875 0.870 GHG Emissions per Ton Packaging 0.160 0.160 GHG Emissions per Diaper 10.010 10.130 GHG Emissions per Ton Facial 0.352 0.339 GHG Emissions per Ton Toilet 0.223 0.254 GHG Emissions per Ton Kitchen 0.541 0.335 Waste Generation 4306 3581 Turnover Rate 0.2081 0.246 Female Participation in Workforce 0.061 0.065 Percentage of Females in Management Positions 0.103 0.09 Accident Frequency Ration (AFR) 0.29 0.34 Accident Severity Ratio (ASR) 4.93 5.13 Number of Justiﬁed Customer Complaints 176 157 Average Lead Time to Resolve Customer Complaints 6.22 5.78 59 List of Acronyms AFR Accident Frequency Ratio ASR Accident Severity Ratio B2B Business to Business BI Business Intelligence BoD Board of Directors BT Business Technology CAGR Compound Annual Growth Rate CCI Customer Complaint Index CEO Chief Executive Oﬃcer CII Corporate Impact Index CSR Corporate Social Responsibility EDANA European Disposables and Nonwovens Association FACT Fine Actualization FHH Fine Hygienic Holding FMCG Fast Moving Consumer Goods FSC Forest Stewardship Council GHG Greenhouse Gas GJ GigaJoule GRI Global Reporting Initiative GROW Goal, Reality, Options, Will 60 GSM Group Standards Manual HE Human Energy HS Health and Safety ILO International Labor Organization ISO International Organization for Standards JOC Jordan Olympic Committee JOD Jordanian Dinar KSA Kingdom of Saudi Arabia LPG Liqueﬁed Petroleum Gas MENA Middle East and North Africa region OHSAS Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series PDR Performance Development Review PEFC Program for the Endorsement of Forest Certiﬁcation PPP Perfect Printing Press SPIC Specialized Industries Company UAE United Arab Emirates UN United Nations UNGC United Nations Global Compact UNIDO United Nations Industrial Development Organization US United States USD United States Dollar 61 Glossary of Terms Aspect Element of an organization’s activities, products, or services that can interact with a speciﬁc management dimension. C-Suit The highest-level executives are usually called C-level or part of the C-suite, referring to the three-letter initials starting with C and ending with O (for Chief ... Oﬃcer ); the traditional three such oﬃcers are the Chief Executive Oﬃcer (CEO), Chief Operations Oﬃcer (COO), and Chief Financial Oﬃcer (CFO). Carbon footprint The total sets of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions caused by an organization, event, product, or person. Climate change A signiﬁcant and lasting change in the statistical distribution of weather patterns over periods ranging from decades to millions of years. Code of conduct A set of rules outlining the responsibilities of or proper practices for an individual, party, or organization. Related concepts include ethical codes and honor codes. Fast moving consumer goods Products that are sold quickly and at relatively low costs. Greenhouse gas A gas in the atmosphere that absorbs and emits radiation within the thermal infrared range. Impact A change that could have a negative eﬀect on an organization ISO 14001 Environmental Management System requirement ISO 18001 Series of standard requirements for Occupational Health and Safety Assessment ISO 50001 Energy Management System requirements Materiality One of the GRI’s central reporting principles. It is the threshold at which an issue or indicator becomes suﬃciently important that it should be reported. Precautionary principle The precautionary principle or precautionary approach states that if an action or policy has a suspected risk of causing harm to the public or to the environment, in the absence of scientiﬁc consensus that the action or policy is harmful, the burden of proof that it is not harmful falls on those taking an act. 62 Pulp A lignocellulose ﬁbrous material prepared by chemically or mechanically separating cellulose ﬁbers from wood, ﬁber crops, or waste paper. Shareholder A shareholder or stockholder is an individual or institution (including a corporation) that legally owns a share of stock in a public or private corporation. Stakeholder A stakeholder (corporate) is a person, group, organization, member, or system that aﬀects or can be aﬀected by an organization's actions. Sustainability A business approach that creates long-term consumer and employee value by not only creating a green strategy aimed towards the natural environment, but taking into consideration every dimension of how a business operates in the social, cultural, and economic environments. Sustainable development A mode of human development in which resource use aims to meet human needs while ensuring the sustainability of natural systems and the environment, so that these needs can be met not only in the present, but also for generations to come. UN Global Compact A United Nations initiative to encourage businesses worldwide to adopt sustainable and socially responsible policies, and to report on their implementation. 63 Data Scope, Sources, and Calculation Basis Indicator Scope Source(s) Calculation assumptions Form Finance Total revenues and Department employee wages and FHH collective at Corporate NA beneﬁts Center Form Finance Based on total sum Payments to Department of taxes paid to FHH collective at Corporate governments governments Center Average entry-level wage from HE department at Percentage variation HO, local of average entry-level As indicated minimum *100 wage in FHH from local in the table wage as providminimum wage ed by local regulations published on the World Wide Web From HE Percentage Saudization Fine KSA department in *100 Fine KSA FHH Paper Directly from Mills Jordan, operations Pulp consumption FHH Paper departments Actual consumption data Mills Egypt at business units Percentage of recycled polypropylene Directly from granules recycled into SPIC production *100 manufacturing in department in non-woven production SPIC 64 Indicator Scope Source(s) Calculation assumptions FHH Paper Directly from Mills Jordan, Ratio of consumed pulp to Pulp yield operations amount of pulp used in FHH Paper department Mills Egypt production FHH Paper Mills Jordan, Sustainability Electricity FHH Paper dashboard consumption, water Mills Egypt, and business consumption, fossil Fine Jordan, excellence Actual consumption data fuel consumption, Fine Egypt, departments and waste generated Fine KSA, at business Fine UAE, units PPP and SPIC Electricity consumption data provided FHH Paper by the Mills Jordan, sustainability FHH Paper dashboard, Electricity Mills Egypt, production consumption per unit Fine Jordan, data provided product Fine Egypt, by technical Fine KSA, dashboard, Fine UAE, and PPP and SPIC production departments at business units FHH Paper Mills Jordan, FHH Paper Calculated from energy consumption data Mills Egypt, based on the GHG protocol formula and the GHG emissions Fine Jordan, IPCC guidelines and emission factors. Fine Egypt, Electricity GHG emission factors are taken Fine KSA, from the International Energy Agency. Fine UAE, PPP and SPIC From FHH Paper operations Estimate based on Total sludge generated department in Mills Jordan material balance FHH Paper Mills Jordan 65 Indicator Scope Source(s) Calculation assumptions FHH Paper Mills Jordan, FHH Paper Human Energy Mills Egypt, (HE) Fine Jordan, Department Employee headcount Fine Egypt, Number of employees at at the year end Fine Morocco, Corporate Fine KSA, Fine Center UAE, FHH Corporate Center FHH Paper Mills Jordan, FHH Paper Human Energy Mills Egypt, (HE) Fine Jordan, Department Number and rate of Fine Egypt, Number of employees hired at the until year end new hires Fine Morocco, Corporate Fine KSA, Fine Center UAE, FHH Corporate Center As indicated Human Energy Employee turnover in the table Department at rate on page 46 the Corporate Center *100 FHH Paper Mills Jordan, Directly from FHH Paper health and Accident Frequency Mills Egypt, safety Ratio (AFR) Fine Jordan, department at Fine Egypt, business units Fine KSA, Fine UAE, PPP, SPIC FHH Paper Mills Jordan, Directly from FHH Paper health and Accident Severity Ratio Mills Egypt, safety (ASR) Fine Jordan, department at Fine Egypt, business units Fine KSA, Fine UAE, PPP, SPIC 66 Indicator Scope Source(s) Calculation assumptions Human Energy Average number of Department training hours per FHH collective at the employee Corporate Center FHH Paper Mills Jordan, FHH Paper Human Energy Mills Egypt, (HE) Percentage of female Fine Jordan, Department employees of total Fine Egypt, at the *100 workforce Fine Morocco, Corporate Fine KSA, Fine Center UAE, FHH Corporate Center FHH Paper Mills Jordan, FHH Paper Human Energy Mills Egypt, (HE) Percentage of Fine Jordan, Department female employees in Fine Egypt, at the *100 management positions Fine Morocco, Corporate Fine KSA, Fine Center UAE, FHH Corporate Center Human Energy (HE) Department % score based on Organizational health employee response to the survey score FHH collective at the Corporate organizational health survey Center Number of From HE human rights related FHH collective department at grievances the HO 67 Indicator Scope Source(s) Calculation assumptions Community FHH collective From PR Total community contributions Agency contributions at year end Percentage of Audit employees trained in anti-corruption FHH collective department at the corporate Policies and center *100 Procedures Operations support Fine Jordan, department Number of customer and business Number of customer complaints Fine Egypt, Fine KSA excellence complaints at year end departments in business units Operations support Fine Jordan, department Average lead time and business / Number to resolve customer Fine Egypt, of months Fine KSA excellence complaints departments in business units Technical R&D Fine Jordan, department at Quality rate for Fine Egypt, the Corporate baby diapers Fine KSA, Fine Center and UAE, Fine Iran production department at business units Operations support Fine Jordan, department Number of leakage Leakage complaints and business for diapers Fine Egypt, complaints about diapers at Fine KSA excellence year end departments in business units 68 Indicator Description Page G4-1 Message from the CEO 1 G4-2 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 45 G4-3 Name of the organization 4 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services 12 G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters 4 G4-6 Location of the organization’s operation sites 4 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 27 G4-8 Markets served 5 G4-9 Scale of the organization 5 G4-10 Employee breakdown 50 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining N/A agreements G4-12 Organization’s supply chain 17 G4-13 Signiﬁcant changes during the reporting period regarding the None organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain G4-14 Precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the 29 organization G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social 22 charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses. G4-16 Memberships of associations 3 G4-17 Entities included in the organization’s consolidated ﬁnancial 5 statements or equivalent document G4-18 Process for deﬁning the report content and the Aspect Boundaries 70 G4-19 Material aspects identiﬁed 70 69 Indicator Description Page G4-20 Aspect Boundary within organization 22 G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside organization 22 G4-22 Eﬀect of any restatements of information provided in previous Reported in reports, and the reasons for such restatements footnotes G4-23 Changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect N/A Boundaries G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 31 G4-25 Basis for identiﬁcation and selection of stakeholders 31 G4-26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement 31 G4-27 Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through 32 stakeholder engagement G4-28 Reporting period Cover page G4-29 Date of most recent previous report Cover page G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) Cover page G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Cover page G4-32 In accordance option, GRI Content Index Cover page G4-33 Organization’s policy and current practice in regards to (Stakeholder seeking external assurance for the report Engagement Letter) G4-34 Governance structure of the organization 22 G4-35 Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental, 22 and social topics G4-36 Whether the organization has appointed an executive-level 3 position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 70 Indicator Description Page G4-37 Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest 28 governance body on economic, environmental, and social topics G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 22 G4-39 Whether the chair of the highest governance body is also an 22 executive oﬃcer G4-40 Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance 22 body and its committees G4-41 Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conﬂicts of 22 interest are avoided and managed G4-42 Highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles 22 G4-43 Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance N/A body’s collective knowledge of economic, environmental, and social topics G4-44 Processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s 22 performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental, and social topics G4-45 Highest governance body’s role in the identiﬁcation and 22 management of economic, environmental, and social impacts, risks, and opportunities G4-46 Highest governance body’s role in reviewing the eﬀectiveness of 22 the organization’s risk management processes for economic, environmental, and social topics G4-47 Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, 22 environmental, and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. G4-48 Highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves 27 the organization’s sustainability report and ensures that all material aspects are covered G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest 27 governance body G4-50 Nature and total number of critical concerns that were N/A communicated to the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them 71 Indicator Description Page G4-51 The remuneration policies for the highest governance body and N/A senior executives G4-52 Process for determining remuneration 51 G4-53 How stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account 51 regarding remuneration G4-54 The ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s N/A highest-paid individual in each country of signiﬁcant operations G4-55 The ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for N/A the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of signiﬁcant operations G4-56 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior, such as 6 codes of conduct and codes of ethics G4-57 The internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on 22-23 ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines G4-58 The internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns 22-23 about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 54 G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the 40 organization’s activities due to climate change G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s deﬁned beneﬁt plan obligations 54 G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government 55 G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry-level wage by gender compared to local N/A minimum wage at signiﬁcant locations of operation G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local 45 community at signiﬁcant locations of operation 72 Indicator Description Page G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and N/A services supported G4-EC8 Signiﬁcant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of 55 impacts G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at signiﬁcant locations 17 of operation G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 37-39 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 37-39 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 39 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization N/A G4-EN5 Energy intensity 37-39 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 37-39 G4-EN7 Reduction in energy requirements of products and services 37-39 G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 40 G4-EN9 Water sources signiﬁcantly aﬀected by withdrawal of water N/A G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 41 G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to N/A protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas G4-EN12 Description of signiﬁcant impacts of activities, products, and N/A services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored N/A G4-EN14 Total number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation N/A list species with habitats in areas aﬀected by operations, by level of extinction risk 73 Indicator Description Page G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 37-39 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) N/A G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) N/A G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 37-39 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 37-39 G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) N/A G4-EN21 NOX, SOX, and other signiﬁcant air emissions N/A G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination N/A G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 37 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of signiﬁcant spills None G4-EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste 37 deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention2 Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally G4-EN26 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water N/A bodies and related habitats signiﬁcantly aﬀected by the organization’s discharges of water and runoﬀ G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products None and services G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that N/A are reclaimed by category G4-EN29 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number of non51 monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations G4-EN30 Signiﬁcant environmental impacts of transporting products and N/A other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce 74 Indicator Description Page G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by N/A type G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using 17 environmental criteria G4-EN33 Signiﬁcant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in 30 the supply chain and actions taken G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts ﬁled, 30 addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of signiﬁcant investment 50 agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or 50 procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions 50 taken G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identiﬁed in which the right to exercise 50 freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at signiﬁcant risk, and measures taken to support these rights G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk for 50 incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the eﬀective abolition of child labor G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk of 50 incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s N/A human rights policies or procedures that are relevant to operations G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of N/A indigenous peoples and actions taken G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been N/A subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments 75 Indicator Description Page G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human 50 rights criteria G4-HR11 Signiﬁcant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in N/A the supply chain and actions taken G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts ﬁled, 50 addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee 45-49 turnover by age group, gender, and region G4-LA2 Beneﬁts provided to full-time employees that are not provided to 45-49 temporary or part-time employees, by signiﬁcant locations of operation G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 45-49 G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including N/A whether these are speciﬁed in collective agreements G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint Not management worker health and safety committees that help Reported monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 52 and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to N/A their occupation G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade N/A unions G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee, by gender and 45-49 by employee category G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support 45-49 the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings 76 Indicator Description Page G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and 45-49 career development reviews, by gender and by employee category G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees 45-49 per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by N/A employee category, by signiﬁcant locations of operation G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor 17 practices criteria G4-LA15 Signiﬁcant actual and potential negative impacts for labor N/A practices in the supply chain and actions taken G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices ﬁled, addressed, and 45-49 resolved through formal grievance mechanisms G4-PR1 Percentage of signiﬁcant product and service categories for which 52 health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and 52 voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the 55 organization’s procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of signiﬁcant product and service categories subject to such information requirements G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and 41 voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 55 G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products 55 G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and 55 voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcome 77 Indicator Description Page G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of N/A customer privacy and losses of customer data G4-PR9 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes for non-compliance with laws 55 and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community 42-44 engagement, impact assessments, and development programs G4-SO2 Operations with signiﬁcant actual or potential negative impacts 33, 41 on local communities G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks 55 related to corruption and the signiﬁcant risks identiﬁed G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and 55 procedures G4-SO5 Conﬁrmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 55 G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient / Not beneﬁciary Reported G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, N/A anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes G4-SO8 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number of non55 monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for 17 impacts on society G4-SO10 Signiﬁcant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the N/A supply chain and actions taken G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society ﬁled, addressed, 55 and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Date: October, 2018 FHH P.O. Box 154 The Board of Directors Amman 11118, Jordan 78 FHH Stakeholder Council: Independent Assurance Statement FHH established FHH’s Stakeholder Council to comply with international best practices for sustainability management, and in order to provide FHH with advice, views, guidance and recommendations from a variety of informed perspectives about the sustainability management and reporting of FHH operations in pursuit of its mission. The Council’s members comprise representatives of major stakeholders from diﬀerent sectors that are directly related to the sustainability vision and commitments of FHH. Functions and Duties of the Stakeholder Council: • Provide advice on key sustainability issues for FHH, including but not limited to; sustainable labor practices, community development, natural resource eﬃcient utilization and preservation, pollution control and prevention, climate change, human rights and anti-corruption. • Provide views, advice, recommendations and informed opinions on the group’s sustainability strategy and its implementation within FHH’s companies and also when dealing with key stakeholders. • Review and provide recommendations on FHH’s sustainability commitments and policies prior to signoﬀ by the CEO. • Review the performance of FHH against targets set in the sustainability report on annual basis, and advice on areas of development. • Address and give views on speciﬁc matters related to sustainability where FHH may require informed opinions and advice. • Assist FHH to enhance and strengthen collaboration with the constituencies represented on the Council. • Provide a signed third-party veriﬁcation statement for FHH’s Annual Sustainability Report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines. 79 Stakeholder Council Members Stakeholder Group Member/Organization Owners Dima Haddadin FHH Employees Nicola Billeh FHH Customers Amani Abu Hilal Pharmacy One Suppliers Kristin Dannemiller International Paper Community/NGOs Yazan Majaj Q Perspective Public Relations Mirna Khoury PR Rep. FHH Review Approach The sustainability assurance process was planned and organized by the Corporate Communication department at FHH, whereby all members of the stakeholder council were invited to convene to review mandate, scope and expected outcomes of the assurance review. Members were provided with the draft of FHH’s 2017 sustainability report alongside a checklist formulated in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) report content and quality parameters and tests. Each member of the stakeholder council was asked to review the report separately and undertake the following actions: • Provide input for materiality analysis provided in the report. • Provide input on possible improvement in report content and quality. • Provide recommendation in terms of sustainability strategy. • Evaluate the report content and quality based on the GRI report evaluation checklist, and provide an independent measurement of all relevant Key Performance Indicators regarding sustainability. 80 Once the individual evaluations were completed by the members, the council convened again to discuss the evaluations and provide inquiries regarding content and quality to the sustainability section representative. The council reached consensus on all areas of clariﬁcation and improvement within the draft report, and the responding eﬀorts of the sustainability section to address all areas of clariﬁcation and improvement are at the core of this assurance statement. Level of Assurance This assurance statement is designed to obtain third party endorsement from all stakeholder representatives regarding all report content and quality parameters as prescribed by the GRI G4 reporting guidelines. Scope of Assurance The scope of assurance covers information and indicators reported in the FHH’s 2017 Sustainability Report and the procedures and processes related to data collection and presentation. Observations and Conclusions: The observations on the report are as follows: Report Content Materiality: this report takes into consideration all topics (and included associated indicators) that reﬂect the organization’s signiﬁcant economic, environmental, and social impacts, or that would substantively inﬂuence the assessments and decisions of stakeholders (as addressed in materiality analysis matrix). This includes main issues raised by stakeholders, or reported by peers, competitors and industry association, national and regional laws and regulations, international agreements and standards and guidelines including the GRI G4 Reporting Guidelines. Moreover, as exempliﬁed in the materiality analysis matrix, the key sustainability issues are prioritized according to impact on the organization as well as stakeholder concern. 81 Stakeholder the report identiﬁes all key stakeholders and outlines how they are inclusiveness: engaged by FHH on regular basis, FHH’s understanding of their interests and expectations, and how the organization has responded to these interests and concerns. FHH has established a stakeholder council in order to proactively engage all key stakeholders for the purposes of developing the content of this report. Sustainability the report takes into consideration the sustainability context of FHH’s context: operations, taking into account global sustainable development agendas and trends such as the UN Global Compact. The report presents performance in a manner that attempts to communicate the magnitude of the impact and contribution within the appropriate geographical context. The report also describes how sustainability topics relate to long-term organizational strategy, risks, and opportunities including supply-chain topics. Completeness: the scope of the report pertains to all entities directly owned by FHH and covers and prioritizes information that should reasonably be considered material on the basis of the principle of materiality, sustainability context and stakeholder inclusiveness. It suﬃciently reﬂects signiﬁcant economic, environmental and social impacts related to the reporting period, and enables stakeholders to objectively assess the reporting organization’s performance in the reporting period. Report Quality: Balance: the report presents both the favorable and unfavorable performance results for FHH, as it presents information in a format that allows users to see positive and negative trends in performance on a year-to-year basis. Moreover, the report emphasizes issues as demonstrated in the materiality analysis matrix. 82 Comparability: Wherever possible the report provides year by year data, and have attempted wherever possible to follow the GRI G4 Indicator Protocols in order to facilitate comparison of FHH performance against industry peers and other companies using the same reporting protocol. Accuracy: the report indicates where estimations or other limitations to the data are involved; it also adequately describes the data measurement techniques and basis for calculations. As most of the information presented is based on actual performance data, the margin of error for quantitative data is not considered suﬃcient to substantially inﬂuence the ability of stakeholders to reach appropriate and informed conclusions on performance. The qualitative assessments in the report are considered valid on the basis of other reported information and other available evidence. There are no GRI Fast Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG) sector supplements that can be used for this report. Timeliness: FHH’s sustainability report is published annually in July in accordance with its commitment to the UN Global Compact. However, this year the report was published in October due to internal changes. Data collection for the report is conducted on monthly basis through their Sustainability Dashboard. Clarity: Sustainability is a relatively new concept in the region and as such the report provides introductory information where useful to facilitate reader understanding of the report content. The report is only provided in English and is accessible to all stakeholders via the World Wide Web. Reliability: the information and processes used in the preparation of this report are gathered, recorded, compiled, analyzed and disclosed in a way that is subject to examination and that establish quality and materiality of the information. On Behalf of the FHH Stakeholder Council. Yazan Majaj Chairperson 83
