Combining strengths NN Group N.V. 2017 Annual Review You matter The 2017 Annual Report consists 2017 Annual Review 2017 Financial Report of the 2017 Annual Review and the 2017 Financial Report. It provides an integrated review of the performance of our company. The Annual Report is prepared in accordance with applicable Dutch law and the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), which are endorsed by the European Union. It also complies with the Global Reporting Initiative’s The Annual Review covers NN Group’s The Financial Report covers NN Group’s Sustainability Standards and the guidelines operating environment, key trends and financial developments and annual material issues, it describes how we create accounts, the report of the Supervisory of the International Integrated Reporting value, and provides information on our Board and our approach to risk Council. The Annual Report aligns business performance, our strategy, our management, capital management objectives, achievements and dilemmas and corporate governance. The relevant information about our strategy, related to the social, environmental and target audiences for this section are governance systems, performance and governance aspects of our business, and shareholders, rating agencies and future prospects in a way that reflects the the statement of our CEO. It is targeted other stakeholders interested in the at NN Group stakeholders. financials and governance of NN Group. economic, environmental and social contexts in which we operate. Read more about ‘Our approach to reporting’ on page 62 of the Annual Review. Visit our website Further information, including the GRI Index table, can be found online NN Group also publishes a Solvency by visiting our corporate website: www.nn-group.com/annual-report and Financial Condition Report (SFCR), including public quantitative and qualitative disclosures on Solvency II. The SFCR is published on NN Group’s corporate website in the Investors/Annual Report section. About NN Creating and  Facts and figures Introduction  01 sharing value Consolidated balance sheet  63 How we create and share value 02 Excellent customer experience  35 Consolidated profit and loss account  64 Our seven reporting segments  04 Attractive returns for investors  39 Key financial and Our key figures  06 non-financial indicators  65 Responsible investment  41 CEO statement  08 Customer-related indicators  66 Engaged employees  45 Delta Lloyd transaction and integration  10 Responsible investment indicators  66 Positively impacting society Our culture  13 and communities  48 Human capital indicators  68 Contribution to the Sustainable Community investment indicators  69 Our o  perating environment Development Goals  51 Environmental indicators  Assurance report of the 69 Trends and developments  17 Governance independent auditor Glossary  70 74 Understanding and addressing our material topics  19 Contact and legal information  IBC Governance and compliance  53 Our Management Board  54 Our s trategy Stakeholder engagement and our international commitments  56 Our strategy and priorities  24 Our approach to reporting  62 Core skills that enable our strategy  25 Delivering on our strategy  28 Netherlands  28 International Insurance  30 Asset Management  32 Cover photo: Runners crossing the finish line during City-Pier-City run, The Hague Photographer: Bart Hoogveld Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures We are a financial services company active in 18 countries, with a strong presence in a number of European countries and Japan. Our roots lie in the Netherlands, with a rich history that stretches back more than 170 years. Life is about living. That is why we do our very best to help our customers achieve their dreams and overcome adversity along the way. Through our retirement services, insurance, investments and banking products, we are committed to helping people secure their financial futures. That is our purpose at NN. Because what matters to you, matters to us. You matter NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 01 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures How we create and share value This report aims to provide a balanced Trends and developments view of NN Group’s purpose, values, strategy, business model, operating pages 17-23 Regulation environment and performance The relationship between these elements, and how we : create long-term value for our stakeholders, is illustrated bition m in this diagram. The elements form the structure of our ura O business and this report. More detail on each element can be found throughout the reporting suite, along with our performance measures and targets. Key Premiums and deposits inputs • Around 17 million customers1 • EUR 12.1 billion gross premium income • EUR 246 billion Assets under Management at NN IP added prod Value servic ucts • EUR 227 billion total assets of NN Group pages 65-66 and es Capital • EUR 22.7 billion shareholders’ equity • EUR 6,219 million total debt • EUR 15,412 million eligible own funds page 161 of the Financial Report (Note 51) % Talent and experience • About 15,000 employees • 11.8 average years of service pages 45-47 Relations with stakeholders • Multiple dialogues and memberships pages 48, 56-57 Core skills that enable our strategy Multi-access Advanced distribution underwriting and use of pages 25-27 technology 1 Excluding Asset Management, ING Insurance and ABN AMRO Insurance. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 02 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Value Contributing to created the Sustainable Low interest rates Digitalisation Development Goals pages 35-50 pages 51-52 atter in the li Customers To truly m ves o • 94% trust f ou r st in our brand2 rate gic ob ak Our s t jectives eh • Net promoter score +17 old • EUR 15.8 billion claims er s and benefits paid Disciplined capital allocation Investors • 17.3% shareholder brand promise return over 2017 Our • EUR 524 million Our values dividend paid in 2017 • Free cash flow to Care the holding of EUR 881 million in 20173 • Capital allocated to Innovate our value accretive Delta Lloyd acquisition Our purpose Clear ess and industry busin We help people secure Employees their financial futures • EUR 21.4 million spent on training • 32% women in senior positions Commit • EUR 1,496 million salaries and benefits paid pages 13-16 • 66% employee engagement ‘You matter’ Society and community Agile t and cost efficien • EUR 124 million operating model income tax paid to governments • EUR 1 billion paid to pages 24-34 suppliers • EUR 10.9 billion in SRI funds and mandates • EUR 2.4 million in donations to charitable organisations • 37,208 young people reached • 100% carbon neutral (direct operations) Partnerships Talented and Responsible Risk and capital and empowered business management collaboration employees standards capabilities 2 Non-life and Pensions in NL. 3 Including EUR 500 million capital injection into Delta Lloyd Life. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 03 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Our seven reporting segments With around 15,000 employees, we aim to deliver high-quality retirement services, insurance, investments, and banking products to retail, SME, large corporate and institutional customers Our business activities are structured within seven reporting segments. 1. Netherlands Life 2. Netherlands Non-life 3. Insurance Europe 4. Japan Life Well positioned to Leverage strong Accelerate growth Deliver strong capture opportunities footprint and and generate value profitable growth and in the changing Dutch decisive action to diversify distribution pension market improve performance Products and services Products and services Products and services Products and services Group life/pension products Property & casualty Life insurance (all countries) Corporate-owned life Individual life/pension products Motor insurance Non-life insurance (Belgium, insurance (COLI) Pension administration (AZL) Fire insurance Spain, Poland) Protection life insurance Premium Pension Institution Liability insurance Pensions (Bulgaria, Customers (NN, BeFrank) Czech Republic, Slovakia, Transport insurance Owners and employees of Poland, Romania, Turkey) Individual life closed block small‑ and medium-sized Disability & accident Health insurance (Greece, enterprises (SMEs), where Customers Individual disability Hungary, Romania) the company is both the Smalland medium-sized insurance (Movir) Employee benefits (Spain) policyholder and the enterprises (SMEs) Health insurance (OHRA Zorg) beneficiary of the policy Customers Large corporate clients Group income insurance Financial performance and their employees Retail customers Accident insurance Operating EUR 200 million Retail customers Self-employed result Customers Smalland medium-sized Pension funds New sales life EUR 762 million Smalland medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) insurance (APE) Financial performance enterprises (SMEs) Corporates and their employees Value of new EUR 194 million Operating resultEUR 896 million Large corporate clients Financial performance business (VNB) New sales life EUR 368 million and their employees insurance (APE) Operating resultEUR 260 million Cost/income ratio 23.1% Retail customers Total EUR 513 million New sales life EUR 661 million Self-employed insurance (APE) administrative expenses Financial performance Value of new EUR 141 million Total provision EUR 114 billion Operating result EUR 30 million business (VNB) for insurance & Cost/income ratio 40.0% investment contracts Gross EUR 2,579 million – of which for risk EUR 21 billion premium income policyholder 1 Not final until filed with the regulators; NN Life SII ratio based on the Partial Internal Model; Total EUR 398 million Delta Lloyd Life SII ratio based on the standard formula. NN Life Solvency II ratio 217% 1 administrative 2 Including health and broker business. expenses2 3 As of 2017 the calculation method excludes the discount rate unwind on D&A insurance liabilities. DL Life Solvency II ratio1150% 4 Excluding health and broker business. Combined ratio3,4102.0% Value of new 5 The ‘Common Equity Tier I ratio phased in’ is not final until filed with the regulators. – of which Claims3,4 73.5% business (VNB) EUR 10 million 6 (Annualised) net operating result of the segment, divided by (average) adjusted allocated equity. – of which Expenses428.4% 7 Expected run-off Japan Closed Block: measured from the end of 2017. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 04 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Our seven reporting segments Continued NN Group operating result ongoing business before tax (excluding segment Japan 56 % Netherlands Life Closed Block VA) (% of total – FY2017) 2% Netherlands Non-life 16 % Insurance Europe 13 % Japan Life 10 % Asset Management 3% Other 5. Asset Management 6. Other 7. Japan Closed Block VA Increased focus on The segment ‘Other’ Financial performance Run-off of the book core investment is part of the ongoing Operating result  EUR 40 million driven by maturities capabilities business (segment ‘Other’) Holding expenses EUR -121 million Japan Closed Block VA Operating result comprises NN Group’s Products and services This segment comprises banking business EUR 124 million closed-block single Fixed income NN Bank (including premium variable annuity Total assets EUR 21 billion Delta Lloyd Bank), NN Re (SPVA) individual life Equity banking business (excluding reinsurance of insurance portfolio in Japan. Multi-asset the Japan Closed Block VA NN Bank common equity 15.2% Tier 1 ratio phased in5 These products were Fiduciary Management portfolio), the holding result predominantly sold from and other results. DL Bank common equity 16.7% Customers 2001 to 2009. The total Tier 1 ratio phased in5 Institutional investors NN Bank portfolio is reinsured by Net operating ROE  15.0% Wholesale distributors NN Bank operates in the NN Re in the Netherlands. banking business6 Retail investors Netherlands and offers a range The portfolio is actively Operating result EUR 43 million of retail banking products, managed and hedged on Financial performance reinsurance business for example, mortgages and a market consistent basis Operating result EUR 161 million savings products. and is expected to release Assets under EUR 246 billion NN Re capital as the block runs off. Management The exact timing and amount NN Re is NN Group’s reinsurer. Net inflow AuM EUR 0 billion It primarily reinsures risks with cannot be predicted as it Net inflow EUR 5.1 billion NN Group and retrocedes or is influenced by the results 3rd party AuM hedges risks with the market. of the hedge programme. Cost/income ratio 69.6% Financial performance Operating result EUR 20 million Account value EUR 4,755 million Net Amount  EUR 25 million at Risk Continuing in this Annual Review, our reporting segments are grouped as follows: IFRS reserves EUR 188 million • Netherlands Life, Netherlands Non-life and NN Bank are part of Netherlands • Netherlands Life includes the results of Nationale-Nederlanden Life, Delta Lloyd Life, AZL, the life Number of policies 81,808 results of ABN AMRO Insurance and BeFrank We expect 60% of the book to • Netherlands Non-life includes the results Nationale-Nederlanden Non-life, Delta Lloyd Non-life, run-off by the end of 2019.7 the non-life results of ABN AMRO Insurance, Movir, OHRA, and the broker results related to health insurance products • Insurance Europe, Japan Life, Japan Closed Block VA and NN Re are part of International Insurance • NN Investment Partners and Delta Lloyd Asset Management are part of Asset Management NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 05 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Our key figures 2017 was a memorable year with solid financial and non-financial performance Financial highlights EUR 1,586m Operating result ongoing business EUR 881m Free cash flow to the holding 199% Solvency II ratio (2016: EUR 1,227m) (2016: EUR 1,349m) (2016: 241%) 2017 €1,586m 2017 €881m 2017 199% 2016 €1,227m 2016 €1,349m 2016 241% How we performed How we performed How we performed Full-year 2017 operating result of the ongoing In 2017, our free cash flow to the holding was Our Solvency II ratio remained robust at 199%, business increased to EUR 1,586 million, up from EUR 881 million, including a EUR 500 million capital in line with our disciplined approach to managing EUR 1,227 million in 2016, mainly driven by improved injection into Delta Lloyd Life. our capital. The decline from 241% at the end of 2016 results in most segments and the EUR 205 million reflects the acquisition of Delta Lloyd, partly offset contribution of the Delta Lloyd businesses. by operating capital generation. EUR 345m Value of new business (VNB) EUR 1,791m New sales life insurance (APE) EUR 246bn NN IP Assets under Management (2016: EUR 214m) (2016: EUR 1,386m) (2016: EUR 195bn) 2017 €345m 2017 €1,791m 2017 €246bn 2016 €214m 2016 €1,386m 2016 €195bn How we performed How we performed How we performed VNB in 2017 amounted to EUR 345 million, up 60.7% In 2017, total new sales were EUR 1,791 million, up Total Assets under Management were EUR 246 billion from EUR 214 million in 2016. The increase reflects 33.9% compared to 2016 on a constant currency at the end of 2017, up from EUR 195 billion at the end higher VNB at Japan Life mainly driven by higher basis, driven by higher sales at Netherlands Life, of 2016, mainly driven by the acquisition of Delta Lloyd sales, an improved product mix and an increase in Insurance Europe and Japan Life. Asset Management. interest rates, and higher VNB at Insurance Europe driven by higher sales at better margins.  ead more about how we performed financially in the chapter ‘Attractive returns for investors’ on pages 39-40, and in the chapter ‘Facts and figures’ R on pages 63-65 of this Annual Review, and in our Financial Report. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 06 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Our key figures Continued Non-financial highlights +17pts Net Promoter Score EUR 10.9bn Assets under Management in SRI funds 66% Employee engagement (2016: +2pts) and mandates (2016: EUR 5bn) (2016: 71%) 2017 +17pts 2017 €10.9bn 2017 66% 2016 +2pts 2016 €5bn 2016 71% How we performed How we performed How we performed In 2017, all of our insurance businesses maintained Assets under Management in Socially Responsible Overall employee engagement dropped compared or improved their relational NPS scores compared Investment (SRI) funds and mandates increased with last year. This is mainly due to the integration of with the previous year, with the exception of NN Life by 114% compared to 2016. NN Investment Partners NN and Delta Lloyd in the Netherlands and Belgium. Hungary. Their NPS is still well above market average. launched new SRI products that contributed Our international business units showed an increase We aim to increase our NPS scores every year. to this growth. We aim to grow our Assets under in engagement to 73%. We aim to increase our Management and product offering in this area employee engagement going forward. every year. EUR 2.4m Donations to charitable organisations 37,208 Young people reached through Neutral NN Group was CO2 neutral (2016: EUR 1.5m) NN Future Matters programme (2016: 27,529) (2016: 100% neutral) 2017 €2.4m 2017 37,208 2017 100% 2016 €1.5m 2016 27,529 2016 100% How we performed How we performed How we performed In 2017, NN Future Matters and Delta Lloyd Since the start of our NN Future Matters programme CO2 emissions of our direct environmental footprint Foundation joined forces to increase our in 2015, we have reached out to nearly 74,000 youths showed an increase of 15.2% due to the integration communities’ financial wellbeing. Of our in the many communities in which we operate. This of NN and Delta Lloyd. However, the CO2 emissions total charitable donations of EUR 2.4 million, brings us closer to our goal of positively impacting the per FTE decreased by 10.5%. We fully compensated 82% went to NN Future Matters focus areas. futures of 100,000 young people by 2020. our CO2 emissions by the purchase of voluntary carbon units.  ead more about our non-financial objectives and how we performed in the chapter ‘Creating and sharing value’ on pages 35-50 of this Annual Review. R For additional non-financial indicators refer to the chapter ‘Facts and figures’ on pages 63-69 of this Annual Review. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 07 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures CEO statement 2017 was a memorable year for NN Group “Our company aims to be a positive force in people’s lives, now and for generations to come.” 2017 was a memorable year Integrating Delta Lloyd At our Capital Markets Day in November for NN Group. We succeeded Consolidation in the competitive 2017 we outlined our strategy and updated in further strengthening our Dutch market had been anticipated for targets for the combined company going businesses, and solidified our years. The joining of forces by NN and forward. Our top priorities are to deliver Delta Lloyd in 2017 was a key step for us on the Delta Lloyd transaction, extract position in the Netherlands in preparing our company for the future. synergies and capitalise on our combined and Belgium through the Both organisations have been deeply rooted strengths. However, we recognise that an acquisition of Delta Lloyd. in Dutch society for over 170 years and share integration process of this scale is impactful many features and values. As a result of and does not only bring benefits. It also Since our Initial Public Offering in the integration we are well-positioned to entails the loss of an appreciated brand, a 2014, we have focused on building capture opportunities the market presents, change in functions, and positions becoming an agile, diverse and financially to create attractive products and services redundant. Last year, we saw a reduction solid company that matters in the for our customers, and to establish a of approximately 900 jobs in our Dutch and platform for innovation, knowledge sharing Belgian businesses. We are committed to lives of our stakeholders. and talent development. go through this process with respect and care, and I extend my warmest thanks to all colleagues who over the years contributed to where the company is today. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 08 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures CEO statement Continued Solid financial performance NN also invested in RightIndem, which offers In support of our societal commitments With the persistent low interest rate digital, customer‑driven claims management and to promote transparency, we made environment, various geopolitical and solutions, and in Dopay, a company progress in aligning our reporting with regulatory developments and circumstances that simplifies payroll management and the recommendations of the Task Force caused by for example weather-related disbursement in developing countries. on Climate-related Financial Disclosures events, 2017 also was a tumultuous and we indicate how we contribute to year. Still, we maintained commercial Commitment to teamwork the Sustainable Development Goals. momentum and delivered on our cost saving In our industry, trust is essential and living targets, demonstrating the resilience of up to our stakeholders’ expectations is We improved our performance in the our businesses. key. In order to deliver on our promises, Dutch Transparency Benchmark, and are our more than 15,000 colleagues need to proud to be included in the Dow Jones Our financial performance in 2017 remained feel engaged, appreciated and equipped, Sustainability Indices. robust and our capital allocation disciplined. especially in times of change. We were Our full-year operating results of the pleased to be named top employer in Poland, After the listing of our company in 2014, ongoing businesses – reflecting a strong Spain and Turkey in 2017, and know there is we launched our community investment contribution of Delta Lloyd and an improved further room for improvement. Regrettably, programme, NN Future Matters. Its activities performance of our insurance operations our Yearly Engagement Survey showed a are focused on promoting financial in Europe and Japan – increased by 29.3% decrease in employee engagement from empowerment, a topic that fits well with to EUR 1,586 million and our net result1 71% to 66%. Given the uncertainty around our mission and the expertise of our people. increased by 77.5% to EUR 2,110 million. the integration process in the Netherlands Having reached nearly 74,000 youngsters Our cash capital position and Solvency and Belgium, this outcome is understandable. since 2015, we are well on track towards II ratio are solid, at EUR 1,434 million and As we progress on our journey, this will have meeting our goal of supporting 100,000 199% respectively, with our Solvency II ratio our full attention. young people by 2020. reflecting the deduction of the final 2017 dividend of EUR 1.04 per ordinary share In 2017, we continued to invest in positioning 2018 onwards that will be proposed at our Annual General our brand across markets, and improving Our operating environment changes Meeting of Shareholders on 31 May 2018. the customer experience. This resulted in rapidly, but with our company’s financial Combined with the interim dividend paid in customer satisfaction ratings going up for strength, solid balance sheet and diverse September 2017, this brings the payout ratio almost all our businesses. We also entered set of businesses, we are well-positioned to 45% of the 2017 full-year net operating into new partnerships with different cultural, to face challenges, capture growth and result of the ongoing business. art and sports organisations. One of the contribute to an economy that works for highlights was the launch of the NN Running people, societies and the environment. Innovating our businesses team, bringing together the best longWe made good progress in 2017 and took The fundamental need of people to protect distance runners globally. And as of 2018, important steps to facilitate future success. themselves against life’s uncertainties will we will be the title sponsor of the NN North But, as always, work remains to be done. continue to drive growth in the insurance Sea Jazz festival, the largest international We are determined to further accelerate industry over the long term. With technology indoor music festival. our pace of change in 2018, by combining and data transforming our competitive our strengths, transitioning to agile ways of landscape, our customers’ behaviour and Being part of society working and by fostering the entrepreneurial our cost structures, it is crucial that we are We want to be a respected company and mindset that is starting to bloom. prepared to adapt as circumstances evolve. a good corporate citizen, and we recognise By making our operations more efficient, that this comes with responsibilities. All this cannot be done without our innovating our existing business, and This means we strive to bring positive colleagues’ day-to-day dedication to our branching out or joining forces with fintech change, and we avoid or manage the company, our customers’ trust and the companies and other business partners, negative impacts our business activities ongoing support of our stakeholders – for we invest in the business of tomorrow. may have. As an asset manager, with which I, also on behalf of our Management investments across the economy, we provide Board, express my gratitude. Let me share a few examples. Following the capital for households, companies and successful launch of our innovation lab, governments to finance growth. In line with Sparklab in the Netherlands in 2016, another our values – care, clear, commit – we further five labs went live in different markets in strengthened our Responsible Investment 2017. They introduced a number of value Framework policy. In 2017, we published propositions, such as ‘Gappie’, an on-demand a Stewardship Policy and a guidance car insurance product for the Dutch market, paper on the Environment. We believe our or an application tailored to support people engaged shareholdership contributes to Lard Friese with diabetes in Hungary. In Slovakia a generating long-term value, and we make Chief Executive Officer partnership was set up with Slovenska active use of our voting rights at companies’ sporitelna, one of the leading banks, and shareholder meetings. Our Assets under NN Hayat ve Emeklilik in Turkey entered into Management in SRI funds and mandates astrategic partnership with Hesapkurdu.com, doubled to more than EUR 10 billion. the country’s leading online loan aggregator platform for mortgage and consumer loans. 1 After minority interests. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 09 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Delta Lloyd transaction and integration The joining of forces of NN Group and Delta Lloyd in the Netherlands and Belgium is a key step in ensuring a sustainable and profitable business for the future Both NN Group and Delta Lloyd have been rooted in Dutch society for over a century. After the IPO in July 2014, NN Group In this highly competitive market, size and The integration plans incorporate the nondeveloped into a solid standalone company, diversification are required to be able to financial covenants as agreed between with a strong capital position, businesses continue to provide value-adding offerings NN Group and Delta Lloyd. that perform well, and with colleagues to our customers, at levels of return that are dedicated to serving our customers. attractive to our shareholders. We have set ambitious targets for the integration process. In 2018, we plan to 2016 marked the start of the implementation Consolidation is seen as a solution to bring rebrand all Delta Lloyd products to NN. As of of the new Solvency II regime. In December further stability to the market. Because of 1 January 2018, the legal mergers of NN Bank 2015, we received approval from the Dutch our strong financial position, NN Group had and Delta Lloyd Bank, and NN Investment regulator, the Dutch Central Bank (DNB), the opportunity to take a first step in this Partners and Delta Lloyd Asset Management to use our Partial Internal Model under consolidation process in the Netherlands. were completed. A legal merger of NN and Solvency II for NN Group and our subsidiaries Delta Lloyd Insurance in Belgium is expected in the Netherlands. Following the new capital Joining forces in the first half of 2018. requirements, we continued to be a strongly Together, NN Group and Delta Lloyd move capitalised company, with a year-end 2016 forward as a leading player in insurance and Also in 2018, the integration of the head Solvency II ratio of 241%. This provided us pensions in the Dutch market, with a strong offices will be realised. We will start with a solid foundation for growth, ready to position in Belgium. The combined company negotiations with the trade unions for a new take a next step. also provides attractive propositions in asset combined collective labour agreement (CLA), management and banking products. With this to be implemented as of 1 January 2019. Consolidation acquisition, we are aiming to combine the NN Group will also seek DNB approval to We are committed to returning capital best of two organisations into a company extend the Partial Internal Model to include in excess of our capital ambition to that is ready to take on the future. We share Delta Lloyd Life and Delta Lloyd Non-Life. shareholders, unless it can be used for similar values and our mission to help people appropriate corporate purposes, including protect what matters most to them. The legal mergers of NN and Delta Lloyd investments in value-creating opportunities. Life and Non-life are planned to take place We continuously perform strategic Integration process during 2019. We will accelerate upgrading assessments of each of our businesses For the integration of Delta Lloyd and the combined organisation, and further within the NN Group portfolio. NN in the Netherlands and Belgium, reduce costs by rationalisation of products, we formulated clear principles aimed back‑end systems and IT infrastructure. In recent years, structural changes have at maximising synergies and execution confronted the financial services industry. certainty. A central Integration Management People integration The Dutch insurance market in particular Office (IMO) steers, coordinates and aligns In the integration process, the NN brand faces declining margins and a challenging this process, working in close cooperation promise ‘You matter’ and our values: care, market environment, involving low interest with dedicated integration teams in the clear, commit, are leading. rates, expiring life insurance portfolios, the business units and support functions. R  ead more in the ‘Our culture’ chapter transition from defined benefit to defined The NN operating model is the foundation of this Annual Review, pages 13-16. contribution pension schemes, and a for the combined company, while we aim fragmented non-life market with premiums to retain and integrate strong elements under pressure. of the Delta Lloyd organisation, business and culture. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 10 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Delta Lloyd transaction and integration Continued Senior leadership appointments Reorganisation framework This integration process is guided by an open To support and lead our people during The next step was to agree on a and constructive dialogue with the works the integration and beyond, a strong and reorganisation framework with the trade councils of NN Group and Delta Lloyd, the collaborative leadership group needed to unions in the Netherlands. This framework, trade unions, and regulators such as the be appointed. After the settlement of the as agreed on in September 2017, sets out DNB, the Dutch Authority for the Financial offer (12 April 2017), announcing the senior clear definitions and procedures that apply Markets (AFM), and the National Bank of management of the combined company to all reorganisations that are part of the Belgium (NBB). was a top priority. To do this respectfully integration process. Plans are submitted and with due care, the guiding principle for between 1 September 2017 and 1 January Measurement the senior management selection process 2019. Subsequently, a new job framework To successfully integrate companies, was the ‘best person for the job’ concept, for the combined company was introduced. employees need to be well-informed and based on a non‑discriminatory, fair and engaged regarding the shared future. business‑oriented set of criteria. Overarching job framework Every two months, a survey is conducted This redesigned job framework contributes to collect feedback on the integration Approximately 250 senior leaders from to a fair integration process, and ensures process. It measures if people feel ready, both companies went through an intensive that employees from both companies start willing and able to embrace the changes selection process that encompassed with equal opportunities when the Requests involved in forming a combined company. individual meetings with HR representatives for Advice (RfAs) for the integration of their The results show how and where we are from Delta Lloyd and NN Group, as well as department or unit are submitted to the making progress, and guide us in determining management assessments by an external company’s works councils. The framework necessary adjustments. specialised recruitment agency, and includes 52 ‘job families’, with each family personal meetings with members of the consisting of three to six levels. Each level 88% NN Group Management Board. This led provides clear descriptions of what is to 125 appointments by mid-July 2017. expected from an employee in his or her job. In close collaboration with NN Group’s We are committed to respecting the HR department, the businesses and of senior leaders are strongly talents and strengths of people in both the trade unions, a specialised external supportive of the combined company organisations. However, the integration consultant supported the developments of 60% of the companies will, unfortunately, lead the framework based on their methodology. to certain positions becoming redundant. In 2017 about 900 internal and external The overarching job framework makes job employees (measured in FTE) left the placement in the new organisation easier of colleagues recognise that combined company. and more transparent, accelerates the the combining of the companies integration process and provided NN with is necessary to ensure our the opportunity to simplify and modernise future success job structures. The first RfAs focused on Results third Hello You survey, October 2017. integrating teams in the combined company were submitted to the Works Councils of NN Group and Delta Lloyd in October 2017, and approved in November and December 2017. It is anticipated that the integration process for all teams will be finalised in 2020, based on a phased approach. Rebranding The combined company will continue under the NN Group brand architecture: a strong brand that is clearly identifiable in the market. The Delta Lloyd brand will be phased out gradually as of 2018. In the Netherlands, all businesses will be NN-branded by 1 July 2018. The current Delta Lloyd brands Ohra and BeFrank will remain. The main aim in the Belgian market is to restore aided brand awareness levels for the NN brand (25%) to the Delta Lloyd level (75%). By year-end 2018, most products and services will be rebranded. For NN IP, selected fund ranges will be renamed in the second half of 2018, with a focus on client communications. To deliver the brand transformation programme and manage the rebranding, a branding workstream has been set up within the Integration Management Office. Its main goals are to build awareness and understanding of the NN brand among Delta Lloyd stakeholders, to meet synergy objectives and to measure the progress of the Delta Lloyd brand transformation. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 11 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Delta Lloyd transaction and integration Continued Our companies’ stories began in the early 19th century 1807 1845 1853 1863 Hollandsche Sociëteit van De Nederlanden van Nederlandsche Nationale Levensverzekeringen founded 1845 founded Lloyd (Nedlloyd) Levensverzekering-Bank founded founded 1967 1963 1892 Merger of Hollandsche Sociëteit van Merger of De Nederlanden van 1845 with Amsterdamsche Maatschappij Levensverzekeringen with Amstleven Nationale Levensverzekering-Bank into van Levensverzekering into Delta Verzekeringsgroep Nationale-Nederlanden. Company listed (Amstleven) founded on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange 1969 1973 1991 Merger of Delta Verzekeringsgroep Delta Lloyd acquired by Nationale-Nederlanden merged with Nedlloyd into Delta Lloyd. Commercial Union (now Aviva), with NMB Postbank Groep, Company listed on the Delta Lloyd delisted which established ING Group, Amsterdam Stock Exchange Nationale-Nederlanden delisted 2016 2014 2009 Announcement of intended offer NN Group listed again on the Start divestment ING Insurance to Delta Lloyd Amsterdam Stock Exchange business from ING Group NN Group and Delta Lloyd agree Delta Lloyd listed again on on recommended transaction the Amsterdam Stock Exchange 2017 2017 February April June/July August Launch of tender Approval from all Legal merger Consolidated offer for regulators; Offer for effective; results for Start of the Delta Lloyd shares Delta Lloyd declared Delta Lloyd delisted combined entity joint future unconditional Management teams Start of integration of all business process units and support functions appointed NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 12 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Our culture Our values: care, clear, commit, serve as a compass for decision-making and guide us in our everyday work We empower people to be their best and respect each other and the world we live in We communicate proactively and honestly, while being accessible and open We act with integrity and do business with the future in mind Over the next few pages, The monitoring instruments that measure Values week in the Netherlands we describe how our values employee and consumer perceptions about In the Netherlands, 47 different are implemented across our our company include questions on how workshops were organised for businesses, in particular in the NN is living our values. Through their scores, Values week at all Delta Lloyd our businesses are able to generate insight and NN locations. 336 employees integration process of NN Group into their values-related behaviour. participated in one or more sessions and Delta Lloyd in the Netherlands on topics such as mental health, family and Belgium, and how they support Values week caregiving and climate change. us in creating long-term value for The ‘Living our Values’ programme our company and our stakeholders. encourages our colleagues to actively The Netherlands’ Values week survey engage with the values. The annual found that 74% of participants Our values are the foundation of our culture NN Values week provides an opportunity thought Values week provided a good and provide the basis for our company-wide to reflect on our values, to talk with opportunity to reflect on our values, policy framework. Our values are reflected colleagues about the values, and address compared to 67% in 2016. 95% of in our policies, standards and processes dilemmas people may face in their day-toall participants would encourage a that guide our colleagues in their interactions day work. In October 2017, all our businesses colleague to join the next Values week, with each other, with customers and with organised one or more internal valuescompared to 98% in 2016. other stakeholders. Especially in times of related activities during NN Values week. change, the values support an open and honest dialogue and provide a strong basis In Belgium and Bulgaria, care, clear, commit for a healthy company culture. days were organised. Greece, Poland and Turkey hosted townhalls and discussion Living our Values programme sessions on the values with senior leaders. The ‘Living our Values’ programme raises Donation activities played a central role awareness, involves our employees and in Bulgaria, Greece and Slovakia, ranging enables them to integrate the values from society-focused activities to blood into their work. Our senior managers are donations. In Romania, dilemmas towards expected to act as role models in living (prospective) customers, colleagues, third our values, which is also reflected in our parties and society were posted with company’s leadership profile. The key polls on the intranet. In Spain, colleagues elements of our NN Leadership profile are: attended care, clear, commit training demonstrating integrity, customer focus, courses. NN Czech Republic organised a and creating a culture of clear direction Fit Day. Japan will organise values-related and open feedback. activities in April 2018, coinciding with their Sales Awards event. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 13 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Our culture Continued NN Code of Conduct Raising concerns The importance of role models While our values provide us with a compass The NN Group Whistleblower Policy enables The NN Group Management Board, our for decision-making, our NN Code of every employee to report, also anonymously, senior leadership and line managers play Conduct gives us more detailed guidelines a concern outside the normal reporting a crucial role in setting the example of for specific behaviour. It contains a general channels. NN Group guarantees several how to live our values. Code for all employees, and a Manager rights, including protection from retaliation, Annex describing specific management for an employee who reports a concern As part of our Yearly Engagement Survey responsibilities in raising awareness and in good faith, who provides information, (YES), we ask colleagues if their managers upholding standards. who causes information to be provided, or consistently act as role models when it who otherwise assists in an investigation. comes to living our values, and if they The NN Code of Conduct brings together The main outlines of the Whistleblower feel encouraged to act with integrity. all relevant, conduct-related standards into policy are explained in our Code of Conduct. As demonstrated in the chart below, there a small set of comprehensible documents. Training materials regarding this subject have was a slight decrease compared to 2016, It outlines our standards with regard to issues been developed and made available for all mainly caused by the fact that business such as conflicts of interest, fraud, corruption business units. units are in the process of reorganisation. and Financial Economic Crime (FEC). Organisational implementation In the annual performance evaluation and The renewed NN Code of Conduct came Our values are an integral part of our appraisal of our senior leaders, 50% is based into effect on 1 September 2016. To provide Human Resources policies. Compliance on the extent to which they demonstrate clarity on what is and what is not acceptable with our values is part of our performance behaviour in line with our leadership profile. behaviour, a series of workshops on the management and reward system. NN Code of Conduct were held in 2016 and The Management Board members play continued throughout 2017 for all employees. To ensure we hire employees who fit well an active role in the ‘Living our Values’ The workshops evolved around a dialogue within our organisation, we have made the programme. As in 2016, the Management on what it means to apply both our values values an integral part of our employee value Board Members hosted breakfast, lunch and our NN Code of Conduct in our proposition. A personality/culture matching and coffee meetings during NN Values day‑to‑day activities. tool has been part of the recruitment website week, where colleagues could meet with since 2016. With this self-assessment tool, them in an informal, personal setting for To further empower employees to ask candidates can assess to what extent their an open conversation. questions, Code & Values Desks were set personality and values match the culture up in all our business units and at group level. and values of NN. For our NN traineeship There is continuous formal and informal In the second half of 2017, the business units programme, we look for traits in candidates dialogue between the works councils and confirmed that the Code & Values Desks that correspond with our values. We use a the management representatives for these were in place and that further awareness, special tool called TalentPitch to select this works councils on conduct and culture in if necessary, will be created in 2018. group of employees. the company. Written acknowledgement of the NN Code of Conduct has already been mandatory in several businesses for a number of years, and became mandatory For all new employees, we have an onboarding programme that explains the NN values and the expectation that employees uphold them. In the Netherlands, new employees are 77% of employees feel their manager for NN Group as a whole in the first half also required to take the Oath for Financial consistently acts a a role model of 2017. In May 2017, NN started an annual Institutions, which is fully integrated in when it comes to living our NN values process for acknowledgement of the the ‘NN statement of Living our Values’. (care, clear, commit) Code of Conduct by every employee via the HR system Workday. In October 2017, NN reached an acknowledgement score of almost 100% for internal NN staff. We have started the acknowledgement for external staff and will further Yes results 2017: questions on role models implement this over 2018. I feel encouraged by my 82 12 5 -5 manager to meet our high standards of integrity Positive Neutral Unfavourable 2016 My manager consistently 77 16 8 -4 acts as a role model when it comes to living our NN values Positive Neutral Unfavourable 2016 (care, clear, commit) NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 14 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Our culture Continued Promoting a culture of long-term The charters of the Executive Board, value creation Management Board and Supervisory Board Monitoring performance On 7 September 2017, the revised Dutch have been revised, amongst others to ensure Each year, the Management Board Corporate Governance Code as published in the focus on long-term value creation, and assesses the effectiveness of the December 2016 (the Code) was embedded in to ensure that the stakeholder interests implementation of our ‘Living our Values’ Dutch law. The application of the Code by that are relevant in this context are taken programme and discusses points for NN Group during the financial year 2017 is into account. Future value creation is also improvement. This evaluation is also described in the publication ‘Application of part of the strategic planning cycle, target discussed with the Supervisory Board. the Dutch Corporate Governance Code’ setting and performance management of We established a number of monitoring by NN Group, dated March 2017, which is our leadership. instruments to assess how well our available on the website of NN Group values are embedded in our corporate (see pages 18-27 of the 2017 Financial Embedding conduct and culture culture. The perception of customers Report). An important element of the Code is in our Control Framework and the general public on how we are long-term value creation. The consequences Conduct and culture are embedded in the living our values is measured through of decisions and actions for the company’s design of our Effective Control Framework the Global Brand Health Monitor long-term value creation, and their impact on (ECF) with the purpose of managing (GBHM). Our employee perception is stakeholders, should be given a prominent risks related to improper employee measured through YES. If there is a role in decision-making processes. For NN, conduct and/or the lack of a suitable risk decrease or stagnation in performance, this approach is strongly embedded in culture. Management is in the process of this is reported to and discussed with the ‘NN statement of Living our Values’, implementing controls that enable them to the business units so they can take which emphasises the importance of doing periodically assess and report on the degree appropriate action. business with the future in mind. It articulates to which our employees live our values, that we ‘value long-term objectives over the level of awareness on conduct-related Through YES, our employees can short-term gains’ and ‘carefully balance policies and standards, the degree to which express their opinions on different the interests of our stakeholders’. related processes are adhered to, and our topics, including the extent to which risk culture. we are living our values and acting According to the Code, creating long-term with integrity. The 2017 YES showed value also means companies are expected Values as part of the 85% employee engagement with to take responsibility for the environment Delta Lloyd integration our brand and values, a decrease within which the enterprise operates and The Delta Lloyd core values and the of 1% compared to 2016, which is upon which it has an impact. For NN Group, NN values have a lot in common, focusing considered to be insignificant. this responsibility is an integrated part on honesty, clarity and integrity. From the of our values, our Corporate Citizenship start of the integration, it was determined statements, policies and programmes. that the culture of NN Group, based on In 2017, we took a number of steps to the three NN values, would serve as the ensure long-term value creation for our blueprint for the culture of the combined stakeholders is better reflected in our value-creation model, our refined strategy framework (pages 2-3) and our non-financial KPIs (pages 65-69). In addition, in 2017, company in the Netherlands and Belgium. Therefore, the NN values were introduced as a fundamental part of the integration process. This means they serve as a guide 85% employee engagement with the Management Board and Supervisory throughout the different stages of the our brand and values Board discussed and approved the integration, from employee communications 90% ‘NN Group Human Rights Statement’ and to Human Resources processes, such as the ‘NN Group Environmental Statement’, personnel selection. A multidisciplinary which explain how our business impacts NN/Delta Lloyd workstream was set up to these themes. provide advice and guidance on all aspects of employees feel their team of the integration of Delta Lloyd from a cares about customers and Another element of long-term value values perspective. treats them with respect creation is the management’s awareness and anticipation of new developments in technology and changes in business models. By making innovation part of our strategic priorities, these issues are constantly and thoroughly addressed. Global Brand Health Monitor – Country performance Greece Q4-2017 Q4-2016 Aided brand awareness 65% 49%  ead more about our strategic priorities R Brand trust (customers) 69% 60% on page 24 of this Annual Review. Brand preference (life) 13% 10% You matter company (customers) 73% 69% NPS +37 +21 NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 15 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Our culture Continued As a first step to raise awareness of the This was only five months after the NN values Going forward NN values, all Delta Lloyd employees in the had been introduced. This improvement was Overall employee engagement with our Netherlands and Belgium received several also reflected in the results of the question brand and values remains high – at 85%. emails and video messages from NN Group on knowing what the values mean for the However, we will continue our ‘Living our CEO Lard Friese and Netherlands CEO everyday job. These improvements indicate Values’ programme, based on the concept David Knibbe, informing them about the the success of including the NN values in all of a global theme and a framework for NN values and the importance of common corporate messaging from the start of the local initiatives. We will continue to promote values for the new combined company. transaction and integration process, and and monitor values awareness as part initiatives such as the Values challenge. of the integration process. Furthermore, In addition, we again used the ‘NN Values we will keep investing in the role model challenge’ in the Netherlands and Belgium. The response to the question on how behaviour of managers, as we believe this is This game helps employees to apply our management is living the values during a key component of success in the long term. values in different work-related situations the integration process showed a less and stimulates discussion around the values. favourable trend. Although the percentage 77% of employees who are positive remains In Belgium, 386 NN and Delta Lloyd stable at 54%, the amount of neutral employees participated in special Strategy answers remains high at 33%, indicating and Values dialogue sessions, including employees have not yet made up their favourable employee perception interactive modules on our three values: care, mind. The percentage of employees who on openly discussing consistency clear, commit. disagree did not change significantly, and of actions with values is at 13%. The IMO has addressed this 82% Measuring our progress outcome with the relevant business units. To monitor how well the NN values are used in the integration process, questions on the Code of Conduct and integration values were included in the Hello You survey. Besides dilemma workshops for of our employees feel that This survey monitors whether employees NN employees, a new training programme their colleagues demonstrate are ready, willing and able to embrace the was developed for all Delta Lloyd employees. a high standard of integrity combined company. The awareness of As of the fourth quarter of 2017, NN Group the NN values, what they mean in our Compliance started training all Delta Lloyd everyday work, and how business leaders managers on the Code of Conduct via act on the values during the integration face-to-face workshops supported by a were measured. The results of the third Code of Conduct toolbox. After attending survey in October, compared to the second these workshops, management trains the survey in July (the first time the questions Delta Lloyd employees by organising similar on values were included), showed that face-to-face workshops. The workshops awareness of the NN values amongst for Delta Lloyd employees were held in the Delta Lloyd colleagues improved from 71% to fourth quarter of 2017 and the first quarter 77%. Recognition of NN values in Delta Lloyd of 2018. As of May 2018, all Delta Lloyd was around 75% in the Netherlands and employees will be asked to acknowledge 90% in Belgium in October 2017. the Code of Conduct. Measuring our progress Values questions Combined company NN Group Delta Lloyd I am aware of our values: Hello You 2 (June-July 2017) care, clear, commit Hello You 3 (October 2017) Positive Neutral Negative Positive Neutral Negative Positive Neutral Negative I know what our Hello You 2 values mean for (June-July 2017) my everyday job Hello You 3 (October 2017) Positive Neutral Negative Positive Neutral Negative Positive Neutral Negative In this integration Hello You 2 (June-July 2017) process, the leaders of my BU/Group Function Hello You 3 (October 2017) act according to our Positive Neutral Negative Positive Neutral Negative Positive Neutral Negative values: care, clear, commit NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 16 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Trends and developments Several external factors impact the environment in which the financial services industry operates Despite a persistent low interest rate environment, global economic conditions developed positively, also in the countries in which NN Group is active. At the same time, regulatory, demographic and climate change require the sector to continue to adapt. Rapid progress in digitalisation Growth in Europe, with the exception of The outlook for the medium term is more and changing customer the United Kingdom (due to Brexit), reflects subdued as demographic factors may behaviour continue to transform continued strength in domestic demand, negatively impact future growth. With fertility the competitive landscape. which was supported by monetary conditions rates decreasing and populations ageing, and diminished political risk and policy the working-age population is projected Regulation and measures from uncertainty, as well as an increase in exports. to decline in the coming years, which industry regulators have influenced will put pressure on pension and health the offering of products and services. Economic growth in the Netherlands was care systems. higher in 2017 compared to other mature Combined, these factors imply that the European countries, and is expected to Low interest rates and financial financial services sector as a whole, as remain solid in the coming years. In emerging market stability well as individual companies, needs to and developing Europe (including Turkey), Market sentiment remained strong and formulate efficient and responsible answers short-term growth was significantly above volatility continued to be low in 2017. On the to challenges, in alignment with the interests EU average growth, and growth prospects monetary policy front, the US Federal of customers and other stakeholders. continue to be favourable for 2018. In Japan, Reserve raised short-term interest rates in growth was supported by accommodative March, June and December. In most other Economic and demographic fiscal and monetary policies, and by the advanced economies, the monetary policy changes and outlook strengthening of global demand. stance remained broadly unchanged, with The positive development in global economic the exception of the European Central Bank’s conditions that began in the second half of In the short term, global growth forecasts are (ECB) announcement that it will halve the 2016 gained further momentum in 2017. relatively balanced, with strong consumer pace of its bond-buying asset purchase and business confidence, including in the programme, starting in January 2018. The global economy is stronger than it has euro area. A disadvantage is that substantial been over the past decade. In advanced policy uncertainty remains, reflecting, for In 2017, long-term sovereign bond yields economies, growth momentum was example, difficult-to-predict developments stayed broadly stable in Germany, the broad‑based, with stronger activity in the in US regulatory and fiscal policies, the Netherlands and Japan, and declined by United States, Europe and Japan. potential adoption of trade restrictions, the 20–30 basis points in other EU countries, as Brexit negotiations and geopolitical risks. spreads relative to German yields reduced sharply after the French presidential election. Prices in equity markets have continued to increase due to strong company earnings, high consumer and business confidence, and strong macroeconomic data. As the search for yield intensifies, however, vulnerabilities and market risks increase. Asset valuations are becoming stretched in some markets, as investors accept higher credit and liquidity risk. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 17 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Trends and developments Continued Regulation Competitive landscape Uncertain geopolitical In 2017, consultations started to review Digital innovations will continue to drive developments part of the Solvency II regime. After many change across the financial services In the refinement of business strategies, years of careful designing and planning value chain, particularly in the property financial services companies should take for its implementation, it is important that and casualty (P&C) market and asset due account of other developments, customers, companies, regulators and management industry. This affects product such as ambiguity around geopolitical investors have time to become familiarised development and underwriting, back-office developments, which potentially lead to with how the framework functions. It is operations and online distribution. Social, uncertainties in the economy and markets. important to provide for stable regulation mobile, analytics and cloud technologies The increased frequency and severity of and a level playing field in Europe. In early will become utility assets as insurers major weather events mean that climate 2017, the new IFRS17 standard was published focus on smarter technologies, such as change has enlarged the risks and costs for the valuation of insurance liabilities, artificial intelligence, blockchain and of insurance. Cyber risks to business and which is expected to be implemented in 2021. the Internet of Things. Digitalisation also governments are growing, as events in Together with the already published IFRS9 brings opportunities for financial services 2017 demonstrated, with a sizable increase standard for asset valuation, accounting companies to broaden and deepen product in the impact and sophistication of financially standards are now increasingly based on offerings and increase partnerships with motivated cyber‑attacks on financial market value approaches. insurtech startups. The use of (big) data institutions. A greater reliance on technology, for analysing client propositions offers combined with the interconnectedness In 2017, legislation was proposed by opportunities to strengthen interaction of the global financial system, means that the Dutch Government with regard to with customers and create more intuitive many participants in the system could recovery and resolution planning for partnerships, as well as create better and potentially be at risk. insurance companies in the Netherlands. tailor-made product solutions. Insurers and This legislative process is likely to be asset managers are aware this requires Being prepared to drive change finalised in 2018. Also at a European level, ensuring a proper balance between From this general assessment we the topic of recovery and resolution of individual choices, privacy and solidarity. can conclude that the environment in insurance companies is given attention. which financial services companies Consumer‑related legislation, such as the Changing pension systems operate is prone to continuous change. EU Insurance Distribution Directive (IDD), Low interest rates, digitalisation and the Companies must be agile and well prepared will help insurance firms further improve move to passive investment solutions to deal with and take advantage of the the quality and transparency of information continue to put pressure on the asset opportunities these changes bring. provided to consumers. Also important is management industry. The outlook for life the EU General Data Protection Regulation insurance and pension products differs (GDPR) that will become applicable across countries. On a global scale, life on 25 May 2018. The GDPR will have a insurers have managed to restore profits significant impact, as it will provide for allowing them to retain earnings, raise a truly unified, high and consistent level capital buffers, and adapt their business of protection of personal data within the models in response to the low-yield European Union (a.o.) introducing new rights environment. Also, insurers have been for natural persons and obligations for adjusting their asset mix to higher-yielding organisations that process personal data. and less liquid assets. In the Netherlands, Data protection refers to the protection the market for (individual) life and pension of personal data of individuals and is products is challenging. The new Dutch derived from the right to Privacy. Both the government announced initial ambitions right to privacy and data protection are to reform the second pillar of the pension fundamental human rights. As a large system. The Central and Eastern European financial services company, NN processes (CEE) region maintains significant potential large numbers of (sensitive) personal data for future growth, and witnessed rising of our customers and employees. This places demand for life insurance products and an extra responsibility on us to do our best continued growth of the insurance sector to properly and in a timely manner comply in the region. with the GDPR. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 18 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Understanding and addressing our material topics To earn trust and support, we maintain an open and continuous dialogue with our stakeholders NN considers employees, As a result of the acquisition of Internally, we invited representatives from customers, shareholders, business Delta Lloyd, the first step in our process different business units and relevant staff partners and society at large was the integration of the 2016 materiality functions. During the session, all topics were (including regulators and societal matrices of NN Group and Delta Lloyd. discussed and rated on a scale of one to five. As most topics in the matrices were similar, The process was supported by an external organisations) to be important some topics were integrated. For example, specialised agency to ensure it was balanced stakeholders. We seek their talent attraction and retention and training and independent. feedback on different topics in and development were merged into human order to learn what topics they capital development. The scores of the The materiality matrix was discussed consider important. topics were merged based on the number with NN Group’s Management Board, of employees per organisation. and validated by the Supervisory Board. Identifying the most relevant developments The outcome is reflected in the chart below. and topics within our sector, and the potential In line with the GRI Standards, the x-axis impact they have on our company, is an of the matrix was adjusted from ‘Relevance The most material topics, indicated in the ongoing process, relevant also to our annual to NN’ to ‘NN’s impact on the topic’. This upper right quarter of the matrix, and reporting efforts. The Global Reporting resulted in trends, such as demographic NN Group’s response to them are described Initiative’s (GRI) Sustainability Standards change and low interest rates, ending up in in the next chapter of this Annual Review. define material aspects as those that may the left quartiles of the matrix. Although our Although climate change is placed outside reasonably be considered important for impact on these trends is limited, they are the upper right quarter, we address influencing the decisions of stakeholders, truly relevant to our business and therefore climate change risks and opportunities or reflecting the organisation’s economic, described on pages 17-18 of this Annual Review. in this chapter, and in our response to environmental and social impacts. the recommendations of the Taskforce To validate the outcome of this exercise, Climate‑related Financial Disclosures As in every year, we checked the list of trends we organised a dialogue session with (on pages 58-61). and topics through an analysis of recent laws a group of 20 internal and external and regulations, external research, reporting stakeholders. The latter included investors, R  ead more about the trends that are relevant to our business on pages 17-18. guidelines, benchmarks and peer reports. regulators, NGOs and experts in the area Instead of an extensive survey amongst of sustainability. Read more about the most material topics and our response to them on pages 20-23. internal and external stakeholders, we took a different approach in 2017. Topics recognised as most material by our stakeholders Customers C1 Customer centricity C3 New technologies, digital transformation C2 Innovation and big data High C4 Data privacy and security Good governance G2 G1 Transparency G4 Responsible tax A practices G1 G2 Business Ethics & C1 Compliance G5 Financial performance S2 S3 C4 G3 G3 Risk management Influence on stakeholders S5 C2 S4 G5 Employees G4 B C3 D E1 E1 Diversity and inclusion E3 Human capital C development E2 Employee engagement E E3 Society and environment S1 Financial S3 Responsible investment S1 and economic E2 empowerment S4 Human Rights S2 Sustainable products S5 Climate change and services Macro-economic trends and developments A Low interest rates and C Pension system Low stability of financial markets D Demographic change Low Impact NN Group on topic High B Regulations E Geopolitical developments NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 19 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Understanding and addressing our material topics Continued A number of topics, resulting from the materiality assessment and our own analysis, impact the financial services industry and our company Material topics Customers C1 C2 Customer centricity and innovation The fundamental need of people to protect themselves against For example, in the Netherlands, we have defined life’s uncertainties will continue to drive growth in the insurance ‘Next Best Actions’. These are relevant and personal propositions industry over the long term. But we are living in a new world: people that we offer during our contact with our customers. are increasingly independent. They expect, and are used to, We use a self‑learning engine to determine the most suitable financial services companies delivering 24/7, no threshold access, recommendations, resulting in higher customer satisfaction through any means or device. A company’s business model and the and improved cross-sell ratios. way it offers products and services must support this. Cultivating the right innovation mindset is key to ensuring that Innovation and digitalisation contribute to the further optimisation we have the necessary agility to deliver truly customer-oriented of product development and distribution capabilities. At the same solutions and shorten the time to market. Our six international time, they change the competitive landscape in our industry with innovation labs – Sparklabs – provide an out-of-office environment new, non-traditional entrants. The result is an intensified focus to foster innovative ideas and infuse innovative thinking into our on customers’ needs, and a need for new and improved ways to company. In 2017, we had more than 120 experiments (sparks) service them. in our innovation pipeline. When new start-up products or services become successful, we may integrate them into our Opportunities and risks regular businesses. Customers are willing to consider products and services that offer something different from traditional savings and pension models. We also believe that innovating our customer experience is They do, however, continue to demand transparency and prudent supported by connecting with relevant partners. An example is management of their investments. our strategic partnership with Hesapkurdu.com, the leading online loan aggregator for mortgages and consumer loans in Turkey. Companies need to decide where they want to invest in order This partnership provides for the exclusive distribution to engage with their customers and build an ecosystem that of NN Hayat ve Emeklilik’s life and pension products for a period facilitates customer contact. By doing this correctly and of 15 years. efficiently, a real competitive advantage can be obtained. Continuous feedback and interaction with customers is needed to Since March 2017, we have been a key partner in the design easy-to-understand products that anticipate their future Dutch Blockchain Coalition, a public-private consortium aimed needs, and that are priced at customers’ expectations. Drivers for at applying blockchain technology in Dutch society. customer satisfaction are not only price and service, but also contributing to a more sustainable society and the quality of  ead more about our innovation efforts to create the customer R experience of tomorrow on pages 35-38 of this Annual Review. interaction moments. Our response We want to be the intuitive partner for our customers when it comes to planning their financial futures. This can take many forms, including digitalisation, developing new products to anticipate changing customer demands and finding new ways to distribute our products. Innovation takes place within the business units, by improving our existing offering, process and services to create a digital, personal and relevant customer experience. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 20 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Understanding and addressing our material topics Continued Material topics Customers Continued C3 C4 New technology and data privacy New technologies continue to impact the digitalisation of society, Through education and awareness, security strategies are which is fundamentally changing the behaviours, needs and implemented at all levels of the organisation. Examples are periodic requirements of customers. The increased availability and sharing instructions to all employees on how data are to be stored and of data enables companies to improve the way they develop managed, phishing security tests, and awareness campaigns on and offer tailor-made and personalised products and services. password protection. We constantly perform security scans and The expectation is that a variety of breakthrough technologies are employ security guidelines which our businesses must meet to set to spur a fundamental transformation of the financial services properly protect data. industry, such as blockchain, cloud computing, the Internet of Things, telematics, drones and artificial intelligence. With this We work closely with various partners such as universities, comes increased risk and exposure to cyber crime activities and law enforcement, other financial institutions, Team High Tech unwanted privacy breaches. Cybercrime (THTC) and the National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) to support our own cyber security initiatives such Opportunities and risks as the Dutch Cyber Collective (www.nederlandscybercollectief.nl) Financial services companies are investing in new digital platforms and other business innovations. to facilitate connectivity and benefit from these new technologies. At the same time, they possess large amounts of payment data R  ead more about our how we approach new technology and data privacy in the business segment chapters on or personal information about their customers. Therefore security pages 28-34 of this Annual Review. awareness and data protection are vitally important. Attacks on financial services companies can have a major impact, such as claims and lawsuits, but also a loss of trust, driven by The EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) customers’ concerns about whether their information is truly safe. Ensuring proper information security and data privacy is an A major breach can seriously impact a company’s reputation important element of the GDPR. The GDPR will become and brand. applicable in the European Union on 25 May 2018. It aims to give citizens more control over their personal data and will for Our response the first time unify all data protection legislation across Europe. Protecting financial and customer data is a key component in our daily business operations. We make every effort to provide Under the GDPR, customers have enhanced rights, for optimal security and ensure confidentiality of our customers’ data example, the ‘right of access’, meaning that we should be and transactions. Cyber security is an integral part of our risk able to respond within a month to any customer’s request for management strategy, both internally and externally. information about the why, what and which of their personal data being processed by NN. We invest in information security and data privacy and have dedicated security teams, consisting of more than 100 security The GDPR is in line with our ‘NN statement of Living our professionals and our Chief Information Security Officer, Values’, which states that we use our knowledge responsibly, with support from our NN Security Operation Centre (SoC). keep confidential what is entrusted to us and communicate They collaborate with Business Unit Security Officers to provide proactively and honestly. NN has processes in place to 24/7 protection for our customers and our organisation against safeguard personal data, and currently our businesses current and emerging cyber threats. We work with well-known are busy implementing additional measures to properly certification authorities. We use encryption and authentication and timely comply with this regulation. A central NN GDPR mechanisms to secure online communication and transactions. programme has been installed to manage the consistency and coordination of the implementation across our European businesses. All European businesses will appoint a Data Protection Officer (DPO). Through a mandatory e-learning course, all employees will learn about the basic principles of privacy/data protection and what is expected of them. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 21 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Understanding and addressing our material topics Continued Material topics Good governance G1 G2 Business ethics and transparency Several factors play a role in the success of a company that are Dutch unit-linked products beyond the scope of customer centricity and generating good In the Netherlands, unit-linked products have received financial returns alone. Business ethics and being transparent negative public attention since the end of 2006. We have are crucial for ensuring long-term success. Customers ask for taken this criticism to heart, as our aim is to support our transparent products and services that are easy to understand customers as best we can. In recent years, Dutch insurance and also have a positive impact on society and the environment, subsidiaries of NN Group have made significant progress enabling them to make the right choices. They increasingly care in reaching out to individual customers who purchased about how companies integrate sustainability aspects into their unit‑linked products in the past, addressing vulnerable business and product offerings. Businesses must be committed customer groups as a priority (‘activeren’). to operating from a transparent and ethical foundation as it relates to the treatment of employees, respect to the environment, and fair To date, Dutch insurance subsidiaries of NN Group have market practices in terms of pricing and consumer treatment. reached out to 100% of customers with a unit-linked policy. We encouraged all customers to carefully assess their Opportunities and risks unit-linked products in order to enable them to address The reputation of a business among stakeholders is paramount their personal situation and offered customers the option in determining whether a company is a reliable supplier of to switch to another product or make changes to their products or a worthwhile investment. If a company is perceived policy free of charge. to not operate transparently or ethically, customers are less inclined to buy its products and investors to buy its stock. As at 31 December 2017, the portfolios of Dutch insurance Consistent ethical behaviour and transparency can contribute subsidiaries of NN Group comprised approximately to a positive public image. 500,000 active policies. Dutch subsidiaries of NN Group will continue to support customers with a unit-linked policy Our response by providing aftercare. In a limited number of cases Our values guide our interactions with our stakeholders, and (less than 1,000), Dutch insurance subsidiaries of NN Group embody responsible business conduct and corporate citzenship. have settled disputes with individual customers. These are They are published in our ‘NN statement of Living our Values’. tailor-made solutions. A limited number of individual Additionally, the NN Code of Conduct gives more detailed customers and several consumer protection organisations guidelines for specific behaviour. Written acknowledgement have initiated legal proceedings against Dutch insurance of the Code has been mandatory for NN Group since the first subsidiaries of NN Group. half of 2017, and needs to be acknowledged annually by all Read more on pages 117-119 of the Financial Report (Note 43). employees. Two other standards that guide us in our activities are the ‘NN Group Human Rights Statement’ and the ‘NN Group Environmental Statement’. Before introducing new products and services, they go through our product approval and review process (PARP). We review our product range regularly to ensure G5 Financial performance that they meet our customer, compliance, risk, capital and profitability requirements. We strive to manage all our assets, Prudent financial management is NN Group’s main driver to in an environmentally and socially responsible way, by integrating maintain a strong balance sheet. This is key to absorbing market environmental, social and governance (ESG) aspects in our volatility and ensuring NN Group and our operating entities investment processes. are sufficiently capitalised at all times. This is how we ensure good financial performance, keeping our customers’ money safe and R  ead more about our values on pages 13-16 and responsible business standards on page 26 of this Annual Review. generating attractive returns. For 2017, our Solvency II ratio and cash capital position remained robust, at 199% and G3 Risk and capital management EUR 1,434 million respectively, in line with our disciplined approach to managing our capital. Our operating performance NN Group’s role is to support customers in building and protecting was strong, with the operating result of the ongoing business at their assets and covering their risks. Our risk and capital EUR 1,586 million. Our total Assets under Management increased management activities seek to keep the company safe and to EUR 246 billion. profitable, in the interest of our stakeholders. NN Group adapts our risk management practices to new developments to ensure R  ead more about how we manage our balance sheet on pages 39-40 of this Annual Review, and page 37 of the Financial Report. the business operates in a controlled way. F  or more information, refer to the ‘Core skills that enable our strategy’ chapter on pages 25-27 of this Annual Review, and the ‘Risk management’ in our Financial Report on pages 129-158 (Note 50). NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 22 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Understanding and addressing our material topics Continued Material topics Society and environment S3 Climate change S3 Responsible investment Although not recognised as the most material topic by our Our Responsible Investment Policy Framework sets out our stakeholders, we believe it is evident that climate change vision and approach on Responsible Investment (RI), which impacts our businesses. As one of the biggest challenges facing we define as the integration of environmental, social and the world today, we can already see the effects of climate governance (ESG) aspects in our investment processes change with weather events such as windstorms, drought and and ownership practices. NN Investment Partners (NN IP) sea level rise. The UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate formalised its commitment to Responsible Investment Change has predicted that if average global temperatures by signing the United Nations-supported Principles for increase more than 2°C this century, these events will become Responsible Investment in 2008. NN IP has since made the more frequent and severe, posing a significant threat to consideration of ESG factors an integral part of its investment livelihoods and the wellbeing of society. This underlines the need decisions, in the conviction that these may impact both risks to take urgent action to meet the goals of the Paris Agreement to and returns. For clients who want to take sustainability a step keep a global temperature rise this century to a maximum of 2°C, further, NN IP also offers specialised Socially Responsible and striving for 1.5°C, above pre-industrial levels. Investment (SRI) strategies and tailor‑made RI solutions. Risks and opportunities  or more information, please refer to the chapter on responsible F investment on pages 41-44 of this Annual Review. We are exposed to climate risks primarily through our non-life insurance policies, which cover damage caused by weather events such as windstorms or hail, and through our investment holdings in companies which may be affected by tightening regulation, technological developments and changing consumer preferences. At the same time, climate change creates opportunities for the development of new products and investments that contribute to climate change solutions for ourselves and for the clients and beneficiaries on behalf of whom we invest. Our response We manage our greenhouse gas emissions to mitigate the impacts of our direct operations and are a carbon-neutral company. We further improve our understanding of climate risks to provide adequate protection for our customers through our insurance products, while managing the risks posed to our investment portfolio, and using our influence and expertise to encourage investee companies to play their part in the transition to a lower‑carbon economy. We believe that collaboration is important to tackle climate change. In 2017, we strengthened our network by joining the Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change. NN Investment Partners, our asset manager, endorsed the ‘Letter from Global Investors to Governments of the G7 and G20 nations’ urging them to stand by the Paris Agreement, and expanded its engagement on climate risk by joining the collaborative Climate Action 100+ initiative. To further understand and manage the risks and opportunities of climate change, it is important that the quality and availability of climate-related financial disclosures continue to improve. NN Group therefore endorsed the recommendations of the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and made steps to integrate them in our own reporting. F  or our response to the TCFD, refer to pages 58-61 of this Annual Review. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 23 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Our strategy and priorities The strong foundation of our purpose, brand, values and ambition, combined with a focus on our strategic priorities, enables us to create long-term value This is how we deliver on our ambition to be a respected company that truly matters in the lives of our stakeholders. Underpinning our strategy are four medium-term strategic priorities. % Disciplined capital Innovate our Agile and cost-efficient Value-added allocation business and operating model products and our industry services Addressing material topics, see page 19 G4 G5 C2 C3 G5 C2 G5 C1 G5 S1 S2 Capital generated in excess Our drive to innovate is To secure long-term growth, The core of our business of NN Group’s capital ambition about enhancing customer we invest in making our model is to help people carry will be returned to shareholders, satisfaction, intuitive interaction organisation more efficient risks that they cannot bear unless it can be used for and simultaneously driving and agile. Our operating model alone, providing protection for other appropriate corporate efficiency. We continually aims to further stimulate a what matters most to them. purposes, including investments look for new ways to meet our culture of entrepreneurship As such, we offer life insurance in value-creating opportunities. customers’ needs and keep up and accountability, and is products to protect people We continuously perform with the changing dynamics based on clear responsibilities, against the financial risk of living strategic assessments of each of the markets. We improve streamlined decision-making a long life without sufficient of our businesses within the our existing product portfolio, and simplified governance. means of support, or dying at NN Group portfolio. processes and services to an early age. In some markets, create a digital, personal and Going forward, we are we also offer non-life products In the Netherlands and Belgium, relevant customer experience. executing our IT roadmap not to protect the assets that matter our focus is on successfully only to support innovation, but to our customers, and savings integrating Delta Lloyd into Going forward, we need also to increase our efficiency. and investment products to NN Group and extracting the to further accelerate our Our IT roadmap is built on ensure their long-term income. envisaged synergies. innovation efforts. For example, three pillars: speed, quality by embedding new ways of and craftsmanship. Going forward, we want Internationally, our primary working within our organisation, our customer service and focus is on organic growth. increasing our portfolio of Another element is moving to responsiveness to be available We are also open to merger options, and creating new a more agile way of working 24/7, through any channel and acquisition opportunities partnerships within the by empowering colleagues customers want to engage and portfolio optimisation. innovation ecosystems in and removing silos, allowing with us. Any acquisitions will be which we operate. them to reduce time to market subject to strict financial and increase customer and non-financial criteria to responsiveness. Based on pilots assess the attractiveness currently running in our Insurance of these opportunities. International businesses, we aim to implement this concept in more of our operations.  ead more on how our strategy is being implemented across R our key segments on pages 28-34 of this Annual Review. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 24 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Core skills that enable our strategy We invest in our core skills to enable our businesses to deliver on our strategy Multi-access Advanced Partnerships and distribution underwriting and collaboration use of technology Addressing material topics, see page 19 C2 C3 C1 S2 What we do What we do What we do We are there where our customers want Underwriting and technology usage We approach our partnerships as a us to be. We operate via agents, brokers, are essential to the insurance business. means to create strategic, mutually banks and direct servicing, allowing our Our underwriters perform a variety of roles beneficial opportunities and connections. customers to choose how and when they that are needed to understand, manage We generate economic activity by interact with us. It is a personal approach, and price risks. Together with our actuarial purchasing products and services from with relevant products and services department, our underwriters determine local suppliers, in addition to regional and delivered to customers through their the level of premiums that we need to global suppliers. Also in our community preferred channel. charge to insure our clients. We use investment activities, we work closely technology and data analytics to create with charitable partners to maximise our How this helps to create value personal and relevant products and impact. Our relationships with partners Each of our business units offers its own services for our customers. and suppliers are based on our NN values. products and services via a multi-channel approach. We share knowledge, data How this helps to create value How this helps to create value analytics and talent-creating synergies By using technology and data analytics As a financial services company, NN Group between our different businesses. to identify our customers’ needs and is committed to further improving the Our scale enables us to achieve lower demands, we improve our product designs. operating performance of our business costs per customer and invest in digital This allows us to move to a more dataunits. For example, in Japan we now capabilities and building new channels. driven business model, decreasing costs have a long-term, beneficial partnership and increasing customer satisfaction. with Sumitomo Life. Its sales network What we do differently of about 35,000 agents can offer their In the Netherlands, we are an omnichannel What we do differently customers NN Life Japan’s innovative COLI company offering products through our Following the concept of our products. This partnership also contributes digital and offline channels, direct writers, Advanced Data Analytics Lab in the substantially to NN Japan Life’s sales. via exclusive agreements with partners Netherlands, we are building a and via (mandated) brokers. We combine Data Analytics and Underwriting Hub What we do differently this with a strong brand and high brand in Prague, Czech Republic, serving the We want to be an intuitive partner for our preference, which is important in today’s international businesses. This will enhance customers when it comes to planning digital world. our customer segmentation, improve our their financial futures. We find new ways pricing and claims, and identify and grow to distribute our products via partners Internationally, our focus is on building more profitable segments. in and outside the financial sector. our bancassurance relationships as For example, Nationale-Nederlanden a key growing channel and increasing To further drive the delivery on Poland launched a partnership with Play, the productivity of our tied agents. underwriting improvement plans in our the largest telecom provider in the country, We significantly increased the proportion businesses, we launched the International providing dedicated health products of new business sales conducted Underwriting Programme. With this (heart and cancer insurance) through digitally with straight-through processing, programme, we aim to drive sustainable its newly launched insurance market introduced the concept of 100% paperless competitive advantage through enhanced platform, ‘Play Insurance’. Play customers sales processes and started to issue underwriting capabilities. Furthermore, will be able to buy health insurance product policies on demand in real time. we are executing our IT roadmap to drive through the Play smartphone app, making We have agreed distribution partnerships innovation and increase efficiency. We are NN products available to over 14 million with banks across Europe and Japan, investing in new technologies, such as Play customers. By forging partnerships where we have been selected as preferred cloud, robotics and machine learning. outside the financial sector, we can drive partner because of our product offering our innovation of the customer experience and customer service levels. in new ways. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 25 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Core skills that enable our strategy Continued Talented and Responsible Risk and capital empowered business management employees standards capabilities Addressing material topics, see page 19 E1 E2 E3 S1 G1 G2 G4 S1 S2 S4 S5 G3 What we do What we do What we do NN Group is committed to maintaining We are committed to doing business in Risk taking is integral to the business a caring, healthy, diverse and respectful a way that is consistent with our values, model for insurance, asset management workplace in which people can work and which embody responsible business and banking organisations such as thrive. NN Group’s ambition to become conduct and corporate citizenship. The NN Group. Through our Risk and Capital more agile, and to place customer-driven ‘NN statement of Living our Values’ is the Management practices, we seek to innovation at the core of our business foundation for all internal policies and meet our obligations to customers and model, drives our efforts to empower our standards. Two other corporate standards creditors, ensure the business operates people and to support an entrepreneurial that guide us in our activities are the in a controlled manor, manage our capital culture. We facilitate training, internships ‘NN Group Human Rights Statement’ and efficiently and comply with applicable and assignments to provide our people the ‘NN Group Environmental Statement’. laws and regulations. with the opportunity to find out what These statements also reflect our career steps are feasible and suitable for endorsement of international general How this helps to create value them in the future. standards and sector-specific standards, NN Group is in the business of taking such as the UN Global Compact, the and pooling risks for the benefit How this helps to create value Principles for Responsible Investment and of our customers. We operate in a Our operating model aims to further the Principles for Sustainable Insurance; systematic and disciplined way, based stimulate a culture of entrepreneurship all supported by the United Nations. on agreed risk management principles. and accountability within NN, and is based Specific risk oversight is also provided on clear responsibilities, streamlined How this helps to create value by risk management teams that have decision-making and simplified The statements, guidelines and standards the objective of protecting NN Group’s governance. We pay our employees set out our approach to different topics financial and capital value, and preventing attractive salaries and benefits. We invest in our roles as an employer, an insurer, the risk of businesses falling short on in our people by offering training and a business partner, an investor and a our customer promises and long-term development. Not only to allow our people corporate citizen. business objectives. to be at their best within NN and to optimally serve our customers and other In our role as investor, for example, we What we do differently stakeholders, but also to ensure personal responsibly manage our own assets, as Our philosophy is built on a risk control and professional development in the well as those our customers entrust to cycle and a comprehensive framework longer term. Furthermore, we strive to have us. By integrating environmental, social that outlines our risk appetite. We have a workforce that reflects the markets in and governance (ESG) aspects in our formulated three key risk appetite which we operate. investment process, we optimise the risk/ statements for the areas of strategic return profile of our portfolios. Beyond this challenges, a strong balance sheet and What we do differently economic rationale, NN Group believes sound business performance. These are Our values and our brand mantra that the consideration of these issues further detailed in nine sub‑statements ‘You matter’ are the compass for the way is also a matter of good corporate that are used for internal steering. we attract, retain and develop our people. citizenship. This means that not only the We work systematically, aim for values and interests of our beneficiaries completeness and document what we should be taken into account, but also do. Each risk analysis performed is shared those of the broader society. with the responsible management. What we do differently All relevant standards can be linked to our values. We consider the interests of different stakeholders in the way we do business, in our role as an insurer, investor, employer and as a business partner. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 26 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Core skills that enable our strategy Continued At NN Group, we perform a yearly risk assessment to identify and assess the top risks for our company The 2017 process resulted in the following top risks for NN Group. These top risks are not ranked Adapting our longer-term business As a pension provider, we address the in any particular order. model to the changing world in a risk of longevity, which currently is the timely manner is managed through largest quantifiable risk concentration. Financial market exposure relates to NN Group’s strategy process and We are planning further longevity hedges to adverse market movements and volatility. related Business Planning cycle. transfer part of the risk, and seek relief in the A well-diversified portfolio, a natural The Chief Innovation Officer channels longer term by rebalancing our portfolio. hedge with our liabilities and specific hedging and supports innovation initiatives. programmes aim to keep this risk within Client and product suitability refers to set limits. Like many other companies, NN Group the risk that products do not cover clients’ may be an (in)direct target of cyberinterests over the full lifetime against a Related is the risk of instability of the attacks. Cyber security threats are reasonable price. A product approval and Eurozone/EU. Instability could lead to difficult to manage. Data-sets and review process ensures products meet dislocation of financial markets, failing bank services are accumulated in the our criteria. systems, an uncertain business environment, cloud. This generates risks caused by recession or geo-political instability. cyber‑attacks or power outages. Just like any large organisation, we have a risk of ineffective operations and related inefficiencies, which can lead to slow or incorrect decision-making, a cost base that is too high, and reputational damage. Without attracting and retaining the right people, the ability to effectively manage our business for sustainable success will be compromised. Good talent management is crucial to attract, retain and develop world-class talent. We invest proactively in development throughout the careers of our employees. Integrating two large companies like NN and Delta Lloyd is by nature a complex task that comes with risks. A dedicated Integration Management Office helps to ensure a timely and well-controlled integration process. R  ead more on pages 129-158 of the Financial Report (Note 50). We invest our assets responsibly. By incorporating environmental, social and governance (ESG) aspects, we optimise the risk-return profile of our assets.  ead more on pages 41-44 of this R Annual Review. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 27 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Delivering on our strategy Netherlands Digital, Personal, Relevant By joining forces with Delta Lloyd, we strengthened our leading position in the Dutch market. Our strategy in action in 2017 The increased scale and strong In Life, we offer pension solutions in market position of Netherlands both defined benefits (DB) and defined enable us to improve our customer contribution (DC), with and without Disciplined capital experience, drive efficiency and guarantees, delivered through efficient allocation IT platforms. Our increase in sales of We joined forces with Delta Lloyd, deliver on cross-sell ambitions. DC products, which have lower capital delivering on value-creating In the Netherlands, we offer our products requirements, contributed to managing the opportunities and services under the following brand liability risks of the Life business. The full-year Innovate our business names: Nationale-Nederlanden, Delta Lloyd, operating result increased to EUR 896 million and industry Movir, AZL, OHRA and BeFrank, as well as from EUR 710 million in 2016. In line with our strategic focus via our ABN AMRO Insurance joint venture to become more digital, we and our partnership with ING. We build and In Non-life, we increased our Net Promoter introduced several new concepts capitalise on our leading market position with Score and achieved our expense targets. and services, for example our ‘Digital, Personal, Relevant’ strategy: The full-year operating result of Non-life ‘Bundelz’, ‘Gappie’ and ‘Brickler’ • Digital: products and channels that decreased from EUR 62 million in 2016 to customers prefer EUR 30 million in 2017, mainly attributable A  gile and cost-efficient • Personal: knowing and engaging with to lower results in Disability & Accident, operating model customers based on available data partly compensated by improved Property Increasing efficiency is at the • Relevant: offering the right solution, at the & Casualty results. We aim to improve our core of our strategy right time, to the right customers combined ratio to a level of 97% or lower, % Value-added products through a clear road map, including expense and services These are the building blocks that we reductions (~20%), premium adjustments, We are strengthening our believe will create a consistent, omnichannel portfolio rationalisation, investments in data, distribution channels for example customer experience, through the offering and strengthened underwriting capabilities. by supporting our distribution of innovative solutions, delivered by an partners with ’Next Best Actions’ organisation that operates efficiently. The full-year operating result of Netherlands’ to customers banking business was EUR 124 million. Our general progress in 2017 The mortgage portfolio of the banking In 2017, we improved our customer business increased to EUR 17.6 billion, and experience, became more digital and the customer savings portfolio increased introduced innovative products and services. by EUR 4 billion to EUR 14.1 billion. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 28 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Delivering on our strategy Netherlands Continued Delivering on NN Group’s processes and introducing robotics to support Strategic focus for the year ahead strategic priorities processes in existing legacy environments. Going forward, our focus will remain on the integration with Delta Lloyd and unlocking Disciplined capital OHRA introduced online claims filing. the potential of the combined company. allocation Since its launch, almost half of all claims Our large customer base provides the We continue to allocate capital rationally. have been submitted digitally, and customers opportunity to build a substantial online As a first priority, we ensure that our now have online insight into the status of platform for financial services. The starting businesses have the capital they need to these claims. The percentage of questions point is to offer our products and services realise their strategy. At the same time, we concerning claim status reduced from 29% through our existing channels, expanding want them to keep improving their market and in 2016 to 16% in 2017. to offerings from and via potentially third business positions, whether that be in terms of parties, in order to create new business efficiency, growth or return on capital. By the end of 2020, the combined company opportunities. To take advantage of intends to deliver an overall expense opportunities that are arising in different In 2017, NN Group joined forces with reduction of EUR 350 million for all business market spaces, we are focusing on three key Delta Lloyd. Our increased scale makes us units in scope of the integration, including innovation areas: cybersecurity, carefree more competitive. In the Netherlands, the Belgium, Asset Management and Holding/ retirement and vitality. Startup techniques Nationale-Nederlanden business units will Corporate activities. Reductions will be are used to explore these new opportunities. integrate the activities of Delta Lloyd Life, realised through integration synergies, Non-life and Bank in its current organisations. simplifying the IT landscape and moving to the cloud, variabilising/lowering fixed .  I nnovate our business expenses through an agile way of working, and industry and continuing to invest in digital capabilities. To increase its commercial strength, NN Life uses predictive analytics algorithms. Closed Read more about how we are supporting 1.5 million ‘Next Best Actions’ book operations are robotised to lower unit employees who are directly affected by We are strengthening distribution organisational changes as a result of the costs in line with the declining portfolio. integration process on pages 45-47 of this channels through improved Annual Review. service leveraging. NN Non-life reduces its claims ratio in Property and Casualty (P&C) through % Value-added products For example, we provide ‘Next Best deploying an innovative IT system. Based on and services Actions’ (NBAs) for our customers, big data and artificial intelligence, the system In line with the strategic focus to become giving them relevant purchase or enables Non‑life to scout, match and find more digital, personal and relevant, service suggestions through our online, stolen property on the internet. If the cost of Netherlands introduced several new email and call channels. claims due to theft is reduced substantially, it products, services and initiatives. can lead to lower premiums for the customer. In addition, we serve our intermediaries We have been further improving our online by creating relevant NBAs in the online Sparklab, Non-life’s innovation lab, launched portal and app to address most customers’ intermediary portal adviseur.nn.nl, for a variety of initiatives in 2017. For example, needs. Customers can access their personal them to use when advising their clients. ‘Bundelz’ is the first prepaid car insurance and policy details, make changes, see So if a customer calls us, for example, for drivers who only drive occasionally, or for documents, interact with NN and receive about car insurance, the intermediary short distances. ‘Gappie’ is an app customers customer service through digital portals. can follow up with a relevant can use to buy on-demand car insurance product extension. when borrowing a car from family or friends. ABN AMRO Verzekeringen, the joint venture of NN Group (51%) and ABN AMRO Bank These specific suggestions are based NN Bank, together with several key partners, (49%), was ranked best insurer by Dutch on customer profiles and behavioural is actively participating in a pilot to process magazine Management Team and achieved data. In 2017, over 1.5 million NBAs mortgage applications through blockchain. a top three position in all three categories: were proposed. NBAs are continuously This pilot aims to increase process efficiency customer focus, product leadership and tested for relevance, improved and customer satisfaction, and decrease excellent implementation. and scaled. fraud risk The Dutch Cyber Collective, an NN initiative  gile and cost-efficient A supporting SMEs to reduce cybercrime, operating model launched ‘Cyberwacht’, an emergency Increasing efficiency is at the core of our service for hacked companies. ‘Cyberwacht’ ‘Digital, Personal, Relevant’ strategy. To realise limits damage, investigates causes and this, NN Life is reducing the number of platforms removes malicious software. used for administration, and has split the pension organisation into a new business ‘Brickler’ is an online platform that makes domain and a services domain, to create buying and selling a house easier. Brickler is more agility. We outsourced business and part of NN Bank, but is being developed IT processes in order to bring in expertise outside the existing organisaton, according and variabilise expenses for closed block to the lean startup methodology. portfolios. We are moving to straight through NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 29 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Delivering on our strategy Continued International Insurance Accelerating growth and generating value International Insurance operates in 11 countries across Europe and Japan. In Central and Eastern Europe, we are a leader in Life and Pensions. In Japan, we are a top player in corporate-owned life insurance for smalland medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). Our strategy in action in 2017 International Insurance has a Efforts to innovate and develop new strong, growing and profitable protection propositions across all markets Disciplined capital portfolio. were intensified with a focus on engaging allocation our customers through digital channels Capital is allocated to those To accelerate growth, we aim to set at times when it really matters. This has product lines where good ourselves apart in terms of the levels of led to improved engagement and high value of new business margins engagement and service we provide to Net Promoter Scores (NPS). In addition, are generated our customers. One way we are achieving it has allowed us to be even more efficient. this is by continually investing in new, This has also resulted in lower lapses and Innovate our business innovative, modular protection propositions capturing maturing policyholders. and industry and by cross-market collaboration. Significant steps were taken to Product proposition principles are developed Delivering on NN Group’s develop an innovation-driven to identify and serve customers in an strategic priorities mindset across all markets increasingly personal and relevant way. A  gile and cost-efficient Disciplined capital operating model Our general progress in 2017 allocation We are adapting our businesses To strengthen our footprint in Europe Capital is allocated to those product lines for our customers and partners and Japan, the focus in 2017 was on where good value of new business (VNB) through new ways of working continuing to build bancassurance margins are generated. In particular, there is relationships and on transforming the strong progress in selling a greater proportion % Value-added products productivity of the tied agent channel. of protection business where margins and services remain healthy and we are introducing new Our focus on meeting the NN Life Japan entered into a distribution compelling propositions. In the savings evolving needs of customers agreement with Sumitomo Life, which started business, capital light products represent was strengthened through selling NN Life Japan’s products in April 2017 88% of total sales. In addition, the capital tied new tailor-made products through its nationwide network of 35,000 up in low-return back books will be reduced. and services agents. International Insurance expanded its distribution through partnerships with banks Good financial discipline and a relentless in Greece, Poland, Japan, Turkey, Czech focus on customer service and profitable Republic, Slovakia and Bulgaria. growth have led to an acceleration in the scale of our businesses in Japan, Poland and across Central and Eastern Europe. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 30 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Delivering on our strategy International Insurance Continued We expanded the distribution of our products NN Poland developed the ‘Banca IT’ Strategic focus for through new bancassurance relationships platform with comprehensive capabilities the year ahead and partnership agreements. In Greece, we and products (life and non-life) for To further accelerate growth and renewed the bancassurance agreement with bancassurance. The platform facilitates generate value, we will continue investing Piraeus Bank. flexible and quick time-to-market for new in new protection propositions and in product launches. bancassurance distribution, as well as in A specific example of capital allocation improving our underwriting capabilities, and the strengthening of the company is NN Hungary launched a comprehensive agile better data analytics, and in emerging NN Belgium’s joining of forces with transformation programme. The objective capabilities such as digitalisation and Delta Lloyd Belgium. was to strengthen our capability to promptly organisational agility. These investments react to the frequently changing business are optimised and enabled through  I nnovate our business and legal environment. NN Hungary also convergent technology and platforms. and industry launched ‘Green Lane’ for three single Innovation is also a strategic priority in products. The project aims at a total automation This will not only enable us to improve the International Insurance. In 2017, significant of policy issuance, without any human overall value proposition and interact with steps were taken to improve our innovationintervention after the submission of the our customers when and how they want, driven mindset across all markets. e-application. It was expanded to regular but also drive higher levels of customer premium products and sales to existing clients. engagement. Ultimately this will deliver The Sparklab innovation concept, which a larger and happier customer base. was pioneered in the Netherlands, has now % Value-added products been copied in five international markets: and services Japan, Poland, Hungary, Spain and Turkey. Over the course of 2017, the focus on The objective of Sparklab is to work on meeting the evolving needs of customers disruptive thinking where we can experiment was strengthened through new tailorwith new ideas, test and learn quickly. made products and services. For example, Each Sparklab focuses on a different theme. Nationale-Nederlanden Spain launched ‘Plan For example, in Japan we are working on Creciente Empresas’, a growing guarantee ‘Stela’ – innovating our the SME ecosystem, in Hungary on wellness concept for the employee benefits market. business model concepts that complement our current value It is a unit-linked product that offers the NN Insurance Czech Republic and propositions, and in Turkey on disrupting possibility of attractive returns in the long Slovakia have the ambition to become online distribution. term, while limiting potential losses, thanks to a leader of digitalisation in our sector. an innovative financial protection system. An important initiative to improve Sparklab Turkey partnered with the leading the customer experience is ‘Stela’. Turkish online loan aggregator Hesapkurdu.com. A few years ago, NN Romania upgraded This is a salesforce-based platform The exclusive partnership with this fintech some protection products (term, critical which offers customers real-time, startup gives us the opportunity to reach and illness, fixed indemnity health riders) to individualised offerings. ‘Stela’ achieves serve their two million unique users online. return a percentage of the premium when this through combining a significantly no claim is made in a fixed period. This had upgraded broker portal, sales and lead A non-Sparklab initiative is the creation a positive impact on customer experience management, and straight through of a data analytics and underwriting hub at the purchase moment. In 2017, clients processing (STP), together with in Prague, Czech Republic, serving the with fixed indemnity health riders who had underwriting improvements. In addition, international businesses. This will enhance made no claim in the fixed period were, for it supports the decommissioning of customer segmentation, improve pricing and the first time, entitled to a premium return. multiple legacy systems. The platform claims and help the business to identify and The feature minimises the perception is a cloud-based Salesforce/Vlocity grow in larger, more profitable segments. of some customers that an un-claimed solution and will change the way we insurance product is poor value. It is also sell, the way we market and the way we  gile and cost-efficient A perceived as a saving. The positive impact support our business. operating model has been measured in the NPS for the To facilitate agile working and cost efficiency, anniversary touch point. NN Life Japan developed and released ‘Tamotsu-kun’, a premium calculation app designed for iPhone/iPad. With ‘Tamotsukun’, the marketing and sales teams are able to accurately calculate the premium for a proposal anytime and anywhere. This enables them to deliver a more compelling and specific proposal for customers, and accelerate the sales process. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 31 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Delivering on our strategy Continued Asset Management Increased focus on core investment capabilities NN Investment Partners is NN Group’s asset manager, with strong multi-asset and fixed-income capabilities. Our products are sold around the world. Our strategy in action in 2017 NN Investment Partners To support the shift from defined benefit (NN IP) plays an essential role in (DB) to defined contribution (DC) assets, Disciplined capital NN Group by managing the triggered by the rapid change in composition allocation underlying assets of our insurance of pension savings, NN IP developed new Delta Lloyd Asset Management products and engaged with customers to companies and their clients, advise them on these developments. integrated in the NN IP and co‑developing investment organisation capabilities. Additionally, NN IP NN IP’s focus is to further build on its Innovate our business gathers third-party assets and distinctive capabilities: and industry provides earnings diversification. • expanding the absolute return offering The focus is on reducing in our multi-asset strategies complexity and developing At NN IP, we believe it is important to involve • further developing our alternative credit different innovation themes all relevant stakeholders in the design and capabilities in the fixed-income space A  gile and cost-efficient maintenance of our products and solutions to • narrowing the fund ranges in equity operating model ensure we have a competitive and attractive to focus on strategies that best align Robotisation and the agile way offering. As such, understanding client needs with our identity and ability to deliver of working have been further and consultation with existing or prospective high performance, while leveraging our implemented throughout NN IP clients are important elements in product European expertise development within NN IP. We also closely % Value-added products follow developments in the market and At the same time, environmental, social and and services in society to continue to provide governance (ESG) strategies are becoming We are committed to delivering suitable products. increasingly important. NN IP currently value-added products and manages more than EUR 10.9 billion in SRI services that are easy to Our progress in 2017 funds and mandates. understand and meet customers’ NN IP’s performance remained strong in lifetime needs our core strategies of multi-asset, emerging R  ead more about NN Group’s ESG approach market debt and investment grade credit. on pages 41-44 of this Annual Review. A number of assets scored very well with 4 or 5 in Morningstar’s risk rating for a three-year period. Returns for the majority of assets exceeded benchmarks. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 32 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Delivering on our strategy Asset Management Continued At the end of 2016, De Nationale Algemeen A  gile and cost-efficient We also explain in depth all alternative Pensioenfonds (Nationale APF) was operating model credit investments available in the market, established with the support of NN’s pension To facilitate agile working and cost efficiency, not only the strategies we provide. administrator, AZL. Nationale APF enables DL AM’s assets were onboarded to NN IP’s Institutional investors can download this book pension funds from different companies to existing scalable operating platform. for free on our website. We distributed the merge in a pooled vehicle, offering attractive Substantial synergies were achieved through content of the book through advertorials in services and solutions with low costs through the creation of one platform with a high various institutional markets and spoke at economies of scale. The focus is on mediumstraight-through processing (STP) rate for many seminars about this topic. sized and large pension funds. At the end of the combined company. We expect the 2017, Nationale APF had 6,000 participants resulting cost synergies to be 5-10% of the In the second half of 2017, we introduced a and EUR 1 billion Assets under Management. 2016 combined cost base, to be realised similar campaign on the radical changes by 2020. currently occurring in the fixed-income asset Delivering on NN Group’s class. For this campaign we again offer strategic priorities Robotisation and the agile way of working many different publications, such as our have been further implemented throughout ‘SpotLights’, ‘FocusPoints’ and ‘MindScopes’, Disciplined capital NN IP. Small IT teams work together with about how institutional investors can benefit allocation business teams to deliver suitable solutions. from the new normal in this market. The activities of Delta Lloyd Asset At the same time, the teams are empowered Management (DL AM) are integrated in the to apply innovative technologies and Strategic focus for NN IP organisation, which brings combined to continuously increase value. NN IP is the year ahead strength through additional capabilities and robotising operational manual activities, The acquisition of DL AM brings both scale significant economies of scale and cost which were initially transitioned for offshore and skills to our business. Going forward, synergies. The result will be a well-diversified manual execution and subsequently NN IP will sharpen its focus on core player with a strong position in the Dutch robotised offshore. In this way, the transition investment capabilities, increase the agility and Belgian markets for asset management. is smoothed and benefits in efficiency are of the organisation and further develop its By leveraging the existing BlackRock Aladdin obtained rapidly. distinctive identity. In this way, NN IP will be platform, the organisation can absorb this able to further create value for stakeholders, scale at limited cost. % Value-added products both third-party and NN insurance and services businesses. Innovate our business NN IP is committed to delivering and industry value‑added products and services Across the whole spectrum of NN IP’s that are easy to understand and meet investment capabilities, the focus is on customers’ lifetime needs. This is why Robo-profiling capacity reducing complexity and developing a we involve relevant stakeholders in the Within our Dutch online execution-only number of innovation themes. For example, product design processes. platform ‘FitVermogen’, robo-profiling investment decisions are based on a capacity was developed. It is intended combination of fundamental analysis, An example is ‘NNTFI24’, an app introduced to introduce improved online behavioural analysis and ‘man and machine’, in Poland with transactional capabilities investment risk profiling, with the aim of meaning machine rigour combined with for retail investors and DC pension providing better service for (potential) human creativity and analysis. scheme clients. The app is connected to investors. For example, with the use of an online execution-only platform (similar computerised adaptive testing and item This approach allows us to leverage data to ‘FitVermogen’) through which clients response theory, only relevant questions to make better-informed investment can open an account and manage their are asked through an interactive decisions and to spot opportunities in investment and pension portfolio from their approach, instead of following a set the market at an early stage. NN IP’s mobile devices. order. The smart Q&A machine impact investing fund already fully exploits provides a direct and dynamic visual behavioural analysis, and in multi-asset In the Netherlands, we cooperate with feedback loop to clients based on their it is combined with both a traditional independent non-profit platform Nibud answers to the profiling questions and fundamental and quantitative approach. for financial education and introduced their investment goal. This makes the ‘StudieFit’. ‘StudieFit’ is an investment solution client feel more understood, and We invested in a broad programme to to fund the education of people’s loved ones. creates a better customer experience. improve our digital capabilities across The online tool is easy to use and illustrates The robo‑profiling is still in the pilot various areas: client service, customer possible investment outcomes. phase and will be further developed. journeys, direct distribution and customer relationship management. In 2017, we introduced ‘Alternative Credit’ as a new asset class for institutional investors. To improve their financial decision-making we developed a 150+ page book on this asset class. In the book, we introduce a unique way to evaluate the various investments within this asset class. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 33 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Delivering on our strategy Continued All our businesses delivered on our strategy, building a company that truly matters in the lives of our stakeholders. ‘NN has long-term experience in financial services. It treats its 35,000 customers in a correct and respectful way.’ Pavel Ninov, Bulgaria In Japan, Sumitomo Life, started selling NN Life Japan’s products through its nationwide network of 35,000 agents 4,400 NN Bank supported 4,400 ‘I am repeating myself, mortgage customers at risk of being in arrears but I am 200% sincere: thank you!’ Ivo De Smedt, Belgium 2m Partner and leading Turkish online loan aggregator Hesapkurdu.com gives us the opportunity to reach their 2 million unique users online 2017 All businesses delivered on 4 or 5 The majority of NN IP assets scored our strategy very well with 4 or 5 in Morningstar’s risk rating. Returns for the majority of the assets exceeded benchmarks 1,507 6,000 NN IP voted at 1,507 shareholder meetings on 18,978 agenda items and 348 resolutions put forward by shareholders At the end of 2017, Nationale Algemeen Pensioenfonds had 6,000 participants and EUR 1 billion Assets under Management EUR 10.9bn Assets under Management in SRI funds and mandates; an increase of 114% compared to 2016 NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 34 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Creating and sharing value Excellent customer experience In this chapter, we describe how our business model is focused on creating long-term value for our customers. Our commitments Creating value as an insurer We aim to become a more agile organisation, and asset manager to deliver value for money for our customers Our customers entrust their money to us and secure long-term growth. Our focus on Our commitments to our customers when purchasing our products and services. customer-driven innovation drives our efforts • Be a preferred brand and a company Our role is to support them in building and to empower our people and to support a that truly matters in the lives of our protecting their assets and covering their more entrepreneurial culture. stakeholders risks. The core of our business model is to • Deliver value-added propositions help people carry risks that they cannot bear Truly matter in the lives that are easy to understand and alone, providing protection for what matters of our customers serve our customers’ lifetime needs most to them. NN Group wants to be known as the ‘You matter’ company: a people-oriented • Be there where our customers want Through our risk management practices, financial services provider. us to be through our multi-access we seek to meet our obligations to distribution approach customers and creditors, manage our capital We strive to meet customers’ needs • Educate people about finance, efficiently and comply with applicable throughout all stages of their lives, for which raising their financial awareness laws and regulations. Our underwriters understanding their needs and interests through campaigns and (online) tools perform a variety of roles that are needed is crucial. This is clearly expressed in our to understand, manage and price risks. Customer Golden Rules: Our objectives and targets We use data analytics to create personal • We offer fair value to customers • Increase aided brand awareness and relevant products and services for • We explain the risks, returns and costs • Be recognised by general public as our customers. of our products and services a ‘You matter’ company: a people• We regularly assess products, services oriented service provider in the longMeeting our customers’ needs and distribution practices term financial planning industry We are committed to delivering value-added • We only work with professional and • Improve relational Net Promoter products and services that are easy to licensed distributors Scores (NPS) understand and meet customers’ lifetime needs. We offer life insurance products to Our Customer Golden Rules form a key • Increase the number of products protect people against the financial risk of component in our approach towards and services with social and living a long life without sufficient means of becoming a customer-driven company, and environmental added value1 support, or dying at an early age. In some are an integral part of our PARP process. How we performed in 2017 markets, we also offer non-life products • Aided brand awareness improved to protect the assets that matter to our Further building our brand customers, and savings and investment Our campaigns focus on understanding compared to 2016 in most countries products to ensure their long-term income. the deeper motivations of people in life and • Recognised by general public as the play an important role in becoming more ‘You matter’ company: improved in Products that we introduce or adapt are relevant for customers. In 2017, we launched most countries compared to 2016 launched after careful product approval an international awareness campaign on • Relational NPS2 increased: +17, and review processes (PARP). PARP ensures, social media, asking five ‘big life questions’ outperformed market average in all our markets, that transparency and to people across nine European countries, • Awareness of customer need for customer interest remain a top priority. with the aim of finding out what matters value-added products and services to them. The videos show that we all face Through our multi-access distribution the same kind of questions in life and try to approach, we are there where our customers find a response that best fits our personal want us to be. situation. The campaign reached more than 17.5 million unique users, and had 4 million full video views and 100,000 engagements 1 For our performance on increasing the number of across several social platforms. products with social and environmental added value, we also refer to pages 29 and 31, and pages41-44. 2 NPS target setting varies by business unit. Measurements for asset management is conducted amongst both institutional and retail investors. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 35 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Creating and sharing value Excellent customer experience Continued In the second half of 2017, our central In the Netherlands, we worked together with introduction of the new study financing Branding team developed a brand commerce online magazines Me-to-we, Saar Magazine system in the Netherlands, parents and framework in close cooperation with the and Mynd to contribute to pension-related grandparents have found alternative ways business units. This framework, enabled blogposts to increase pension awareness, to put money aside to fund their (grand) by today’s digital possibilities, focuses on especially for women. children’s education. The tuition fee plan customers and their specific needs and provides insight into the risks as well as interests. Through videos and photos, In addition to raising awareness, we consider it the expected yield of the investment. we share stories about customer value important that our customers find our policies propositions and specific themes in life, for and materials accessible and understandable. Linked to this is the introduction of example, retirement. In these international For example, OHRA made policies easier to ‘StudieFit’, an investment solution to fund campaigns, we aim to connect the NN brand read and understand though the use of icons, the education of loved ones. ‘StudieFit’ with local commercial opportunities. As the a clearer structure and useful examples. was developed together with Nibud and framework has been codeveloped with the includes an online tool which customers can businesses, it enables us to create and roll out Also in the Netherlands, we introduced a tool tailor to their personal situation. It includes digital campaigns in a more cost efficient way. to support our brokers in their duty of care for an online calculator that illustrates possible our customers. We reached out to all brokers financial scenarios. Customer empowerment and customers for whom this was relevant. Creating long-term value for our customers NN IP also introduced alternative credit as is also a matter of empowering them to In Bulgaria, we broadened our value a new asset class for institutional investors. improve their own financial decision-making. proposition and included financial advice To provide investors with financial decisionThis includes increasing their understanding with our pensions and life insurance making tools, a book on this asset class of financial concepts, offering financial products. The advice covers five areas of was published that explains all alternative planning tools, and collaborating with financial planning: pension, investment, credit investments available in this market. specialised partners. insurance, tax and estate planning. This is Investors can download the book for free new for the Bulgarian market. on the NN IP website. To increase awareness of pensions in the Netherlands, we partnered with initiatives of In Spain, we launched the ‘Real news for real Wijzer in Geldzaken, a stakeholder platform people’ campaign, in which we explained coordinated by the Dutch Ministry of Finance. financial concepts. Between June and After introducing our online service December, we provided easy-to-understand ‘Pension Help’ in 2016, we continued information on financial topics and economic improving the tool. ‘Pension Help’ starts ten concepts and their potential impact on years before a person’s retirement date, and people’s personal financial situations. helps users by sending them customised The blog ‘Seguros de tú a tú’ also aims to and relevant information step-by-step. contribute to this increased understanding. ForYouWoman in Spain Registered customers receive relevant In Spain, Nationale-Nederlanden’s tied information three times a year, based on their Fitvermogen.nl, the online platform for agents started selling ‘ForYouWoman’. personal circumstances and situation. investment funds of NN Investment It mainly offers insurance coverage in Partners (NN IP), cooperated with Startpunt case of breast cancer, including several We launched the ‘Your Later Service’ Geldzaken to launch a free online financial services such as second medical opinion, campaign via our Nationale-Nederlanden plan. Startpunt Geldzaken is a partnership of home help and childcare services for website in the Netherlands. This campaign Nibud and a number of other organisations customers when they need it the most, encourages people to visit our online tools focused on financial matters. Since the as well as help with cancer prevention. which increase awareness of their personal financial situation. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 36 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Creating and sharing value Excellent customer experience Continued Supporting customers in arrears Financial inclusion NN Group is involved with the Foundation for We try to be there for our customers not only NN reaches out to people who may not Sustainable Micro Pensions in Developing when things are going well, but also during have access to insurance and who could Countries (SDMO), through our membership difficult times. benefit from additional support. We are of the Dutch Association of Insurers. aware of the financial and social challenges In Ghana, SDMO supports a micro pension In 2017, NN Bank continued with a project that people may face in life. Therefore, we project which targets employees in the focused on mortgage customers at risk of try to anticipate these specific needs and informal sector. They will be able to save being in arrears. Via an early warning system, individual situations, and provide a positive for their pension via a defined contribution we proactively reach out to this group and inclusive experience for many different scheme. The payment of contributions and to offer our support. As there is no single groups of people. information provision is arranged via mobile solution to financial difficulties, we offer phone. A license to start business was assistance in various ways. In Romania, we offer a health insurance obtained from the Ghanese supervisor in product that provides affordable access 2016, and the first few thousands of clients Based on a customer’s personal situation, to private care, as health care is becoming were entered into the books in early 2017. we can, for example, provide a job coach or increasingly expensive for lowerand a budget coach, or restructure the mortgage middle-income families. The core of this Additionally through our membership contract. We helped 4,400 mortgage new proposition is extensive care for of the Dutch Association of Insurers, customers in 2017, of whom 4,113 have been patients and less financial worry for their we support another SDMO project in restored through an adequate payment families. This health care product also aims India. SDMO work with local partner the scheme. About 280 customers made to address the long-term sustainability of Development of Human Action (DHAN) use of job coaching, budget coaching or Romanian public healthcare. Foundation. DHAN Foundation developed restructuring of their mortgage contract. a defined contribution scheme of which the In Japan, we offer a life insurance product administration and investment management Delta Lloyd Foundation set up the Coalition that provides critical illness coverage in case is arranged by a local provider of life against Debt to help low-income households of cancer, acute cardiac infarct and stroke. insurance. Participants save an average get rid of their long-term debt. Together with It was developed to support small business of INR 100 per month to supplement their health insurer CZ, Delta Lloyd Foundation owners who are unable to manage their government pension. The goal is to have took the initiative to work with other creditors company due to critical illness. 200,000 participants in 2021. on solutions to the increasing problem of payment arrears and debts. This is done by NN Group is involved in the Netherlands working together and exchanging knowledge Investment Institution (NLII), which gives to facilitate and promote healthy payment institutional investors the opportunity to behaviour among customers. Creditors that invest in the Dutch economy, and allows participate in the coalition adhere to ten entrepreneurs and SMEs to benefit from principles which prescribe an ethical way additional financing opportunities. We also of approaching customers. have a partnership with microfinance organisation Qredits through our membership of the Dutch Association of Insurers (Verbond van Verzekeraars). Dilemma: Long-term objectives over short-term gains We consider digital innovation to be an However, when introducing an MVP, important driver for our long-term success. the purpose is to iterate and adapt One way of innovating our business is by while developing, so we intentionally launching a minimum viable product (MVP): do not define long-term objectives or a product that has enough features to gains. This short-term approach to attract early adaptors, providing us with experimenting, which is based on trial feedback that enables us to adjust the and error, may result in a distorted view product if necessary. To develop relevant of innovation. The challenge is finding the MVPs, we define clear focus areas for right balance in developing MVPs while innovation that fit the company’s not losing sight of the long-term vision long-term strategy. of the company. This is a dilemma jointly faced by the innovation teams and the finance and risk teams – how much capital do we invest, and how much risk are we willing to take today to help prepare our company for tomorrow’s success? NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 37 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Creating and sharing value Excellent customer experience Continued Measuring our brand and reputation Dilemma: The use of data in underwriting We measure how our customers value our products and services using, amongst others, the Net Promoter Score (NPS). In recent years, the amount of available For example in car insurance, customers With NPS we collect, evaluate, and act on (personal) data has increased sharply as can already opt to have their driving a constant stream of customer feedback. a result of technological developments behaviour tracked, with the incentive This information drives improvements in and digitalisation. For our industry, the that careful driving can result in lower our product portfolio and customer service, question of whether and how to make use premiums. Although differentiation thereby helping us to become a more of data is an important one. Embracing can bring value to certain customer customer-driven company. In 2017, all of the use of data can help further improve groups, it also raises questions regarding our insurance businesses maintained or our product offerings and increase their the sustainability of a foundation of improved their relationship NPS (NPS-r) relevance in order to better serve our insurance: the principle of solidarity. scores compared with the previous year, customers. However, the abundance of Navigating carefully, in line with our with the exception of NN Life Hungary. data may lead to new insights that could values and applicable (data protection) Their NPS is still well above market average. potentially lead to differentiation (in risk legislation, and engaging in dialogue with profile and pricing). stakeholders, will continue to be key as We measure NPS in all our markets, for we move forward. all business lines covering banking, life insurance and pensions. Our insurance business in Japan is included in a separate study. Measurements for asset management are conducted amongst both institutional and retail investors. For institutional clients we report the overall NPS (+25). The NN Global Brand Health Monitor tracks how our brand is perceived externally by our customers and the general public. Twice a year, we measure our main brand indicators and provide insight into the development of the brand performance. The Global Brand Health Monitor measures the brand awareness and brand preference per country, and whether customers feel we are living our values and come across as the ‘You matter’ company. Net Promoter Score NPS-r compared NPS-r compared to Country to 2016 market average 1 Bulgaria Improved Above 2 Czech Republic Improved Above 3 Greece Improved Above 4 Hungary Decreased Above 5 Japan Improved Equal 6 Poland Improved Above 7 Romania Improved Above 8 Slovakia Improved Above 9 Spain Unchanged Equal 10 The Netherlands Improved Above 11 Turkey Unchanged Equal NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 38 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Creating and sharing value Attractive returns for investors In this chapter, we describe how we remain financially strong and competitive, and create value for our investors. Our commitments Creating value as a listed company of EUR 0.62 per ordinary share paid in To manage our business, we raise financial September 2017, NN Group’s total dividend capital from equity and debt investors. for 2017 will be EUR 1.66 per ordinary share, Our commitments to shareholders Maintaining a strong balance sheet is key which is equivalent to a dividend payout ratio • Deliver on the Delta Lloyd to absorbing market volatility and ensuring of around 45% of NN Group’s full-year 2017 transaction NN Group and our operating entities are net operating result of the ongoing business. • Further improve performance sufficiently capitalised at all times. • Accelerate the transformation The Delta Lloyd transaction of the business model Dividends On 2 February 2017, NN Group announced • Continue to allocate capital NN Group intends to pay an ordinary a recommended public cash offer to all rationally dividend in line with our medium-term holders of issued and outstanding ordinary financial performance and envisages an shares in the capital of Delta Lloyd to acquire Our objectives and targets ordinary dividend payout ratio of 40-50% their shares for EUR 5.40 (cum dividend) in • EUR ~350 million cost reduction1 by of the net operating result from ongoing cash for each share, representing a total 2020, reflecting cost synergies from business. NN Group intends to pay interim consideration of EUR 2.5 billion. On 7 April Delta Lloyd acquisition and existing dividends calculated at approximately 2017, the offer was declared unconditional. standalone cost reduction plans 40% of the prior year’s full-year dividend. • Annual earnings growth of 5-7% on Barring unforeseen circumstances, R  ead more about the Delta Lloyd transaction average in the medium term2 NN Group intends to declare an interim and integration on pages 10-12 of this Annual Review and pages 119-123 of the Financial • Over time, generate free cash dividend with the disclosure of our secondReport (Note 44). available to shareholders in a range quarter results and to propose a final around the net operating result of dividend at the annual general meeting of Shares issued and share buyback the ongoing business3 shareholders. When proposing a dividend, programme How we performed in 2017 NN Group takes into account, among On 24 April 2017, NN Group issued 8,749,237 others, the capital position, leverage and ordinary shares, representing an aggregate • Operating result growth of 29.3%4 liquidity position, regulatory requirements, value of EUR 255 million, to Stichting Fonds • Reduced expense base of business and strategic considerations, as well as the NutsOhra in exchange for the preference units in scope by EUR 133 million5 expected developments thereof. shares A held by Stichting Fonds NutsOhra • Net operating ROE of 10.3%6 and the perpetual subordinated loan • Total free cash flow of Dividends are paid either in cash, after provided to Delta Lloyd. EUR 881 million7 deduction of withholding tax if applicable, • Proposing a total 2017 dividend of or in ordinary shares from the share premium On 1 June 2017, NN Group allotted 5,069,969 EUR 1.66 per share8 reserve at the election of the shareholder. ordinary shares, representing an aggregate We intend to neutralise the dilutive effect value of EUR 165 million, as part of the legal 1 In total for the following units: Netherlands Life, of the stock dividend through repurchase merger of Delta Lloyd N.V. into NN Group Netherlands Non-life, Belgium, Asset Management, Banking business and Corporate/Holding entities. of ordinary shares. In addition, capital Bidco B.V. 2 Annual growth rate of operating result before tax of generated in excess of NN Group’s capital the ongoing business on average in the medium term; new targets based on 2017 operating result. ambition is expected to be returned to On 26 June 2017, NN Group issued 3 Net operating result of the ongoing business, adjusted shareholders unless it can be used for any 4,082,061 ordinary shares as stock dividend to reflect the deduction of the accrued coupon on other appropriate corporate purposes, for payment of the 2016 final dividend, undated subordinated notes classified in equity; assuming normal markets, no material regulatory including investments in value-creating representing an aggregate value of changes and no material special items other than restructuring charges. opportunities. NN Group is committed EUR 129 million. 4 Operating result before tax of the ongoing business to distributing excess capital in a form 2017 versus 2016. which is most appropriate and efficient for On 11 September 2017, NN Group issued 5 Administrative expense base of the business units in scope: Netherlands Life, Netherlands Non-life, shareholders at that specific point in time, 2,346,671 ordinary shares as stock dividend Belgium, Asset Management, Banking business and such as special dividends or share buybacks. related to the 2017 interim dividend, Corporate/Holding entities. representing an aggregate value of 6 Net operating ROE of the ongoing business in 2017. 7 Reflecting EUR 500 million capital injection into Delta At the Annual General Meeting on EUR 78 million. Lloyd Life in 2017. 31 May 2018, a final dividend for 2017 will be 8 Representing a payout ratio of around 45% of the net proposed of EUR 1.04 per ordinary share. To neutralise the dilutive effect of stock operating results of the ongoing business. Together with the 2017 interim dividend dividends, we repurchased in 2017 ordinary NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 39 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Creating and sharing value Attractive returns for investors Continued shares for EUR 347 million, related to the EUR 900 million bridge loan used to finance Dividend per share (EUR) 2015 final dividend, the 2016 final and interim the Delta Lloyd acquisition: EUR 300 million dividend and the 2017 interim dividend. senior notes with a fixed rate coupon of 1.75 1.66 NN Group reported on the progress of 0.25% per annum and a maturity of three 1.51 1.55 the share buyback programme on a years and EUR 600 million senior notes with 1.50 weekly basis on our corporate website: a fixed rate coupon of 1.625% per annum and 1.25 www.nn-group.com/investors/sharea maturity of ten years. buyback-programme.htm. 1.00 NN Group effectively reduced debt by In August 2017, 14,348,967 NN Group EUR 405 million through the Stichting Fonds 0.75 0.57 treasury shares were cancelled, which were NutsOhra transaction in April 2017 and 0.50 repurchased under the share buyback by EUR 575 million on the repayment of programme. The total number of NN Group the Delta Lloyd senior unsecured notes in 0.25 shares outstanding (net of 6,609,781 November 2017. 0.0 treasury shares) on 31 December 2017 was 334,140,561. Credit ratings 2014 2015 2016 2017 On 11 May 2017, Standard & Poor’s lowered Final dividend Debt instruments our financial strength rating by one notch Interim dividend In March 2015, NN Group established a to ‘A’ and our long-term counterparty credit Debt Issuance Programme which facilitates rating by one notch to ‘BBB+’. On 23 October the issuance of debt instruments. 2017, Fitch affirmed our ‘A+’ financial strength rating and ‘A’ credit rating with a stable In January 2017, NN Group issued outlook. On 26 October 2017, Standard & Poor’s EUR 500 million of senior unsecured affirmed our ‘A’ financial strength rating and Diverse shareholder base notes with a fixed-rate coupon of 0.875% ‘BBB+’ credit rating with a stable outlook. (IPREO shareholder analysis per annum and a maturity of six years. as at 31 January 2018 (%)) These notes do not qualify as Own funds Shareholder investment under Solvency II. The proceeds were used According to the AFM register as at to repay EUR 476 million of non-qualifying 12 March 2018, the following shareholders subordinated notes of NN Group on their first have an interest of 3% or more in NN Group call date in May 2017. on the notification date: APG Asset Management N.V. (3% – 2 August 2017), In January 2017, NN Group also issued BlackRock, Inc. (3.60% – 29 May 2017), EUR 850 million of subordinated notes with RRJ Capital II Ltd. (9.6% – 23 May 2017), a maturity of 31 years, and first callable after Norges Bank (4.91% – 2 May 2017), 11 years, with a fixed rate coupon of Thornburg Investment Management 4.625% per annum until the first call date (3.03% – 7 Aug 2016), and Franklin Mutual and a floating rate coupon thereafter. Series Fund Inc. (3.87% – 27 May 2015). These subordinated notes qualify as Tier 2 The stated percentages are the interests United States 37 capital under Solvency II. The proceeds were reported by the relevant shareholder to the Asia 18 used to repay the EUR 823 million remaining AFM on the indicated dates. It is possible that United Kingdom 12 The Netherlands 6 hybrids loans outstanding with ING Group. the stated interests differ from the current Rest of Europe 25 interests of the relevant shareholder. Rest of the World 2 In June 2017, NN Group issued two senior M  ore information about our financial unsecured notes with a total issue size management is available in the Financial of EUR 900 million to fully repay the Report, and on our corporate website: www.nn-group.com/Investors.htm Financial performance in EUR million 2017 2016 Operating result ongoing business 1,586 1,227 Net result (after minority interests) 2,110 1,189 Net operating ROE 10.3% 8.1% Free cash flow to the holding 8811 1,349 Strong balance sheet 2017 2016 Solvency II ratio 199% 241% Total assets in EUR billion 227 169 Shareholders’ equity in EUR million 22,718 22,695 Financial leverage ratio 27.9% 20.8% 1 Including EUR 500 million capital injection into Delta Lloyd Life. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 40 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Creating and sharing value As a long-term and active investor, NN Group is committed to investing responsibly We strive to manage our own assets, as well as those our customers entrust to us, in an environmentally and socially responsible way. Our commitments NN Group’s Responsible To support the implementation of NN Group’s Investment (RI) Framework policy RI Framework policy, we continued our sets out our vision and approach development of investment guidance papers Our commitments to our stakeholders that address areas defined by the UN Global on responsible investment, which • Integration of environmental, social Compact. In 2016 we published a paper on and governance (ESG) factors into we define as the integration human rights. In 2017 we added a paper our investment process of environmental, social and on the environment. • Active ownership through voting governance (ESG) aspects in and engagement our investment processes and These papers are available on our corporate • Exclusions, societal values ownership practices. website: www.nn-group.com/In-society/ Responsible-investment/Responsibleand criteria investment-policy-framework.htm. Our asset management company, • Specialised Responsible Investment NN Investment Partners (NN IP), formalised Influencing companies (RI) strategies and tailor-made its commitment to RI by signing the United to take responsibility responsible investment (RI) solutions Nations-supported Principles for Responsible An important part of our strategy is to earn Our objectives and targets for 2020 Investment (PRI) in 2008. NN IP has since long-term returns from the companies in made the consideration of ESG factors an which we invest. One of the most powerful • Further develop Responsible integral part of the investment process in tools of active ownership is well-informed Investment Framework policy the conviction that these may impact both proxy voting. Voting rights are exercised on • Continue to grow Assets under risks and returns. For clients who want to behalf of: (i) the proprietary portfolio and Management in SRI funds and take sustainability a step further, NN IP offers (ii) the Dutch, Belgian and Luxembourg funds mandates, and expand product specialised Socially Responsible Investment with at least EUR 100 million Assets under offering (SRI) strategies and tailor-made RI solutions. Management. As part of the information barriers, there are separate voting How we performed in 2017 Supporting ESG integration committees in place for proprietary and • Publication Stewardship Policy In February 2017, NN IP established a new client assets. • Development of investment RI team. The team’s primary goal is to drive guidance paper on Environment the further development of RI at NN IP, and During 2017, NN IP voted at 1,507 shareholder • More than doubled (+114%) to support all investment teams in their ESG meetings (97% of total votable meetings) on our Assets under Management in integration and active ownership strategies. 18,978 agenda items and 348 resolutions put SRI funds and mandates to The team consists of three professionals, forward by shareholders. These resolutions EUR 10.9 billion and reports to the Chief Investment Officer focus on ESG issues. We supported at NN IP. shareholder resolutions related to environmental and social matters in a large NN IP published a Stewardship Policy, number of cases. We abstained from voting which describes our approach towards or voted against when these resolutions our fiduciary duty to act responsibly on would not provide proportionate benefits behalf of the end beneficiary. As an asset to shareholders or society at large. For two manager we are responsible for improving examples of how we voted on environmental long-term value for the end beneficiary. shareholder resolutions, please refer to the Our Stewardship Policy is based on seven box on the next page. principles, and provides an overview of how we implement our commitment to stewardship. The principles relate to various aspects of stewardship including governance and exercising our voting rights. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 41 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Creating and sharing value Investing responsibly Continued Company dialogues and engagement Continued focus on climate risks Climate-related shareholder are part of our fundamental approach to Climate change presents a material risk resolutions at oil & gas majors the investment process. Because of the to many companies and we are aware of the We supported resolutions at the active investment strategies of NN IP, our risks this may present to our investments. AGMs of oil and gas majors Occidental analysts and portfolio managers are in As such, we are committed to play our part Petroleum and ExxonMobil, seeking the frequent dialogue with investee companies. in addressing the issue. publication of an annual assessment of These dialogues are tracked in a database. the long-term impact of climate change The chart on page 44 shows the breakdown As in previous years, we supported on their businesses. These resolutions between environmental, social and the annual Information Request that the received support of 66% and 62% at governance issues as a topic of discussion Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) sends their respective AGMs. Meanwhile, the during our company meetings in 2017. In total, to publicly listed companies worldwide. shareholder resolution filed at Royal 341 dialogues were logged by our equity Through this request, companies are Dutch Shell (RDS) was supported by analysts and ESG specialists in the database. encouraged to adopt a long-term mindset, 6% of the votes cast, and was therefore These dialogues included 52 engagements and to provide better disclosure on risks and rejected by the AGM. This resolution conducted by our ESG specialists, which can opportunities related to climate change and requested that RDS sets companybe individual engagements, in collaboration water. In 2017, we also became an investor wide greenhouse gas emission targets with other institutional investors, or signatory of the CDP Forests programme. that are in line with the Paris climate supported by an external service provider. agreement to keep global warming Moreover, these engagements often also Since the beginning of 2016, NN IP has to well below 2°C. We voted ‘abstain’ have a thematic approach, for example the proactively engaged on climate risks because we believed that the resolution palm oil sector. with 20 large companies in the power went too far due to the request to set utility sector. Through this effort, supported targets for the emissions from the use by Global Engagement Services (GES), of its products by customers (Scope 3). 1,507 one of Europe’s leading engagement providers, we encourage companies However, in the remarks we made to achieve a long-term carbon risk exposure at the AGM, we expressed that RDS number of shareholder meetings reduction and improved competitiveness should improve its disclosures on at which we voted in a lower-carbon economy. We have had the GHG emissions that are within constructive dialogues with most of the the managerial sphere of RDS, and EUR 10.9bn companies. As an example, NN IP helped one we continued to engage with them. of the largest US power utility companies Positively, RDS announced in November to improve its two-degree scenario planning. 2017 its ambition to halve the emissions AuM in SRI funds and mandates We focused our engagement on showing from its operations and energy use, that the company can do more to find and those resulting from the use of 341 number of ESG dialogues a balance between short-term financial performance and long-term expectations for a switch to renewable energy production. its end products by 2050. In addition, it seeks to increase its spending on clean energy. NN IP also engages with several companies in the power utility sector that resist changes that would challenge the current business model. In these situations, the focus is on clarifying that transparency is expected, and they need to demonstrate responsible carbon-related risk management. We decided to extend our engagement for a third and final year, so that we can bring the recommendations of the Taskforce Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) to the attention of the companies that we are engaging with. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 42 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Creating and sharing value Investing responsibly Continued In 2017, we expanded our engagement Making a positive impact Engaging on palm oil on climate risk to the chemicals sector by through our investments Through its investments, NN Investment joining the Climate Action 100+. This is a new, NN IP offers a wide range of specialised SRI Partners is exposed to palm oil. five-year investor initiative to engage with funds and responsible investment solutions. We believe we can use our influence the world’s largest corporate greenhouse These products meet our customers’ growing to improve environmental and social gas emitters to curb emissions, strengthen demand for products that have a positive standards in the sector. Due to the climate-related financial disclosures and impact on society and the environment, complexity of the supply chain of palm improve governance on climate change. in addition to generating solid financial oil, we do not think that excluding As part of the initiative, NN IP will enter returns. The total Assets under Management palm oil producers is beneficial at this into dialogue and work with three major in our sustainable equity and fixed income point in time. Engagement is, in our companies in the chemicals sector in which products grew by 114% to EUR 10,852 million view, a better approach, and through it invests, and support other investors in at year-end 2017. The increase reflects our engagement we will focus not their engagement efforts in the oil and gas market performance and net inflows, as only on the palm oil producers, but and mining sector. A clear engagement well as the addition of the Delta Lloyd also on the traders, processors, food agenda is set for all companies in the Equity Sustainable Global Fund, which producers, and retailers. All these initiative. Each year, a progress report will is an enhanced passive equity fund with different companies can influence be made public. strict ESG criteria. the supply chain and work towards the overall improvement of the sector The Climate Action 100+ was initiated The NN Euro Green Bond fund was awarded and acceptance of higher standards. by different regional investor climate the new LuxFLAG Climate Finance Label, For our engagement approach, we have change platforms, including the European which indicates that a fund’s investments developed several objectives that focus Institutional Investor Group on Climate help to finance climate change initiatives. on different stakeholders in the sector. Change (IIGCC), in partnership with the Furthermore, NN (L) Global Equity Impact We published an ESG perspective on PRI. NN Group joined the IIGCC in July 2017 Opportunities helped NN IP win the this engagement to raise attention to to benefit from access to IIGCC’s platform for Cashcow Award for Best Provider of Impact the issue and how we act on it. knowledge sharing and collective influence. Investments at the Dutch Investment Fair in November 2017. Cashcow is a multimedia To encourage policymakers to take action platform for private investors in the on climate change, NN IP endorsed a ‘Letter Netherlands. from global investors to governments of the G7 and G20 nations’. This letter, signed On behalf of NN Group’s proprietary assets, by 400 global investors managing more we consider opportunities that will have a than USD 22 trillion in assets, reiterates the positive impact on society whilst meeting investors’ call for governments to stand by our investment criteria. Our combined their commitments to the Paris Agreement, investments in green bonds and renewable and put in place policy measures to achieve projects in our infrastructure debt their nationally determined contributions with portfolio amounted to EUR 540 million the utmost urgency. at year-end 2017. We also invest in measures that improve the energy efficiency of our To learn more about climate-related risks, own real estate investments, and use the we performed a carbon footprint analysis Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark on a large portion of NN Group’s Proprietary (GRESB) to assess the environmental and Assets. For more details, refer to pages 61 broader sustainability performance of this and 67 of this Annual Review. This analysis portfolio. In the 2017 Real Estate Assessment, creates a starting point for monitoring and NN’s portfolio performed well, improving evaluating the investment risks associated its score for the third consecutive year with carbon emissions. It also helps us and outperforming the majority of the 850 to prioritise our engagement efforts with GRESB participants. We also participated the most carbon-intense sectors in our in the GRESB Debt Assessment for the portfolio. To build our understanding of other first time: our commercial real estate loan metrics and forward-looking tools that are portfolio, managed by NN IP, received a score introduced to help assess climate-related above the benchmark average. For our GRESB risks (and opportunities), we joined a new scores, please refer to page 66. working group of the IIGCC. The initial focus will be on scenario analysis. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 43 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Creating and sharing value Investing responsibly Continued Measuring societal impact Communication on ESG to clients Company dialogues on ESG1 Impact investing, an investment strategy NN IP plays an active role in advocating the (%) that intends to generate a measurable, importance of ESG integration within the beneficial social or environmental impact investment industry. 2017 initiatives include alongside a financial return, is a growing the following: form of investing. It has, however, many • We contributed to a permanent education challenges, such as the availability of data programme of the Dutch Association of and a common language. NN IP published Investment Analysts (VBA). NN IP shared various viewpoints on how to overcome perspectives on the value of adding green these challenges, and also called on green bonds and sustainable alternative credit bond issuers to report on quantitative possibilities to a matching portfolio. impacts. The measurement of the impact of • In response to the growing interest in RI companies is an important aspect of both propositions by Belgian investors and the NN Global Sustainable Opportunities distributors, NN IP Belgium launched an Environmental 13 and the NN Euro Green Bond fund. ESG campaign during September 2017. Social 8 This campaign explained the ‘what, how Governance 17 NN took part in a joint effort as part of the and why’ of responsible investing at NN IP. ESG overlapping 63 Sustainable Finance Platform chaired by the • NN IP organised a number of events, Dutch Central Bank (DNB), and contributed such as the fourth annual event for Dutch 1 This represents the number of company dialogue to the creation of a guidance document on insurance companies, which focused and engagements conducted by NN IP’s equity SDG impact measurement. The guidance on various topical issues including analysts and ESG specialists. document suggests a limited number of the growing focus on responsible and impact indicators per SDG which can be impact investing. We also hosted several used by investors and investee companies. responsible investor conferences in Europe for our European institutional client base. Dilemma: Promoting change through engagement NN is committed to actively engaging with For example, investing in the food stakeholders and building long-term manufacturing sector poses potential relationships with relevant parties in the dilemmas as it exposes us to food and communities in which we operate. As an beverage companies that manufacture asset manager, we want to invest based products containing high levels of sugar. on criteria that are aligned with our values Sugar is considered to be one of the and meet the broader expectations of biggest contributors to obesity, and almost society. However, as stakeholders have all packaged foods and beverages contain varying views, and solutions to issues are this component. Companies that produce rarely straightforward, it can be difficult foods that contain high levels of sugar may, to set a clear direction or strike the in the long run, be exposed to financial, right balance. regulatory and reputational risks due to the health impact of their product range. However, we believe that excluding the sector due to its potential health impact is not the most effective approach, as many companies also play a role in advancing the sector towards more nutritious foods and beverages. Engaging with companies about product reforms, labelling and marketing may help reposition the sector over time, so it more closely aligns with our values and the expectations of our stakeholders. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 44 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Creating and sharing value Engaged employees In this chapter, we describe how our business model enables us to support our 15,000 colleagues by nurturing a culture where their ideas, talents and personalities matter. Our commitments Integration process Delta Lloyd Agility and adaptive leadership HR activities in 2017 were to a large Managing an agile organisation requires extent determined by the integration a way of thinking and leading people Our commitments to our people process of Delta Lloyd and NN Group that facilitates change. Therefore we are • Empower our employees to bring in the Netherlands and Belgium. Top priorities developing a ‘train the trainer’ programme our brand promise to life for our in this regard were the selection process for all senior leaders, focused on nurturing customers of senior management by mid-July 2017, an adaptive style of leadership. Its emphasis • Offer our employees an attractive, the approval of the Reorganisation is not only on solving present issues, but also stimulating working environment Framework by the members of the trade on discovering future potential. It asks our • Encourage diversity of thinking unions in September 2017, and subsequently leaders to develop the ability to be vulnerable introducing an updated and uniform and authentic, build emotional commitment, • Invest in new critical capabilities Job Framework, which contributed to a and create a safe environment for growth and personal development fair integration process and a focus on and innovation. • Offer competitive salaries equal opportunities. and benefits During the annual NN Group International We remain committed to supporting the Leadership Conference (ILC), which targets Our objectives and targets for 2020 employees who are directly affected by approximately 250 of our senior leaders, • Continue to strengthen employee the organisational changes as a result of workshops were conducted by Management engagement the integration process. To guide and help Board members to gather input for this • At least 30% women in senior them through these challenging times, we training programme. The programme, management positions introduced various initiatives to provide which is developed taking NN Group’s employees with training, coaching and current leadership profile into account, How we performed in 2017 advice. In addition, we stimulate and enable will be launched in 2018. • Decrease in employee engagement ongoing development, with a view to improve from 73% to 66% and strengthen the employability of all Additionally, we are developing new ways • 32% women in senior management our employees. of working based on the agile philosophy. positions Our business units in Poland and Hungary Please read more details of the strategic are the first to pilot this new way of working, • EUR 21.4 million spent on training considerations of the transaction and focused on giving people more autonomy and development; an increase of integration process, and the role of HR in the and accountability in achieving their 28% per FTE people integration process, on pages 10-12 strategic agenda. • Human Capital Return on Investment of this Annual Review. (ROI) of 2.3 1 In 2017, we launched a global HR Creating value as an employer information system called Workday Our operating model aims to stimulate to further simplify our HR processes. a culture of entrepreneurship and This is an important step in creating a more accountability, and is based on clear technology-based work environment, and responsibilities, streamlined decision-making ensuring a clear service delivery model and simplified governance. across countries. Workday made it possible to standardise our global HR processes, and it enables us to model our workforce according to business needs. 1 Human Capital ROI = (operating result ongoing business + employee expenses)/employee expenses. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 45 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Creating and sharing value Engaged employees Continued ‘You matter’ culture This new programme will simplify our hiring The promote from within policy is embedded To recruit and retain the best people within approach, and position NN as one company in a structured Talent and Succession Plan our industry, we accelerated our activities to to the graduate market. The programme will that is updated annually and reviewed by the reach our ambition to become an employer be launched in early 2018. Additionally, by Management Board. It ensures we have the of choice. In 2017, we won awards for being facilitating internships for students, we stay right leaders, with the right forward-looking a Top Employer in Spain, Poland and Turkey. connected to a young workforce. skills, in the right positions at the right time. Special attention in succession planning is Our employee value proposition is mainly Training and development given to displaying role model behaviour in focused on inspirational leadership, NN is committed to life-long learning line with our values. a meaningful and performance-oriented and offers many options for managers environment, ample learning opportunities and employees to develop new insights, Leading people requires many different and a healthy work-life balance. competencies and skills. Training and skills. These often improve with experience, Throughout their entire career, we want development is a fundamental part of our but training and feedback helps managers our people to experience a ‘You matter’ performance management approach. to move more smoothly through the learning culture, which we believe is a precondition In 2017, NN Group invested EUR 21.4 million curve. In 2017, we continued delivering to obtaining positive employee referrals. in training and development. the NN leadership curriculum for first line managers, mid-careers and senior leaders. Building on this approach, we are gradually To offer our people unique learning In our programmes, we encourage current promoting our employer brand in our key opportunities and to help them build valuable and future leaders to live our values, markets by enhancing our presence on networks, we offer longand short-term demonstrate personal excellence, develop various online and social career platforms. assignments internally, within other a deep understanding of the markets To increase our visibility as an employer of departments or businesses. Job rotation in which we operate, and enable others choice in the Netherlands, we posted vlogs of schemes provide additional opportunities to perform at their potential. First steps employees on our career website to support to explore new career paths. have been taken to integrate leadership and personalise our vacancies. programmes across NN Group and When appointing people in senior leadership Delta Lloyd. The recruitment strategy of attracting positions, NN is a supporter of promoting young people to our company takes from within. This policy demonstrates At the same time, we are looking for into consideration a tightening labour that there are growth paths available, new ways to optimise how experienced market, and aims to mitigate the risks of and safeguards institutional knowledge employees apply their knowledge and pass an aging workforce. To realise this on an by retaining our best people. down their skills, while working side by side international scale, we developed a global with younger employees. This exchange traineeship programme, combining the In 2017, 24 changes took place in the senior works both ways, as is reflected in our current initiatives within NN Investment leadership group, of which 88% were reverse mentoring programme that was Partners, International Insurance and internal appointments. Of all leadership introduced in 2017. The programme matches the Dutch NN and Delta Lloyd entities. appointments, 33% were women. junior with senior employees to, for example, familiarise them with how to attract younger generations to the workplace. Diversity programme at Recognising performance NN Investment Partners The performance reward of our people Creating a network and is based on a combination of financial, inspire employees non-financial and behavioural objectives. NN Investment Partners is continuing NN continued the path of transforming efforts related to diversity. A dedicated traditional annual performance reviews community and magazine ‘Added value’ to a more interactive process of continued was launched, which aims to inspire performance management. A pilot of this employees. The Diversity Network new method for senior leaders was received was created as a space for all NN IP positively, and in 2017, additional pilots were employees to explore the various facets launched in the Netherlands and Poland. of diversity, to connect and inspire each other on this topic. We continue to sponsor employee participation in several female professional and development networks as well as attendance of female leadership programmes at business schools. Currently, a recruitment game is being developed to better attract people with diverse backgrounds to our company. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 46 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Creating and sharing value Engaged employees Continued Equal opportunities and diversity The majority of NN Group’s and Delta Lloyd’s Engagement levels NN is an international company with employees are covered by a collective To understand how our employees feel about a diverse business culture that combines labour agreement (CLA), or locally agreed our company, and to get an understanding the talents, experiences and insights policies. The existing CLAs, Social Plans and of their engagement levels, we ask their of many individuals. In 2017, 48% of our Pension Schemes of NN and Delta Lloyd opinion and get their views through a Yearly total workforce were female. Of our senior will remain applicable to their respective Engagement Survey (YES). In 2017, 73% leaders, 32% were female and 35% had employees until new plans for the combined of all employees (NN and DL) completed the a non-Dutch nationality. company have been agreed with the survey, which shows the commitment of our trade unions. The negotiations will start employees to have their voice heard and Our aim is to further increase female in 2018. The new combined CLA and Social make our company an even better place leadership, better balance our cultural Plan will be applicable to all employees to work. diversity, bring in more young talent, and in the Netherlands and is expected build an inclusive climate with no barriers to be introduced in January 2019. In 2017, overall engagement decreased with regard to gender, religious beliefs, from 71% to 66%, which for a large part is sexual orientation or otherwise. Vitality and wellbeing a result of the on-going reorganisations and We strive to create a healthy work the integration process in the Netherlands In 2017, NN We was established, an internal environment and support a good work-life and Belgium. The engagement score in the network that promotes diversity and balance. In 2017, all NN businesses launched Insurance International business was 73%. inclusion. NN We introduced the Collaboration a variety of health and vitality programmes. Awards, an award open to all colleagues The results reflect that colleagues feel we that aims to recognise initiatives and In the Netherlands, we launched ‘It’s my live our values. The survey results also show success stories of colleagues that showed Life’, a programme consisting of workshops, our continued focus on our customers, inclusiveness and collaboration. In 2017, 19 challenges and a dedicated app. It aims and the need and demand to continue teams competed for the award. to help people create a better personal to invest in efficiency, collaboration and lifestyle, combined with an improved innovation. Issues such as workflow and The integration of NN Group and Delta Lloyd work-life balance. processes have room for improvement. offers opportunities to further develop the In the Netherlands, the company culture can inclusiveness and diversity of the combined Other new wellbeing programmes were be further improved. The same is true for the company. In 2017, the Young NN and launched in Spain, Romania and Hungary. international businesses on collaboration Delta Lloyd networks merged to create These programmes were aimed at the and teamwork. Recognising the importance NN Young Professionals. physical, mental and emotional wellbeing of of employee engagement, NN Group will our employees. The programmes included, adopt a new tool and new way of measuring Employee rights and representation for example, healthy breakfasts, yoga, and tracking employee engagement in 2018. The way we consult with our people depends mindfulness and different online challenges. on local legislation and culture. In some NN Life in Japan successfully introduced EUR 21.4m countries, employee consultation is a legal an online stress test and follow up by the requirement and in many European countries, company doctor. it is arranged through works councils. Encouraging employees to develop a spent on training and development Our open dialogue with the work councils long‑term healthy lifestyle is a spearhead 32% accommodates collective interests and of the NN Human Resources Strategy. facilitates the sharing of information and Most of the programmes launched in 2017 indirect participation by all employees. will continue in 2018. of our senior leaders were female and At NN Group level, we work with a 35% had a non-Dutch nationality Central Works Council and a European 73% Works Council. Delta Lloyd also has a Central Works Council. Over time the integration will lead to a unified employee representation for the combined company. of our employees (NN and DL) completed Until the integration process merits the Yearly Engagement Survey (YES) a unified employee consultation structure, the current structures will remain in place. An overview of the Central Works Council members of NN Group and Delta Lloyd, and the European Works Council members of NN Group can be found on page 33 of the Financial Report. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 47 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Creating and sharing value Creating a positive impact for society and the communities in which we operate In this chapter, we describe how our strategy enables us to create long-term value as a corporate citizen. Our commitments Creating value as We have been carbon neutral since 2007, a corporate citizen as we compensate our CO2 emissions We contribute to the society and by purchasing voluntary carbon credits. Our commitments to society communities in which we live and work in and communities various ways. We generate economic activity NN has a target to reduce carbon emissions • Invest in local communities through by purchasing products and services from covering emissions from our direct operations: donations and volunteering local, regional and global suppliers. We pay emissions from energy consumed on NN sites, • Minimise our direct environmental taxes to the governments in the markets in and emissions from our business travel footprint which we operate, and therefore provide (air and car). Our target is to reduce our carbon revenue to fund public services. To ensure emissions by 15% by 2020 (base year: 2014). Our objectives and targets for 2020 this mindset is embedded in the organisation, In 2017, the carbon emissions increased by • Reach out to at least 100,000 young we have a set of tax principles to provide 15.2% reflecting the integration of Delta Lloyd. people through our NN Future guidance and clarity. We also invest in our However, CO2 per FTE decreased by 10.5%. Matters programme; help 11,625 local communities through our charitable households out of poverty and debt1 partners and volunteering efforts. It is our ambition to purchase at least 70% • Reduce direct CO2 emissions by 15% of our electricity from renewable resources. (base year 2014) or approximately Sustainable supplier management In addition to environmental targets related 3% per year With an annual spend of around EUR 1 billion, to carbon emissions, we are committed our procurement activities support our to reducing our paper consumption and waste. How we performed in 2017 business strategy. A substantial part of • 37,208 young people reached this investment goes towards real estate, Following the trend for further digitalisation, we through NN Future Matters professional services, IT, business services, continue to focus our sustainability initiatives programme, now at 74% of our marketing and communications, and facility on energy and business travel efficiency 2020 target management. Our relationship with suppliers and paper-use reduction. We also encourage is based on our values, and we aim to the recycling of materials inside our office • EUR 2.4 million donated to charitable work together in a mutually beneficial way. buildings. NN Group’s Facility Management organisations We have a supplier qualification process teams work to improve the energy efficiency • 14,099 employee volunteering hours and governance in place for managing of our buildings. For example, in Romania, we in NN Future Matters focus areas sustainability, related to social, environmental installed temperature sensors and a smart • 15.2% increase in direct CO2 and financial aspects, which is improving lighting system which saves energy. emissions, due to the integration of every year. Delta Lloyd and NN; CO2 emissions (tonnes) per FTE decreased by 10.5% Managing our environmental Energy consumption (%) footprint We recognise that we have a responsibility to help protect the environment with regard to our own operations. As a financial service provider, our direct environmental impact is limited as we mainly operate in an office environment. Nevertheless, we are committed to minimising our footprint by efficiently using natural resources, by identifying and implementing green alternatives, and ultimately by compensating the remainder of our carbon footprint. Electricity 19 Renewable electricity 40 Natural gas 22 1 Delta Lloyd Foundation annual report available on 1 May 2018. District heating 19 NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 48 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Creating and sharing value Positively impacting society and communities Continued To encourage our people to drive cleaner, We provide an overview of corporate Community investment NN increased the number of electric cars income tax on a country-by-country NN Future Matters is NN Group’s in the NN car pool. We installed additional basis. Besides corporate income tax, overarching community investment charging stations at our offices in the NN Group also paid taxes resulting from programme. It aims to empower people Netherlands and facilitate the installation operations such as value added tax (VAT), and support them in growing their of a charging station at an employee’s insurance premium tax and wage tax in economic opportunities. The programme home when they choose an electric car. 2017. These taxes are collected on behalf specifically targets 10to 25-year-olds and In the Netherlands, NN participated in the of NN Group or on behalf of customers and underserved groups. In 2017, we reached ‘Low Car Diet’ competition, which aims to employees. The majority of the operational out to 37,208 youngsters. make employees more conscious of their taxes are paid to the Dutch Treasury. travel choices. NN now participates in a In 2017, NN Group paid EUR 1,255 million As a result of the joining of forces car-sharing project to promote carpooling in wage taxes, of which NN contributed of NN Group and Delta Lloyd, in the amongst our people. EUR 403 million in Dutch social premiums Netherlands NN’s community investment and employment taxes on behalf of our programme NN Future Matters and the Responsible tax strategy employees and EUR 852 million on behalf Delta Lloyd Foundation work closely Good tax management is a responsibility of our clients. NN Group paid VAT of together to increase financial wellbeing in of any company. NN Group does not make EUR 33 million and insurance premium our communities. In 2017, steps were taken use of tax havens or tax-avoiding structures. tax of EUR 217 million in 2017 to the to prepare for the integration of NN and While executing our tax strategy, we take Dutch Treasury. Delta Lloyd’s community investment activities. our set of tax principles and applicable This process will continue in 2018. law into account. This is also the reference In 2017, new Base Erosion and Profit Shifting when choosing business partners or when (BEPS) reporting requirements came into Since 2014, we have gradually targeted structuring transactions. effect. NN was able to timely deliver all our overall charitable giving towards the necessary information to the responsible NN Future Matters focus areas. In 2017, NN Group shares our tax strategy with our tax authorities. 82% of our total charitable donations of stakeholders, including the tax authorities. EUR 2.4 million went to NN Future Matters We seek to develop good, open working Financial tax disclosures related target areas. relationships with tax authorities. In the The income tax charge of EUR 392 million Netherlands, this is based on the ‘horizontal in 2017 represents an effective tax rate of monitoring’ principle. More information 15.5% (2016: 18.7%). The effective tax rate in Impact measurement on how NN Group entails this principle, as 2017 was lower than the weighted average The Social Innovation Relay (SIR) is well as a description of the function, roles statutory tax rate of 24.6% mainly caused a global competition that challenges and responsibilities of the NN Group Tax by tax exempt income and certain prior students to develop an innovative department, is included in the NN Group year adjustments. More information on the business concept that addresses a Tax Charter, which will be available on our effective tax rate is available on pages social need. NN employees act as corporate website. 98-100 of the Financial Report (Note 33). mentors for the students. Based on the Theory of Change methodology, The focus of NN Group’s Tax department The income tax paid is reflected in the researchers at the Impact Centre in 2017 was on integrating the Delta consolidated statement of cash flows in the Erasmus surveyed students at three Lloyd activities with regard to the NN tax Financial Report and amounted to different points during their standards and procedures, and on the tax EUR 124 million in 2017 (2016: EUR 197 million). participation. reporting lines. To create a future-proof The lower income tax paid in relation to tax department, a roadmap was designed the income tax charge reflects differences After participating in SIR, students for the years 2018-2020. Targets include between accounting and tax rules, as well demonstrated improved skills and set-up and improvement of the tax control as tax losses and tax credit carry-forwards. competences, such as entrepreneurial framework on operational taxes, a more We further provide details of both the tax intention, communication and creativity proactive management of tax risks within charge and the tax paid per reporting skills, entrepreneurial behaviour and the businesses, and further enhancing segment and per country. social awareness. tax transparency towards stakeholders. This roadmap was discussed with the Audit Refer to pages 95-98 of the Financial Committee of the Supervisory Board as Report for a full country-by-country report (Note 32). ‘The overall experience part of the regular review of NN Group’s tax strategy and risks. broadened my perspective and taught me valuable lessons that I think will be essential to me as I progress in life.’ Student testimonial NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 49 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Creating and sharing value Positively impacting society and communities Continued We focus our efforts, resources The NN Future Matters scholarship From Debt to Opportunities and expertise on three complementary programme is a collaboration between The Delta Lloyd Foundation works target areas: promoting financial NN and EP-Nuffic. With a particular focus on with various local partners to advance empowerment, creating economic students who are the first in their families to financial literacy and ultimately opportunities and alleviating financial go on to higher education, this programme improve people’s financial security. distress. These three themes align with gives students from 11 selected countries With the From Debt to Opportunities both our purpose and with the knowledge the opportunity to complete a Master’s programme, the foundation aims to and expertise of our employees, and programme in the Netherlands. The students have been proven to positively impact are matched with an NN mentor, who achieve a 15% reduction in poverty communities. With the involvement supports them during the year. caused by long-term debt. The goal of international and local partners, is to reach 11,625 households by the programme aims to be both globally Alleviating financial distress 2020. The foundation collaborates consistent and locally relevant. Even in prosperous societies, formal social with the Amsterdam University of support services are sometimes unable Applied Sciences to research the Promoting financial empowerment to reach out to the disadvantaged and impact and effect of all initiatives By supporting people to develop financial underserved of society. Through fundraising within the programme. In 2017, the knowledge, we help them foster a secure and and partnerships with local charities, we aim foundation supported 28 local projects. stable financial future. Responsible financial to support families with children that are in Besides financial support, 305 behaviour is often best developed at an early financially challenging circumstances. employees volunteered 4,556 hours. age, so many of our initiatives are focused on young people. During the 2017 Money Week For example, in the Netherlands, we partner in the Netherlands, NN colleagues gave a with the LINDA.foundation, a charity that total of 299 guest lectures in primary schools, helps families in financial distress. In 2017, we teaching 7,500 children about money and organised several initiatives with colleagues financial risk scenarios. and suppliers to raise funds. Our customers are also involved in the LINDA.foundation Creating economic opportunities through our credit card that donates By helping young people develop useful EUR 0.10 for each transaction to the skills, we believe we help them increase LINDA.foundation. their opportunities in the labour market. In cooperation with JINC, a Dutch not-forIn Japan, NN Life made a donation for every profit organisation, our colleagues provide charity runner who completed the 14,099 job training to young people who may lack NaHa marathon. The donation supports specific role models or a supportive network. an effort to provide educational support to children living in foster homes in Okinawa Through Stichting FutureNL we joined and is part of our local corporate citizenship employee volunteering hours Expedition micro:bit to support students programme, ‘Mirai no Shacho’ (Future CEO). in NN Future Matters focus areas to become familiar with coding and EUR 2.4m programming, as these skills are increasingly In Romania, the ‘Hai la gradinita!’ project aims important in schools and in today’s job to bring children in the poorest communities market. Each participating school received to preschool. With OvidiuRo’s assistance, we a ‘Digi-klooikoffer’ with 30 micro:bit provide children with access to kindergarten donations to charitable organisations computers. Besides a financial contribution, and age-appropriate education materials. 37,208 38 volunteers from NN Group provided guest lectures at 19 schools. To celebrate the third anniversary of NN Future Matters in 2017, and to provide Another way of creating economic NN countries with the opportunity to further young people reached through opportunities is by encouraging strengthen their structural partnerships with NN Future Matters programme entrepreneurship. In 2017, the Social local charities in line with NN Future Matters, 18 Innovation Relay (SIR) again took place as we made additional donations that totalled the flagship programme of the NN Group EUR 160,000 to local charities in 11 of the and Junior Achievement Europe partnership. markets in which we operate. The SIR is a global competition that NN Future Matters scholarship students challenges secondary school students to Other good causes develop an innovative business concept that In addition to the global community addresses a social need. A total of 14,232 investment target areas under the students participated in 10 countries. NN Future Matters umbrella, our businesses and corporate foundations support other local initiatives within the areas of health and environmental care. With these activities, we connect with our employees, customers and business partners, and address societal needs together. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 50 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Creating and sharing value NN Group endorses the Sustainable Development Goals that were adopted by world leaders and came into force in 2016 As the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) address the world’s largest societal challenges, such as poverty, climate, health care and education, we believe that the public and private sector should work together to help achieve these goals. To better understand and Regarding our investment activities, This method allows NN IP to measure the implement the SDGs, we have been we discussed that different investment exposure of investee companies to the SDGs cooperating with peers and other instruments, such as ESG integration, and therefore the investment opportunities stakeholders. Following the 2016 dialogue and engagement, and impact in the SDGs. Our two specific impact equity investing, can be linked to additional SDGs, funds currently hold EUR 631 million Assets report ‘Building Highways to SDG more specifically SDG 3 (Good health and under Management (AuM). Investing’ to which NN contributed, well-being) and SDG 7 (Affordable and clean we engaged with a group of energy). Refer to the illustration on the next Furthermore, NN IP offers a green bond companies on the development page for more information on our impact. fund that holds EUR 173 million AuM. of metrics for the SDGs in 2017. The NN Euro Green Bond fund was awarded After additional internal alignment, the new LuxFLAG Climate Finance Label, This working group, an initiative of the these focus areas were validated by our which indicates that a fund’s investments Sustainable Finance Platform chaired by Management Board and Supervisory Board help to finance climate change initiatives. the Dutch Central Bank (DNB), developed in November 2017. Although we will focus the publication ‘SDG impact indicators: on the SDGs mentioned above, we will link Outreach and cooperation A guide for investors and companies’ that to more SDGs through our activites and In the spirit of SDG 17 (Partnerships for the was launched in October 2017. performance. These can relate to our goals), we engage with various stakeholders supply chain, our own operations, our on raising awareness of and making progress Focusing our efforts business activities and/or our community in reaching the global goals. For example, To further refine our approach to the investment activities. NN participates in the SDG Young SDGs, in early 2017, we invited a group Professional Network of the Confederation of 20 stakeholders to engage in a Impact investing at of Netherlands Industry and Employers conversation on our potential impact on NN Investment Partners (VNO-NCW). Furthermore, we sponsor the SDGs, and how these relate to our NN Investment Partners (NN IP) developed a a series of three SDG masterclasses strategy. The dialogue, which was attended pragmatic method to judge the contribution initiated and organised by the Dutch by government representatives, regulators, of investee companies. The impactAssociation of Investors for Sustainable investors, NGOs, academics and peers, driven strategy is focused on companies Development (VBDO). NN hosted the was hosted by Dorothee van Vredenburch, that directly address social challenges second masterclass in January 2018, Chief Change and Organisation of NN Group alongside making a financial return. It is on ‘Integrating SDGs in day-to-day investment and member of our Management Board. benchmark-unaware, meaning the portfolio management’. Representatives from NN IP, is constructed without reference to any index IUCN and Amundi presented during this As a financial services company with a or other benchmark. well-attended meeting. purpose to help people secure their financial futures, we learned that SDG 8 (Decent NN IP’s impact themes, Diminish stress Going forward work and economic growth) and SDG 12 on ecosystems, Health and well-being, In the coming years, we will track the (Responsible consumption and production) and Fulfilment of lives, form the starting progress we make in addressing the SDGs, resonate most with our stakeholders when point of the investment process. Using our in particular the goals we focus on. As the they look at our core activities. proprietary database, we identify stocks that SDGs are set for 2030, we seek to improve have a material exposure to these themes. our performance and the way we measure SDG 1 (No poverty) and SDG 4 (Quality The next step is to look at intentionality. our progress every year. education) can be addressed through our insurance products and services, Impact companies make a positive and community investment activities. contribution to society by their business product or operating model. Once we have our universe of preferred impact stocks, we create a portfolio of 35 to 60 names diversified across our impact themes. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 51 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Creating and sharing value Contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals Continued Our focus As an insurance and asset SDG 8 SDG 12 management company with Decent Work and Responsible Consumption a purpose to help people Economic Growth and Production secure their financial futures, • Employee engagement of 66% • Reducing our CO2 emissions per FTE by SDG 8 (Decent work and measured via yearly engagement survey 10.5% and purchasing 69% electricity economic growth) and SDG 12 • Spending around EUR 1 billion on from renewable sources in 2017 (Responsible consumption procurement globally • Embedding ESG aspects in our and production) resonate • Offering specialised SRI funds and procurement activities (EUR 1 billion) most with our core activities. mandates that often use a best-in-class • Providing car insurances Fairzekering approach (EUR 10.9 billion in AuM) and VOOROP in the Netherlands which • Reaching out to 37,208 young people reward drivers who drive safely and in 2017 to create economic and labour promote safe driving behaviour, which market opportunities through can also lead to lower carbon emissions NN Future Matters • Integrating ESG factors in our investment process and decisionmaking (EUR 246 billion in AuM) Additional SDGs we address through our business and community investment activities SDG 1 (No poverty) and SDG 1 SDG 4 SDG 4 (Quality education) No Poverty Quality Education can be addressed through our insurance products • Investing EUR 0.9 million by Delta • Spending EUR 21.4 million on training and services, and community Lloyd Foundation to alleviate poverty. and development of our employees investment activities. Aiming to impact 11,625 low-income • Providing scholarships to 18 students households in the Netherlands by 2020 from 11 countries as part of NN Future • Providing EUR 2.4 million donations to Matters, our global community charitable organisations (in total) investment programme • Providing access to financial services, a.o. through SDMO micro-pension project from Association of Insurers Regarding our investment SDG 3 SDG 7 activities, different investment Good Health and Affordable and instruments, such as ESG Well-being Clean Energy integration, dialogue and • Products and services with social • Purchasing 69% electricity from engagement, and impact added value that promote good renewable sources in 2017 investing, can be linked health and well-being for customers • NN is carbon neutral by offsetting our to additional SDGs, more (a.o. cancer treatment in Spain, Poland) remaining carbon emissions through the specifically SDG 3 (Good • Contributing to the financial well-being purchase of 25 kt. voluntary CO2 credits health and well-being) of our customers and consumers, • Insuring renewable energy projects including awareness raising on pensions thereby contributing to the generation and SDG 7 (Affordable and of 261,739 people in The Netherlands of sustainable energy for households clean energy). • Investing EUR 356 million of own assets in direct renewable infrastructure projects and green bonds used for renewable energy NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 52 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Governance and compliance NN Group has a two‑tier board structure NN Group N.V. is a public limited liability company The interests of NN Group and our stakeholders (naamloze vennootschap) incorporated under In performing their duties, the Boards must the laws of the Netherlands. It operates under carefully consider and act in accordance with the interests of NN Group and a two-tier board system consisting of an Executive our associated business, taking into Board and a Supervisory Board. The company consideration the interests of NN Group’s stakeholders. The organisation, duties and also has a Management Board. working methods of the Executive Board, Management Board and Supervisory Board are detailed in the charters of these Boards. These charters are available for download Supervisory Board on the NN Group corporate website. Read more information on the governance relating to our corporate citizenship The Supervisory Board is responsible for advising and supervising the approach at www.nn-group.com/ Executive Board, the general course of affairs of NN Group and the In-society/Governance-membershipsbusinesses connected with it. and-endorsements.htm. M  ore information about the Supervisory Board is available in the Report of the Supervisory Board, pages 10-17 of the Financial Report. Dutch Corporate Governance Code In 2017, the revised Dutch Corporate Governance Code was embedded in Dutch law. As a result, NN Group is obliged to report on our compliance with the principles and best practice provisions as laid down therein with respect to the financial year 2017. Executive Board NN Group fully complies with the revised Code. A booklet on NN Group’s application The Executive Board is entrusted with the management, strategy and of the Code is available for download operations of NN Group under the supervision of the Supervisory Board. on the NN Group corporate website. More information is available in ‘Promoting a culture of long-term value creation’ in the ‘Our culture’ chapter on pages 13-16. Read more www.nn-group.com/ who-we-are/corporate-governance.htm. Management Board NN Group Compliance Charter The Management Board is entrusted with the day-to-day management & Framework of NN Group and the overall strategic direction of the company. NN Group is committed to upholding our reputation and integrity through compliance  ore information about corporate governance is available in the ‘Corporate governance’ M chapter, pages 18-27 of the Financial Report. with applicable laws, regulations and ethical standards in each of the markets in which it operates. All employees are expected to adhere to these laws, regulations and ethical standards, and management is responsible for ensuring such compliance. Compliance is therefore an essential ingredient of good corporate governance. The purpose of the NN Group ‘Compliance Charter and Framework’, which was renewed in June 2015, is to help businesses effectively manage their compliance risks. This document is available for download on the NN Group corporate website. Note that a new version of the document is expected over the course of 2018, following the implementation of NN’s Effective Control Framework. Read more www.nn-group.com/ who-we-are/corporate-governance.htm. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 53 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Our Management Board The Management Board is entrusted with the day-to-day management and overall strategic direction of NN Group Executive Board Management Board Lard Friese (1962) David Knibbe (1971) Dorothee van Jan-Hendrik Erasmus Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer Vredenburch (1964) (1980) Appointed: 2014 Reappointed: 2017 Netherlands Chief Change and Organisation Chief Risk Officer Nationality: Dutch Appointed: 2014 Nationality: Dutch Appointed: 2014 Nationality: Dutch Appointed: 2016 Nationality: South African and British Lard Friese was appointed David Knibbe was appointed Dorothee van Vredenburch was member and vice-chair of the to the Management Board on appointed to the Management Jan-Hendrik Erasmus was Executive Board of NN Group 7 July 2014. On 1 September Board of NN Group as Chief appointed to the Management on 1 March 2014, and Chief 2014, he was appointed CEO of Change and Organisation Board on 1 September 2016 Executive Officer (CEO) and chair Netherlands. In this role, David is (CCO) on 7 July 2014. and as Chief Risk Officer of of the Management Board and responsible for NN’s insurance Dorothee is responsible NN Group on 1 October 2016. Executive Board on 7 July 2014. and banking business in the for NN’s human resources, He is also responsible for IT He was reappointed on 1 June Netherlands and is leading the communications and globally. Previously, he was 2017. Previously he was appointed integration of NN and Delta sustainability. She joined a Partner in Oliver Wyman’s to the Management Board of ING Lloyd. He has experience in the company in 2009 as Financial Services business, Insurance as from 3 November the financial services industry managing director of Corporate and held leadership positions 2011. Lard is responsible for dating from 1997, most recently Communications and Affairs of in Oliver Wyman, Lucida plc the strategy, performance and with NN Group. He has held ING Group. She has experience and Prudential plc. Jan-Hendrik day-to-day operations of NN. management positions at ING in the financial services industry has experience in the financial He has been with the company Bank, ING Piraeus in Greece, dating from 1987, starting as an services industry dating from since 2008 and has experience NN Investment Partners and investment banker. She has held 2003, across insurance, risk in the financial services industry Nationale-Nederlanden. leadership positions at Citigate and investment management dating from 1988, most recently David Knibbe is chair of the First Financial, amongst others. in the UK and internationally. with NN Insurance Eurasia and Dutch Association of Insurers. Nationale-Nederlanden. Delfin Rueda (1964) Robin Spencer (1970) Satish Bapat (1966) Stan Beckers (1952) Chief Financial Officer Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer Appointed: 2014 Nationality: Spanish International Insurance NN Investment Partners NN Investment Partners Appointed: 2015 Nationality: British Appointed: 2017 Nationality: Dutch Stepped down: 1 April 2017 Delfin Rueda was appointed Nationality: Belgian to the Executive Board as Robin Spencer was appointed to Satish Bapat was appointed Chief Financial Officer (CFO) on the Management Board on 1 August CEO of NN Investment Partners Stan Beckers joined NN Group 1 March 2014 and member of the 2014 and as CEO International and member of the Management as CEO of NN Investment Management Board on 7 July Insurance on 1 September 2014. Board of NN Group as of Partners on 1 July 2013. 2014. Previously he was CFO He is responsible for NN’s 1 April 2017. From 2013 to 2017, After 38 years in the financial and member of the Management Insurance Europe, Japan Life, he held the position of CEO services industry, he retired Board ING Insurance Eurasia N.V. Japan Closed Block VA and NN Re of NN Life Japan. He has on 1 April 2017. since 2012. Delfin is responsible businesses. Robin was previously experience in the financial for NN’s finance departments Chief Executive Officer of Aviva services industry dating from and investor relations. He has UK & Ireland General Insurance. 2006, both within and outside experience in the financial He has experience in the financial the Netherlands. Satish has services industry dating from services industry dating from held leadership positions at, 1993, most recently with 1995, across life, non‑life and amongst others, ING Investment Atradius. Prior to joining ING in asset management in the UK Management, Robeco and 2012, he was Chief Financial and and internationally. ABN AMRO. Risk Officer and member of the Robin Spencer will step down as Management Board at Atradius. CEO of International Insurance He has also held leadership and member of the Management positions at J.P. Morgan, UBS Board of NN Group effective and Andersen Consulting. 1 June 2018. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 54 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Our Management Board Continued Left to right Satish Bapat Robin Spencer David Knibbe Left to right Dorothee van Vredenburch Lard Friese Left to right Delfin Rueda Jan-Hendrik Erasmus NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 55 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Stakeholder engagement and our international commitments To earn trust and support, NN Group maintains an open and continuous dialogue with our stakeholders about various topics and issues These topics include our products and services, our business performance, and our role in society. We do this across all levels of the organisation, and from NN Group to business unit levels. NN Group identifies stakeholders based International commitments Our approach to human rights on their relevance to NN Group. Parties are and endorsements Respect for human rights is an integral regarded as stakeholders when they have As a company based in the Netherlands, part of our values as confirmed in the the potential to influence or be influenced we adhere to Dutch law and the Dutch ‘NN statement of Living our Values’. by our business. We consider employees, Corporate Governance Code (read more on The principles contained in the UN Guiding customers, shareholders, business partners page 19 of the Financial Report). We observe Principles for Business and Human Rights and society at large (including regulators the laws and regulations in the markets guide us in implementing human rights in and societal organisations) our important where we operate. our business activities and interactions stakeholder groups. We seek feedback with stakeholders. The principles make a from them on different topics in order to We adhere to international standards clear reference to internationally accepted learn which issues they consider important. and guidelines, including the UN Global standards, such as the UN ‘Universal This input is used in defining our strategy and Compact and the OECD Guidelines for Declaration of Human Rights’. in our decision-making processes, and tells Multinational Enterprises. us how we can best align the interests of our In early 2017, we published an overarching business with the needs and expectations of To underline our ambition, NN Group and/or corporate human rights statement, the our various stakeholder groups. our respective businesses endorsed various ‘NN Group Human Rights Statement’. international initiatives, such as: This statement, endorsed by the The instruments to conduct this dialogue • Principles for Sustainable Insurance Management Board, underlines our include regular interactions and feedback • Principles for Responsible Investment commitment to human rights. NN Group sessions for customers on our products • Carbon Disclosure Project seeks to meet our responsibility to respect and services, roundtable sessions with • Recommendations of the Taskforce human rights in our role towards employees, policymakers, academics and peers, works Climate-related Financial Disclosures suppliers, clients, investments and the council meetings and continued dialogue communities in which we operate. with our employees, frequent bilateral We are a member of various (inter)national contact with regulatory and government network organisations, including: The ‘NN Group Human Rights Statement’ authorities and societal organisations • UN Global Compact serves as an umbrella document and relates (including non-governmental organisations, • United Nations Environment Programme to various policies and related due diligence. labour unions and industry organisations), Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) Examples of such internal policies are our and briefing sessions and roadshows for • International Corporate Governance Human Capital policy, Procurement policy journalists, analysts and investors. Network (ICGN) and our Responsible Investment Policy • Institutional Investors Group on Climate Framework. To provide our stakeholders, In 2017, we organised two specific Change (IIGCC) including investors and NGOs, with more multi-stakeholder dialogues, one on the insight and to guide our analysts in their For an overview of all endorsements and Sustainable Development Goals and one on memberships go to our website: assessment, we published the ‘Investor materiality. Furthermore, we were confronted www.nn-group.com/in-society. Guidance paper on Human Rights’. We aim with various developments, issues and to publish an additional Investor Guidance challenges. These were brought to our paper on labour rights in 2018. attention by and/or discussed with different stakeholders. Please find a non-exhaustive overview of the key topics discussed with different stakeholders on the next page. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 56 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Stakeholder engagement and our international commitments Continued Stakeholder groups, topics discussed, outcome Stakeholder group Engagement Frequency Topics discussed Outcome Customers (retail) Client panel, NPS survey, Continuously Products and services, Improve products and Global Brand Health customer service, customer processes, achieve Monitor complaint management greater customer satisfaction. Customers (institutional) Client survey, client event, Continuously Legislative changes, Product and process roundtables customer satisfaction improvements. To be a solid, professional and sustainable pension provider/investor. Provide information on responsible investing. Financial advisors, Training, products Continuously Products and services Stimulate good cooperation brokers, agents and services to achieve greater satisfaction among financial advisors, ultimately leading to customer satisfaction. Shareholders, Annual shareholders Regularly Strategy, financial and Align, inform and engage analysts, investors meeting, quarterly analyst operational developments, shareholders, analysts and calls, roadshow meetings capital position investors during the year. Employees Townhall meetings, Hello Continuously Values, engagement, Ensure employees are engaged You surveys, works councils, Code of conduct, and well informed. Monitor unions, International reorganisation, integration employee perceptions. Leadership Conference process Investee companies Voting at Regularly Climate change, Promote value through shareholder meetings, human rights, landgrabbing, consistent and transparent dialogues with company palm oil, data privacy, voting behaviour. Obtain management, engagement disclosures better disclosures. Improve decision-making, including environmental, social and governance aspects. Regulators, government Physical meetings, regular Regularly Economic and financial Ensure compliance with and bodies reporting, information market developments, risk discuss impact of regulations. exchange assessments, regulation Non-governmental Correspondence, meetings, Regularly Sustainable development, Share knowledge, reach organisations (NGOs) reports, benchmarks human rights, mutual understanding and controversial weapons, work on an IMVO covenant benchmarking methods for the insurance sector. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 57 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Stakeholder engagement and international commitments Continued Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosure Our response to the Financial Stability Board’s Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). In June 2017, the Financial Stability ESG-related governance within our Strategy Board’s Task Force on Climate-related investment activities Climate change is a complex subject that Financial Disclosures (TCFD) issued its Climate change is an ESG factor that contains significant areas of uncertainty, final recommendations on climate-related we believe has the potential to materially particularly when considering long-term financial disclosures. NN Group endorsed impact the performance of investment horizons. The ways in which businesses these recommendations. This section portfolios. The consideration of ESG is might be impacted by climate change provides our response and is structured part of all the investment processes, and are also diverse. To align with the TCFD along the four pillars of the TCFD framework: governed by our Responsible Investment (RI) framework, we mapped the potential risks governance, strategy, risk management, Framework policy. (and opportunities) of climate change on our and metrics and targets business according to the categorisation: At NN Investment Partners (NN IP), the transition and physical risks. Governance executive team provides strategic direction The NN Group Executive Board ensures and oversees the implementation of the Transition risks that the company has adequate internal RI Framework policy in the investment Transition risks are financial risks related risk‑management and control systems in processes. The executive team receives input to the emerging lower-carbon economy. place so that it is aware of any material risks from NN IP’s ESG Committee. The committee In the December 2015 Paris Agreement, run by our company and that these risks is chaired by the Chief Investment Officer governments around the world committed can be managed properly. Each year, the and comprises the Responsible Investment to the goal of keeping the increase in Executive Board defines the company’s risk team and senior representatives from NN IP’s average global temperature to well below appetite and tolerance statements. This is various business segments and NN Group. 2°C and pursuing efforts to limit it to below ratified by the Supervisory Board. For more Besides advising NN IP’s executive team 1.5°C. Staying below a 2°C threshold would detail on risk management, refer to pages on its positioning on responsible investing, require a significant shift in the trajectory of 129-158 of the Financial Report. the ESG Committee has a mandatory greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The longer advisory role on NN Group RI-related it takes for GHG emissions to begin to The Executive Board’s responsibilities also policies and the restricted list towards meaningfully decline, the faster the speed include the formulation of the company’s the Management Board of NN Group. of the transition required. Government strategy in line with its view on longaction to reduce GHG emissions through term value creation. Any non-financial To support all investment teams in the policy and regulations could impact aspects relevant to the company (or the integration of ESG within the investment profitability of companies, particularly chain within which it operates), such as process, and to further drive the in carbon-intensive sectors. environmental, social and governance development of responsible investing and (ESG) matters, are taken into account. engagement, NN IP has a RI team consisting The global transition to a lower-carbon The Supervisory Board supervises the of three specialists. This team reports directly economy might impact the asset side of policy pursued by the Executive Board, to the Chief Investment Officer of NN IP. our balance sheet through our investments. whilst the Management Board is entrusted This is the case when the pricing of financial with the day-to-day management and the Climate change dialogue assets does not fully reflect the risk of overall strategic direction of our company. In 2017, a multi-disciplined working group, different transition pathways. Besides public These responsibilities are laid out in the called the Climate Change Dialogue, was policy, a potential re-pricing of financial charters of these Boards as published on set up to align our reporting with the TCFD assets could be influenced by factors such as our corporate website. framework. Relevant disciplines represented technological developments and changing are: risk management, finance, legal, consumer preferences. Whilst these Within the Management Board, the Chief insurance, reinsurance, investment and risks may be more mid to long term, our Change and Organisation (CCO) has corporate citizenship. The group convened investments might also be exposed to corporate citizenship, including sustainability, to discuss a gap analysis of current reporting short‑term risks such as a sudden change in her portfolio. Additionally, all members with the TCFD framework and a qualitative in market sentiment around climate risks, of the Management Board play a role in mapping of risks and opportunities. for example, for specific industries in integrating sustainability in their respective which we invest. businesses or functions where relevant. In February 2018, the findings and To steer and advise the Management recommendations for further alignment were Board on the implementation of the overall discussed and validated by the Management corporate citizenship strategy, we have a Board. The ongoing role of the Climate dedicated Corporate Citizenship team within Change Dialogue was confirmed, and this the Corporate Relations department of working group will continue to advise the NN Group. This team works closely with the Management Board on climate risk analysis, different NN businesses and functions. climate-related business opportunities and external developments in this area. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 58 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Stakeholder engagement and international commitments Continued Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosure Continued To gain insight into transition risks, The Royal Netherlands Meteorological Although it is challenging to predict long-term NN Group performed a comprehensive Institute (KNMI) developed long-term threats, we currently foresee that it should carbon footprint analysis of a large part of weather scenarios in 2015 that indicate have less impact on our life and income our balance sheet assets. Due to the high that the prevalence of weather conditions insurance liabilities than other threats, such allocations to Eurozone government bonds such as hail and rainfall and related losses as changes in demographics or pandemics. and diversification within the corporate fixed will increase in the following decades. income and equity portfolios, the exposure to Note that P&C is predominantly a one-year As a financial services provider NN Group the highest emitting sectors in our portfolio renewal business, making it possible to relies heavily on reliable data and efficient is relatively limited. Although approach and adjust our risk models and define premiums IT infrastructure for an uninterrupted and methodologies differ, this was also shown by (or introduce excess) that fit to predicted effective service to customers. In the case a study published by the Dutch regulator, the possible losses. Also, external reinsurance of severe climate conditions leading to Dutch Central Bank (DNB), in October 2017, will under certain conditions partially mitigate flooding in our data centres, services to in which NN participated. Dutch insurers potential impacts. customers might be severely impacted. have around 4.5% of their total balance Non-financial criteria are therefore important sheet assets invested in carbon-intensive Customer trust and satisfaction issues can considerations when choosing new locations sectors. Nonetheless, it remains difficult to negatively impact our revenues. For example, for our data centres. predict how the transition to a lower-carbon flood risk is not covered in most P&C economy could impact the investments products, such as building and contents Climate-related opportunities as there could be cross-over effects to insurance in the Netherlands. This is also Besides risks, the energy transition could other sectors. the case for NN Group. Faced with large also bring opportunities for companies damages, customer satisfaction could be across sectors and industries, for example, Transition risks might also impact some of affected when our customers are unaware in the area of energy efficiency and green our revenues when we fail to adjust product of uninsured risks. Such aspects may infrastructure solutions for climate change propositions to sustainability requirements. occasionally lead to reviews of national mitigation or adaption. The latter area could Furthermore, negative feedback from risk management approaches, such as in provide a particularly good fit for insurance government, media and society, for example, the UK, where a national flood risk pool investors. The bond market is seen as having on meeting our societal objectives to has been established for high risk areas. the potential to finance the large-scale contribute to the transition to a lower-carbon At this moment, there is not such a pool in investments that are needed in the transition economy, could impact our reputation. the Netherlands, but the topic is regularly to a lower-carbon and climate changediscussed amongst stakeholders. resilient economy. Finally, the transition might confront corporates in some instances with new Customer satisfaction could also be Helping our customers adapt to climate legal or future regulatory challenges and affected should insurers have to charge change or supporting them in opportunities associated fines for shortfalls in their customers higher insurance premiums, related to energy transition could generate responsibilities to the broader environment making affordability an issue. NN Group new sources of revenue. For example, within or society. Such climate change-related acknowledges the importance of trust and the insurance business we offer insurance litigation remains an emerging and evolving customer satisfaction for the insurance in the area of renewable energy. Delta Lloyd area, making it difficult to assess. Given the industry, focusing on clearly informing our insured its first Dutch wind farm in 2008; relative size of NN’s general liability insurance customers, and being transparent about we are now the largest Dutch insurer of portfolio to corporate clients, we currently coverage, alongside helping to initiate offshore wind farms. We insure both the foresee risks in this area to be low. However, adaption or resilience in a changing construction phase of a wind farm and the we will monitor developments. environment. We will therefore focus on operational phase when the wind turbines actions to raise awareness on climate start operating. Physical risks change among all our stakeholders. Physical risks relate to the physical Within our asset management business, consequences of climate change. They could Physical risks might also impact our we are seeing increased client demand for be event-driven, such as increased severity investment portfolio. For example, a investment strategies that offer positive and frequency of severe weather events severe windstorm or flood in Europe societal impact in addition to financial return. (e.g. hurricanes and floods), or they could that damages the buildings underlying Over the past two years, NN IP expanded its relate to longer-term shifts in climate our real estate portfolio could result range of products with a specific sustainable patterns (e.g. sustained higher temperatures) in asset impairments. Extreme natural focus. For more detail, refer to page 43. that might cause a rise in sea level or catastrophes can cause economic chronic heat waves. damage, potentially indirectly impacting financial markets through the real economy. These risks are particularly relevant to These risks are mostly relevant for our life our non-life insurance business, where insurance investment portfolio given the weather events such as windstorms or hail long-term horizon of the liabilities. result in higher expenditures (claims and operational costs), influencing the margins Prolonged and multiple periods of heat of our property & casualty (P&C) insurance waves and other consequences of rising products. Our non-life insurance business is temperatures may result in increased predominantly located in the Netherlands. morbidity and mortality, thereby impacting our life and income insurance liabilities. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 59 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Stakeholder engagement and international commitments Continued Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosure Continued Finally, proactively addressing climate Risk management Processes to manage climate change could positively influence our Integration of climate factors into risk risks within investments reputation, resulting in improved quality management policy framework We believe that the consideration of ESG and sustainability of earnings. At NN Group, As part of NN Group’s control framework, factors, next to traditional financial data, we want to help our customers secure all business units consider social and helps to make more informed decisions and their financial futures. We can support our environmental risks, supported by a optimise the risk-return profile of investment customers’ resilience to climate change comprehensive policy framework. portfolios. At NN IP, assessing the materiality through insurance products and prevention Our policies set out our minimum standards of ESG factors, such as climate change, is measures. Furthermore, we can support the for risk management and internal control in an integral part of the investment process green economy with both insurance and the relevant area within the group. where the analysts identify material risks and investment products and services. opportunities within the investment case. Other policies that make reference to climate In doing so, they make use of information Resilience of our strategy factors include the RI Framework policy. from ESG data/research providers, amongst In our insurance business, we explicitly This policy is supported by more detailed which Sustainalytics, MSCI, Bloomberg and consider large catastrophic losses in guidance, position papers, awareness raising, ISS-Ethix Climate Solutions. economic capital modelling to ensure and training for areas identified as high risk. NN Group is resilient to such extreme This includes, for example, our ‘Investment In addition to analysing individual investmentscenarios. The Solvency II supervisory Guidance paper on the Environment’, which level risks, we also perform analysis at a framework requires that insurers hold illustrates due diligence processes we portfolio level to better understand the sufficient capital to cover the losses of apply, and highlights relevant standards and potential risks related to climate change. a 1-in-200-year event, over a 1-year time principles to promote best practices and In 2017, we conducted a carbon footprint period. In addition, insurers also consider avoid negative impact of companies in which analysis for a large portion of NN Group’s risks beyond this one-year time period as part we invest. proprietary assets. We published the results of their Own Risk and Solvency Assessment and insights on our website, and updated the (ORSA), and hold a level of capital that is in The Procurement policy governs our footprint and intensity numbers at year-end line with their defined risk appetite. approach to manage and control business 2017 (refer to section on Metrics and targets). operations risks, non-financial and reputation We find the analysis particularly useful to NN Group, and each of our regulated risks in our supply chain. Suppliers are prioritise our engagement efforts with the (re)insurance subsidiaries, prepares an ORSA asked to provide detailed information most carbon-intense sectors in our portfolio. at least once a year. In 2017, Nationaleon their policies regarding human rights, Nederlanden Non-life (NN Non-life) modelled environmental care, labour rights, antiWe consider active stewardship to be one of the financial impact of an extreme windstorm bribery and corruption. Our procurement the most important tools to manage climate in Europe combined with the collapse of employees are trained to integrate risks. We believe it is a responsibility for us some major reinsurers and an economic sustainability aspects into the supplier as long-term investors. Through voting, we crash. This scenario was amongst the qualification process. support shareholder resolutions related to stress test scenarios initiated by the Dutch climate risk, disclosure and performance. regulator, the Dutch Central Bank (DNB), in The Business Continuity Management policy Furthermore, we engage in-depth with 2017. We used this scenario to test how our defines the procedures to determine and investee companies to address the risks reinsurance agreements will protect us from assess risks, including the requirement to associated with climate change. For more significant effects on our balance sheet. perform a risk/threat assessment every year, detail refer to pages 41-44. and manage the consequences of those For this scenario, we anticipate a risks. These procedures mitigate financial, Processes to manage climate risks within negative financial impact for NN Non-life. non-financial and reputation damage insurance underwriting Our management discussions defined caused by long-term disruption of critical Within our P&C insurance business, the additional mitigating measures that we business activities after a disaster, natural physical risks of climate change are deem appropriate to manage the risk of or otherwise. managed through the use of catastrophe risk this scenario. During 2017, we revisited and modelling in underwriting, risk assessments adjusted existing reinsurance contracts on and required capital calculations. Our noncatastrophe risk, taking into account the life insurance business and NN Re work combined NN and Delta Lloyd organisation closely together to share knowledge, insights and corresponding risk appetite and risk and experience, and to ensure a consistent levels. Other measures include preventive approach and understanding of the risks. action to reduce claims through more We use external vendor models, which rely proactive communication with clients, as on meteorological modelling and historical well as better data analytics to determine storms, to estimate the impact and damage potential concentration risks related to caused by large natural catastrophes such catastrophe risk and re-underwrite if needed. as windstorms. These models are part of the Solvency II Partial Internal Model of NN Group. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 60 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Stakeholder engagement and international commitments Continued Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosure Continued Short-term contracts and portfolio NN seeks to increase our investments in Insurance diversification are other key risk-mitigating those activities that are needed to support Property insurance is impacted by climate actions. NN offers a broad range of non-life the transition to a lower-carbon economy. risks, as buildings and their contents are insurance products that provide protection In 2017, we signed new debt investments exposed to natural catastrophes including against damage and loss from a wide range in an offshore wind farm in Germany and storms, hail or impacts of rainfall. Some metrics of causes. The portfolio can be categorised a solar park in Spain. During the year, we we use to assess the future performance of our as (i) income/accident, comprising disability added Delta Lloyd assets, which also include property insurance business on catastrophe or and accident (D&A) and travel insurance, infrastructure investments in wind and solar. climate risks are the Probable Maximum Loss and (ii) property and casualty (P&C) Upon completion the projects in the total (PML) and the mitigation of risk. products, comprising fire (also known as renewable energy portfolio will have the property insurance), motor and transport capacity to provide electricity for around The PML is the estimated maximum amount insurance, and other insurances. Our non-life 800,000 households. Green bonds provide likely to be claimed under (re)insurance products are primarily in the Netherlands. another way to invest in climate friendly policies as a result of a catastrophic event. The business segment Netherlands Non-life activities and support the energy transition. For example, the event could be a windstorm, accounted for 2% of NN Group’s operating At year-end 2017, our combined investments flood or other disaster that has a given result before tax of the ongoing business, in renewable infrastructure and green bonds probability of occurrence over a defined time and 21% of gross premium income in 2017. held on behalf of NN’s proprietary assets period. The PML is identified using postal amounted to EUR 540 million. codes and assumes the normal functioning Through our reinsurance programme, we of protective features of the buildings. reinsurance ourselves against natural We continue to invest in measures that catastrophes. Finally, the management of increase the energy-efficiency of our NN Group estimates the PML for climate risks is informed by regulatory capital real estate investments. To assess the catastrophic events using its Partial Internal requirements, which require the adequacy environmental and broader sustainability Model. The NN Group Partial Internal Model of capital for the risks we are exposed to. performance of our portfolio, we use GRESB, applies external vendor models to assess a leading global standard for assessing the impact of relevant natural disasters on Metrics and targets real estate’s ESG performance. In the 2017 the actual NN portfolio. Windstorms are Own direct operations Real Estate Assessment, NN’s portfolio considered to be the main natural peril NN Group is committed to reducing the performed well, improving its score for the for the NN portfolio. The 1-in-200-year environmental impact of our own operations. third consecutive year and outperforming probability of occurrence is the starting We have set quantitative targets to reduce the majority of the 850 GRESB participants. point for the decision-making process our GHG emissions and consumption of We also participated in the GRESB on purchasing reinsurance covers. scarce resources. Please see pages 48‑49. Debt Assessment for the first time. Reinsurance covers are placed with strongly Our commercial real estate loan portfolio, capitalised external reinsurers. These covers Investments managed by NN IP, received a score above reduce both the losses to NN Group from To inform and monitor our exposure to benchmark average. For our GRESB scores, large events as well as multiple smaller carbon risks within our investment portfolio, please refer to page 66. events. Both the applicability of the external we updated our Carbon Footprint Disclosure vendor models as well as the reinsurance at year-end 2017. In 2017, the assessed For our asset management clients, structure and cover are reviewed annually Assets under Management (AuM) increased NN IP offers a wide range of specialised SRI at renewal. to EUR 103 billion due to the addition of funds and responsible investment solutions. Delta Lloyd’s assets. The measurement, These products meet the growing demand Next steps which represented 56% of NN’s total for products that generate good financial This is the first year that NN Group has Proprietary Assets, shows a decrease in returns alongside care for society and the incorporated the TCFD recommendations in portfolio carbon footprint (273 tCO2e/EURm environment. Our objective is to continue the Annual Report. Whilst we tried to provide invested vs 309 tCO2e/EURm invested). to grow assets in SRI funds and mandates a complete response, there are still next We also calculated the weighted average and expand the product offering. At yearsteps needed to fully report in line with the carbon intensity, which is the main metric end, the AuM in our sustainable equity recommendations. This mostly concerns the recommended by the TCFD. and fixed income products amounted to impact on the strategy and financial planning EUR 10.9 billion. This was an increase of in the short, medium and long term, where a This metric remained stable at 231 tCO2/ 114% versus the prior year. climate-related scenario analysis could help EURm of revenue, although the intensity of to provide additional insights. NN is currently Corporate Bonds somewhat increased whilst exploring the possibilities to perform such an Equity decreased. For more detail, refer to analysis for our investments. Furthermore, we page 67. Due to various limitations related will investigate other climate change-related to quality and availability of data, and the risk and opportunities metrics and embed fact that it provides a snapshot of emissions them in the relevant businesses. at one particular point in time, we have not yet used the results of the carbon footprint analysis to set targets. However, we are looking at ways to make environmental or carbon criteria a more explicit consideration in the management of our portfolio. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 61 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Our approach to reporting We take a holistic approach to reporting. Our Annual Report consists of two components: this Annual Review and the Financial Report. In the Annual Review, we aim to provide a Relevant topics were selected for the 2017 environmental footprint. We have tried to concise, accurate and balanced account Annual Report, more specifically the Annual limit any uncertainties in the reported data of NN Group’s performance over the past Review, through a materiality assessment through our internal validation process, year. In-depth information, particularly using internal and external research and including application of validation rules regarding our financial performance, can be other sources. In addition, a dialogue in Credit360. found in the Financial Report. NN Group N.V. session was held with internal and external is referred to in this document as ‘NN Group’ stakeholders to help steer our focus. We sourced the Human Resources (HR) or ‘NN’. For more information, see page 19. data directly from the HR data analytics department. The financial data reported in We aim to strengthen our integrated We aim to provide transparency and enhance this review has been fully sourced reporting every year. Elements such the reliability of the reported content for and aligned with NN Group’s 2017 as our value creation model and our our stakeholders. Therefore, our external Financial Report. materiality matrix are again included in the auditor, KPMG, provided limited assurance Annual Review. The same applies for our on the non-financial information in the The acquisition of Delta Lloyd (see pages performance data regarding responsible Annual Review. We provide evidence to our 10-12) had an impact on our scope. All 2016 investment, human capital, community external auditor to support the statements numbers are for NN Group standalone. investment and environmental footprint. we make in this report. The non-financial The 2017 numbers include Delta Lloyd since This review therefore aligns relevant information in scope of the assurance 1 April 2017. The acquisition did not change information about our strategy, governance engagement of KPMG is defined as related our corporate citizenship ambition, strategy, systems, performance and future prospects to the material topics: customer centricity, definitions and reported data. in a way that reflects the economic, innovation, digital transformation and environmental and social contexts in which data privacy, transparency and business Reporting guidelines we operate. ethics, risk management, responsible The information and data in the NN Group tax practices, diversity and inclusion, Annual Review is prepared in accordance NN Group also publishes a Solvency and employee engagement, human capital with the Sustainability Standards (Core) from Financial Condition Report (SFCR), which development, financial and economic the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). It aims includes public quantitative and qualitative empowerment, sustainable products and to make information available in a manner disclosures on Solvency II. The SFCR is services, responsible investment, human that is understandable and accessible to published on NN Group’s corporate website rights and climate change. The non-financial stakeholders using the report and reflects in the Investors/Annual Report section. information is included on the following different aspects of the organisation’s pages of the Annual Review: About NN performance to enable a reasoned We believe that this reporting strategy (pages 2-16), Our operating environment assessment of overall performance. enables us to tailor our reporting for different (pages 19-23), Our strategy (pages 24-34), stakeholders, many of whom require different Creating and sharing value (pages 35-52), The GRI Index table states the indicators depths of information. Governance (pages 56-61), Facts and figures NN Group is reporting on, including where (pages 65‑69). Please refer to pages 70-73 of to find the respective information, either in The online versions of the Annual Review this report for KPMG’s Assurance report. this Annual Review, Financial Report and/or and the Financial Report contain a number the NN Group website. The index table can of links. Links to sources on the NN Group Boundary and scope of the data be found on www.nn-group.com/annualwebsite are also included. in the Annual Review report. In this document you can also find The boundaries of the Annual Review the Progress reports for the UN Principles Reporting profile are defined by the topics included in the for Sustainable Insurance and the This is NN Group’s fourth Annual Report materiality assessment and the results that UN Global Compact. since our separation from ING Group and are presented in the materiality matrix. becoming a publicly listed company on Going forward 2 July 2014. It is published on 15 March 2018. The scope of the reported data is the Going forward, we will continue to tailor We report annually, on a calendar year basis range of entities over which NN Group has our reporting to serve different stakeholder (1 January – 31 December). management control. The aforementioned groups. This includes further integration of applies to all material items as depicted in financial and non-financial information and Reporting process the materiality matrix in the Annual Review, indicators to provide stakeholders with a Information in the annual report is based unless otherwise stated. complete picture of how we create long-term on extensive reporting from our countries, value for our company and stakeholders. businesses and functions. All information The scope for community investment and is reviewed by NN Group’s Disclosure environmental data is all businesses with Committee and is subject to approval of more than 100 FTE. NN Group used an online our Executive Board and Supervisory Board system, Credit360, to gather the information before publication. and data for community investment and NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 62 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Facts and figures Consolidated balance sheet As at 31 December Amounts in millions of euros, unless stated otherwise notes 2017 2016 Assets Cash and cash equivalents 2 9,383 8,634 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: 3 – investments for risk of policyholders 33,508 30,711 – non-trading derivatives 5,116 4,421 – designated as at fair value through profit or loss 934 873 Available-for-sale investments 4 104,982 79,767 Loans 5 56,343 33,920 Reinsurance contracts 17 880 231 Associates and joint ventures 6 3,450 2,698 Real estate investments 7 3,582 2,028 Property and equipment 8 150 86 Intangible assets 9 1,841 342 Deferred acquisition costs 10 1,691 1,631 Assets held for sale 11 6 Deferred tax assets 33 125 35 Other assets 12 5,077 3,117 Total assets 227,062 168,500 Equity Shareholders’ equity (parent) 22,718 22,695 Minority interests 317 12 Undated subordinated notes 1,764 986 Total equity 13 24,799 23,693 Liabilities Subordinated debt 14 2,468 2,288 Debt securities issued 15 1,988 598 Other borrowed funds 16 7,991 7,646 Insurance and investment contracts 17 163,639 115,708 Customer deposits and other funds on deposit 18 14,434 10,224 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: 19 – non-trading derivatives 2,305 2,008 Liabilities held for sale 11 2 Deferred tax liabilities 33 1,830 2,979 Other liabilities 20 7,608 3,354 Total liabilities 202,263 144,807 Total equity and liabilities 227,062 168,500 Amounts for 2016 have been restated for the change in NN Group’s accounting policy for the Reserve Adequacy Test. Reference is made to Note 1 ‘Accounting policies’ for more details. References relate to the notes starting with Note 1 ‘Accounting policies’ of the Financial Report. These form an integral part of the Consolidated annual accounts. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 63 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Facts and figures Continued Consolidated profit and loss account For the year ended 31 December notes 2017 2017 2016 2016 Gross premium income 21 12,060 9,424 Investment income 22 5,275 3,801 Result on disposals of group companies -150 -114 – gross fee and commission income 1,187 936 – fee and commission expenses -382 -340 Net fee and commission income 23 805 596 Valuation results on non-trading derivatives 24 -513 14 Foreign currency results and net trading income -138 -90 Share of result from associates and joint ventures 6 399 377 Other income 78 60 Total income 17,816 14,068 – gross underwriting expenditure 14,140 11,590 – investment result for risk of policyholders -1,622 -1,156 – reinsurance recoveries -187 -116 Underwriting expenditure 25 12,331 10,318 Intangible amortisation and other impairments 26 118 19 Staff expenses 27 1,517 1,174 Interest expenses 28 335 345 Other operating expenses 29 991 749 Total expenses 15,292 12,605 Result before tax 2,524 1,463 Taxation 33 392 273 Net result 2,132 1,190 Amounts for 2016 have been restated for the changed classification of interest income/expense on derivatives for which no hedge accounting is applied. Reference is made to Note 1 ‘Accounting policies’ for more details. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 64 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Key financial and non-financial indicators Financial indicators (in EUR million) 2017 2016 2015 Operating result ongoing business 1,586 1,227 1,435 Net result (after minority interests) 2,110 1,189 1,565 Net Operating ROE 10.3% 8.1% 10.8% Solvency II ratio 199% 241% 239% Value of new business 345 214 202 Assets under Management (end of period, in EUR billion) 246 195 187 Dividend proposal (per ordinary share, in EUR) 1.66 1.55 1.51 NN Group share price (COB 31 December 2017, in EUR) 36.12 32.20 32.55 Key non-financial indicators 2017 2016 2015 Customer satisfaction and loyalty – insurance business units using NPS 100% 100% 100% – insurance business units scoring on/above level previous year 91% 95% n.a. – insurance business units scoring on/above market average 100% n.a. 95% Countries/business units offering tools improving financial decision-making (#) 13 13 13 Assets under Management in SRI funds or mandates (end of period – in EUR million) 10,852 5,062 4,509 – as part of the total Assets under Management 4.4% 2.6% 2.4% Employee engagement score 66% 71% 73% − participation in the engagement survey 73% 86% 84% Total donations to charitable organisations (x EUR 1,000)1 2,400 1,500 1,500 1 Includes cash donations to charitable causes, corporate foundations and partnerships. Sustainability ratings 2017 2016 2015 3/145 13/151 13/149 Sustainalytics (position/# insurance companies) (Leader) (Outperformer) (Outperformer) Oekom C (Prime) C (Prime) C (Prime) Carbon Disclosure Project C B 95C Dow Jones Sustainability Index (out of 100) 80 (Included) 77 68 FTSE4Good Included Included Included Dutch Transparency Benchmark (out of 200) 183 176 157 NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 65 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Key financial and non-financial indicators Continued Customer-related indicators (in EUR million) 2017 2016 2015 Total claims and benefits paid 15,772 11,681 14,225 New sales life insurance (APE) 1,791 1,386 1,295 Gross premium income 12,060 9,424 9,205 Responsible investment indicators (in EUR million) 2017 2016 2015 Assets under Management in SRI funds and mandates (end of period) 10,852 5,062 4,509 – as part of total Assets under Management NN Investment Partners 4.4% 2.6% 2.4% Funds – NN Duurzaam Aandelen Fonds 734 679 682 – NN (L) European Sustainable Equity Fund 308 91 148 – NN (L) Global Sustainable Equity Fund 1,717 673 544 – NN Global Sustainable Opportunities Fund 263 265 – – NN (L) Global Equity Impact Opportunities 368 – – – Delta Lloyd Equity Sustainable Global Fund 2,942 – – – NN (L) Euro Sustainable Credit (excluding Financials) 679 587 471 – NN (L) Euro Sustainable Credit (including Financials) 117 96 85 – NN (L) Euro Green Bond Fund 173 61 – – NN (L) Patrimonial Balanced European Sustainable 234 102 – Subtotal 7,534 2,554 1,930 Mandates – Sustainable Fixed Income Mandates 1,319 1,038 1,548 – European Sustainable Equity Mandates 387 349 333 – Global Sustainable Equity Mandates 1,612 1,121 699 Subtotal 3,318 2,508 2,580 Total 10,852 5,062 4,509 Voting Shareholders meetings where we voted (#)1 1,507 1,437 2,013 – as % of total votable meetings 97% 94% 96% Agenda items on which we voted (#) 18,978 18,335 26,580 How we voted on agenda items (%) – for 89.6% 90.1% 89.7% – against 10.1% 9.6% 10.2% – abstain 0.3% 0.3% 0.3% Countries where we voted (#) 54 51 52 Shareholder resolutions on which we voted by topic 348 347 532 – environmental 56 54 67 – social 74 73 98 – governance 218 220 367 GRESB Real Estate and Debt Assessment scores2 Private real estate – portfolio average (vs. benchmark average) 74 (61) 72 (59) 66 (55) Commercial real estate debt – portfolio average (vs. peer average) 68 (55) – – 1 Excludes voting related to Delta Lloyd assets. 2 NN calculates the GRESB scores on a value-weighted basis, and compares these to the relevant benchmark average. Scores are on a scale of 1 to 100. The real estate portfolios are part of NN Group’s proprietary assets. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 66 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Key financial and non-financial indicators Continued Carbon footprint of NN Group’s proprietary assets 2017 2016 Assessed Assets under Management (in EUR billion) 103 81 Fixed income 99 78 Equity 4 3 Carbon footprint (tCO2e/EUR million invested) 273 309 Fixed income 278 316 Equity 120 146 Weighted average carbon intensity (tCO2e/EUR million of revenue) 231 232 Government Bonds 233 232 Corporate Bonds 276 238 Equity 171 260 In the context of an investment portfolio, a carbon footprint measures the amount of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and intensity associated with the underlying portfolio holdings. The footprint is measured in carbon dioxide equivalents (CO2e). Scope of our carbon footprint disclosure The carbon footprint of NN Group’s proprietary fixed income and listed equity holdings was measured as per 31 December 2017, and is based on the latest carbon dioxide emissions data for governments and companies available to us. In 2017, the assessed AuM increased to EUR 103 billion due to the addition of Delta Lloyd’s assets. This represents 56% of NN Group’s total proprietary assets. The main asset categories that were not in scope of this carbon footprint analysis included mortgages, real estate, private equity, derivatives and cash. The fixed income holdings that we assessed included government bonds and corporate fixed income securities. The Corporate Fixed Income portfolio comprised mainly corporate bonds, but also asset-backed securities and loans (although the data availability on these two asset categories was limited). The analysis is based on scope 1 and 2 emissions data provided by ISS-Ethix Climate Solutions, a leading global provider of investment climate data. The coverage, or the percentage of (assessed) portfolio assets for which (actual or estimated) emissions data was available, is: 82%. The methodology for the footprint measurement remained the same as last year. More detail on how we calculated the metrics can be found in NN’s Carbon Footprint Disclosure report of August 2017, published on the NN Group website. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 67 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Key financial and non-financial indicators Continued Human capital indicators 2017 2016 2015 Workforce (end of year) Total full-time equivalents (FTEs) 14,853 11,545 11,643 Total number of employees (headcount) 15,406 11,995 12,105 – Netherlands Life 2,924 2,162 2,183 – Netherlands Non-life 2,157 935 901 – Insurance Europe 4,847 4,254 4,228 – Japan 868 775 697 – Asset Management 1,165 1,098 1,191 – Other 3,445 2,771 2,905 Part-time employees 22.0% 15.8% 16.1% Temporary employees 5.8% 5.9% 5.8% Average years of service 11.8 n.r. n.r. Male/female ratio 52/48 52/48 53/47 Male/female ratio managers 65/35 66/34 66/34 Male/female ratio Senior Leaders Group 68/32 80/20 82/18 Wellbeing and engagement Sick leave1 3.3% 2.4% 2.8% Engagement score 66% 71% 73% Participation in engagement survey 73% 86% 84% Employee participation Employees covered by Collective Labour Agreement (CLA) 75.1% 70.1% 70.9% Employees represented by an employee representative body 87% n.r. n.r. Formal meetings held with employee representative bodies (#) 127 n.r. n.r. Complaints1 Grievances on labour practices (#)2 10 12 5 Total incidents of fraud involving employees (#) 8 1 2 Talent development Total spending on training and development (in EUR million) 21.4 13.7 13.0 Spending/average FTE 1.441 1,111 1,094 Human capital return on investment3 2.3 2.3 2.5 Employees with completed standard performance process (2016/2017) 91.8% 98.4% 87% Employee turnover New hires (#) 1,521 1,358 1,651 Employee turnover 14.9% 10.2% 10.4% – voluntary employee turnover 7.8% 5.8% 5.2% – involuntary employee turnover 7.2% 4.4% 5.2% Redundancies4 (#) 902 n.r. n.r. Open positions filled by internal candidates 26.8% 29.2% 25.4% Employee compensation Total employee wages and benefits (in EUR million) 1,496 1,160 1,159 Ratio of CEO compensation to the average employee compensation5 29:1 n.r. n.r. 1 Netherlands only; this counts for more than 60% of the total organisation. 2 This number covers data of the Dutch business of NN only. It does not include the complaints received in relation to the integration process of Delta Lloyd and Nationale-Nederlanden, given the specific nature of these complaints. 3 Human capital ROI is calculated as: (operating result ongoing business + employee expenses)/employee expenses. 4 The scope of the number of redundancies differs from the involuntary employee turnover ratio, as it is limited to (actively) managed involuntary terminations, not including i.e. people leaving because of death, or end of their fixed term contract. 5 For more information, refer to the Remuneration report on pages 28-32 of the Financial Report. n.r. indicates not reported. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 68 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Key financial and non-financial indicators Continued Community investment indicators 2017 2016 2015 Total donations to charitable organisations (x EUR 1,000)1 2,400 1,500 1,500 Of which donations from corporate foundations (country/name) The Netherlands/Together for Society 218 182 293 The Netherlands/Delta Lloyd Foundation 850 Hungary/NN Foundation for Children’s Health – 9 33 Romania/Foundation for Life 11 29 137 Total hours of volunteering work (in Future Matters focus areas) 14,099 5,685 5,593 Total number of young people reached through NN Future Matters programme2 37,208 27,529 9,069 1 Includes cash donations to charitable causes, corporate foundations and partnerships. 2 Numbers reached include partnership with JA and EP-Nuffic, the Future Matters anniversary donations and main Dutch programmes (excluding the From Debt to opportunites programme). Environmental indicators 2017 2016 2015 CO2 emissions of our direct operations % of CO2 emissions offset annually 100% 100% 100% CO2 emissions (kilotonnes)1 25 22 27 CO2 emissions from energy consumed on NN sites 11 9 12 – of which electricity 6 6 6 – of which natural gas 3 2 3 – of which district heating 2 1 3 CO2 emissions from air travel 4 4 6 CO2 emissions from car travel 10 9 8 CO2 emissions (tonnes)/FTE 1.7 1.9 2.3 Business travel Air travel (km x 1 million) 22 24 25 Car travel (km x 1 million)2 56 45 45 Energy consumption Total energy consumption (MWh x 1,000) 59 37 55 Electricity 11 12 12 Renewable electricity 24 10 19 – Renewable electricity as % of total electricity 69% 45% 61% Natural gas 13 11 13 District heating3 11 5 11 Paper Total paper use (kg) 776,380 830,409 872,996 – Sustainable paper (i.e FSC) (kg) 678,418 693,580 730,277 – Sustainable paper as % of total paper 87% 84% 84% Waste Total waste (kg) 389,517 471,162 573,875 – Recycled waste (kg) 320,897 215,325 152,053 – Recycled waste as % of total waste 82% 46% 26% 1 The increase in total CO2 emissions is a result of the integration of NN and Delta Lloyd. 2 The comparative figure for 2015 has been restated according to new data. 3 Decrease in 2016 mainly caused by a reduction of office space in the Netherlands. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 69 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Assurance report of the independent auditor Assurance report of the independent auditor To: the Stakeholders and the Supervisory Board of NN Group N.V. Our conclusion We have reviewed the Non-Financial Information in the Annual Review 2017 (hereafter: the Non-Financial Information) of NN Group N.V. (hereafter: NN Group) based in Amsterdam and headquartered in The Hague. A review is aimed at obtaining a limited level of assurance. Based on our procedures performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Non-Financial Information is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the GRI Standards and the applied supplemental reporting criteria as described in ‘Our approach to reporting’ on page 62. The scope of our review of the Non-Financial Information is defined on page 62 of the Annual Review. Basis for our conclusion We have performed our review on the Non-Financial Information in accordance with Dutch law, including Dutch Standard 3810N: ‘Assurance-opdrachten inzake maatschappelijke verslagen’ (Assurance engagements relating to sustainability reports). This review engagement is aimed at obtaining limited assurance. Our responsibilities under this standard are further described in the ‘Our responsibilities for the review of the NonFinancial Information‘ section of our report. We are independent of NN Group N.V. in accordance with the ‘Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assurance-opdrachten’ (ViO, Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, a regulation with respect to independence) and other relevant independence regulations in the Netherlands. Furthermore, we have complied with the ‘Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels accountants’ (VGBA, Dutch Code of Ethics). We believe that the assurance evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion. Our key review matter Key review matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our review of the Non-Financial Information. We have communicated the key review matters to the Supervisory Board. The key review matters are not a comprehensive reflection of all matters discussed. These matters were addressed in the context of our review of the information within the scope of our engagement as a whole and in forming our conclusion thereon, and we do not provide a separate conclusion on these matters. KPMG Accountants N.V., registered with the trade register in the Netherlands under number 33263683, is a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (‘KPMG International’), a Swiss entity. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 70 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Assurance report of the independent auditor Continued Acquisition of Delta Lloyd Description In 2017, NN Group acquired Delta Lloyd. As NN Group incorporated Delta Lloyd’s information fully into the 2017 Annual Review, this resulted in potential challenges in the reporting. These related amongst others to judgement required to balance the narrative information in the Annual Review on the combination and to the consolidation of the nonfinancial indicators, including possible differences in definitions, scope and methodologies. The integration of information from NN Group and Delta Lloyd was therefore a significant area for our procedures. Our response To evaluate whether the narrative information on the combination was sufficiently included in the 2017 Annual Review, our assurance procedures included, amongst others, obtaining an understanding of the principles that NN Group applied to collect and document information regarding the subsequent integration process as the basis for preparing the Annual Review. We assessed proper inclusion of the insights of interviewed staff regarding the integration process. Finally, we performed an overall assessment of the section in the Annual Review regarding the Delta Lloyd transaction and integration based on the evidence obtained to determine whether this section of the Annual Review presents a balanced overall picture of NN Group’s (non-financial) performance over the year. Regarding the possible differences in definitions, scope and methodologies, our procedures per indicator started with an evaluation of the possible risks related to possible differences in definitions, scope and methodologies between standalone NN Group and Delta Lloyd figures. We noted that most of the indicators were either measured at consolidated group level at year-end or reported on separately, lowering the risk of material misstatement due to differences in definition, scope and methodology. We have also evaluated whether sufficient disclosures are added to the Annual Review to explain the deviations in consolidated figures other than by referring to the integration with Delta Lloyd as a single cause for deviations. Our observation Based on our procedures performed it appears that the section in the Annual Review regarding the Delta Lloyd acquisition and integration sufficiently reflects both positive and negative aspects of the integration process. Additionally, based on our procedures performed, it appears that the reported consolidated figures per indicator are calculated using the same definitions, scope and methodologies, and that sufficient explanation is included in the Annual Review regarding outcomes per indicator. Unexamined prospective information The Non-Financial Information includes prospective information such as ambitions, strategy, plans, expectations and estimates and risk assessments. Inherently the actual future results are uncertain. We do not provide any assurance on the assumptions and achievability of prospective information in the Non-Financial Information. Unreviewed references to external sources The references to external sources or websites in the Non-Financial Information are not part of the Non-Financial Information itself as reviewed by us. We therefore do not provide assurance on this information. KPMG Accountants N.V., registered with the trade register in the Netherlands under number 33263683, is a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (‘KPMG International’), a Swiss entity. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 71 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Assurance report of the independent auditor Continued Consistency of the non-financial information included in other parts of the Annual Review In addition to the Non-Financial Information and our assurance report thereon, the Annual Review contains other information. Based on the following procedures performed, we conclude that the other information included in other parts of the Annual Review is consistent with the Non-Financial Information and does not contain material misstatements. We have read the other parts of the Annual Review. Based on our knowledge and understanding obtained through our review of the Non-Financial Information, we have considered whether the information included in other parts of the Annual Review contains material misstatements. The scope of the procedures performed is substantially less than the scope of those performed in our review of the Non-Financial Information. Responsibilities of the Executive Board and Supervisory Board for the Non-Financial Information The Executive Board of NN Group is responsible for the preparation of the Non-Financial Information in accordance with the GRI Standards and the applied supplemental reporting criteria as disclosed in ‘Our approach to reporting’ on page 62, including the identification of stakeholders and the definition of material matters. The choices made by the Executive Board regarding the scope of the Non-Financial Information and the reporting policy are summarised in ‘Our approach to reporting’ of the Annual Review. The Executive Board is also responsible for such internal control as it determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the Non-Financial Information that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing NN Group’s reporting process. Our responsibilities for the review of the Non-Financial Information Our responsibility is to plan and perform the assurance engagement in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate assurance evidence for our conclusion. Procedures performed to obtain a limited level of assurance are aimed to determine the plausibility of information and are less extensive than a reasonable assurance engagement. The level of assurance obtained in limited assurance engagements is therefore substantially less than the level of assurance obtained in an audit engagement. Misstatements can arise from fraud or errors and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the decisions of users taken on the basis of the Non-Financial Information. The materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our review procedures and the evaluation of the effect of identified misstatements on our conclusion. KPMG Accountants N.V., registered with the trade register in the Netherlands under number 33263683, is a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (‘KPMG International’), a Swiss entity. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 72 Our operating Our Creating and Facts About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures Assurance report of the independent auditor Continued We apply the ‘Nadere Voorschriften Kwaliteitssystemen’ (Regulations on quality management systems) and accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. We have exercised professional judgement and have maintained professional scepticism throughout the review, in accordance with the Dutch Standard 3810N, ethical requirements and independence requirements. Our review engagement included, among others, the following procedures: • Performing an analysis of the external environment and obtaining an understanding of relevant social themes and issues, and the characteristics of the organisation. • Identifying areas of the non-financial where material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error, are likely to arise, designing and performing assurance procedures responsive to those areas, and obtaining assurance evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion; • Developing an understanding of internal controls relevant to the assurance engagement in order to design assurance procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing a conclusion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control; • Evaluating the appropriateness of the reporting criteria used and their consistent application, including the evaluation of the results of the stakeholders’ dialogue and the reasonableness of estimates made by management and related disclosures in the NonFinancial Information; • Interviewing relevant staff at corporate level responsible for the non-financial strategy and policy; • Interviewing relevant staff responsible for providing the Non-Financial Information, carrying out internal control procedures on the data and consolidating the data in the Annual Review related to the indicators; • An analytical review of data and trends; • Reviewing relevant internal and external documentation, on a limited test basis, in order to determine the reliability of the Non-Financial Information. • Evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of the Non-Financial Information, including the disclosures, and evaluating whether the Non-Financial Information represents the underlying transactions and events free from material misstatement. We communicate with the Supervisory Board regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the review and significant findings, including any significant findings in internal control that we identify during our review. Amstelveen, 14 March 2018 KPMG Accountants N.V. P.A.M. de Wit RA KPMG Accountants N.V., registered with the trade register in the Netherlands under number 33263683, is a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (‘KPMG International’), a Swiss entity. NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 73 Our operating Our Creating and Facts and About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures figures Glossary Agile The agile way of working is a methodology whereby people of different AR p. 24, 29, 31, 33, 45 expertise and teams are given autonomy and work together towards a common goal. The goal of agile is faster product and service delivery. NN is investing in becoming more agile to secure long-term growth. App An application; typically a small, specialised programme downloaded onto AR p. 25, 29, 33 mobile devices. Apps support NN Group’s ability to provide a quick, easy, confidential customer experience across digital channels. Assets under Management Assets under Management in SRI funds and mandates are assets that are AR p. 7, 41, 65, 66 in SRI funds and mandates managed with a specific focus on sustainability. This includes our Socially Responsible Investing (SRI) funds and mandates. Brand awareness The extent to which consumers are familiar with the distinctive qualities or AR p. 35, 38 image of NN; the recognisability of the NN Brand in the general public. Carbon footprint The total amount of greenhouse gases produced to directly and indirectly AR p. 43, 48, 59, 60, 61, 67 support ongoing activities, usually expressed in equivalent tonnes of carbon dioxide (CO2). CDP Carbon Disclosure Project. A global disclosure system for companies, cities, AR p. 42, 56, 65 states and regions to manage their environmental impacts and for investors or purchasers to access environmental information for use in financial decisions. Central Works Council The Central Works Council (CWC) is an entity required by the Dutch Works AR p. 47 Council Act of 2013. It is a standing works council formed by representatives FR p. 33 from eight Dutch work councils. The CWC is informed or consulted about important NN Group developments in the Netherlands and international developments to the extent that Dutch interests are influenced. Climate Action 100+ A five-year initiative led by investors to engage with the world’s largest AR p. 23, 43 corporate greenhouse gas emitters to improve governance on climate change, curb emissions and strengthen climate-related financial disclosures. COLI Corporate-owned life insurance AR p. 4, 25, 30 Corporate governance The way in which a company is governed and how it deals with the various AR p. 15 interests of its customers, shareholders, employees, business partners and FR p. 18-27 society at large. Credit rating Credit ratings, as assigned by rating agencies (such as Standard & Poor’s AR p. 40 and Fitch), are indicators of the likelihood of timely and complete repayment of interest and instalments of fixed income securities. Data privacy Data privacy, also called data protection or information privacy, is the aspect AR p. 19, 21 of information technology that deals with the ability of NN Group to protect the personal data of its customers and other stakeholders. DHAN Development of Human Action Foundation. The Foundation works to make AR p. 37 significant changes in the livelihoods of the poor through innovative themes and institutions. Diversity and inclusion NN Group’s approach to diversity includes hiring people of various race, AR p. 19, 45-47 ethnicity, gender, age, sexual orientation, physical abilities and personal philosophies, as well as creating an inclusive culture and diversity of thought – one that welcomes, acknowledges, respects, challenges and benefits from our differences. AR Annual Review FR Financial Report NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 74 Our operating Our Creating and Facts and About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures figures Glossary Continued Digitalisation The process of adopting and integrating digital technologies and solutions AR p. 17, 18, 20, 21, 31, 38, 48 by an industry or organisation. Digitalisation brings opportunities for NN to broaden and deepen product offerings and increase partnerships with insurtech startups. Dutch Cyber Collective The Dutch Cyber Collective, an initiative of Nationale-Nederlanden, is an AR p. 21, 29 overarching Dutch association committed to effectively reducing cybercrime for Dutch SMEs. Emerging (market) An emerging market economy describes a nation’s economy that is AR p. 17, 32 economies progressing toward becoming more advanced, usually by means of rapid growth and industrialisation. These countries experience an expanding role both in the world economy and on the political frontier. Employee engagement Employee engagement is a property of the relationship between an AR p. 3, 7, 9, 15, 16, organisation and its employees, measured by NN Group through the YES 19, 45, 47, 52 employee survey. Employee Value Proposition The Employee Value Proposition (EVP) represents what our employees AR p. 14, 46 experience and benefit from during their employment period within NN and what we expect from them. It is the rational and emotional articulation of the tangible benefits employees receive as a result of working for the NN Group. The EVP highlights the attractive factors in NN for the labour market. Environmental footprint The effect that NN Group has on the environment, for example the AR p. 6, 48, 62 amount of natural resources used and the amount of waste produced in direct operations. Environmental, social and ESG factors are a subset of non-financial performance indicators which AR p. 22, 23, 26, 27, governance (ESG) factors include sustainable, ethical and corporate governance issues such as 32, 41, 42, 58 managing the company’s carbon footprint and ensuring there are systems in place to ensure accountability. Euronext Amsterdam A conglomerate of the former entities: Amsterdam Stock Exchange, AR p. 78 Brussels Stock Exchange and Paris Stock Exchange. Located in Amsterdam, the Netherlands. European Works Council The European Works Council (EWC) is a standing works council body AR p. 47 as required by the 2009 European Works Council Directive 2009/38 FR p. 33 of the European Commission. The EWC is formed by chosen employee representatives of all eleven European countries where NN Group is active. EWC-members are informed about transnational matters twice a year. Financial sector oath Ethics statement introduced in early 2013 for employees in the Dutch financial AR p. 7 or promise sector, along with the introduction of a social charter and update of the Banking Code. The oath or promise applies not only to employees of banks but also to employees of other financial enterprises, including insurance companies, investment firms and financial service providers. By taking the oath or promise, employees proclaim that they are bound by the Code of Conduct attached to the oath or promise for the ethical and careful practice of their profession. Fintech A line of business based on using software to provide financial services. AR p. 9, 31 Financial technology companies are generally providers of new solutions which demonstrate an incremental or radical innovation development of applications, processes, products or business models in the financial services industry. General Data Protection Regulation by which the European Parliament, the Council of the European AR p. 18, 21 Regulation (GDPR) Union and the European Commission intend to strengthen and unify data protection for all individuals within the European Union. AR Annual Review FR Financial Report NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 75 Our operating Our Creating and Facts and About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures figures Glossary Continued Global Real Estate GRESB is an industry-driven organisation committed to assessing the AR p. 43, 61, 66 Sustainability Benchmark sustainability performance of real assets globally, including real estate (GRESB) portfolios. On behalf of close to 60 institutional investors, GRESB Real Estate has assessed almost 1,000 property companies and funds globally. Global Reporting Initiative The Global Reporting Initiative is an international independent standards AR p. ifc, 19, 51, 62 (GRI) organisation that helps businesses, governments and other organisations understand and communicate their impacts on issues such as climate change, human rights and corruption. Green alternatives Choices that NN Group makes with regards to energy, resource use and AR p. 48 waste management that serve to protect the environment more so than traditional options. ICE Impact Centre Erasmus – A centre for scientific knowledge and skills aimed AR p. 49 at gaining traction with a diverse group of organisations on the realisation of their social ambitions. (Paraphrased from Dutch from their website.) ICGN International Corporate Governance Network – in place to influence policy by AR p. 56 providing a reliable source of investor opinion on governance and stewardship. Information barriers The ethical barriers between different divisions of a financial (or other) AR p. 41 institution to avoid conflict of interest. Also historically known as ‘Chinese Walls’. Institutional investors Entities which pool money to purchase securities, real property and other AR p. 5, 23, 33, 36, 37, 42, 56 investment assets or originate loans. Institutional investors include banks, insurance companies, pension funds, hedge funds, investment advisors and endowments. Integrated reporting A process founded on integrated thinking that results in a periodic AR p. ifc, 62 integrated report by NN Group about value creation over time and related communications regarding aspects of value creation. International Integrated A global coalition of regulators, investors, companies, standard setters, the AR p. ifc Reporting Council (IIRC) accounting profession and NGOs. The coalition is promoting communication about value creation as the next step in the evolution of corporate reporting. Internet of Things A network of devices that can connect to the internet and to each other, AR p. 18, 21 allowing the devices to be controlled remotely and data to be transferred. The Internet of Things is among the technologies expected to spur a transformation of the financial services industry. Junior Achievement Europe Junior Achievement Europe is Europe’s largest provider of education AR p. 50 programmes for entrepreneurship, work readiness and financial literacy. KiFiD The Dutch institute for consumer complaints about the financial services FR p. 118 industry (Klachteninstituut Financiële Dienstverlening). Longevity Length or duration of life. AR p. 27 Materiality matrix The materiality matrix presents the developments and topics which AR p. 19, 62 are important to our business and the relevance of these to our external stakeholders. Net Promoter Score (NPS) A management tool that can be used to gauge the loyalty of a firm’s AR p. 3, 7, 28, 30, customer relationships. It serves as an alternative to traditional customer 31, 35, 38, 65 satisfaction research. NGO (Non-Governmental An organisation that is neither a part of a government nor a conventional AR p. 19, 56, 57 Organisation) for-profit business. Usually set up by citizens, NGOs may be funded by governments, foundations, businesses, or private persons. NLII Netherlands Investment Institution – established to enable institutional AR p. 37 investors such as pension funds and insurers to invest directly in the Dutch economy. AR Annual Review FR Financial Report NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 76 Our operating Our Creating and Facts and About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures figures Glossary Continued NN Future Matters Future Matters is the global community investment programme for AR p. 7, 9, 48-50, 52, 69 NN Group. It aims to empower people in the markets where we operate to improve their financial wellbeing, and to support them in growing their economic opportunies. NN Group Compliance A policy set in place by NN Group to help businesses to effectively manage AR p. 53 Charter & Framework their compliance risks. Ordinary share An equity instrument that is subordinated to all other classes of equity AR p. 9, 39, 65 instruments. Ordinary shares participate in the net profit for the financial year after other types of shares such as preference shares. Partial Internal Model A method of calculating the Solvency Capital Requirement (SCR) that AR p. 6, 10, 60, 61 combines a standard formula and an approved, internally developed internal model. NN Group’s Partial Internal Model was approved by the Dutch regulator (DNB) in December 2015. Product Approval and The Product Approval and Redesign Process (PARP) refers to the assessment AR p. 22, 35 Redesign Process (PARP) of a product in relation to its customer suitability, financial and non-financial risks and profitability. The PARP is conducted when NN Group introduces a new product, changes the characteristics of an existing product or reviews a product. This is to ensure that our products are acceptable for our company, our customers and our society in general. Qredits Qredits – A microfinancing organisation assisting entrepreneurs with loans, AR p. 37 mentoring and e-learning. Remuneration Reward to NN Group’s employees in the form of salary or compensation, AR p. 68 either fixed or variable, including benefits. FR p. 28-32 Report of the The NN Group N.V. 2017 Report of the management board (Bestuursverslag), AR management board as referred to in section 2:391 of the Dutch Civil Code. Specific chapters FR to be mentioned in this matter are the Annual Review and the following chapters in the Financial Report: the Financial Developments, the Report of the Supervisory Board, Corporate Governance, the Remuneration Report, the Report of the Executive Board on internal control over financial reporting and the Statements Dutch Financial Supervision Act and Dutch Corporate Governance Code. Responsible Investment (RI) The Responsible Investment (RI) Framework policy sets out NN Group’s vision, AR p. 9, 23, 41, 56 Framework policy approach and key principles on responsible investment. NN Group defines RI as the systematic integration of relevant ESG factors into investment decision-making and active ownership practices. Retail investors An individual who purchases securities for his or her own personal account AR p. 5, 33, 35, 38 rather than for an organisation. Robotisation The automation of a system or process by use of robotic devices. AR p. 32, 33 SDMO Sustainable Micro Pensions in Developing Countries organisation – joint AR p. 37, 52 initiative of the Association of Insurers and the Pension Federation in the Netherlands with support of the Dutch Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Settlement Date The date on which a trade must be settled and the buyer must make payment. FR p. 18-23, 26, 50, 119 On 2 July 2014, ING Group offered part of its shares in the share capital of NN Group to the public and the shares in the capital of NN Group were listed on Euronext Amsterdam. Settlement Date of the offering was 7 July 2014. SME Smalland medium-sized enterprise. AR p. 4, 29, 30, 31, 37 Sparklab NN’s innovation labs. AR p. 9, 20, 29, 31 AR Annual Review FR Financial Report NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 77 Our operating Our Creating and Facts and About NN environment strategy sharing value Governance and figures figures Glossary Continued Social Innovation Relay The Social Innovation Relay is an initiative of Junior Achievement supported by AR p. 49, 50 NN Group. It works to inspire secondary school students to develop innovative business concepts that address social challenges. Socially Responsible Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) funds are specialised sustainable AR p. 3, 7, 9, 23, 32, 34, Investment (SRI) funds investment products which cater to the increasing demand for products 41-43, 52, 61, 65 that not only generate good financial returns, but are also good for society and the environment. Solvency II ratio Measurement of NN Group’s capital position, calculated as the ratio of AR p. ifc, 4, 6, 9, 10, 18, 22, Own Funds (OF) to the Solvency Capital Requirement (SCR) based on 40, 60, 62 NN Group’s approved Partial Internal Model. SPVA Single premium variable annuity AR p. 5 Stakeholders The groups and individuals who, directly or indirectly, influence – or are AR p. 2, 3, 8, 9, 11, 13, 15, 17, influenced by – the attainment of the company’s objectives, such as 19, 22, 23, 24, 26, 32, 33, 34, shareholders and other lenders, employees, suppliers, customers and 35, 38, 41, 43, 44, 49, 51, 53, civil society. 56, 59, 62 Sustainable Development The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), otherwise known as the AR p. 44, 51, 52 Goals (SDGs) Global Goals, are a universal call to action to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure that all people enjoy peace and prosperity. Taskforce Climate-related The Financial Stability Board launched the industry-led Task Force on AR p. 23, 42, 58, 61 Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) to develop recommendations on climate-related financial disclosures. The Task Force published its final recommendations in June 2017. UN Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact is an initiative of the United Nations to AR p. 26, 41, 56, 62 encourage businesses worldwide to adopt sustainable and socially responsible policies, and to report on their implementation. It is a principle-based framework for business, stating ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Value creation model An operating model which focuses on how NN Group can create revenue AR p. 2, 15, 62 which exceeds expenses which results in a profit, or value, to the stakeholders. YES The Yearly Engagement Survey (YES) is a questionnaire measuring how AR p. 14, 15, 47 NN Group’s brand and values are experienced by our employees, how our leaders live up to the high standards we set and how we fulfil our employee value proposition as an organisation. The results reflect employee engagement expressed as a percentage score. AR Annual Review FR Financial Report NN Group N.V 2017 Annual Review 78 Contact and legal information We welcome input from our stakeholders. If you would like to provide us with feedback, please feel free to contact us. Prepared by Disclaimer NN Group Corporate Relations NN Group’s 2017 Annual Report consists of two documents: the 2017 Annual Review and the 2017 Financial Report. More information – Design for example the GRI Index Table and SFCR – are available on the corporate Radley Yeldar | ry.com website in the Investors/Annual report section. Certain of the statements in this 2017 Annual Report are not historical facts, Contact us including, without limitation, certain statements made of future expectations NN Group N.V. and other forward-looking statements that are based on management’s current Schenkkade 65 views and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties 2595 AS Den Haag that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from The Netherlands those expressed or implied in such statements. Actual results, performance or events may differ materially from those in such statements due to, without P.O. Box 90504, 2509 LM Den Haag limitation: (1) changes in general economic conditions, in particular economic The Netherlands conditions in NN Group’s core markets, (2) changes in performance of financial www.nn-group.com markets, including developing markets, (3) consequences of a potential (partial) breakup of the euro or European Union countries leaving the European Union, Commercial register of Amsterdam, no. 52387534 (4) changes in the availability of, and costs associated with, sources of liquidity as well as conditions in the credit markets generally, (5) the frequency and severity For further information on NN Group, please visit our corporate of insured loss events, (6) changes affecting mortality and morbidity levels and website or contact us via external.communications@nn-group.com trends, (7) changes affecting persistency levels, (8) changes affecting interest rate levels, (9) changes affecting currency exchange rates, (10) changes in investor, For further information on NN Group’s sustainability strategy, policies customer and policyholder behaviour, (11) changes in general competitive factors, and performance, please visit www.nn-group.com/in-society.htm (12) changes in laws and regulations and the interpretation and application or contact us via sustainability@nn-group.com thereof, (13) changes in the policies and actions of governments and/or regulatory authorities, (14) conclusions with regard to accounting assumptions and methodologies, (15) changes in ownership that could affect the future availability to us of net operating loss, net capital and built-in loss carry forwards, (16) changes in credit and financial strength ratings, (17) NN Group’s ability to achieve projected operational synergies, (18) catastrophes and terrorist-related events, (19) adverse Visit our website developments in legal and other proceedings and the other risks and uncertainties detailed in the Risk Factors section contained in recent public disclosures made by NN Group and/or related to NN Group. Any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of NN Group in this Annual Report speak only as of the date they are made, and, NN Group assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information or for any other reason. This document does not constitute an offer to sell, or a solicitation of an offer to buy, any securities. © 2018 NN Group N.V. Further information can be found online by visiting our website www.nn-group.com/annual-report NN Group N.V. Schenkkade 65 2595 AS Den Haag P.O. Box 90504, 2509 LM Den Haag The Netherlands www.nn-group.com
