Old Mutual plc United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 Emerging Markets Old Mutual plc United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 01 Our story Welcome to our United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Old Mutual plc is an international In 2015 we set out our commitment to being a responsible investment, savings, insurance, and business through our Positive Futures Plan. As we look banking group. Old Mutual began in towards our managed separation we remain focused on Cape Town in 1845 as South Africa’s first our purpose of helping our customers thrive by enabling mutual life insurance company, offering them to achieve their lifetime financial goals, while investing financial security in uncertain times. their funds in ways which create a positive future for them, In March 2016, we announced a new strategy their families, their communities and the world at large. for Old Mutual plc, called ‘managed separation’ Our values which will result in four strong independent We are committed to being a responsible business with a view to the businesses. The strategy aims to unlock and create long-term and will focus on areas where our businesses can make a significant long-term value for our shareholders by material impact and create meaningful change. Our businesses will separating the businesses into standalone entities. continue to be guided by strong values. OM Asset Management is now an independent Our strategy for a successful business. Our remaining three businesses are managed separation Old Mutual Emerging Markets, Nedbank and In March 2016, we announced a new strategy for Old Mutual plc, Old Mutual Wealth. called ‘managed separation’ which will result in four strong independent businesses. The strategy aims to unlock and create significant long-term value for our shareholders by separating the businesses into standalone entities. OM Asset Management is now an independent business. Our remaining three businesses are Old Mutual Emerging Markets, Nedbank and Old Mutual Wealth. When we unveiled the managed separation strategy in March 2016, we said that we aimed for it to be materially complete by the end of 2018. Subject to addressing the remaining issues, we are on track to deliver the managed separation as planned. Contents Our three focus areas 01 Our Story Since announcing the managed separation strategy in 02 Our Key Performance Indicators March 2016, Old Mutual plc has had three fundamental 03 Our Commitment 04 Our progress areas of focus: 12 Looking forward 1 2 Executing Winding a number of down the plc transactions Head Office Find out more about Old Mutual: Corporate website 3 www.oldmutualplc.com Annual Report and Accounts 2017 www.oldmutualplc.com/reportingcentre Follow us on Ensuring the www.twitter.com/oldmutual www.facebook.com/oldmutual businesses are ready www.youtube.com/oldmutual for independent future Contact and feedback If you would like to find out more information, have any questions, We are now running Old Mutual plc as an active portfolio or would like to provide any additional feedback on this Communication manager of the underlying businesses. on Progress please contact your local business. Old Mutual plc United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 02 Key performance indicators (KPIs) Continued momentum across the businesses Financial Education (number of people reached) Community investment (£m) (including education funding) 2017 630,806 2017 20.1 2016 850,846 2016 15.2 Old Mutual plc Old Mutual plc Group proxy votes cast (%) Policy compliance (%) 2017 66 2017 40 2016 62 2016 40 Old Mutual plc Old Mutual plc Dividends (£m) Total tax paid (including corporation tax, Paid to ordinary Old Mutual plc VAT and tax paid on behalf of employees (£bn) Shareholders and ordinary OMEM, Nedbank and OMAM minority shareholders 2017 517 2017 2.4 2016 575 2016 2.1 Old Mutual plc Old Mutual plc Old Mutual plc United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 03 Our In 2015 we set up groupcommitment wide goals for the Plan, however, in light of the managed separation we are now working with the businesses to ensure their Bruce Hemphill goals meet the expectations Group Chief Executive of the markets in which they operate. We fully CEO statement expect that the plans Our business is changing in fundamental of our four businesses ways, as we near completion of the managed will be embedded when Patrick O’Sullivan separation of our four underlying businesses we separate. from each other into four strong independent Chairman businesses. Nonetheless, our purpose remains unchanged. We look to help our customers We are pleased to share thrive by enabling them to achieve their lifetime financial goals, while investing their funds in and employee-occupied properties by 20% by our progress in 2017, ways which will create a positive future for them, 2020 (from a 2010 baseline) – a commitment we their families, their communities and the world which we have achieved at large. are on track to meet. During 2017, with this target in mind, we started work with the businesses to alongside our transition During this period, our work with organisations including the UNGC has helped us remain identify appropriate targets for them after managed separation is complete, and that programmes. focused on delivering this purpose. While this reflect the long-term commitments to carbon reduction that we have made – a process we is the last consolidated report on our progress towards the principles of UNGC as Old Mutual will complete in 2018. Chairman’s message plc, in the future it is for the individual businesses In 2017, building on our knowledge and to maintain their commitment to and support for management of our own environmental We recognise the role that corporates have as these principles, and we have and will continue agents of transformation, and are conscious impacts across our businesses, we continued to work closely with them to continue the to support and input to the aims and that our long-term success depends on progress that we have made. operating in sustainable societies. We have recommendations of the Taskforce for Climate previously expressed our support for the As I look back at what we have delivered Related Financial Disclosures, recognising the Sustainable Development Goals, the Taskforce over the last year I am proud of what we have role that we, as an investment manager and for Climate Related Financial Disclosure achieved and confident in what each business asset owner, can play in influencing the (TCFD) Recommendations and last year can do in their continued support for UNGC reduction of carbon emissions in the businesses signed the World Economic Forum Compact and the principles that sit behind it. we invest in. We also continued to invest in for Responsive and Responsible Leadership. solutions that contribute to the UN Sustainable We have made a commitment to gender Development Goals delivering financial returns I remain focussed on ensuring that during diversity across the business, but particularly and supporting the generation of positive social the remainder of my tenure with Old Mutual, at the more senior levels of our business. and environmental impacts (as at Dec 2017, we continue to operate as a responsible Women comprise over one third of members of Old Mutual Investment Group collectively had business and that once independent, the the Old Mutual plc board despite a reduction R116 bn of its clients’ capital at work in the green underlying businesses are well set to maintain in Board members in 2017, and our businesses economy). This investment approach to the this going forwards. will continue this commitment. For example, UNSDGs has been backed by our application Old Mutual Wealth aims to have women in 40% of our skills, expertise and financial support I am pleased with the progress we have made of senior management roles by the end of 2020. (£9.8m in 2017) to education programmes to date and following managed separation across the regions where we operate that have the businesses will continue to keep In 2018 we completed the transition of our reached 630,806 people in 2017. stakeholders updated. human rights programmes and risk assessment from the head office into the UK business, As our businesses continue to embed the and will publish our second Modern Slavery principles of UNGC into their future plans Act statement. as standalone businesses, we hope all our Go online collective stakeholders will continue to engage In 2010, we set a clear target of reducing direct and support them on their new journey. www.oldmutualplc.com/ carbon emissions from our property portfolio about Old Mutual plc United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 04 Our progress 1. Human rights UN Global Compact Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. UN Global Compact Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Old Mutual’s position The Group Code of Conduct contains explicit statements that address the two Across our business we are fully committed to raising principles relating to human rights in the Global Compact. Our employees awareness of human rights, labour standards, and their confirm their compliance to the Code through an annual disclosure. impact, and ensuring they are respected in all our activities and across all locations in which we operate. In addition, in our Responsible Business Policy, we specifically reference human rights and the responsibilities all our employees have towards others. This We have a public statement on our approach to human includes but is not limited to actions relating to the Modern Slavery Act (2015). rights, which details our principles and the governance structure we have in place across our businesses. As part of As part of managed separation the businesses have updated their responsible the managed separation each business is now looking to business policies. Each one continues to actively encourage engagement with publish its approach in more detail ready for independence. our communities, including our suppliers. This offer the businesses the flexibility to focus on the issues that are most material to them. Process Throughout our various operations, we have a range For the past three years, our Annual Report has included a specific statement of channels for reporting any suspected breach of, or regarding our position on human rights (see page 95 of our 2017 Report). concern regarding, human rights. These include our Human Resources, Responsible Business and Risk functions in each business, who report such incidences to the Risk and Audit Committees that are in place. In each area of the business, owners of all Old Mutual plc policies, with support from business representatives, are tasked to review implementation and compliance. Through their role, they escalate relevant instances of noncompliance with the Group Governance function as part of the twice yearly Letter of Representation process. The active portfolio manager governance model and our Code of Conduct help us to ensure that material responsible business risks are understood and management action plans are in place across our operations and in each of our businesses. Old Mutual plc United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 05 1. Human rights 2016 highlights on progress During 2017: Enhancing governance around Responsible Business ——Old Mutual Emerging Markets committed to invest R22.1bn in renewable energy Responsible Business continues to be represented at projects across Africa Old Mutual plc Executive Committee Level through Rex ——Nedbank through the use of the social and environmental management system Tomlinson, Old Mutual plc Chief of Staff highlighting the (SEMS), 632 deals were screened (2016:435) importance we are placing on the topic. Rex chairs our Communications Brand and Stakeholder Forum, which ——Submitted our fourth annual report to the United Nations-supported Principles for meets to discuss issues and progress surrounding matters Responsible Investment, covering our progress on embedding the Principles including responsible business. across our businesses Our progress regarding governance this year included: ——Emphasised our desire to be an active shareholder by voting 66% of our proxy votes across the Group. ——We continued to work with Old Mutual Wealth on plans around the Modern Slavery Act Providing sustainable, tailored support for local communities Our responsibility to support the local communities in the markets in which ——We continued to be part of the UN Global Compact UK we operate forms part of our commitment to the promotion of human Modern Slavery Act Working Group to support companies rights. Our focus on financial wellbeing helps to create economically viable approach to the Act communities and helps enhance people’s livelihoods and dignity. In 2017 we ——We transitioned our human rights programmes and risk invested £20.1m in the communities in which we operate, reflecting our aim assessment into the UK business to prepare them for the to enable positive futures. managed separation. We will publish our second Modern Highlights include: Slavery Act statement in 2018. ——630,806 people reached by financial education programmes in 2017 Continuing focus on responsible investment We believe responsible investment will help our businesses ——It is estimated that Nedbank volunteerism support can be valued at R5.6m better understand long-term investment risk, support ——Old Mutual Wealth has transitioned modern slavery risk management into the innovation around new product development and third party risk management function to support its embedding into the central strengthen trust with existing and new customers. Being assessment process a responsible investor ties closely with supporting and respecting the protection of human rights. ——We invested £9.8m in education funding. Old Mutual plc United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 06 2. Labour UN Global Compact Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. UN Global Compact Principle 4 Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. UN Global Compact Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. UN Global Compact Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Old Mutual’s position Process All our businesses uphold the principle of freedom of At an Old Mutual plc level, we have a Human Resource Risk Management association as well as the effective recognition of the right to Policy in place that relates to the management of labour standards regarding collective bargaining, where permitted by local law. all our employees. This policy, applicable to all businesses, covers a range of areas, including employee relations and employment, diversity, recruitment, Old Mutual does not, under any circumstances, tolerate forced remuneration, performance management and employee welfare. labour or child labour. Twice a year CEOs from all our businesses are required to sign a Letter of We remain committed to increasing diversity throughout our Representation to attest both they and their employees have complied with the businesses and our businesses have a number of targets in place Policy over the previous six months and provide detail on if and where any issues to promote this. With over 65,000 employees, we recognise the have arisen. Regular internal audit checks support this process, covering this different backgrounds, perspectives and experiences of our and other Group policies. employees are one of our largest assets. Ensuring our suppliers operate within our values we recognise that training is an Our range of policies at both plc and business level ensure no important factor relating to labour standards, we therefore strengthened our employee receives less favourable treatment based on any Responsible Business Policy to include a section on responsible procurement. matter unrelated to the requirements of their position. In South This includes but is not limited to a commitment to operate in line with the Africa, we further address our commitment to employment Modern Slavery Act (2015). As part of the managed separation we are working equality through our approach to B-BBEE (Broad-Based with the businesses to ensure that they are embedding the aims of the policy Black Economic Empowerment), where Old Mutual Emerging and contacting material suppliers regularly. We provide ongoing training to our Markets reported at level-3 (see the Old Mutual plc Annual employees to ensure all people responsible for procurement are aware of the Report p 34) and Nedbank at Level 2. To read more on their relevant requirements and our expectations. Our 2017 focus continued to be the approach please see their Integrated Report. Modern Slavery Act (2015). Old Mutual plc United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 07 2. Labour 2017 highlights on progress The Company continues to meet the recommendations of the Parker Review’s Encouraging mutually beneficial report into the ethnic diversity of UK boards. Notwithstanding the sale of working conditions. OMAM, the gender split of key roles within the Group improved slightly during Our business relies on the commitment, talent and 2017 on account of senior female appointments in OMEM. diversity of our employees. In order to understand and meet the needs of customers better, we strive to have We remain committed to improving our diversity. We continue towards the 2018 an employee population that is representative of the targets that we set in 2013, and continue to invest significantly in our women’s markets we serve. To attract and retain appropriately networks and mentoring initiatives. While the Old Mutual plc Board has not skilled employees, managers and executives, we maintain formally adopted its own diversity policy, it remains committed to its earlier effective HR practices. targets and commitments, notwithstanding the managed separation strategy. ——Our wellbeing programmes across our businesses focus Furthermore, in respect of its UK successor business, Quilter plc, we are not only on professional support, but also physical and pleased that the Board has set a target of 33%, which is in line with the mental wellbeing Hampton Alexander Review recommendations and is also considering how it can further improve its broader Board diversity. ——Old Mutual Emerging Markets was awarded the accolade of Number 1 Top Employer in South Africa and Ghana, and ——We are working with the businesses as part of the managed separation to the industry leader in financial services and insurance for the continue the commitment and progress made in ensuring our employees reflect seventh consecutive year in South Africa. Our businesses in the diversity of our customers. In particular the businesses continue to focus on all thirteen countries in which we operate throughout the number of women within the business and developing their proportion in sub-Saharan Africa were also certified as a Top Employer. leadership positions What is the Company’s approach to ensuring ——The progress we have made over recent years in improving the gender diversity diversity? the plc Board and Executive Committee now at 42% and 33% respectively sets Each business is required to develop an environment the tone for our ongoing focus on diversity at senior levels in all our businesses that promotes the benefits of equal opportunities and ——Old Mutual Wealth embarked on developing its own local diversity strategy. diversity. Recruitment, promotion, selection for training This was supported by their statement on the Gender Pay Gap disclosure and other aspects of employee management are free from discrimination – including on grounds of gender, ——Nedbank invested R355m in training in 2017 down from R413m in 2016. race, disability, age, marital status, sexual orientation and religious belief. For our businesses in South Africa, these imperatives have to be balanced against their Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment (B-BBEE) requirements. We recognise that difference in its broadest sense is critical to our success and, while focus varies by country, increasing gender diversity is a priority for all of our businesses. Despite a reduction in the size of the Board during the year, we continued to exceed our diversity target of at least three female members of the Board, with female membership ranging from 38% (five out of 13) at the start of the year to 42% (five out of 12) during the year, falling back to 36% (four out of 11) following the resignation of Nonkululeko Nyembezi at the year-end. Two of our six-member plc Exco are women. Old Mutual plc United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 08 3. Environment UN Global Compact Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. UN Global Compact Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. UN Global Compact Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Old Mutual’s position Our Responsible Business Policy has a specific section on responsible Across our businesses, we have a responsibility to ensure environmental management. In 2010 we set clear targets of reducing we are as environmentally efficient as possible. This Old Mutual’s direct carbon emissions by 20% by 2020 (from a 2010 baseline) covers both our employee-occupied properties and our in our property portfolio and employee-occupied properties. As we undertake property portfolio. We encourage our employees to managed separation (MS) we continue to work with the businesses to identify be environmentally conscious both at work and home. targets that support their move to independence and the long-term approach Through our large presence in South Africa, with its that they have committed to take. We have a number of environment task forces ongoing resource constraints, this year in particular water within our businesses who continue to work to implement our strategy and act we continue to look for innovative ways of contributing as a central point in helping to deliver on the targets. We support the work done positively to the environment and ensuring our business by the Taskforce for Climate Related Financial Disclosures and are working with approach reflects best environmental practices. the businesses to see how they will respond to the recommendations post MS. The nature of our businesses who cover investment, savings, One of the greatest environmental risks to our business is through the insurance and banking, puts us in a unique position investments we hold and the policies we underwrite throughout our businesses. where we can invest in sustainable technologies and We continue to work to understand our carbon exposure through our promote products that allow our customers to have greater investments, and have been working towards our target of applying our environmental responsibility. Responsible Investment Standard to our investment capabilities. The businesses have a number of socially responsible investment and ethical funds available Process for our customers to invest in specific environmental projects: however, our aim The approach our businesses take to responsible remains to mainstream environmental, social and governance criteria into all environmental management lies with efficient facilities our investment making decisions. and property management, aligned with employee engagement. We monitor, manage and reduce our negative impacts as far as possible. We track our businesses energy usage, water consumption, waste produced in our buildings and the impact we have through how we travel to our meetings. We welcome employee suggestions and feedback on how we can reduce our reliance on scarce resources. Old Mutual plc United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 09 3. Environment 2017 highlights on progress Advocating greater environmental responsibility Managing our direct environmental footprint We emphasise environmental responsibility through investment of our own Our targets for carbon emission reduction across and our customers’ funds. the Group help us focus on reducing our negative environmental impacts. ——By the end of 2017 Old Mutual Emerging Markets had committed R22.1bn of our customers’ money in renewable energy projects, which also aim to drive ——Old Mutual submitted our annual CDP report but did not job creative and enterprise development in surrounding communities appear in the Leadership Index with a score of B in 2017. ——During the year Nedbank continued their strategy of supporting the diversification ——Against our 2010 base year, our total direct carbon of Africa’s electricity supply. Currently 2.08% (2016: 1.81%) of total group lending emissions have decreased in both our property portfolio and finance commitments relate to renewable energy generation and employee-occupied properties. ——As part of the managed separation our businesses have been working on ——Our total carbon footprint (scope 1 and 2 emissions) their response to the Taskforce for Climate Related Financial Disclosures was 491,278 tonnes CO2e and our carbon intensity was Recommendations. 2.2 tonnes CO2e/£FUM. Scope 1 & 2 carbon intensity Scope 1 & 2 carbon emissions (tonnes of CO2e/£mFUM) (tonnes of CO2e) 2017 2.2 2017 491,278 2016 1.2 2016 489,949 Scope 1 & 2 carbon emissions per employee Scope 1 & 2 carbon emissions per m2 in employee occupied sites in property portfolio (tonnes of CO2e) (tonnes of CO2e) 2017 3.47 2017 0.19 2016 3.04 2016 0.18 Old Mutual plc United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 10 4. Anti-corruption UN Global Compact Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Old Mutual’s position All businesses have an anti-bribery risk assessment in place that is kept up to The values of Old Mutual strongly emphasise our zero date. Employees across the Group are required to attest on an annual basis that tolerance for bribery and corrupt business practices. We they have read their local business anti-bribery policy and that they understand believe these create unfair markets, destroy public trust and will comply to it. In addition, CEOs of our businesses are required to attest and limit sustainable economic development. We are fully their compliance to the anti-bribery and corruption policy twice annually. committed to responsible and legal business conduct across all the countries in which we operate. Our Code of Conduct emphasises the Group’s anti-bribery stance and our position with regard to employee conflict of interest. The Code supplements Process our policies in this area and aims to ensure the overarching message is fully Our Financial Crime Prevention team oversees the understood and embedded, in line with our values. implementation of our anti-bribery and corruption policy as well as broader crime prevention policies such as anti-money laundering and sanctions compliance. These are supported by strong anti-bribery compliance and investigatory capability in our businesses prioritising those with a higher bribery risk profile. Financial crime issues including bribery and corruption compliance are reported to the Group Executive, Board Risk and Group Audit Committees on a regular basis, with major issues escalated as they arise and less serious issues reported and analysed on a quarterly basis. Old Mutual plc United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 11 4. Anti-corruption 2015 highlights on progress Throughout 2017, we continued our progress in this area: Using our networks to work against corruption We have robust controls in place to tackle corruption in ——We have enhanced our anti-bribery and corruption compliance arrangements all its forms. Our working culture and active employee at Old Mutual Bermuda reflecting strengthened local compliance arrangements engagement on this topic help us create positive, ——The Nedbank CEO and the Chairperson on Old Mutual Limited in South proactive networks to work against corruption. Africa are both contributing significantly to anti-corruption work at the World Economic Foundation ——Nedbank continues to reinforce its strong anti-bribery stance via various initiatives ranging from employee anti-corruption pledges to high-level internal committees considering ethical issues arising out of client relationships. Nedbank has made its position on its zero tolerance for corruption in South Africa very clear both via oprganisational process and the words of its CEO. Old Mutual plc United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 12 Looking forward Old Mutual remains committed to advancing the Global Useful links Compact’s principles and wider United Nations goals throughout Old Mutual Reporting Centre 2017 our businesses. Old Mutual Group Values During the time of managed separation we recognise that for each business, there are elements of the Positive Future Plan that have Old Mutual Group Code of Conduct more resonance based on the markets they serve, skills of their Nedbank Integrated Report 2017 employees or their own business strategy. Our business leaders have committed to the integration of responsible business activities Old Mutual Investment Group into their operations and delivering the aims and goals of the Plan Old Mutual South Africa transformation post managed separation. Old Mutual Group and Nedbank CDP reports As we complete the managed separation we have worked with the businesses and external stakeholders to ensure we continue to deliver against the aims of the plan and support its transition into the businesses. As frameworks continue to develop and evolve we have ensured that we are aware of the changes and our businesses are prepared to respond. Our businesses continue to embed their Plans and invest in their resources and build measurement to track the impact they have. This means that our business will create long-term benefits which will have a lasting positive impact on both our business and society. Old Mutual plc Registered office: For further information, Registered in England and 5th Floor please visit: Wales No. 3591559 and Millennium Bridge House www.nedbank.co.za as an external company 2 Lambeth Hill www.oldmutual.co.za in each of South Africa London EC4V 4GG www.oldmutualplc.com (No. 1999/004855/10), Malawi (No. 5282), Namibia (No. F/3591559) and Zimbabwe (No. E1/99) Acknowledgements Designed and produced by MerchantCantos www.merchantcantos.com Get connected with Old Mutual online www.oldmutualplc.com Last updated April 2018
