THE CREON WAY STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT AND COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS / April 15 2018 FROM THE FOREST OF SMÅLAND, SWEDEN. WITH SUSTAINBILITY IN OUR HEART Creon is an industry leading outsourcing partner of branded items. By letting Creon manage the whole value chain from product development to end distribution, large sized corporations save resources, gain control and strengthen their brand communication to their stakeholders and the public. April 15, 2018 STATE of continued TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS support I am pleased to confirm that Creon Promotion AB MENT to Global reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Compact Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. 2016 was the year we took our business model “ We are convinced one step further when we introduced a sustainthat companies can ability rating system to our products. Starting only be successful with the assortment for our largest customer, over the longterm we set sustainablity goals for each product by credibly ensuring as well as making sure that our suppliers that their business adhered to the customer business Code of is sustainable”. Practice regarding society and the environment. MIKAEL SVENSSON CEO CREON This year, 2018, we can see that the amount of sustainable products is rising and we can say proudly that Creon believes it will reach its goal of 100% sustainable textile products by end of 2019. We utilize our tried and tested responsible manufacturing facilities to a greater degree because they have the capacity and certification required by Creon. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve Sincerely yours, the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to always share this information with our stakeholders Mikael Svensson using our primary channels of communication. CEO CREON’S convinced that our business can have a positive impact on people and planet. APPROACH Creon’s operations are taking place in regions where functioning social safety TO THE 10 nets are lacking. The majority of all products we supply to our clients are PRINCIPLES produced in countries with high risk of human rights abuses. As buyers, we have an important role to set requirements of social accountability, follow them up in Even though this is only the third year as a signatory to the UN Global Compact, our work with becoming a socially WHERE IT responsible business partner to our REALLY clients and suppliers started in 2007 MATTERS Instead of taking the easy path forward and limit our practical actions to our practice and influence business partners operations in Sweden, we realize that to positive change. Our work with integratour business can be utilized for much ing the 10 principles is therefore to the more value if we leave the comfort largest part devoted to maximizing our zone. By applying our efforts and repositive impact on downstream suppliers sources where it really matters, we are that are active in regions with high risk. COMMUNI CATION ON PROGRESS creon offers a very wide product portfolio covering branded items that large corporations need to represent their own organizations, internally and externally. From the very start we made this possible through our business model the Profile Store ®. This requires Creon to have a wide network of sourcing channels (suppliers, agents, producers and service providers) in order to fulfill the demands. This complex sourcing environment in which we operate requires established processes to follow and clear communication of how the principles should be safeguarded. NO PRODUCT IS ACCEPTED TO THE ASSORTMENT IF THE BASIC LABEL ISN’T REACHED. When purchasing branded items and workwear from the Profile Store ® the customer actively support ours as well as their own sustainable productivity goals. Every item from the Profile Store ® is then stored and transported climate neutral. By doing this we are aiming to make an even more direct impact to all 10 principals. TAKING BY INTRODUCING A SUSTAINABILITY RATING TO OUR PRODUCTS OUR AIM IS TO BECOME THE PROFILE STORE EVEN MORE AWARE OF HOW WE CAN ENHANCE OUR CUSTOMERS BRANDS BY TO THE NEXT LEVEL BEING REALLY TRUE TO THEIR CORE VALUES. HUMAN assessment, policy and goals The risk of human rights abuses and poor work place conditions RIGHTS in the sourcing environment is high. It is therefore of utmost importance for Creon to have well established relationships with AND all partners that have influence in the sourcing phase. Creon’s policy is to only contract LABOUR partners that share our ambitions and make sure products are produced under highly ethical circumstances. Our code of conduct PRINCIPLES and supplier agreements emphasize the expectations we have on our partners. Know where, and by whom each product OUR AMBITION we purchase are produced. IS ALWAYS TO: Make sure that 100% of all suppliers understand, sign and follow our code of conduct. Conduct risk assessments on all new producers Make sure third party Social Audits are carried out at all production facilities that are perceived as “high risk” in our risk assessment. If they are already certified according to SA8000, BSCI (minimum level C), GOTS or similar, our social audit process can be adjusted. Initiate improvement dialogues with each supplier where deviations have been detected in a Social Audit. Utilize our room for negotiation to steer positive development Affect industry colleagues to address human rights issues in their own supply chains and actively support initiatives such as BSCI memberships or SA 8000 certification. Contribute to raise the maturity of our Only contract suppliers with industry in regard to Social and Environhigh ethical awareness. mental Responsibility. IMPLE AUDITING FORMAT: ALL SOCIAL AUDITS SHOULD BE BASED ON SA8000 STANDARD. MENT SA8000 ADDRESSES THE GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES 1-6. ATION OUR CODE OF CONDUCT There are several perspectives of supIS REVISED ANNUALLY, IT IS plier sourcing to balance together with GUIDED BY THE PRINCIPLES financial aspects. OF THE UNIVERSAL DECLARATION OF HUMAN RIGHTS, THE Awareness training is the foundation of sound decisions. Training of all personUN GLOBAL COMPACT AND nel working with operational purchasing THE CONVENTIONS ISSUED BY should be conducted continuously in our THE INTERNATIONAL LABOUR organization. All this in compliance with ORGANIZATION (ILO) AS WELL our ISO 9001 certification. AS THE OECD GUIDELINES FOR MULTINATIONAL ENTERPRISES. We conduct CSR-related risk assessEACH NEW SUPPLIER SHALL ments for every new supplier that is conRECEIVE, UNDERSTAND tracted by us. The risk assessment focus AND SIGN IT. on product category, sourcing country and supplier due diligence. Even if a product we bring in to the knowledge sharing and addressed the assortment is managed and sourced by need of more Supply Chain transparency a European supplier, we shall if deemed in our industry. necessary in our risk assessment, carry out a third party Social Audit at the first During 2017 our sourcing criteria has tier manufacturer. continued to develop even further. We continued to select factories to a higher We make sure to follow-up the degree that are already certified acprogress of factory social compliance cording to required standards such as for repeat orders. SA 8000, BSCI, ICTI and GOTS. We also made sure all employees or partners We share the responsibility among responsible for sourcing understand multiple employees in order to create and follow our sourcing criteria. a broad dedication to our CSR-program. All with the responsibility and authority to make sure we put our promises into practice. THE We highlight the risk aspects in our inSUSTAINABILITY dustry to all stakeholders and we shall contribute to bring to the attention of RATING PROGRAM industry colleagues to actively assess and monitor human rights aspects in IS UP AND RUNNING their own supply chains. Over the past year, we have increased our efforts in FOR OUR LARGEST CUSTOMER. OUT creon sustainability rating The Creon sustainability model has three levels. Each level is based COME on criteria defined by us and serves to provide a basis for sustainability 2017 assessment. 1. 2. 3. 1. Exceeds Industry Standards Manufacturers are With the increasing numbers of certified chosen based on their commitment to high and/or audited suppliers in our catalogue sustainability and ethical standards. we will experience years with fewer 2. Improved procedures Extra measures have been audits. During 2017, we needed only to taken to reduce environmental impact or increase overall community benefit. carry out two new third party audits due 3. Certifications Optimal CSR and environmental to the fact that we succeeded in mainstandards achieved and certified. taining and utilizing previously certified • We have reduced items judged with Sustainability partners. Creon views this as strong rating 1 from 191 to 138 evidence that we have succeeded in our • We have increased Sustainability rating 2 items from aim to first control the quality of promise 13 to 40 items based on the addition of some form of environmental certification such as Fair Trade, of our manufacturing partners and then Recycled PET, FSC certified paper, OKO TEX. to increase the quality and efficiency of • We have increased the amount of items with Sustainability our cooperation activities. rating 3 from 2 to 10 due to GOTS or BlueSign certification. OUT THIS YEAR WE HAVE ACCOMPLISHED THE FOLLOWING COME 2017 New suppliers have signed our Code of Conduct and our supplier agreement. Improved cooperation with already assessed manufacturing facilities. Creon has been responsible for 2 new SA8000 Social audits carried out by an accredited third party the last year. 5 key producers/factories have been visited by Creon personnel during 2017. 2016 was the first year as a certified GOTS reseller (April). As a first, Creon succeeded in implementing two GOTS certified textile products before the end of that year. During 2017 we added a further five new GOTS certified items. We have even persuaded several of our customers to move from standard textile materials to ÖKO TEX certified textiles. This is due to the fact that Creon has established new cooperation with GOTS and ÖKO TEX certified manufacturers in Bangladesh. TARGETS FOR THE COMING YEAR: to improve our compliance framework enabling better possibilities to measure and follow-up CSR data. During 2017 Creon as an organization has undergone changes that have resulted in several new staff members being recruited. One of our aims for 2018 is to integrate our own CSR process methods into every area of our activities. By the end of 2019 we aim to ensure that 100% of our items made from textiles will be certified according to an international environmental standard. Creon will continue to increase the number of ECO/CSR friendly products as a whole We will continue to increase the number of SA 8000, BSCI (minimum level C) , ICTI or other equivalent certified factories throughout our supply chain. ASSESSMENT, POLICY ENVIRONAND GOALS MENTAL Our Environmental policy is described in our ISO 14001 management system. The policy, in general terms, is to integrate enPRINCIPLES vironmental consideration in everything we do. We strive to minimize our environmental impact with precautionary actions and influence sourcing channels towards better environmental manufacturing processes. Our two areas of environmental focus correspond to the most significant impact of our operations. These are Production and Transport. PRODUCTION PRO Creon does not operate or control production DUC facilities directly. However, by using our leverage for producers where we have the biggest purTION chase volumes, we shall promote and influence producers to adapt to more environmentally friendly processes. We have identified textile apparel as the product group with the most negative environmental impact. Therefore, we have set the goal to have 100% of our textile assortment to be eco labeled by year 2019. There are good environmental initiatives available at the market. Creon is working actively together with our clients and suppliers to replace and develop the assortments to include these alternatives for the present year. A proof of that work is We have set the goal to have that Creon In March 100% of our textile assortment 2016 became the first GOTS company to be eco labeled by year 2019. in our line of business. To learn more about GOTS, please read: www.global-standard.org IMPLEMENTATION TRANS We shall always conduct a transportation PORTS benchmark favoring the most environmental friendly alternative. Our customers are the ones that ultimately decide what mode of transport that should be used. We have an important task to affect a “greener” purchase behavior among our clients. By proactively analyzing our clients’ purchase patterns and suggesting alternative ways of transporting goods, we have been able to combine shipments and replace several smaller air shipments in to bulk orders shipped by sea. Creon Promotion entered the Go Green climate program and started to compensate for Co2 emissions caused by our outbound shipments. Efficient packing and wrapping is an important environmental factor. Creon shall work actively with minimizing innerand outer packing Our business model is heavily dependent material of our products in order to avoid shipping on transports in our export operations air pockets. We will therefore follow up the average with frequent air shipments. density of our outbound shipments for all modes of transports combined. The goal is to reach 185 KG The goal is to have 100% of the outbound of density net product weight per shipped cubic deliveries to be climate neutral. meter with a minimum of 150 kg. 100% of our internal energy consumption stems from renewable MEASUREMENTS OF OUTCOME wind power Offset for 2017 a total of 581.397 kg/t CO2e with GoGreen Climate Neutral services. Deutsche Post DHL Group offset the greenhouse gas emissions generated by transportation and logistics through climate protection projects: • Efficient Stoves, Lesotho (CDM 5482, GS 913, Fairtrade ID 35357) • Household Biogas Program, China (CDM 2898, GS 1239) • Wind Power Plant, Nicaragua (CDM 2315, GS 567) • Ceramic Water Purifiers, Cambodia (VER, GS 1020) • Biosand Water Filters, Honduras (VER, GS 1290) • ORB Energy Solar program, India (VER, GS 4289) In this report we choose • Borehole Rehabilitation, Malawi to present our contri(VER, GS 1247) bution to the overall • Landfill Gas Plant, Turkey decrease in fossil fuel (VER, GS 440) usage and environmental initiatives due to our • Reforestation, Panama activities and support. (VER, GS 2557, CCBS, FSC) Internal policies for repANTI-‐ resentation and receiving of gifts from suppliers CORRUPTION have been implemented. PRINCIPLES all auditors contracted by Creon Promotion AB are working for accredited agencies who in their turn are being audited. The highest risk of corruption is in the sourcing phase. As a company holding large corporate accounts, Creon and its personnel are desired platforms for sub supplier’s ambitions to reach the market. The key issue for Creon is to maintain its integrity and make sure we have methods of making decisions in an objective manner. THE POLICY IS FOLLOWED UP AND REVISED ONCE EVERY YEAR. During the past year, internal policies for representation and receiving of gifts from suppliers have been implemented. TRUE CSR WORK PAYS OFF In previous As further evidence that dedicated CSR activyears Creon has received awards from ities can have a positive effect on business we our branch where the motivation was that are proud to announce that during 2018 we Creon has shown that the reputation of the have signed agreements with several major business area of branded items has been global corporations that place the highest enhanced by our efforts regarding CSR demands on their suppliers in regard to CSR and sustainability. We are very proud that, and sustainability – Lantmännen, Essity, Epiroc despite being a small company, we have and Dynapac. We would not have acquired succeeded in having a positive environmenthese important customers without our assotal effect on an entire business area that, in ciation with Global Compact and a clear CSR Sweden alone, has an annual turnover of agenda that we adhere to in everything we do. 600 – 700 M EURO. © 2018 Creon Promotion AB | Sweden | +46 470 700 540 contact@creon.se. All rights reserved
