Building better companies ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 TM Investindustrial is a group All trademarks, brand names of independently managed and logos (including any Table investment, holding and word, name, symbol, design, financial advisory companies. colours or combination thereof) reproduced in this report are of Contents protected by applicable national and international laws and should not be used or copied without the legitimate owners’ permission. COVER IMAGE: B&B Italia Mart armchairs designed by Antonio Citterio and Flos Taraxacum 88 Suspension lights designed by Achille Castiglioni among other products in the recently opened B&B Italia flagship store in Madison Avenue (New York City). This document has been prepared for information purposes only on the “Office”, “Professionals”, “Chairman”, “Managing Principal”, “Partner”, I Strategic Commentary 4 basis of a series of conditions. Neither the whole nor any part of the “Principal”, “Senior Partner” and “Senior Principal” in this document information in this report may be used for any other purpose without the have been used only for practical ease of reading and do not intend II A Leading European Investment Group 8 prior written consent of Investindustrial. While it has been prepared in to imply any specific reference to an entity or a legal definition of any good faith, no representation is given as to the accuracy or achievability activity of control by any company or individual with respect to other III Case Studies 22 of any values applied herein, nor should any valuations be treated as companies. Terms such as “control”, “ownership” and their synonyms Investindustrial’s estimate of the eventual investment outcome. The are also used for case of reference and illustrative purposes only and IV Portfolio Developments 36 assumptions on which these values have been prepared are necessarily may not imply, from a juridical perspective, full or partial control of subjective and have not been subject to third party verification. certain companies due to limitations by any shareholders’ agreements, V Sustainability Review 50 By your receipt of this document, you acknowledge that you are aware co-investment vetoes and other third party rights, management stock of the restrictions imposed by the laws of various countries on the option and any other incentive scheme. In addition, shares in portfolio VI Our Foundations 68 purchase and sale of securities by any person who has received such companies are held by the applicable investment and/or holding information and on the communication of this information to others. company of the relevant fund and rights over such shares are exercised VII Summary Group Information 74 We are not in the position to determine whether any of the information by the board of directors of the investment and/or holding company in this report is insider information within the meaning of the laws of in an independent manner. References to “Lugano” or “Switzerland”, any country, as such determination could be made only in the light of the “Barcelona” or “Spain”, “London” or “the UK”, “Luxembourg”, circumstances in which any disclosure was considered. Nothing in this “Netherlands”, “Shanghai” or “China” and “New York” or “the USA” report should be construed as advice or solicitation to buy or sell any when used in the context of Investindustrial’s activities (whether together securities. The information and opinions in the report are given in good with the words “team” or “office”) are intended to refer where the faith. However, we do not make any warranty as to their completeness context requires, to the respective independently managed advisory or or accuracy. They are also subject to change without notice. References investment companies as applicable. The Investindustrial website and to names of portfolio companies are intended to be made, where the any other company’s website, information and links contained therein are context requires, to the applicable holding company/subsidiary of the not part of this document and should not be considered as incorporated relevant Fund. The terms “Group”, “Firm”, “Investindustrial”, “BI-Invest”, by reference herein. For any queries on the information contained within “Our”, “We”, “Us”, “Portfolio company”, “Investee company”, “Team”, this report, the reader should contact Investindustrial. Strategic Commentary // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 The Flos headquarters in Bovezzo (Brescia, Italy). STRATEGIC COMMENTARY experienced strong current trading and securing synergies above The leadership position Investindustrial the level identified at entry. has established by focusing on Southern In addition to Polynt-Reichhold, we are pleased to welcome five new Europe, and opportunistically on other companies to our portfolio, including those signed in 2017 and geographies, has been achieved through closed post year-end. At entry, these companies had a combined a long-term dedication to the design enterprise value of €1.3 billion and were completed at attractive and implementation of industrially-driven valuations, despite a generally competitive market, and with moderate levels of leverage: Benvic – a leading specialty chemicals transformations of select quality player in the European PVC market (France); CEME – companies. a leader in highly engineered pressure valves and systems, including a 55% market share in the steam systems for single serve coffee machines (Italy); HTL – a leading global healthcare provider of Alongside another highly active year for our portfolio proprietary blood sampling and injection devices, to be combined companies, 2017 was a period of innovation, talent with PIC; lifebrain – a leader in the highly fragmented Italian blood acquisition and leadership recognition for Investindustrial. diagnostics market (Italy); and OKA – a leading high-end interiors design retailer in the UK. Active ownership One realisation was made during the year – the sale of Goldcar, Building Better Companies is the motto that drives our organisation Europe’s largest value car rental company, to Europcar and the companies in which we invest and work. As long-term (ENXTPA: EUCAR), a leading global car rental firm with a presence owners, we partner with companies and managers that have the in more than 140 countries. potential to lead their industries while making a positive impact. This approach has enabled our strong organisation of more than 100 In 2017, Investindustrial’s profitable portfolio companies performed strongly with an professionals to support 14 companies, as at the end of 2017, 30% increase in EBITDA delivering a 13.4% margin and an increase of approximately with aggregate sales of €7 billion, EBITDA of €940 million and 28,800 employees. 2017 Portfolio figures 10,700 employees. Industrially-driven plans and product-led growth are central to the investment theses for our portfolio companies. In aggregate, the 14 companies have invested over €2 billion (including expansion Sales (€m) EBITDA (€m) and Margin (%) Total Employees (nr.) capex) in their businesses since Investindustrial’s entry. Many of By Year these investment programmes have continued to mature during 940 28,782 2017, for example with the further success of Aston Martin’s DB11 7,037 723 sports car and the launch of the new Vantage, the launch of Sergio 645 5,045 4,934 17,287 18,059 Rossi’s new collections, and the first season of Ferrari Land within 14.7% the destination resort PortAventura. During the year, the Artsana 13.4% 12.8% investment was separated into its two core business units – Chicco (baby care) and PIC (self-medication) to allow the respective management teams to focus on further internationalising the -2% +43% +12% +30% +4% +59% businesses and complete transformative acquisitions. The interior design investments, B&B Italia and Flos, continue to perform well, 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 driven by the strong underlying global demand for high-quality and iconic interior design products. Polynt-Reichhold, the specialty chemicals combination closed in 2017 which has created a global Investment companies as of December 2017 generated sales Investments generated an aggregate EBITDA of €0.9 billion in 2017, At the end of 2017 the portfolio companies employed approximately leader in composites and coatings, performed above plan having of more than € 7 billion in 2017, 43% higher than the prior year. a 30% increase compared to the prior year. 28,800 people, representing an increase of 59% compared to the prior year. 4 5 Strategic Commentary // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Innovation In early 2017, Investindustrial led a transaction to transfer all assets, Investindustrial has been carbon neutral as an organisation for the including PortAventura, from a successful legacy investment last nine years, and can now use the aggregate portfolio emissions programme to a new investment programme. This has provided data to offset the emissions of our share as an investor in the additional time and capital to these companies and their quality portfolio companies, thus meeting our own expectations. management teams, in line with industrial logic, to realise their full potential through ambitious new business plans that have In the sustainability section of this document you will be able to read underwritten the next phase of growth. At closing, the transaction more about how we actively work with our companies to improve was the largest of its kind in Europe. ESG performance, benchmark best practices and set goals, as well as how we are developing a proprietary strategy to achieve carbon At the end of 2017, Investindustrial started preparations to neutrality. The Investindustrial Foundation amplifies the Firm’s efforts establish a new lower mid-market investment programme in sustainability by focusing on environmental protection and (Investindustrial Growth) to further target the significant pipeline conservation, as well as the promotion of education and diversity. of lower mid-market opportunities that routinely emerge through Investindustrial’s proprietary networks. The capital raising Investindustrial’s focus in this area has been recognised at The The DB11 is the first new for this programme was concluded post year-end at the hard cap Private Equity Awards 2018, an industry-leading award ceremony, model produced by Aston Martin of €375 million. OKA and Benvic were the first two investment where Investindustrial received the Environmental, Social and after Investindustrial invested in the company. opportunities. Governance Award, in front of more than 800 people. Investment in people At the same event, Andrea C. Bonomi was honoured to be inducted into the ‘Hall of Fame’, recognising his contribution to the industry, 2017 KEY EVENTS In 2017, Investindustrial grew from 84 to more than 100 profesincluding representation to government, business and the public, and sionals, including hires identified in 2017 that joined post year-end. work in improving the fiscal and legal environment for the industry. €1.9bn The key areas that have been strengthened include business > 100 people development, environmental and lower mid-market professionals, Beyond our environmental focus we remain committed to Invest complementing Investindustrial’s already broad and deep teams for children (www.investforchildren.org), a corporate foundation of functional specialists and investment advisory teams. set up in 2000 and dedicated to supporting under-privileged and differently-abled children. Contributing to the community is €1.9 billion of equity for investments More than 100 professionals Recognised leadership an integral part of being a responsible long-term investor and Investindustrial and the team have committed to contributing a At the end of 2017, Investindustrial had approximately A strong organisation with more than 100 professionals to Investindustrial fundamentally believes that incorporating further €5 million by 2020 to Invest for children to continue its € 1.9 billion of equity to make further acquisitions. support a well-diversified portfolio of 14 companies with sustainability considerations in its business decisions is essential work on improving the quality of people’s lives. Investindustrial remains balanced between a high quality aggregated global sales of more than € 7 billion as of the in creating value for its stakeholders and that commerce can be private market portfolio and capital available for new end of 2017. used as a force for good as well as profit. In 2017, Investindustrial Conclusions investments. began the search for an environmental engineer to support portfolio companies in more responsibly engaging with the With €6.8 billion of raised fund capital, of which €1.9 billion is €2.2bn 13% environments in which they operate. For Investindustrial, building equity available for new investments, Investindustrial commands better companies has always involved ensuring that portfolio a compelling leadership position as a European mid-market companies are well positioned for long-term sustainability beyond investment group, with a particular focus on Southern Europe. Investindustrial’s ownership. Our Head of Sustainability has This has been achieved through a long-term dedication to building joined post year-end and will build on Investindustrial’s strong better companies through the design and implementation of 2017 refinancings A highly profitable portfolio work in this field in recent years, that has included new milestones industrially driven plans. A key contributor to Investindustrial’s reached and goals set in the area of sustainability. long-term success since inception in 1990 has been the significant During 2017 the Group debt team has supported two Investindustrial has a solid portfolio of profitable companies upfront and ongoing investment in best-in-class advisory and refinancings and three acquisition debts for a total with an overall EBITDA margin of 13%. During 2017 EBITDA Investindustrial works to ensure that portfolio companies can functional specialist teams. We continue to work relentlessly to consideration of € 2.2 billion. grew by 31% compared to the prior year and the growth was measure and be mindful of their carbon emissions and that they drive positive change and results throughout our portfolio and look mainly due to the contribution of Aston Martin and Polyntactively work to reduce their footprint while making a positive forward to reporting on further progress next year. Reichhold. impact to society and their nearby community. We reached several sustainability milestones during 2017 through a close engagement 5 new with portfolio companies, including via our annual ESG Summit. Our dedicated ESG team works closely with the companies in Three new investments closed and two signed the production of their CSR reports and as a result, we are now able to report a consolidated view of the portfolio’s greenhouse gas During 2017 Investindustrial completed three new investments emissions (539k tCO2e) as well as a number of other important environmental, social and governance performance indicators. investments (Polynt-Reichhold, OKA and Benvic) and signed two new investments (lifebrain and CEME). In addition, HTL was signed and closed post year-end. 6 7 A Leading European Investment Group // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 A LEADING EUROPEAN 1978 The Financial Times INVESTMENT GROUP A history with a consistent strategy Providing industrial expertise, operational focus and global platforms to accelerate value creation and international expansion. 2012 The Financial Times Investindustrial is one of Europe’s leading independent investment companies. Investments and divestments are made (and shares groups and provides industrial solutions and capital to mediumin portfolio companies are held) by the applicable investment size companies that are leaders in their fields. Founded from an or holding companies of each fund. Decisions over investments industrial conglomerate, today Investindustrial has a dominant and divestments, including the exercise of the voting rights 2012 The Economist leadership position in Southern Europe with the longest history over the shares of the portfolio companies, are made by the (established in 1990), the deepest track record (56 portfolio applicable investment or holding company board of directors investments), the largest team (more than 100 professionals across in an autonomous and independent manner, consistent with three continents), and has become the largest private equity the applicable corporate governance rules and by-laws. It is the investor of institutional capital (€6.8 billion of raised fund capital) responsibility of the management of each portfolio company to in this region. operate that company on a day-to-day basis. Investindustrial uses proprietary networks developed over several cycles to identify high-quality, often complex, investment opportunities in sectors well-known to the Firm and pursues a Recent recognitions of consistent, industrially-driven investment approach to build better companies. Active ownership and operational improvement Investindustrial excellence remain at the core of Investindustrial’s value creation strategies which typically focus on accelerating growth and profitability through globalisation and/or industrial repositioning. Andrea C. Bonomi inducted into the “Private Equity Hall of Fame” Investindustrial advocates the use of moderate leverage, commensurate with each company’s growth and capex ambitions, at The Private Equity Awards 2018 to build sustainable businesses. This approach resonates well with industrial trade buyers, often a preferred exit route for portfolio Investindustrial won “The Environmental companies. Investindustrial has demonstrated discipline across and Social Governance (ESG) Award” cycles by continuing to focus on the quality end of the mid-market. at The Private Equity Awards 2018 Investindustrial funds are managed in the interest of the limited Italian Firm of The Year partners by investment managers authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority in the United Kingdom and therefore (Private Equity Exchange, Silver Award) in an autonomous and independent manner from the other Group 28 Originated from Operating > 100 Industrially a successful as a Firm professionals driven years of investments industrial group since 1990 on three continents approach in leading brands and companies 8 9 A Leading European Investment Group // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 The armchair Serie Up designed by Gaetano Pesce is one of the iconic product of the leading design company B&B Italia. An investment strategy refined from success and experience from previous partnerships such as... INVEST DRIVE IN QUALITY MARKET BUSINESSES LEADERSHIP Quality management team Create international leaders through Focus on reinforcing research organic growth and new acquisitions and development Maximise profitability by leveraging Optimisation and rationalisation synergies and developing restructuring of product mix or cost-cutting plans Improvement of working Capture international growth capital management opportunities Business line diversification ...was applied to the 2017 portfolio of leading brands and companies CAPTURE CREATE GLOBAL TOMORROW’S OPPORTUNITIES LEADERS Capture international sales growth Integrate product development, opportunities that are not easily production and supply chain accessible for mid-market companies capabilities with international Use the Group’s global network to distribution capacity facilitate access to new markets Capture both geographical Increase competitiveness in and product growth opportunities emerging markets by adapting Building a digital strategy adequate manufacturing and R&D locally to changing market and customer behaviors 10 11 A Leading European Investment Group // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Flos Aim lamps created by the Bouroullec brothers. 2017 Sales(1) (%) Leading European footprint with By Region a growing international presence Spain Investindustrial has considerable international exposure and 12% combines a global vision with capital and local insight to drive Italy growth initiatives in its companies. Rest of the World 32% Investindustrial’s portfolio companies have a global footprint, 13% with more than half of the 2017 sales coming from outside Southern Europe. North America Rest of Europe Since inception, non-Southern European countries have 15% 28% contributed to 70% of the growth of portfolio companies’ sales. 2017 Sales Variance1 (%) By Region since Investindustrial entry 17% 100% 13% 26% 70% of the portfolio growth since 17% Italy inception has come from markets Spain outside of Southern Europe and 27% 44% of this growth has been driven Rest from non-European countries. of Europe Rest of the world North (1) Sales weighted by shareholding of the America companies present in the portfolio at the end of 2017. The headquarters of Benvic Europe in Chevigny, France. 12 13 A Leading European Investment Group // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Total Investindustrial Companies Employees (%) Investindustrial is a global By Region By Sector provider of employment Rest of Industrial Americas the World Manufacturing Investindustrial’s portfolio companies have The companies in which Investindustrial invests endeavor 8.5% 3.4% 12.3% to maintain and improve training and further develop the knowapproximately 28,800 employees, based mostly in how of their employees. In 2017, the total workforce reached Europe, across a wide range of sectors and countries. approximately 28,800 employees of which approximately 10,600 Consumer, Retail Spain are outside of Southern Europe. Manufacturing and commercial and Leisure Investindustrial considers the skills of its portfolio companies’ activities are present across 31 countries and five continents. Rest 35.0% 52.7% employees as an asset to be developed and shared while of Europe respecting and safeguarding individuals. Furthermore, the Group One of our portfolio companies, Aston Martin, selected St. Athan 24.8% Business is committed to offering equal opportunities in employment and (Wales) as the second manufacturing location for the new crossItaly Services in career development, avoiding every form of discrimination, over vehicle and up to 1,000 new jobs will be created across 28.2% 35.0% including discrimination based on race, sex, sexual orientation, St. Athan and Gaydon between now and 2020. Across the supply St. Athan (Wales) has been selected age, nationality, religion and personal beliefs. chain and local businesses a further 3,000 jobs will likely be as the manufacturing location for created as a direct result of these investments. the production of the Aston Martin DBX cross over to be launched in 2019. Investindustrial investments have a direct presence NETHERLANDS SWEDEN RUSSIA through manufacturing facilities or subsidiaries BELGIUM in 31 countries. NORWAY GERMANY POLAND TURKEY FRANCE CANADA UK SOUTH KOREA USA ROMANIA GROUP DIRECT PRESENCE IN 31 COUNTRIES: JAPAN SWITZERLAND CROATIA ARGENTINA NORWAY AUSTRALIA POLAND MEXICO PORTUGAL BELGIUM PORTUGAL INDIA CHINA BRAZIL ROMANIA CANADA RUSSIA SPAIN ITALY CHINA SINGAPORE BRAZIL UAE CROATIA SOUTH AFRICA FRANCE SOUTH KOREA GERMANY SPAIN HONG KONG SWEDEN HONG KONG INDIA SWITZERLAND ARGENTINA ITALY TURKEY JAPAN UAE SOUTH AFRICA SINGAPORE MALAYSIA AUSTRALIA MALAYSIA UK MEXICO USA NETHERLANDS 14 15 A Leading European Investment Group // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 A leading investment advisory team in Europe Investindustrial professionals represent 17 languages and 15 Investindustrial is one of the largest and most nationalities (with 41% of employees speaking 3 languages or more), experienced groups of investment professionals reflecting the importance the Firm places on being a transparent focused on Europe. and dynamic organisation with global views and capabilities. Investindustrial operates through a series of investment funds, Investindustrial has invested in a broad team of functional specialists holding companies and financial advisory firms, each managed who support the Firm’s investment activity: globalisation, independently and established in the United Kingdom, Spain, digitalisation, operational and change management, ESG, legal & Switzerland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, the United States compliance, investor relations & syndication, debt as well as a finance, and China. Talent management is a key strategic goal of risk and operations team. This exceptional resource pool is led Investindustrial which has a team of more than 100 professionals by a senior team of 10 Managing Principals and Senior Principals. combining local insight with global perspective. Having the right people at the right place at the right time is critical to building Investment and divestment activity is decided and undertaken better companies. To recruit and retain talented people with the by the applicable holding and investment companies pursuant to highest ethical standards and to create an attractive workplace their respective board of directors’ decisions. See under “Governance” in which to develop them is vital for Investindustrial. for more details. Certain Group companies are authorised and Investindustrial professionals, who typically remain with the Firm subject to the supervision of the Financial Conduct Authority in for many years, have demonstrated major achievements in their the United Kingdom, the Commission de Surveillance du Secteur professional and academic past and are therefore best placed Financier in Luxembourg and the Federal Authority for Financial to nurture and integrate the high calibre incremental personnel Market Supervisory Authority in Switzerland. improvements that are regularly made to the Firm. Investindustrial Employees (nr. and %) By Age and Gender Distribution By Years of Employment at Investindustrial 11 19 16 43 5 23 6 13 3 3 Total 100% 16 41 10 26 5 11 7 23 Total 100% 22% Women 38% Women 38% 37% 30% 18 Men 62% 39% 38% 45% Men 62% 58% 46% 16 27 25 16 7 6 100% 8 78% 63% 70% 61% 62% 55% 42% 54% 20-29 30-39 40-49 50-59 60+ 0-2 3-5 6-9 10+ 38% of Investindustrial’s employees are women. Investindustrial is committed to having a more balanced gender distribution in the Firm, especially at the senior positions. By Educational Programmes 17 languages High school or other educational programmes University Degree 41% of the 20% 59% employees University Degree plus MBA e PhD speak 3 languages 15 nationalities or more 21% 16 17 A Leading European Investment Group // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 An organisation tailor-made for active ownership throughout the investment process Investindustrial leverages proprietary networks to source The team’s advisory experience combines strong local investment attractive investment opportunities typically unavailable to the insight with a global perspective which is leveraged to ensure broader market. Since inception the vast majority of portfolio the successful execution of the industrially-driven approach. As investments have been sourced through proprietary channels, active investors Investindustrial works closely with key management including family and corporate vendors, Public-to-Privates throughout the ownership phase to drive product growth and/or and public situations. market expansion. This includes actively advising on how best to secure industrial, branding and financial partners from inside, or Investindustrial allocates resources to a concentrated group selectively from outside, our network. These proprietary relationships, of investee companies but actively seeks to mitigate risks, and which have been developed over many cycles, are inherently control returns, by holding a portfolio of assets that exhibits interlinked and underline Investindustrial’s reputation as the preferred natural diversity. Target companies are typically in growth or partner for high-quality mid-market businesses in Southern Europe mature phases of their lifecycle with the level of support required and opportunistically across the rest of Europe. categorised in the following ways: consolidate position as local leader, strategic repositioning, international expansion, accelerate The industrially driven, responsible and active ownership approach growth through acquisition and/or new products and markets. of Investindustrial creates a natural allegiance with corporate players who are looking to acquire high quality strategic assets. As part of Investindustrial provides hands-on support to portfolio companies the value creation process Investindustrial identifies potential trade through the team’s breadth and depth of expertise. The advice buyers with which there may be valuable synergies and actively from our teams enables management teams and board of engages in dialogue throughout the holding period. Strategic buyers directors to make better informed decisions about the direction have accounted for nearly two thirds of Investindustrial exits to date. they want to give to their company. The ability to deliver complex operational and organisational plans is underpinned by the broad and deep internal sector expertise developed across many business cycles and is actively supported by the internal business development team, which includes offices in New York and Shanghai. A unique network of Industrial Advisors The Industrial Advisory Board To help its portfolio companies achieve their full potential, and The broad network of Industrial Advisors has specific industrial in support of the active ownership approach, Investindustrial can expertise in its sectors, a history of strong relationships with count on the valuable commitment of its Industrial Advisors. Investindustrial, and is coordinated by the Industrial Advisory Board. These seasoned executives bring industrial expertise in a wide The Industrial Advisory Board provides industry expertise, views, range of sectors and are closely linked to the Group’s industriallyopinions and strategic advice on industrial and business plans driven operational model. to the boards of the investment managers and holding companies. Its members act as consultants and do not take investment or The Industrial Advisors concentrate their advice on maintaining divestment decisions. best practice corporate governance, stress testing industrial plans and identifying global value creation opportunities. They are an integral part of Investindustrial’s business model and industrial approach, providing competence from operational and strategic issues in their fields of expertise. The Industrial Advisory Board is chaired by Andrea C. Bonomi and is composed of five seasoned executives who bring valuable insights in a wide range of industries. Industrial Advisory Board Members are appointed from the broader network of Industrial Advisors. A moment of craftsmanship during the manufacturing of a Sergio Rossi shoe, an example of Italian style and design. 18 19 A Leading European Investment Group // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 An internationally recognised Selective Investindustrial Investindustrial further accelerates sustainable investment approach recognitions digitalisation, technological and Investindustrial’s leadership as a successful investor is routinely operational change recognised by industry institutions. Some examples of this Since its inception in 1990, Investindustrial has invested in In 2017, Investindustrial also created a new Operational and recognition in 2017 are: numerous companies that have themselves been at the cutting Change Management team, which advises actively portfolio Italy Spain edge of development, and other more traditional businesses companies to support the realisation of their ambitious which have incorporated new technologies both to defend and internationalisation plans by addressing operational challenges Investindustrial has been recognised as the gain market share. Today, and increasingly so in the future, faced by successful, growing companies. The team’s head leading private equity firm for ESG at The Private scalable technology is a powerful tool for portfolio companies joined the Firm post year-end and began supporting portfolio Equity Awards 2018 and Andrea C. Bonomi is to accelerate internationalisation; and a disruptive element for companies. Fundraising & Investor Relations those not adapting. inducted into the ‘Hall of Fame’. The technology and operational and change management teams Post year-end, in April 2018, Investindustrial won ‘The Investindustrial is determined to capture the benefits of further strengthen the exceptional pool of resources which Environmental and Social Governance (ESG) Award’ at the 16th technological innovation for its portfolio companies and for Investindustrial can provide to portfolio companies to support Italy Spain edition of The Private Equity Awards, an industry-leading award the Group itself through a proactive approach and a dedicated industrial and international growth ambitions. Firm of the year Firm of the year ceremony hosted by trade publication Real Deals. in Italy Investindustrial in Iberia Investindustrial business development team. The Group’s technology and digitalisation centre of excellence is based in the New York Below are some examples of what portfolio companies have The award was made to Investindustrial for its long history on office, complementing the other business development recently developed through their digital strategies. engaging in ESG issues and its leadership in driving the ESG Italy Spain activities carried out from London and Shanghai. The team Flos redesigned its website and customer experience for agenda in the industry. Investindustrial believes that incorporating PRESS RELEASE provides advisory services supporting due diligence reviews and the US market. PortAventura is developing a new CRM system PRESS RELEASE sustainability considerations in its business decisions is essential in benchmarks the digital strategy of new investments and add-on to maximise the full life-cycle value of the consumer and is INVESTINDUSTRIAL INVESTINDUSTRIAL HAS BEEN RECOGNISED HAS BEEN RECOGNISED AS AS creating value for its stakeholders and that commerce can be used THE BEST PRIVATE THE BEST FOR THE SECOND PRIVATE EQUITY FOR THE FIRM EQUITY IN BOTH FIRM SECOND CONSECUTIVE CONSECUTIVE ITALYIN BOTH YEAR AND SPAIN ITALY AND SPAIN YEAR acquisitions. analysing all the different technologies that might enhance the as a force for good as well as profit. Italy Spain customer experience in the entertainment park. Investindustrial continues to invest in the technology team and Sergio Rossi launched the new e-commerce website globally. Additionally, at the same event, Andrea C. Bonomi was inducted is expected to add further professionals to the team. Artsana is developing a 360 degrees strategy involving into the ‘Hall of Fame’, the special recognition of the ceremony. The investment in digitalisation follows similar investments e-commerce, CRM and mobile. The Hall of Fame recognises the contribution of an individual to made in other areas of business development in recent years Italy Spain 1st March 2011 –1Investindustrial st March 2011 –has been recognised Investindustrial has as been Best PrivateasEquity therecognised FirmPrivate in bothEquity the Best Italy Firm in both Italy the private equity industry, including their representation of the and Iberia in the 2010 Private and Iberia in Equity the 2010International Awards Private Equity for the second International consecutive Awards year. consecutive year. for the second (corporate development, debt, investor relations & syndication, This recognition of This ourrecognition industrial approach to private of our industrial equity means approach a great to private deal equity to us, aespecially means great dealin to us, especially in industry to government, business and the public, their work in legal & compliance, risk management). view of the substantial view of number of votes cast the substantial across number the industry of votes globally. cast across the industry globally. So, once again So, we oncewould again like towe thank all like would of you with whom to thank youhave all of we with had whom pleasure the we have hadof the pleasure of working during representing andrepresenting and 2010 and for working during 2010 andsupport. the continued for the continued support. improving the fiscal and legal environment for the industry, and *** *** Investindustrial is a leading Southern European investment group with approximately €2.1 billion of Investindustrial is a leading Southern European investment group with approximately €2.1 billion of AWARDS 2009 AWARDS 2009 assets under management, which provides industrial solutions and capital to mid-market success in their own field. assets under management, which provides industrial solutions and capital to mid-market companies in Southern Europe. Its mission is to actively contribute to the development of the companies inPrivate Southern Europe. Its mission is to actively Best contribute Private Equityto the development of the companies in which it Best Equity invests, by creating growth opportunities and offering global solutions companies in which it invests, by creating growth opportunities and offering global solutions firm in Italy vision. Certain companies of the through an entrepreneurial pan-European firm in Iberia Investindustrial group through an entrepreneurial are authorized by, and subject pan-European vision. Certainthe to regulatory supervision of, the FSA and companies of the Investindustrial group JFSC in the United Investindustrial Investindustrial Kingdom and theare CSSF authorized by, and subject to regulatory supervision in Luxembourg. of, the FSA and the JFSC in the United Kingdom and the CSSF in Luxembourg. In December 2017, Investindustrial was shortlisted for the Best For further information please contact: For further information please contact: Carl Nauckhoff Carl Nauckhoff Italian LBO Fund at the 16th edition of the Private Equity Tel +41 91 2608326 Tel +41 91 2608326 Email: cn@investindustrial.com Email: cn@investindustrial.com Exchange Awards hosted in Paris, and won the Silver Award. Andrea C. Bonomi, Founder of Investindustrial, during his speech at the Private Equity Awards ceremony where he was the 2018 inductee into the Private Equity Hall of Fame. 20 21 Case Studies // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 The new Vantage launched in 2017, one of a series of new models produced by Aston Martin after Investindustrial invested in the company. CASE STUDY: Aston Martin An iconic sports car brand with a rich 104-year heritage Harnessing the valuable automotive sector investment Portfolio expansion: launch of the DBX SUV in 2019. expertise, Investindustrial made a bold but carefully And development of eco-friendly engines. planned investment in Aston Martin in 2012. Aston Martin (www.astonmartin.com), established in 1913 and headquartered in Gaydon (UK), designs, manufactures and “Aston Martin Lagonda is 104 years old and is one distributes luxury performance motor cars. Aston Martin is one of the most desirable luxury brands in the world. of the most exclusive sports car brands in the world, operating with a global dealer network which currently covers over 170 However it required a major investment to launch locations. Its iconic status and global footprint has been built its new generation of models. The investment through its performance and elegant design, successfully programme initiated by Investindustrial, in marketed by featuring as James Bond’s car in many 007 movies over the past 50 years. The group includes a JV, which restores conjunction with its Kuwaiti partners, has allowed and trades heritage Aston Martin vehicles in the historical Aston Martin management to reposition the factory in Newport Pagnell (UK), as well as dedicated large cars company and return the company to profit. DB11 factory in St. Athan (Wales). Since Investindustrial’s entry, the Aston Martin business plan was the first tangible fruit of that labour and the has been based on three distinct phases: tremendous uptake from our customers following the launch at the end of 2016 is a testament to the Stabilisation: while developing the future generation of vehicles, the company focused on cash flows by efficiently hard work that has been undertaken in partnership managing its existing product range and by launching with Investindustrial. In Q3 2017 we announced new special editions; Vantage with production successfully commencing Core strengthening: introduction of an entirely new range in Q2 2018. This journey continues with the DBS of sport models from 2016 to 2018 (DB11 replacing DB9, Vantage replacement, Vanquish replacement); Superleggera going into production towards the end of next year. The company is now profitable and in a significantly stronger position. With the emerging line of next generation sports cars and a sports utility vehicle, we have started our Second Century in style and look forward to continuing success..” Aston Martin 2017 EBITDA Margin Developments since entry: 24% Andy Palmer, Aston Martin CEO Sales growth 90% EBITDA growth 197% EBITDA Margin growth 56% 22 23 Case Studies // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Stabilization Sales (£) EBITDA (£) and Margin (%) By Year By Year 206.5 Since Investindustrial’s entry, the company has successfully Post year-end, the new DBS Superleggera was announced to the 876 managed the run-off of the old generation of cars, while public and is expected to be presented in Q2 2018, following the investing each year on average £130 million into new models. launch of the new DB11 Volante, also announced in Q3, which 593.4 23.6% represents a key model for the US market. 510.0 519.2 468.4 In 2017 DB9 model ended production following DB11 start 461.2 100.9 91.1 of production. Supporting the new line of sports cars, the The result of these launches is a very modern range of sports 71.6 69.5 17.5% 69.7 17.0% brand appeal and positioning were further improved through cars, further enhancing the traditional Aston Martin brand attributes. numerous successful initiatives: 15.1% 14.9% 14.0% The order book of DB11 and V8 Vantage is strong with almost A pre-DB11 concept car, the DB10, featured in the most entire 2018 production covered. With the DB11 launch, key recent James Bond movie, Spectre; improvements were made in the factory to combine advanced 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Special editions models, such as the Vulcan, Zagato technologies, for example in bodywork, with Aston Martin’s and GT8/12, were successfully launched and all promptly traditional exquisite craftsmanship, for example sold out; in interiors. As part of the DBX production, an agreement has been reached In 2016, the 37-foot Aston Martin AM37 powerboat made its world A partnership with Red Bull Racing was secured with the UK and Welsh Government for the acquisition of the debut at the Monaco Yacht Show, marking the luxury British for the development of a hypercar, the Valkyrie; and factory in St. Athan (Wales), a former hangar in a military airport brand’s entry into the nautical world. The new day-cruiser is Formula One participation with Aston Martin Red Bull Racing. Portfolio Expansion with ample space for future developments. A sale and lease-back offered in two versions with the AM37S expected to reach speeds agreement was signed in 2016 with construction works having of 50 knots. Sharing creative expertise and specialist skills, a Phase three of the business plan is based around the sports begun this year. partnership allowed Quintessence Yachts to engineer the Aston Core strengthening utility vehicle (SUV) programme, with the DBX cross-over vehicle Martin design into an innovative powerboat for the yachting world. expected to be launched in 2019, as announced at the Geneva In choosing St. Athan, a strong partnership has been developed Driven by the strong customer support for the DB11, launched at Motor Show in 2015. The issue of £200 million of preference with both the UK Ministry of Defence, which previously operated Last year, Aston Martin also announced a partnership with G&G, the end of 2016, the company in 2017 surpassed the 5,000 unit shares in 2015 ensured the funding required for the development the site as a Royal Air Force base, and the Welsh Government, a property group, for the design and branding of a 66-storey luxury delivery mark for the first time since 2008. In Q3 2017 the new and manufacturing facility. Post-year end, we proudly presented which is providing valuable support in the recruitment of the 750 residential tower in Miami. Vantage was presented, with first deliveries expected by the at the 2018 Geneva Motor Show, the Lagonda Vision Concept, employees required at the facility. end of H1 2018, with the outgoing Vantage having been the most with the aim to be the world’s first zero emissions vehicle, taking successful car in Aston Martin’s history. advantage of latest advances in electrification and autonomous Initial recruitment began in September with the hiring of 40 driving technologies. people. The workforce is being trained in Gaydon on the DB11 production line and is expected to grow, resulting in the creation of 3,000 jobs in the local area as a result of the investment. Aston Martin’s first brand experience boutique, opened in the heart of London’s Mayfair district, is a destination for design master classes, art exhibitions, dinner series and other exclusive events. The DBX product has now been substantially defined and the engineering and design work are proceeding well. The powertrain portfolio will include a hybrid variant in addition to a traditional combustion engine. Special editions also continue to represent an important pillar of Aston Martin’s model range expansion – the Valkyrie, a supercar limited to 150 units, had a list price of £2.5 million and was sold out prior to its announcement. A Luxury Brand Aston Martin’s status as a luxury brand has never been stronger. The strong early support that the DB11, new Vantage and special editions have received from customers old and new is a testament to the brand’s heritage, global presence and pricing power. Through strategic licensing agreements the company is also selectively expanding its product portfolio to other luxury segments. The Valkyrie hypercar, developed in partnership with Red Bull Racing. 24 25 Case Studies // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 PortAventura is the largest destination resort in southern Europe. CASE STUDY: PortAventura Parks & Resort A European leader in the leisure and entertainment industry Building on the successful previous investment in the park offerings of shops and food, the addition of a new kids’ area and the tallest rollercoaster in Europe, the opening of in Italian theme park operator Gardaland, a themed aquatic park, and an efficiency programme that has Investindustrial acquired PortAventura in 2009. significantly increased the profitability. The opening of Ferrari Land, a theme park dedicated to the prestigious automotive and racing PortAventura is a fully integrated, family oriented destination brand, demonstrates the company’s commitment to unique resort with a balanced business model that encompasses attractions, after PortAventura entered a European-wide exclusivity a full range of entertainment, hospitality and events offerings. agreement with Ferrari for attractions of this kind. The entertainment segment comprises three gates: one theme park “PortAventura Park”, one water park “Caribe Aquatic In early 2017, Investindustrial led a transaction to transfer all assets, Park” and “Ferrari Land”. Guests can enjoy an abundance of including PortAventura, from a legacy investment programme daily shows and special events, and have an extensive choice of to a new investment programme. This has provided additional time food, beverage and retail options. The hospitality segment and capital to realise PortAventura’s full potential through an comprises five themed hotels and cabañas (with four to five star ambitious new business plan focused on resort development. accommodation) as well as a 4,000 person capacity convention centre hosting conferences and events all year long. The resort also benefits from a number of ancillary services and facilities including three golf courses and a beach club, included in the “After the successful experience with Gardaland, hotel packages. the largest Italian theme park, it is a great pleasure The acquisition was made possible through the close relationship for me to continue partnering with Investindustrial with La Caixa, Europe’s leading savings bank, and its majorityon PortAventura. During nine years of close owned investment company Criteria Caixa Corp. collaboration, PortAventura has undergone a Since Investindustrial’s entry, PortAventura has performed well significant transformation – from a theme park into despite a very difficult economic environment initially. The company’s Europe’s second largest integrated destination positive performance is a result of the industrially-driven approach of resort. A strong repositioning plan has been Investindustrial and the introduction of a proven management team from Gardaland. The key drivers of the outperformance to date are implemented based on strengthening the product the successfully repositioned commercial strategy, improvements offering, delivering a carefully crafted commercial strategy and optimising the cost base. The company’s commitment to unique attractions and premium experiences ensures that it continues strongly along the path to long term value creation.” PortAventura 2017 EBITDA Margin Developments since entry: 45% Sergio Feder, PortAventura Executive Chairman Sales growth 71% EBITDA growth 198% 26 EBITDA Margin growth 75% 27 Case Studies // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 A successful Sales (€m) By Year development strategy 239.4 Since Investindustrial’s entry at the end of 2009, PortAventura 193.9 206.7 191.9 has performed strongly: EBITDA has more than tripled to 172.8 179.3 179.4 140.3 143.2 approximately € 110 million with a best-in-class margin of 45% and the number of visits has increased by approximately 49% as a result of new park offerings and a relaunched commercial strategy. PortAventura has approximately five million visits per year and more than 80 million visits since inception. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 The management of the company has focused on the following areas in recent years: New park offerings: the new kids’ area, SesamoAventura, and the new roller-coaster, Shambhala, in addition to the recently opened Ferrari Land, have continued to attract both repeat and new visitors throughout 2017. In 2013, PortAventura opened the doors to its refurbished EBITDA (€m) and Margin (%) attraction, the Costa Caribe Aquatic Park and more recently By Year to the Angkor Boat ride attraction. 108.5 Marketing strategy: the company has refocused on traditional 85.0 85.7 94.6 values, entertainment and family. As a result, the company 59.0 68.7 75.9 42.3% 44.3% 44.2% 45.8% 45.3% is achieving a substantial increase in visitors from abroad (over 42.1 34.1% 38.3% 36.4 50% of international hotel guests in 2017). 29.4% 25.9% In the hotels business, the company has worked very closely with 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 major tour operators both in Spain and internationally to develop a cohesive marketing strategy to increase hotel bookings since 2009. In addition, the implementation of a new website, a stronger direct selling, booking engine and the introduction of call centre best practices, have significantly improved yield, with direct bookings having increased from 30% of total bookings to 45% in 2017, more closely aligning with benchmarks in the hotel industry. Brand partnerships with Ferrari PortAventura is continuing to strengthen its position in the Ferrari Land is built on a total surface area of 75,000 square premium tourism segment by increasing the international image meters and benefits from several rides (including the highest and branding of the park. and fastest vertical accelerator in Europe), restaurants, large simulation areas for car racing and shops. In April 2017, Ferrari Land opened to the public. The new site, within PortAventura, is a themed amusement park dedicated to The park has a total capital investment of €88 million and the luxury automotive brand. PortAventura has a European-wide further enhances PortAventura’s position as a leading European exclusivity agreement with Ferrari, ensuring the attraction is the destination resort. only one of its kind in the region. In its mission of building better companies, Investindustrial supported PortAventura in the creation of Ferrari Land which was inaugurated in April 2017. 28 29 Case Studies // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CASE STUDY: B&B Italia Internationalisation of a leading design furniture company Investindustrial aims to further consolidate the international success is based on a unique combination of creativity, innovation and expansion of a great designer furniture brand. industrial capabilities aimed at creating timeless products that stand the test of time. In 2015, Investindustrial acquired the majority shareholding of B&B Italia, a leading international design furniture company. The company Technological research has always been a key element of the has an excellent reputation worldwide in the high-end design company’s development policy. The company has an in-house furnishings sector, for both the retail and corporate markets, and has Research & Development centre that works with famous international been known for its strong focus on research and innovation, and its designers such as Antonio Citterio, Naoto Fukasawa, Piero Lissoni ability to combine industrial expertise and corporate management and many others to support a creative development process that has since its creation over 50 years ago. The company operates in over allowed it to set itself apart in the sector as a highly innovative and 80 countries on five continents through a distribution network technologically advanced company. Its numerous awards include four that includes seven directly managed stores, 71 third party monoCompassi d’Oro (the most prestigious industrial design award), the brand stores and over 800 multi-brand stores. B&B Italia is known most significant of which was the first award of this type ever given to as a leader in the contemporary design furniture sector at the a company rather than a product in 1989 for the “ongoing integration international level with an authentic collection of iconic furniture that work to combine aspects of technical and scientific research with has contributed to enriching the history of Italian design. B&B Italia’s those needed to ensure product functionality and character”. “The strong desire to guarantee the continuity of this extraordinary company in a way that will ensure its further growth and expansion at the international level in keeping with its mission and history led us to consider the partnership with Investindustrial. Due to its experience in the highend design segment, Investindustrial will be able to provide us with the expertise and resources needed to pursue our long-term strategies of internationalisation and industrial development”. B&B Italia 2017 EBITDA Margin Developments since entry: 19% Giorgio Busnelli, B&B Italia Chairman Sales growth 50% EBITDA growth 60% 30 EBITDA Margin growth 6% 31 Case Studies // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Strong progress Sales (€m) The Arclinea acquisition – stepping By Year since entry with international growth 212.3 into the kitchen 190.3 159.7 Flagship Stores 141.5 In 2016, B&B Italia acquired a 70% stake in Arclinea, an The acquisition also generates significant potential synergies: Italian leading high-end designer kitchen brand, with a 30% The company operates seven flagship stores and has achieved shareholding remaining in the hands of the founders Arclinea will have the opportunity to accelerate its international significant expansion of third party mono-brand stores network, (Fortuna family). expansion by leveraging B&B Italia’s strong distribution increasing from 59 stores to 71 since entry. platform; Arclinea represents B&B Italia’s first majority acquisition in its Cross-selling opportunities within B&B Italia’s stores; A key pillar of the value creation plan for B&B Italia has been to 50–year history, achieved within the first year of Investindustrial’s More competitive positioning in order to secure new profitable increase the company’s footprint in the North America. ownership. Founded in 1925 near Vicenza by the Fortuna family, contract projects; 2014 2015 2016 2017 The company has now opened flagship stores in Austin, Dallas, Arclinea is a luxury brand with a top of the range positioning and Simplify access to high potential markets such as Asia Los Angeles, Mexico City, Miami, New York, San Francisco, Seattle, a strong fit with the B&B Italia and Maxalto brands. Arclinea has a and the US. Sun Valley, Washington and, most recently, Chicago, where, strong international presence, generating approximately 50% of post year-end Armin Broger (CEO), Giorgio Busnelli (Chairman) EBITDA (€m) and Margin (%) its sales outside Europe and one third in North America. Despite the short timeframe since the acquisition, a number and Gianni Fortuna (Arclinea CEO) inaugurated the store. By Year of synergies have already been identified such as the opening of These directly operated stores complement a smaller dealer This acquisition allows B&B Italia to widen its portfolio of products an Arclinea flagship store within B&B Italia’s flagship store in 40.7 network in the central United States and overall support increased 37.2 by entering into the luxury design kitchen segment, as part of the London and the opportunity to bid for a large contract project in penetration, by being strategically located in key cities to 32.1 strategic growth plan formulated at the time of the investment the US, as a result of the new combined product offering. maximise the significant effect that prescribers, such as designers 25.5 20.1% which is based on a more integrated product proposition 19.5% 19.2% During its first full year Arclinea has recorded positive results, and architects, have on revenues in the US market. 18.0% strongly supported by the implementation of a number of The flagship store in Shanghai has undergone a complete selected initiatives with B&B Italia, such as the completion of the renovation and in February re-opened its doors to the public. The full refurbishment of B&B Italia’s flagship store in London, now 750 square meters store was entirely designed by Antonio including Arclinea products, and the ongoing works to prepare Citterio. In addition, the set up process of a local operating branch the opening of a new mono-brand store in Milan just opposite B&B in Shanghai with a dedicated team of four people is currently 2014 2015 2016 2017 Italia’s flagship store in Via Durini. ongoing. This opening complements the 2016 openings of the 800 square meters flagship store at 135 Madison Avenue Manhattan, New York and the 700 square meters flagship store at Rue du Bac, Paris. Digital The architectural concept of the stores were also designed by B&B Italia’s website is currently the most visited website amongst Antonio Citterio and have set a new benchmark in the high-end all the high-end design furniture corporate websites, with design furniture industry. approximately 2 million unique visitors per year and supported by the new website, which went live with a number of new key features at the end of 2016. Contract Business The repositioning strategy of the contract business has already Partnership achieved significant and encouraging results through the acquisition of several important and profitable projects worldwide. During the year, B&B Italia reached an agreement under exclusivity with the Caccia Dominioni family to produce and market a Following the successful contracts with Apple in 2016, which portfolio of more than 20 products (including chairs, sofas and tables), chose B&B Italia as furniture provider for its new 260,000 square designed by Luigi Caccia Dominioni, one of the most highly meters headquarter in Cupertino, California, and the Bulgari Hotel recognised Italian designers and a prominent ambassador of the in Dubai, large projects in 2017 included W Hotel, Blue Lagoon and Italian design culture and architectural heritage. Bentley. The “Caccia Dominioni Collection” will become the fourth brand to join the B&B Italia product portfolio, alongside B&B Italia, Maxalto and Arclinea, allowing the company to further strengthen its Italia, one of the iconic kitchen position as a top design player with production expected to begin of Arclinea.The company was acquired by the end of 2018. by B&B Italia during 2016. 32 33 Case Studies // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 The Chicco Next2Me side sleeping crib, one of the company’s successful recent product launches. CASE STUDY: Artsana A leading international consumer goods company Investindustrial plans to open up new markets for a In 2017, Investindustrial concluded that to maximise value Chicco and PIC should be formally separated, allowing the respective management company with impressive existing international presence teams to more sharply focus on growth in two very different sectors. alongside professionalising the existing business. At initial entry, the due diligence on Artsana highlighted this as one option following a process which focused on a sum-of-the-parts Artsana, founded in 1946 in Como (Italy) by Pietro Catelli, is a valuation. Post year-end, the separation began and allowed PIC leading international consumer goods company, focusing on babyto promptly deliver on its new and separate growth initiative by care and self-medication products through Chicco, Prenatal Retail completing a transformative combination with HTL Strefa to create a Group and PIC. Over the years the business expanded applying global leader in medtech and diabetes care. advanced manufacturing technologies, developing the PIC brand into other product categories and launching the Chicco baby care brand in 1958. The group originally included the cosmetics brand Lycia, which was successfully sold to Sodalis in December 2016. Artsana is headquartered in Grandate (Como), operates three production facilities in Italy and one in Romania, and has approximately 8,000 employees worldwide (of which 50% in PRG). “At Investindustrial’s entry, we developed a quality, In Q3, Artsana acquired the remaining 50% stake in PRG from its industrially-driven plan for the company in the joint venture partner, financing the transaction entirely with cash years ahead. The plan continues to leverage our and an additional debt facility. PRG is a leading European retailer existing strengths – such as the Chicco brand active in the baby-care and toys products business with a network of approximately 450 directly managed points of sales and 200 and our best-in-class manufacturing capabilities – between franchised and indirect stores. The company operates and Investindustrial’s global network, and now under four main brands: Toys Center (Italy), King Jouet (France and extends into another exciting new stage of Switzerland), Prénatal (Italy, Spain, Portugal and Greece) and Bimbo Store (Italy). development. In 2017 we made a decision to separate the baby care and self-medication units, which are clearly very different businesses. This will optimally position each business to achieve further international growth, both organically and through acquisition, by enabling the respective management teams to think about each operation even more strategically” Claudio De Conto, Artsana CEO 34 35 Portfolio Developments // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 PORTFOLIO DEVELOPMENTS At the end of 2017, Investindustrial’s portfolio was well balanced across three main industry platforms and Investindustrial’s business consisted of a concentrated group of 14 portfolio companies to which significant resources are dedicated on an ongoing basis. focus and global drivers 1 2 3 Consumer Business Industrial Retail and Services Manufacturing Leisure Platform Platform Platform Leading providers of critical or high valueadded services. The Global leaders in the design and manufacturing of specialty products. Leading companies companies are typically The underlying markets which operate in markets beneficiaries of a growing are mature and often with long-term growth global outsourcing trend. consolidated with high underpinned by positive Their asset-light capital barriers to entry for new trends in demographics structures give them a competition. New markets and consumption patterns. high cash conversion rate are key in offering future The underlying industries and an ability to expand growth opportunities need to be mature but internationally without and possibilities for are often still fragmented, undertaking major capital operational improvement. giving the companies investments. attractive opportunities to consolidate their markets. Growth is typically scalable on an international level. Three stunning Aston Martin sports cars took over the iconic Harrods storefront in a month-long celebration of the British marques’ ‘DB’ nameplate. 36 37 Portfolio Developments // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Flos Superloon: the serene, harmonious glow of the moon inspired this innovative and first-of-its-kind design from Jasper Morrison. Global growth drivers and At the end of 2017, Investindustrial’s portfolio comprised 14 investments, balanced across the three industry classifications industrial opportunities with a stronger emphasis (> 50%) on consumer brands ripe for internationalisation. Each of the three industry platforms have different growth drivers Sales (%) EBITDA (%) By Sector and opportunity sets, as summarised below. Business Industrial Business Industrial Services Manufacturing Services Manufacturing 15% 24% 17% 29% Consumer, Consumer, 56% 58% CONSUMER, Retail and Leisure Retail and Leisure RETAIL BUSINESS INDUSTRIAL In this section sales and EBITDA are considered weighted by Investindustrial’s shareholding AND LEISURE SERVICES MANUFACTURING and considering the portfolio companies owned as of December 2017. EBITDA Margin (%) By Sector 13.7 % Globalisation Economies of scale Globalisation GLOBAL 9,7% 12.0% 11.6% of consumer trends Outsourcing Growth in new markets GROWTH Aging population Increased need Cost efficency DRIVERS Changing consumer for information and Resource constraints purchasing behaviour communication technology Commodity valuebility Digitalisation Global need for Digitalisation Industrial Consumer, Retail Business Total infrastructure investments Manufacturing and Leisure Services Digitalisation 12% overall EBITDA Margin Add-on acquisitions Expanding service Improving operational INDUSTRIAL Employees (nr.) Capturing growth offering into adjacent fields efficiency of mid-market companies OPPORTUNITIES By Sector opportunities Synergistic add-on in new markets acquisitions Relocation of manufacturing 3,550 28,782 to more value added 10,070 Improving Capturing growth jurisdictions the marketing mix in developing markets 15,162 Add-on acquisitions Product development High visibility Industrial Manufacturing on concessions Resource efficiency Digital Transformation and supply chains Business Services Consumer, Total Retail and Leisure 38 39 Portfolio Developments // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 2017 main events in Consumer, 1 Consumer, Retail and Leisure Retail and Leisure During 2017, Investindustrial completed the acquisitions of OKA, Chicco, differently from its competitors that typically focus on one Investindustrial’s Consumer, Retail and Leisure sector currently Perfume Holding, producer and marketer of perfumes a leading British high-end interiors lifestyle brand, and exited product category, is an “umbrella brand” covering all baby-care comprises the following companies: and cosmetics Goldcar to Europcar, a leading global car rental firm with a product categories (juvenile, nursing, toys, apparel and shoes) with PIC, healthcare and diabetes care company presence in more than 140 countries and with an average fleet 380 mono-brand stores globally. Aston Martin, luxury sports cars manufacturer PortAventura, leading European destination resort of 200,000 vehicles. www.chicco.com B&B Italia, high-end design furniture brand Sergio Rossi, leading international luxury shoes brand Valtur, leading hospitality group in Italy Prenatal Retail Group has one of the largest European network of Chicco, international infant and babycare company 650 stores, under the brands Toys Center (Italy), King Jouet (France Flos, Italian high-end lighting brand and Switzerland), Prenatal (Italy, Spain, Portugal and Greece) and OKA, high-end interiors lifestyle brand Luxury Shoes Bimbo Store (Italy). Healthcare www.prenatalretailgroup.com 3.9% 3.4% Perfumes and Artsana, founded in 1946 in Como (Italy) by Pietro Catelli, is a Cosmetics leading international group with well-established consumer brands Sales (%) Hospitality 2.9% in infant care, self-medication and cosmetic products and solutions By Segment 4.9% through a number of consumer brands, most importantly Chicco and Prenatal Retail Group (toys and infant care) and PIC Solution At year-end 2017, (self-medication). Investindustrial acquired Artsana during 2016 with nine segments represent Premium Lighting Baby care the aim of leveraging on its strong product portfolio in order Investindustrial’s Aston Martin is a leading luxury car manufacturer and one of 47.1% to further consolidate the international leadership of the company Consumer, Retail and 6.4% the most exclusive sports car brands in the world. Established in by developing an expansion plan based both on organic growth Leisure sector. 1913 and headquartered in Gaydon (UK), Aston Martin designs, Entertainment Luxury and add-on acquisitions. As part of an overall strategic assessment Sports Cars of the Artsana investment, in 2017 was decided to develop PIC manufactures and distributes luxury performance motor cars. 6.6% Premium Its iconic status and global footprint has been established through Furniture 14.3% as a separate and independent business from the rest of the group. 10.5% www.artsana.com its performance and elegant design and through the successful marketing as James Bond’s car in many 007 movies over the past 50 years. At the beginning of 2017, Aston Martin started conversion Sales (€m) EBITDA Margin (%) of the St. Athan (Wales) facility ahead of SUV production in 2019. By Year By Year At the end of March 2017 Aston Martin priced a refinancing transaction to replace its senior secured notes and subordinated PIK 1,775 14.1% 14.6% notes due 2018, in a successful and oversubscribed dual-currency 12.0% 1,231 1,269 issue on the back of its strong financial performance following the DB11 launch and the continued overall execution of Investindustrial’s PIC has a leading market share in all product categories in which business plan. The DB11 constituted the basis for other future sport it operates in the pharmacy channel (pen needles for diabetes, car models such as the new Vantage that has been recently +3% +40% +3% -18% venipuncture, diagnostic, dressings), coupled with advanced launched. The new Vantage is the second in a line of seven new manufacturing capabilities. Post year-end Investindustrial reached models to be launched over a period of seven years, in line with the an agreement for the acquisition of HTL Strefa in order to create company’s ‘Second Century Plan’, which takes the 104-year-old 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 a leading global medical devices and self-medication player. company into its next century of operation. EBITDA (€m) Employees (nr.) www.picsolution.com www.astonmartin.com By Year By Year 212 15,162 185 174 In April 2017 the former military site of St. Athan was formally handed 11,432 10,766 over from the Ministry of Defence to Aston Martin. With the commencement of these works, Aston Martin St. Athan is on target to commence production of the company’s new SUV, the Aston Martin DBX, in 2019. +6% +15% +6% +33% 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 In 2017 sales increased by 40% while earnings increased by 15%, The total number of employees increased by 33% in 2017 due to the different sector mix. reaching approximately 15,200 people. 40 41 Portfolio Developments // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 B&B Italia is the leading Italian high-end design furniture brand, Flos is the leading Italian high-end lighting brand, known globally Founded in 1999 by Lady Annabel Astor, Sue Jones and Lucinda Perfume Holding produces and markets perfumes for a number globally recognised for its iconic products. The company has a for its unique design and technological innovation, both in the Waterhouse, OKA is a leading high-end interiors lifestyle brand of well-known brands. The license portfolio includes Ferrari, unique product portfolio and has been awarded with many design decorative and architectural segments. Since its founding in 1962, headquartered in London (UK). The company is renowned for Iceberg, Sergio Tacchini, Liu Jo and Fiat 500. In addition, the prizes over the years. B&B Italia has developed longstanding Flos products have been recognised with a number of design creating interior designed homes featuring curated collections group owns the Atkinsons, I Coloniali and Morris brands. The partnerships with world-renowned designers and architects such awards and collection items for leading museums such as the of British designed furniture and home accessories. OKA’s company has a direct presence in Italy, Germany, UAE, USA, as Antonio Citterio, Naoto Fukasawa, Gaetano Pesce and many MoMA in New York, the Victoria & Albert Museum in London and philosophy centres on the entire finished article, the ‘room UK, Russia and Singapore. The company is consolidating others which have positioned the company at the forefront of Le Centre Pompidou in Paris. Flos’ long-standing relationship set’, which combines not only the larger furniture pieces but its strategy of creating the first alternative to multinational technological innovation. State of the art integrated design, R&D with world-renowned designers, such as the Castiglioni brothers, also a rapidly growing home accessories collection that bring a perfume companies through the development of its owned and manufacturing capabilities have allowed B&B Italia to combine Philippe Starck and Antonio Citterio, is a unique feature of the room to life. OKA has a strong omnichannel direct to consumer brands and through the acquisition of small-medium size brands high quality with process efficiency. The company has captured company. The company is continuing its strategy of international offering. A destination retail portfolio of 14 strategically placed and companies. In particular the company is focusing on the different and complementary styles through two renowned and and product expansion following the acquisition of Lukas Lighting showrooms is supported by a successful interior design service, development of the Atkinsons brand in the niche perfumery established brands – B&B Italia (contemporary innovative) and in the USA, a company specialised in the design, manufacturing a well-established online platform representing approximately segment and in the launch of the new I Coloniali products for MAXALTO (classic traditional) – which comprise its Home division, and installation of customised lighting solutions, and Ares, the 30% of sales, a strong mail order catalogue offering and a skincare, body care and hair treatment. In November 2017 the and additionally provides bespoke design furnishing solutions leading Italian company in the premium outdoor lighting market. complementary trade division. The strength and resilience of company opened its first Atkinsons flagship store in Mayfair in through its Contract division. After having acquired the leading In 2017 Flos completed the acquisition of KKDC France, the sole the company’s business model is underpinned by its established London. Perfume Holding is continuing to focus on capturing high-end Italian kitchen brand Arclinea in 2016, B&B Italia widened distributor in France for high-quality linear LED products and brand and design-led reputation for developing and curating a growth in existing markets and product segments that leverage its portfolio of products by stepping into the luxury design kitchen solutions. These transactions enable Flos to cover all key premium range of high-quality lifestyle interiors. the established international distribution network, and on segment and further consolidated its leadership in the luxury lighting products and are generating significant synergies with www.oka.com developing the new acquired licenses. furniture market. In 2017 B&B Italia reached an agreement to Flos’ operating model. In 2017 the Company launched the new www.perfumeholding.com produce and market a portfolio of several products designed by “Flos Outdoor” catalogue by Piero Lissoni, with very positive Luigi Caccia Dominioni, one of the most iconic Italian designers feedback from the market, and presented nine new products at and a prominent ambassador of the Italian design culture and the Euroluce fair. architectural heritage. In the past months B&B Italia further www.flos.com strengthened both its management team and the international network with the opening of the redesigned flagships stores around the world. www.bebitalia.com Perfume Holding during 2017 opened its Atkinsons flagship boutique in the prestigious Burlington Arcade in Mayfair (London). Investindustrial has completed the acquisition of OKA, a leading high-end interiors lifestyle brand. 42 43 Portfolio Developments // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 PortAventura World, is the largest destination resort in Sergio Rossi is a prominent Italian luxury footwear brand, long Southern Europe and the number two in Europe by number known for its high quality production. The company has built of rooms. Investindustrial invested in PortAventura at the its credibility on its unique craftsmanship and on the creativity end of 2009 and offered the support of the former managers that characterises its designs. Sergio Rossi has a significant of Gardaland, who now work closely with the company. international presence across EMEA, South East Asia and Japan In recent years the company has implemented a development with over 55 stores (a mix of directly operated stores and strategy based on product innovation (a new aquatic park, franchised stores). Sergio Rossi has a modern and best-in class Costa Caribe, a new kids’ area, Sesamo Adventure, the tallest factory located near Rimini on the north-eastern coast of Italy rollercoaster in Europe, Shambhala, and the longest boat (within an industrial region with a very strong shoemaking ride circuit in Europe, Angkor), a new marketing strategy heritage). After the acquisition by Investindustrial at the end focused on traditional values, entertainment and family, and of 2015, a new management team was recruited as part of the improvement of efficiency. PortAventura owns and manages brand re-launch and repositioning strategy. 5 hotels with 2,100 room providing an integrated holiday The company is focused on successfully implementing its strategy offering for families. At the beginning of 2017 Ferrari Land of international brand repositioning and sales growth. opened within PortAventura. Ferrari Land is the sole Ferrari The company is strengthening its commercial network by opening theme park in Europe and includes Red Force, the park’s new flagship stores, most recently on Via Condotti in Rome, signature ride – now the tallest and fastest roller coaster in an outlet in Hiroshima and a pop-up store in Hong Kong, in Europe reaching a height of 112 metres and a speed of 180km/h. addition to the refurbishment of key flagship stores such as Ferrari Land has been developed within a tasteful setting Montenapoleone and La Rinascente in Milan. of an Italian town and contains two simulator attractions www.sergiorossi.com (Flying Dreams and Racing Legends) and a unique exhibition showcasing Ferrari’s history. PortAventura also has an agreement with Cirque du Soleil which performs at the park over the summer months. www.portaventuraworld.com Piero Ferrari, the son of the brand’s eponymous founder, Enzo, officially opened Ferrari Land on April 7th 2017. Established in 1964, Valtur operate 15 resorts (11 seaside and four mountain) across Italy and Croatia at year end 2017. Valtur is a well-recognised brand and the clear leader in the resorts chain category in Italy with a significant market share and is the fourth largest hotel group overall in Italy by number of keys. Investindustrial acquired the company in the first half of 2016 with the aim to create the premier Mediterranean all-inclusive hospitality group. Valtur operates in a growing and fragmented industry with a rising demand for affordable luxury resorts. The Southern European region is one of the most visited destinations in the world with approximately 215 million of international visitors (similar number of visits as the entire Asian region) in addition to local population. Post year-end and in conjunction with the worsening of its financial performance the company entered into a court protection procedure. www.valtur.com The sr1 Crystals shoes by Sergio Rossi, part of the new collection. 44 45 Portfolio Developments // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 2017 main events 2 Business Services in Business Services Investindustrial’s Business Services sector comprises the following companies: SNAITECH, leading Italian operator in sports Following the 2015 integration of SNAI and Cogetech, Snaitech During 2017, Emeru completed the merger with Ambuibérica, a betting & video lottery became the largest listed group in Italy dedicated to the entertainment leading ambulance operator in Spain, with approximately € 175 million Emeru and Ambuibérica, leading Spanish ambulance sector with a leading position in sports betting, virtual events and of revenues, a fleet of more than 2,000 ambulances and presence services companies horse races. The integration is an industry-shaping transaction for the in Spain and Latin America. Following the merger, the combined Italian market: the new group has the largest betting network in Italy group is the largest provider of outsourced mission-critical ambulance with almost 700 shops and owns the rights for approximately 900 services in Spain and number two in Europe with a total fleet of Sales (%) betting corners as well as the concession to operate more than 10,000 approximately 3,350 vehicles and 9,000 employees. The company By Segment video lottery terminals. The gaming industry has high barriers to entry provides emergency and scheduled patient transportation services Sports Betting & arising from its concession nature and thus provides good revenue for Spanish regional governments and the British National Health At year-end 2017, Videolottery two segments represent visibility. Today the group is well placed to benefit from the ongoing Service under a portfolio of more than 50 long-term concessions Investindustrial’s Business Emergency 65.8% trend towards online due to its strong brand awareness and leading ranging from 4 to 10 years that represent over 85% of the company’s Transport Services Services sector. market position. Post year-end Snaitech was sold to Playtech PLC (LSE: total sales as well as for private customers predominantly in Spain, 34.2% PTEC), the world’s largest online gaming software supplier. the UK and Brazil. www.snaitech.it The merger has allowed Emeru to diversify the contract portfolio, enhance the company’s position as a leading provider of missioncritical ambulance services in Europe, reinforce the market position of the combined business for upcoming tenders with public administrations as well as with private customers and increase the effectiveness of the services offering. Following the merger the Sales (€m) EBITDA Margin (%) management team has been strengthened with a new CEO, a new By Year By Year CFO and a new head of international business development. 463 www.emeru.net 13.9% 13.7% 402 12.3% www.ambuiberica.com 365 Snaitech has developed digital applications to further expand the business on line. -9% +27% +13% -1% 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 EBITDA (€m) Employees (nr.) By Year By Year 10,070 63 49 51 4,068 4,245 +3% +25% +15% +4% 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 In 2017 sales increased by 27% and EBITDA by 25% maintaining In 2017 employees reached almost 10,100% mainly due to the a stable 14% EBITDA margin. integration with Ambuibérica. 46 47 Portfolio Developments // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Polynt Group, an integrated global player in the coating and composite resins industry with a variety of end markets: construction, transportation, housing appliances, electrical, marine, food and others. 2017 main events in 3 Industrial Manufacturing Industrial Manufacturing The Industrial Manufacturing Sector comprises the following companies: Polynt, global leader in the production of specific polymer intermediates and derivatives. Founded in 1963, Benvic develops, produces and markets highly Benvic, developer and producer of innovative PVC-based customised, innovative PVC-based thermoplastic solutions in the thermoplastic solutions. form of powders and compounds that are utilised across a wide range of rigid and flexible end-applications including building Sales (%) and construction, automotive and aerospace, cabling, packaging By Segment and fluid transport. Headquartered in Chevigny (France) with production facilities in France, Italy and Spain, the company is At year-end 2017, Europe’s leading PVC compounder, with a leadership position one segment represents in Southern Europe where it is the number one in France, Investindustrial’s Speciality chemicals Spain and Belgium and the number two in Italy. Benvic has an Industrial Manufacturing 100% increasingly diversified global customer base, selling into 50 sector. countries, with France, Iberia, Italy, the UK/Eire, Germany and the Benelux being the most important markets. Investindustrial completed the acquisition of Benvic in December 2017. www.benvic.com Sales (€m) EBITDA Margin (%) By Year By Year 925 10.9% 9.7% 8.4% The Polynt Group is one of the world’s leading manufacturers 647 618 of composites and coatings resins as well as intermediate and specialty chemical polymers. The end markets are primarily construction, electric/electronics, transportation and, to a -5% +50% +29% -11% lesser extent, household applications, paints and sporting goods. Following the acquisition of PCCR (the North American coatings and composites resins business of Momentive Specialty 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Chemicals) and CCP Composites (a company specialised in composite resins) in France, Polynt became a truly global player with a manufacturing presence in Europe, Asia and North EBITDA (€m) Employees (nr.) America and a critical mass from which to further consolidate By Year By Year the market. During 2017, Polynt completed the merger with 3,550 Reichhold and today the group has been repositioned to be a 90 global specialty player with a worldwide footprint and business 2,453 2,382 presence. Polynt is starting to significantly benefit from the 67 55 synergies of the new merger and registered record profitability in 2017 while being positioned for further attractive strategic +23% +33% -3% +49% opportunities through combinations with other specialty chemicals leaders. www.polynt.com 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 In 2017 sales increased by 50% and earnings increased by 33% The merger with Reichhold also impacted profitability and number mainly due to the merger between Polynt and Reichhold. of employees that increased by 49%. 48 49 RESPONSIBLE SUSTAINABILITY INVESTING REVIEW Responsible Investing//// ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Lagonda Vision Concept – emission free RESPONSIBLE INVESTING Investindustrial firmly believes that managing ESG issues is a vital Mission statement part of creating value for its stakeholders and of developing more sustainable, long-term strategies for its portfolio companies. To maximise returns for our investors in a In accordance with this belief, Investindustrial was the first manner that reflects our Firm values. private equity operator with a focus on Southern Europe to subscribe to the UN Global Compact Ten Principles (www. To pursue a sustainable, industrially-driven unglobalcompact.org) in 2008 and then subsequently to the strategy to build better companies for the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI – www.unpri.org) long-term. in 2009. To work relentlessly towards leaving no trace As a member of the UN Global Compact, Investindustrial adheres (environmentally) whilst leaving a positive to its ten principles which include, but are not limited to, respect mark (socially). for human rights, ensuring appropriate labour conditions, respect for the environment and the application of anti-corruption measures. Investindustrial uses these principles as guidelines and requires all of its portfolio companies to do the same. Firm values Team PRI, an initiative launched in April 2006 at the New York Stock The most important asset is our people and the Exchange by the UN Secretary-General and coordinated by experiences we accumulate as a team. the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and the UN Global Compact, presents its own six interconnected principles Relationships which act as a franchise for global best practices in responsible Strong and supportive relationships, whether with investment. Investindustrial fully supports and incorporates our managers, investors, team or our broader these measures into its own mission statement and values as well community, form the bedrock for our success. as its everyday approach to business. For 2017, Investindustrial received an A+ score on PRI’s Private Equity module. Entrepreneurial Ambitious targets coupled with our hands-on, industrially-driven approach reflect our innate entrepreneurial spirit. Respectful Respecting the environment in which we operate Finance and the people who we impact is more than just Initiative being a good corporate citizen but is central to Innovative financing running best-in-class business. for sustainability BAL COM LO THE CT G PA Aston Martin presents the Lagonda Vision Concept, marking the beginning of a new range of state WE SUPPORT of the art, emission-free luxury vehicles. 50 51 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 2017 Portfolio company ESG KPIs Investindustrial’s ESG Evolution In 2017 Investindustrial continued to formalise its ESG efforts Winner of Real Deals Private Equity Award for ESG and was awarded The Environmental and Social Governance Award Investindustrial has a long history in addressing ESG issues starting in 2000 with the establishment of its corporate at the Real Deals Private Equity Awards. foundation Invest for children and then more actively from 2008 onwards. Throughout 2017 the ESG Team continued to support the portfolio companies with the publication of their sustainability reports 2016 (resulting in 10 of the 12 companies producing a report), providing Establishment of Investindustrial Foundation industry research and analysis via the benchmark mapping exercise, organising an ESG Summit and assisting in the finalising of KPIs. First Annual ESG Summit Portfolio company ESG Additionally, Investindustrial was recognised for its contribution benchmarking analysis and pioneering work in the ESG space at The Private Equity 2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT p.1 Annual Report Corporate Responsibility Awards held in London. 2015 THEME PARK First portfolio company carbon 2015 HOTELS WATER PARK footprint assessment GOLF BEACH CLUB Expanding to new horizons Corporate Social Responsibility Report CONVENTION CENTRE Carbon Neutral Policy Dedicated ESG Team Best-Practice KPI Setting AnnuAl RepoRt 2015 As a continuum of the desk based and onsite benchmark mapping S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT AT 31 D E C E M B E R 2 0 1 5 2015 Majority of portfolio companies produce analysis conducted by the ESG Team in recent years, the focus stand-alone sustainability reports in 2017 was turned to working with the portfolio companies and helping them to finalise their medium-long term KPIs. Andrea C. Bonomi and the Investindustrial ESG team accepting the Private Equity Each portfolio company created its objectives per pillar (environAwards ESG award for which 2013-14 First stand-alone sustainability mental, social and governance) that were impactful to their businesses eight firms were shortlisted. report by a portfolio company whilst also being mindful of the broader Investindustrial goals. Below is an example of some portfolio companies’ short and medium-term KPIs. Incorporation of sistematic ESG DD 2011 in the investment process Portfolio Company ESG Sector Material ESG Objective Year to opportunity/ reach objective issue identified 2010 Introduction of the CSR Toolkit and first portfolio company with a dedicated Environment Eco-sustainability Implementation of a project to eliminate chemical 2019 product treatments for making fabrics used in the water-resistant ESG section outdoor sector. Targets for 2019: 100% of fabrics’ codes and meters. Environment Carbon emissions Source 100% of all electricity used by AML, from 2018 renewable sources. Investindustrial subscribes to the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) 2009 Investindustrial becomes a carbon neutral company Social Professional 25% increase of training expenditures (base year: 2015) for 2019 development Flos S.p.A. Total training hours in 2015: 606 Total training expenditures in 2015: 42.020 € (including cost BAL COM of personnel trained and cost of training courses). LO THE CT G PA Investindustrial signs the UN Global Compact Social Philanthropy Launch PortAventura Dreams project in 2017. Providing 2018 WE SUPPORT 1st Annual Review and Sustainability Report cost-free vacations to children with life-threatening illnesses and their families. 2008 Introduction of external ESG consultants in the pre-investment DD stage Appointment of ESG Officer Governance ESG Policy Definition and implementation of Artsana Group’s ESG 2018 policy, based on the material issues identified by the Group. Disclosure of ESG activity on the company website Governance Human Rights Ensure UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights 2019 are embedded in our policies, procedures and culture. Comply with all compulsory reporting requirements as a 52 minimum. 53 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Annual ESG Summit ESG Data collection In September 2017 Investindustrial held its annual ESG Summit For the year ending 2017, Investindustrial and its active portfolio companies2 (Benvic and OKA were not considered active portfolio at the Investindustrial offices in Lugano. In attendance were companies for ESG purposes in 2017) reported on key ESG metrics such as greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, energy consumption, the ESG representatives from all of the portfolio companies, diversity and other pressing environmental, social and governance issues. Similar to last year, for the GHG emissions assessment, Investindustrial’s ESG and legal and compliance teams as well as Investindustrial and its portfolio companies used a methodology that was in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and most of half of the Investindustrial senior management team. the portfolio companies, in addition to Investindustrial, worked with external ESG consultants to collect and assess the data. As with each year, the Summit provides a forum for the ESG The data presented in the table at the end of the Responsible Investment section provides a transparent and accurate status on representatives to exchange ideas and best practices as well as for the total portfolio’s ESG efforts. This data is presented by company, with the aggregated data for key metrics provided on the relevant Investindustrial management to share the Firm’s broader ESG ESG introductory pages. objectives. Topics of focus were finalising KPIs, cyber-security and renewable Investindustrial KPls energy. The Artsana team presented their approach on developing their in-house sustainability program and PortAventura presented In addition to the ESG metrics published at the end of this section, Investindustrial also shares its medium-long term KPIs in the chart their efforts in green energy. below which fully reflect the Firm’s mission statement and are supported at both a Firm and portfolio company level as well as through the corporate foundations. Material ESG Reference Objective Year to Status Legal and Compliance workshop opportunity KPI reach Origin and scope of the 2015 Carbon at the 2017 ESG Summit. issue identified objective Footprint calculation GHG Emissions Carbon neutrality at an Investindustrial level1. 2009 Achieved 3% 2% _ Consumption of electricity (scope 2) 7% _ Treatment of municipal wastes (scope 3) GHG Emissions Carbon neutrality for the Sponsor shareholding of the active 2015 Achieved 9% _ Consumption of potable water portfolio companies2 in the portfolio. _ Combustion of gas fossil fuels (ACS/heating 11% _ boilers) (scope 1) Emissions coming from transportation GHG Emissions Carbon neutrality through a proprietary carbon capture/ a) 2017 Under review due to a delay in hiring displacement project at an Investindustrial, Sponsor and Fund Investindustrial’s Head of Sustainability b) 2027 of own fleet and fuel combustion (scope 1) _ Fugitive emissions of fluorinated gases level executed according to the below steps and timeline, and who starts June 2018. The KPI should from refrigeration equipment (scope 1) certification of carbon capture/ displacement into carbon credits be met for 2018. 68% as soon as feasibly possible: a) Definition and implementation of project strategy (2017) 2015 Environment b) Carbon neutrality via the project’s production of carbon capture Total annual greenhouse gas emissions expressed as equivalent tonnes of CO2 16,350 or displacement (2027) In 2015, 68% of equivalent tonnes of CO2 generated came from the consumption of electricity Renewable Reduction of electricity consumption for Investindustrial and its 2018 In progress energy active portfolio companies2 by replacing 50% of their electricity requirements with renewable energy by 2018, 75% by 2020, and 2020 100% by 2025. 2025 Portfolio company ESG representatives Energy Creation of KPIs, for active portfolio companies2, that are 2017 Partly achieved with 81% of active consumption challenging, yet achievable, and address the reduction of energy portfolio companies2 creating KPIs and the Investindustrial ESG and consumption. Specific targets to be set at a company level. addressing energy consumption Legal and Compliance teams at the Lugano reduction. office for the 2017 ESG Summit. Reporting Investindustrial and the majority of its active portfolio companies2 to: a) 2015 a) Achieved a) publish a CSR report; b) assess and report their GHG emissions. b) 2016 b) Achieved Reporting Investindustrial and all of its active portfolio companies2 to: a) 2017 a) Partly achieved with 83% of active a) publish a CSR report; portfolio companies(2) and Investindustrial b) assess and report their GHG emissions. b) 2017 completing a CSR report. b) Partly achieved with 92% of active portfolio companies(2) and Investindustrial Governance assessing and reporting their GHG emissions.’ Diversity Increase the number of women on the board of all Investindustrial 2020 In progress entities and active portfolio companies2 to 33% (base year 2016 for the entire portfolio is 19%). Governance Establish an Environmental Policy, Diversity Policy and a Corporate 2018 In progress Policies Governance Policy for Investindustrial and all of its active portfolio companies2. Sustainable Increase the number of differently-abled young people placed into 2012 Achieved Philanthropy the ordinary workplace year-on-year by 5%. Sustainable Sponsor the advancement of ESG measurement and accountability 2017 Achieved Social Philanthropy via collaboration with academia and industry specialists. Employee Increase training opportunities and time dedicated to professional 2019 In Progress Training development including staff rotation between offices and company sponsored higher learning (university lectures, MBA,…). 1 Investindustrial includes Investindustrial Private Equity, StrategicCapital and Thalia. The Private Equity firm has been carbon neutral since 2009 and StrategicCapital since its inception in 2014. Thalia was acquired at the end of 2013 and became carbon neutral from 2015. 54 2 Active portfolio companies is defined as those companies that have been in the portfolio for at least half of the stated year and are still active at the end of the year. 55 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 At the core of Investindustrial’s conviction in ESG issues is the need to reduce carbon emissions, which has societal benefit and commercial value. Investindustrial, carbon neutral since 2009, ENVIRONMENT aims to take a fresh approach to reducing carbon emissions by pursuing innovative and bold measures. Investindustrial continues its focus on data capture and has The below pie charts reflect the data captured for each portfolio worked with the portfolio companies to improve their ESG company and Investindustrial in aggregate for the year ending In 2016, Investindustrial created a Carbon Neutral Policy that Whilst Investindustrial’s primary goal is carbon reduction and assessments and to help them to better understand how they 2017(1) and the following pages feature those environmental provides guidelines to improve the carbon footprint of its ultimately carbon neutrality, this is not always immediately perform on key environmental issues. issues most relevant to the portfolio companies. portfolio companies. Investindustrial believes that by taking possible. As such Investindustrial is in the process of developing the first step in measuring its carbon footprint, the investee carbon reduction projects to offset GHG emissions in order companies are now furnished with vital information that to achieve carbon neutrality at an investment programme level. Carbon Footprint (2) will allow them to act on crucial carbon emissions issues and tCO2e reduction opportunities via carefully structured KPIs, as Investindustrial has done for itself. 538,962 tCO2e Flos Sergio Rossi LY’s tCO2e 594,428 0.8% 0.3% Portfolio B&B Italia Snaitech Investindustrial Company A PortAventura provides its portfolio 1.0% 0.8% Perfume Holding companies with carbon footprint guidelines. 1.4% 0.1% Investindustrial 100% Portfolio companies Portfolio Investindustrial uses Emeru 0.1% of portfolio companies Company B certified projects have dedicated ESG provide Investindustrial with the relevant data (both proprietary and existing) to off-set 2.5% Representatives on their GHG emissions its carbon footprint at an investment Portfolio programme level. Company C Aston Martin Investindustrial 5.2% Polynt-Reichhold 91% calculates the carbon 82.3% of portfolio companies footprint of the Firm and all the portfolio Portfolio Artsana have Risk Management companies and develops Company ... Systems in place its own offset strategy. 5.4% Electricity Consumption (3) Water Consumption (4) Total Waste (5) kWh m3 t Investindustrial supports the UN Sustainable Development Goals 365,941,160 kWh 17,910,787 m3 71,563 t B&B Italia B&B Italia Flos Artsana B&B Italia Given the size and variable nature of the portfolio, Investindustrial a project to meet 100% or more of its offsetting needs in the Snaitech 1.7% Sergio Rossi 0.5% 1.2% 0.8% seeks an innovative solution to carbon offsetting that is sustainable, long-term. In the interim, Investindustrial will continue to invest in 0.9% 0.3% Perfume flexible and most effective over time. After careful consideration established and reputable global carbon reduction programmes 2.4% Flos Snaitech Aston Martin Holding Valtur Aston Martin of multiple options Investindustrial decided that, not dissimilar to to meet its offset requirements; however, as Investindustrial’s own 0.7% 2.8% 2.6% 0.3% Emeru its portfolio investments, it should be both owner and manager of project matures, there will be less and less reliance on external 3.8% Valtur 0.2% Artsana Emeru 0.3% Perfume Holding 3.4% Sergio Rossi 0.1% the initiative and will work with experienced practitioners to develop offsetting. Aston Martin 5.0% 6.3% 0.2% 0.1% Sergio Rossi PortAventura 0.1% PortAventura 5.5% SHORT to MEDIUM to Artsana 6.8% MEDIUM LONG 7.1% Polynt-Reichhold Snaitech Polynt-Reichhold TERM : Offsetting TERM : Offsetting PortAventura 65.1% Polynt-Reichhold 11.7% 72.7% 11.4% 85.9% via established, via proprietary GLOBAL CARBON CARBON reduction (1) Data figures reflected for Valtur are as of year ending 2016.. reduction programmes programmes (2) (3) GHG emissions data was not available for Valtur. Electricity consumption data for Investindustrial is not reflected as it is insignificant when considered on an aggregate basis. Also, 100% of PortAventura’s electricity consumption is supplied via renewable energy. (4) Water consumption data not available for Flos and is insignificant for Emeru, Investindustrial and Perfume Holding when considered on an aggregate basis. (5) Waste data not available for Valtur and is insignificant for Investindustrial when considered on an aggregate basis. 56 57 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Carbon Emissions Reduction Renewable Energy Carbon emissions reduction for all operational sites has been Emeru Spain also established new communication channels PortAventura seeks to improve its environmental impact by to the parks has resulted in more activity and consequently an aim of Emeru over the past few years with company wide to spread environmental commitment and practices to their managing its energy consumption and, where possible, using a higher number of vehicles circulating around the resort. targets and the implementation of mitigation measures in employees and suppliers, and launched internal campaigns renewable energy. The company aims to be a Smart Resort, based As such, this project is targeted at the company’s different order to optimise the efficient use of natural resources and fuel focused on the rational use of electricity consumption at all on the Smart City concept, by implementing various strategies stakeholders. consumption. sites. and smart control systems to improve its energy efficiency as well as to minimise greenhouse gas gmissions (this is in accordance Employees: Emeru uses environmental criteria when renewing a large part In addition to screening suppliers according to environmental with the principles of the Global Compact and commitment to SDG Implementation of a digital platform to arrange carpooling of their Urgent Medical Transport Vehicles including important criteria and supporting employee education, Emeru has also 13 on climate action). Actions of particular note are: to work. features such as: roofs with aerodynamic foam (reduces fuel developed a circular economic strategy by selling-on their Availability of electric vehicles for staff to use within the consumption); LED lighting for vehicles; interiors made of vehicles once they have reached the internal 10 year cut-off, Use of an energy management system: located in its resort. recyclable materials; adjustable sound amplification system to thereby giving the vehicles a second useful life. operation control centre, to monitor, control, and optimise Visitors: electric vehicle charging points in the parking area, adapt the vehicle’s siren to different times and zones; systems the use of solar energy according to the season. In the convention centre and Hotel PortAventura for use by to reduce nitrogen oxides contained in exhaust fumes. theme park, this centre has more than 2,500 automatic on/ park visitors. They also continuously work to increase the percentage of off controls, which operate the retail and food and beverage Provision of electricity for clients’ electric vehicles free Euro6 vehicles owned for a more eco-friendly fleet. business units. of charge. Contracting of a green energy supply that is free from Suppliers: CO2 emissions: 100% of the electricity is supplied by energy marked as of renewable origin (GoO = Guarantee of Promoting the use of electric vehicles by positively Origin) which is an instrument used to certify the quantity evaluating in the tenders the use of electric vehicles to of electricity produced from renewable sources or by highcarry out services at the resort. Vehicle from Emeru’s Euro6 eco-fleet with aerodynamic roof and light panel design. efficiency cogeneration in any part of the country. Provision of electricity for suppliers’ electric vehicles free of charge. Sustainable mobility project: the growth of the resort with new hotels, the convention centre and the increase in visitors The project includes a five year term investment that covers number, type and place to install the electric charging points in the resort. The project includes also an on-grid solar charging station for visitors. Free of charge electric charging station, part of PortAventura’s sustainable mobility project. 58 59 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SOCIAL Customer Satisfaction Leaving a positive mark on the communities in which the Community and customer focused initiatives at Investindustrial During 2017, Sergio Rossi’s EMEA & Worldwide Retail Function thus reconfirming the client-centric approach. This enables Firm operates is integral to Investindustrial’s strategy and is and its portfolio companies are featured below and on the carried out the development of “Retail Excellence”, a project aimed customers to buy Sergio Rossi products where most convenient highlighted in the Firm’s Mission Statement. following pages. at turning the shopping occasion into a client-tailored moment whether in the physical store, Sergio Rossi’s online e-commerce and at creating an emotional and exclusive bond with each client. platform or other leading international fashion e-tailers. The key starting point of the project was the implementation of the srAcademy and the Sergio Rossi Selling Ceremony workshop To truly personalise the shopping experience, customers have the Headcount (1) Employee Training Hours (1) (2) week, conducted in Milan, Paris, London and Hong Kong. opportunity to enjoy #yourownsergiorossi, a service enabling Employees Hours them to create their own sr1 model by selecting materials, colours, The aim of the srAcademy is twofold: the first one is that of training accessories, sizes and initials which they can receive within just 28,424 employees 258,167 hours and coaching the store staff all around the world to create coherence 5-6 weeks. This customisation option is available both online and Flos between production, product, sales and communication. Starting in-store, given the digitalisation strategy in-store with touchscreens Flos Sergio Rossi from the Selling Ceremony workshop, the sales teams learn how to providing product information and access to iPads. 1% 2% 2% Valtur interpret client needs and to create trust with the customer. B&B Italia 1% B&B Italia They also study how to adapt to different requests and situations In June 2017 Sergio Rossi introduced a new service called Client 2% Perfume Holding Snaitech 1% in a proactive manner and how to use their product knowledge Service Management (CSM) where customers can contact Sergio Valtur 3% Sergio Rossi in the most personalised way possible to create Moments of Wonder Rossi for any information or assistance they might need, spanning 2% 1% for the clients. from requests on products to suggestions to further improve their 1% Goldcar overall Sergio Rossi experience. Snaitech Emeru 5% Aston Martin The second aim of srAcademy is to convey and spread among the 3% 32% 22% retail staff Sergio Rossi’s new omnichannel commercial approach, PortAventura PortAventura 6% 13% Emeru Aston Martin 18% 10% Sergio Rossi shop in Milan with a digital Artsana screen and promotional material for the new #yourownsergiorossiservice. Polynt-Reichhold 18% 12% Artsana Polynt-Reichhold 28% 18% 91% 92% of companies of the companies have a Workers pursue charitable Council giving (1) Numbers relate to aggregate employees of portfolio companies held by investment companies indirectly participated in by funds managed by Investindustrial, in addition to individuals directly employed by Investindustrial and its affiliates. (2) Valtur figures are as of year ending 2016. 60 61 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Ethics and Community GOVERNANCE Artsana believes in creating long-lasting supplier relationships, All Artsana suppliers undergo an assessment according to Investindustrial uses the below governance points to monitor based on trust and collaboration and with this, their suppliers Artsana conduct rules following the ILO convention on the engagement and progress of its portfolio companies are required to adhere to Artsana’s Code of Ethics, both to Human Rights. In particular, Artsana recognises International in effort to minimise downside risks and improve growth. build a positive business relationship and to demonstrate their ethical manufacturing schemes (ICTI, BSCI, SEDEX, SA8000) corporate responsibility. on specific product categories or audit reports issued by recognised international auditing companies. In addition, as a demonstration of their continuous effort to ensure a responsible supply chain management, Artsana In terms of community and giving back, Artsana has donated Aggregate Portfolio Company Data endorses the Bangladesh Accord (www.bangladeshaccord.org), more than €530,000 through the Mission Bambini Foundation which was established in 2013, and the International Council to screen and treat children with congenital heart disease CODE HEALTH ANTI-CORRUPTION of Toy Industries (ICTI) association (www.toy-icti.org), two in developing countries. To date, the program has provided multi-stakeholder and collaborative initiatives established for 861 hours of training to local doctors, has screened 7,074 OF CONDUCT & SAFETY POLICY POLICY the Apparel and Toys industries respectively. children and has operated and saved 245 children with serious heart conditions. 100% 100% 100% CSR CORPORATE ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT GOVERNANCE POLICY POLICY 83% 75% 67% WASTE MANAGEMENT EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE DIVERSITY POLICY MEMBER IN CHARGE POLICY OF CSR 67% 50% 50% 62 63 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Sustainability Strategy Investindustrial Governance As a producer of luxury products, Aston Martin Lagonda takes a This is achieved through four sustainability strategic goals: Investindustrial’s multi-layered an entity regulated and or holding company board responsible approach to sustainability. In the past this has been approach to governance aims supervised by the Financial of directors in an autonomous done in an ad-hoc and siloed manner, generating improvements Environment – Integrating environmentally sustainable at a stringent segregation Conduct Authority in the and independent manner, across the business, but with little opportunity for individual culture and practices across the value chain. and allocation of roles United Kingdom pursuant consistent with the applicable departments to share best practice and effect wider societal and responsibilities among to the EU Alternative corporate governance rules benefit. Social – Ensuring Aston Martin Lagonda is a socially advisory teams, general Investment Fund Manager and by-laws. responsible company. partners and investment Directive and has in place It is the responsibility of In 2017 the company took steps to assess where it could make managers of the funds, arrangements to deal the management of each further improvement and drive effective change within the Employer of Choice – Ensuring the company is a great place investment and holding appropriately with conflicts portfolio company to operate organisation. This analysis culminated in the development of a to work and is able to attract the best talent. companies and, ultimately, of interest. the company on a day-to-day detailed Sustainability Strategy, which aims to ‘deliver stakeholder management of each portfolio Investments and divestments basis and implement rigorous value through ethical and sustainable excellence, creating long Governance – Ensuring the company has the correct process company. are made (and shares in compliance system and term competitive advantage. and procedures in place to drive sustainability throughout portfolio companies are held) procedure. the business. The general partners and by the applicable investment investment managers manage or holding company of each Investindustrial expects that This strategy defines the corporate philosophy and ensures that each of the funds in the fund. portfolio companies apply sustainability becomes an integral part of day to day business, interest of the respective a rigorous and conservative rather than simply the right thing to do. limited partners and therefore Decisions over investments approach to Corporate in an autonomous and and divestments, including Governance based on clear independent manner from the exercise of the voting roles and with full accountability. other funds and portfolio rights over the shares of the companies. The investment portfolio companies, are made manager of the funds is by the applicable investment Sustainability Mission Corporate Governance Model Deliver stakeholder value through ethical and sustainable excellence, creating a long term competitive advantage Limited Partners Possible Co-investors Sustainability Strategic Goals General Partner / Investment / Portfolio Fund Investment Manager Holding Company Company Fund management Funding of the applicable Investment / divestment decisions Day-to-day management Environment Social Employer Governance investment / holding Responsibility to of choice company comply with laws and regulations Integrate environmentally Ensuring AML is a socially Ensuring AML is a great Ensuring AML has the correct sustainable culture and practices responsible company place to work and able to attract processes in place to drive across the value chain the very best talent Sustainability throughout the business Carbon Emissions Employee Relations Recycling Attracting Top Talent Training and Development Water Consumption Creat Place to Work Compliant with; Industrial Advisory Board Advisory Companies and Teams Waste Management Human Rights and Industrial Advisors Modern Slavery etc Business development, investor relations, Industry expert views and opinions investment scouting, monitoring and on strategy and business plans operational advice, due diligence support Linked to Plus Alpha work streams and Aston Martin Way 64 65 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Portfolio ESG Data Reporting Below is the ESG Data collected for Investindustrial and its portfolio companies. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 GHG emissions (tons) Scope 1 21 151 13,201 1,145 5,677 7,331 751 2,990 280 – 8,734 437,593 Scope 2 69 254 198 2,936 8,045 1,172 2,296 1,275 – 11,223 Scope 3 432 54 109 142 1,729 12,091 2,423 239 201 – 16,199 – Total GHG emissions (tons) 522 459 13,508 4,223 7,406 27,467 4,346 5,525 1,756 n/a 36,156 437,593 ENVIRONMENT Electricity Consumption (Kwh) 69 678,337 1,046,397 8,728,648 41,186,063 22,884,682 2,568,603 6,126,156 3,399,480 13,796,279 30,825,156 234,701,290 Energy Consumption met via 2% 0% 1% 37% 82% 0% 0% 0% 11% 0% 0% 0% Renewable Energy (%) Water Consumption (m3) 7,7 5,772 7,506 504,437 1,212,648 36,500 n/a 55,124 13,833 600,400 101,809 15,372,750 Total Waste (tons) 31 208 93 8,265 3,889 1,865 555 850 42 n/a 4,415 51,351 Total Waste to Recycling or Reuse n/a 60% 20% 99% 89% 43% 56% 68% 52% n/a 85% 9% (% of total Waste) Current Risk Management Systems and n/a Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No Yes Yes Yes Procedures (Yes/No) Environmental Manager on staff n/a Yes Yes No Yes Yes No No No No No Yes (Yes/No) Male % 62% 27% 73% 52% 34% 86% 59% 66% 28% 56% 27% 84% Female % 38% 73% 27% 48% 66% 14% 41% 34% 72% 44% 73% 16% Total Employees 101 191 9,222 848 1,620 2,767 609 618 491 696 7,931 3,330 SOCIAL Employee Training (hours) 650 587 45,924 11,682 32,231 57,125 3,260 1,461 3,018 8,772 48,661 44,797 Abenteeism (%) 13 1.0% 2.6% 6.8% 3.8% 3.2% 1.1% 3.4% 3.5% 5.4% n/a 3.6% 4.9% Voluntary Turnover14 (%) 8.9% 5.6% 2.1% 17% 15.5% 13.0% 7.2% 5.3% 6.3% 1.0% 15.9% 3.7% Workers Council (Yes/No) n/a Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No Yes Yes Philanthropy (Yes/No) Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No Yes Yes Code of Conduct/Ethics (Yes/No) Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Diversity Policy (Yes/No) No Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No No Yes No No No Female Board Members (%) 20% 29% 0% 36% 0% 0% 11% 0% 0% 57% 11% 0% GOVERNANCE Health and Safety Policy (Yes/No) Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Environmental Policy (Yes/No) Yes Yes Yes No Yes Yes No Yes No No Yes Yes Waste Management Policy (Yes/No) No Yes Yes No Yes Yes No Yes No Yes Yes Yes Executive Committee Member Yes Yes Yes No No Yes No No Yes No Yes No in Charge of CSR (Yes/No) Anti-corruption Policy (Yes/No) Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Corporate Governance Policy (Yes/No) Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No No No Yes Yes CSR Report (Yes/No) Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No Yes No 1 Investindustrial: GHG emissions figure includes the following by scope: Scope 1: refrigerant gas losses and company vehicles; Scope 2: electricity consumption; to energy plant; Scope 3: business travels by air and train, logistics of purchased goods and logistic of sold products. Reported figures are based on Flos, Antares and Ares Scope 3: water, waste, staff commuting and business travel. with ‘Total Employees’ reflecting all operations. 2 Perfume Holding: GHG emissions figure includes the following by scope: Scope 1: gas for heating the workplaces; Scope 2: electricity consumption; Scope 3: company fleet 8 B&B Italia: GHG emissions figure includes the following by scope: Scope 1: fuel consumption for heating and other uses (natural gas, wood offcuts, gasoline, BTZ) and the diesel emissions. Reported figures are based on Morris Profumi Spa with the exception of ‘Total Employees’ which is for the Perfume Holding Group. consumption related to the car fleet; Scope 2: electricity consumption; Scope 3: business travel. Reported figures are based on B&B Italia S.p.A., Arclinea and the French affiliates. 3 Emeru: GHG emissions figure includes the following by scope: Scope 1: gas, fuels used for ambulance fleet, fugitive emissions air conditionng systems; Scope 2: electricity 9 Sergio Rossi: GHG emissions figure includes the following by scope: Scope 1: fuels used for heating and other purposes, fuels used for the Company’s car fleet (including consumption; Scope 3: water, paper and chemical products consumption as well as waste generation. Reported figures are based on Emeru Spain with the exception of long term leasing), refilling of air conditioning systems; Scope 2: electricity consumption; Scope 3: business travel. Data reflects Sergio Rossi S.p.a. (San Mauro Pascoli ‘Total Employees’ which also reflects Emeru UK + the Ambuiberica Group (gender breakdown still reflects Emeru Spain only). headquarter and Milan offices) as well as EMEA Direct Retail Network whilst the ‘Total Employee’ figure reflects total employees globally. 4 Snaitech: GHG emissions figure includes the following by scope: Scope 1: methane for heating, gasoline for generators, LPG for heating, diesel for vehicles, gasoline for vehicles; 10 Valtur: 2017 data was not available, as such, the reported figures are based on year ending 2016 data with the exception of ‘Total Employees’ which reflects year end 2017 Scope 2: electricity consumption; Scope 3: air and train travel for most of the year. Reported figures are based on company entities SNAITECH + SNAI Rete Italia + Trenno (gender split still remains based on 2016). and scope 3 figures have not been certified. 11 Artsana: GHG emissions figure includes the following by scope: Scope 1: fuels used for heating and other purposes, fuels used for Company’s car fleet (including long term 5 PortAventura: GHG emissions figure includes the following by scope: Scope 1: transport of own fleet and the combustion of fossil fuels (ACS/heating boilers), fugitive emissions leasing), refilling of air conditioning systems; Scope 2: electricity consumption; Scope 3: business travel as well as inbound and outbound transportation of products. of fluorinated gases from refrigeration equipment; Scope 2: electricity sourced from renewable energy; Scope 3: treatment of municipal waste and consumption of drinking Data, including gender split, reflects babycare area and includes commercial & production sites (Italy, Romania), commercial subsidiaries in Spain, Portugal, France, USA water. ‘Total Employees’ reflects FTE employees whereas the gender split is based on the annual average employees.’ and also the Artsana headquarters and Italian owned shops. ‘Total Employees’ is at a Group level. 6 Aston Martin: GHG emissions figure includes the following by scope: Scope 1: Gas consumed for all sites, diesel usage for delivery of product and production parts, assembly/ 12 Polynt-Reichhold: GHG emissions figure includes the following by scope: Scope 1: emissions generated by the production processes. Data reflects Polynt EMEA whilst ‘Total Employees’ engineering petrol usage; Scope 2: energy consumption; Scope 3: employee commuting (personal car mileage, management car mileage, air travel). ‘Total Employees’ reflects reflects the global operation for both Polynt and Reichhold. permanent employees + contractors whereas the gender split is based on permanant employees only. 13 The absenteeism rates are calculated as the total days lost due to sickness over the number of total working days for the workforce (this will vary from company to company 7 Flos: GHG emissions figure includes the following by scope: Scope 1: fuels used for Company’s car fleet (including long term leasing), fuels used for Company’s truck fleet, 66 refilling of air conditioning systems, fuels used for heating and production processes; Scope 2: electricity purchased from national grid, district heating purchased from a waste 14 depending on holiday policies, etc). Voluntary turnover is calculated as the number of departures for the year over the end of year employee headcount or in some cases the peak employee headcount. 67 Our Foundations // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR UN World Down Syndrome Day The Aura Foundation was invited to participate at the United Nations World Down Syndrome Day in New York City. FOUNDATIONS Investindustrial’s long history of engaging in ESG issues began The Investindustrial Foundation is primarily focused in 2000 when the Firm established its corporate foundation, on the promotion of education, diversity, environmental Invest for children, whose mission is to help differently-abled protection and conservation, and the promotion of arts, people and underprivileged children achieve a better quality culture, heritage and science. of life. Annual end of year prize giving dinner for Aura Foundation with over 160 participants. 68 69 Our Foundations // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Sustainable philanthropy Invest for children operates in Europe In 2016 the Investindustrial Foundation started working with the NYU Stern Center with a special focus on Southern Europe, Urbano Gropello from Invest for children for Sustainable Business (“CSB”) as sponsor to pilot a new methodology in the is a full member of EVPA (European with Frank Sawyer, Board President of GiGi’sPlayhouse NY, in New York City. Venture Philanthropy Association), and automotive industry. In the following article Investindustrial speaks to Elyse Douglas, is audited by KPMG. Senior Research Scholar at CSB, for an overview and update on the project and Elyse Douglas, to see how the CSB team is making an impact in the automotive industry. CSB Senior Research Scholar. Investindustrial believes that financial and industrial investors should have a major role in making the world a better place to live. Invest for children aims to better understand diversity and works Q1. Describe the project. Q3. What are you hoping to achieve? to integrate people of different abilities and challenges into the Business leaders today have to manage for growing environmental We aim to understand the ROI on sustainability investments in the workplace and society, thereby achieving a better quality of living. and social challenges, radical transparency and increasing automotive sector and create a model and set of metrics for auto Over the years Invest for children has positively impacted the lives expectations for positive societal impact by investors, employees, companies to incorporate into their current reporting, in order to of thousands through the projects it sponsors in different fields consumers, and government. This requires sophisticated, enable improved decision-making. To date we have: including sport, work, education, medical and community. Some of sustainability-based management. Yet executives are often reluctant designed and operationalised the methodological framework for these projects are summarised below. to place sustainability at the core of their company’s business assessing the ROI on sustainability for the automotive sector strategy in the belief that the costs outweigh the benefits. documented the key sustainability strategies and benefits for Fortunately, CSB research finds that embedding sustainability Aston Martin, GM and VW based on publicly available in core business strategy drives “mediating factors” such as information and information provided by the company, innovation, employee engagement and retention, risk reduction, interviewed C-suite leaders concerning where they saw financial Invest for children has collaborated with improved operational efficiencies, and increased consumer and value being created by their sustainability strategies, and GiGi’s Playhouse New York since 2013 Urbano Gropello from Invest for children supplier loyalty, which leads to better financial performance. worked with the firms to begin to populate the monetisation and currently helps to fund the Summer with Frank Sawyer, Board President of GiGi’sPlayhouse NY, in New York City. framework. Clubhouse for children and youth. GiGi’s CSB has designed and is piloting a methodology that both Playhouse Down Syndrome Achievement analyses investment in addressing material sustainability factors Over the next six months, we aim to finalize the monetisation Center’s mission is to change the way the world views Down by a company, cross-referenced with key mediating factors (e.g. analysis and provide the firms with recommendations on how they syndrome through national campaigns, educational programs, innovation, risk reduction, operational efficiencies) and also sets can track these factors on an ongoing basis. Once that work is and by empowering individuals with Down syndrome, their The annual charity event SOMOS UNO key metrics for benchmarking and ongoing assessment. completed we will write a business management and scholarly paper families and the community. took place on June 8, 2017 at the RCDE on the results as well as promote the results at relevant conferences. Stadium in Barcelona (Spain) and was The value proposition for participating companies is based on attended by over 1,000 guests. As per previous years, sponsoring improvements in risk management systems, creating better Q4. What is the most valuable lesson learned thus far during companies participated in a football tournament with winners decision-making practices around investments in sustainability, your research? playing against former RCD players. The dinner, which is the main stakeholder engagement (supply chain, employees, regulators C-Suite leaders across divisions recognise that sustainability brings event, was hosted by Spanish actors Santi Millan and Javi Sancho and investors), innovation, operational efficiency and growth them ROI in terms of risk reduction and mitigation, health and and all funds raised went to the work placement project of Aura opportunities, and the company’s ability to respond to potential safety and employee engagement (thoughthey do not generally Fundació as well as research on Alzheimer’s and children’s rare diseases. disclosure requirements. monetisethe benefits), but in general they are less aware of the significant financial opportunities presented by operational Q2. Why did you choose the automotive industry for the focus efficiencies and innovation. of this study? Children at the Summer Clubhouse Road vehicles account for 72% of all GHG emissions for the sponsored by Invest for children. transportation sector globally which itself makes up 14% of all GHG emissions globally1. As such, not only does the automotive industry represent an important industry to understand better given its carbon contribution, but also it provides a meaningful test case for In 2017, Investindustrial started our study as it: working with Team Domenica, an is under pressure to implement strong sustainability targets, The Investindustrial Foundation also supports diversity organisation based in Brighton, has been under siege for the actions of companies such as and education through its involvement in Level20 UK whose aim is to provide employment programmes to young Volkswagen, and (www.level20.org), a not-for-profit organisation formed adults with a wide range of ability. Team Domenica operates its business model is being disrupted by the sharing economy, to inspire women to join and succeed in the private through a unique three-tier set-up of Training Centre, Training electrification, and automation. In addition, its material equity industry, as well as the D Club, an organisation Café (Café Domenica) and Employment Centre. Through this sustainability factors are relatively straightforward. Key issues that aims to increase the visibility of women in finance they have achieved an impressive 33% employment rate, more include waste, energy, critical materials and conflict mineral, and support their development into senior roles. than five times higher than the national (UK) employment fleet efficiency, labor relations, and product safety. statistic (6%) for people with learning disabilities. 70 (1) Source: IPCC Assessment Report: ‘Climate Change 2014: Mitigation of Climate Change’ based on global emissions from 2010. 71 Our Foundations // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Invest for children’s Aura Foundation Project Pioneer in placing differently-abled persons into quality jobs Letizia Navarro employed by Jordi Messeguer being welcomed by Cervesería Catalana. Fernando Sacristán on his first day at Adidas. Since 2012 Aura Foundation has been supported financially and into the working environment. Since 1989 more than 190 young operationally by Invest for children which has enabled them to people have joined the ordinary working world and in 2017, achieve their target of doubling participation in all programmes 23 renewals and 30 new contracts were added. earlier than expected. Also, post year-end, the Aura Foundation was invited to participate The Aura Foundation (www.aurafundacio.org) was established at the United Nations World Down Syndrome Day Conference in October 1989, through the initiative of professionals from for being a pioneer in the use of the Employment with Support the area of integration education. Aura Foundation is the Methodology in Europe. The World Down Syndrome Day first programme of Supported Employment, a pioneer in the Conference is held every year at the headquarters of the United implementation and development of this methodology. Nations, and the subject for 2018 was, “What I bring to the workplace?“. This conference brought together a diverse group The aim of this programme is to integrate people with special of people both globally and from different backgrounds such as needs, mostly with Down’s syndrome, to the ordinary labour those with down syndrome, employers, experts in work placement market via the Supported Employment methodology. inclusion of people with learning difficulties, government workers and UN workers. To date, over 120 leading companies have joined Aura Foundation’s initiative to facilitate the integration of differently-abled people Aura Foundation is audited by KPMG on an annual basis. Beth Viñas going to Oscar with Mirko Scaletti, work at IESE. Manager of Panasonic Spain. Participating Companies Contracts signed By Year CAGR 12% Invest for children assumed 303 management 274 CAGR 247 8% 214 190 169 156 146 134 126 117 108 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 72 73 Summary Group Information // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Sales (€ M) By Sector Variance SUMMARY GROUP 2016 2017 €m % Business Services 1,012 1,206 194 19% Consumer Retail and Leisure 2,554 3,678 1,129 44% INFORMATION (1) Industrial Manufacturing Total 1,368 4,934 2,152 7,037 784 2,103 57% 43% EBITDA (€ M) By Sector Variance 2016 2017 €m % Business Services 142 170 28 20% Consumer Retail and Leisure 420 553 133 32% Industrial Manufacturing 161 217 56 35% During 2017, group sales increased by 43% and EBITDA by 30% with Total 723 940 217 30% a positive contribution across all industry platforms. Net Debt Ratios Variance This growth has been driven by a combination of organic expansion 2016 2017 X % and follow-ons/mergers events. Senior Debt/EBITDA Mezzanine/EBITDA 3.2x 3.0x -0.2x -6% 0.2x 0.1x -0.1x -54% The overall financial position of the group has improved with an overall Employees (nr.) debt / EBITDA ratio at 3.0x. By Sector Variance 2016 2017 Employees % Total number of employees increased by 59% reaching approximately Business Services Consumer Retail and Leisure 4,245 11,432 10,070 15,162 5,825 3,730 137% 33% 28,800 people. Industrial Manufacturing 2,382 3550 1,168 49% Total 18,059 28,782 10,723 59% During 2017 Investindustrial and its portfolio companies assessed for GHG Emissions (tCO2e) the second time their carbon footprint, estimating total GHG emissions for By Scope Variance approximately 538k tCO2e, an 9% decrease compared to prior year. 2016 2017 €m % Scope 1 452,131 477,874 25,743 6% Scope 2 26,465 27,469 1,004 4% Scope 3 115,832 33,619 82,213 -71% Total 594,428 538,962 55,466 -9% (1) Aggregate numbers considering 100% of the companies present in the portfolio at the end of 2017. Investindustrial’s funds typically own a majority position. Some iconic products from the recent investment Louis Poulsen. 74 75 Summary Group Information // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Our investors While Investindustrial itself is the single largest provider across business cycles by focusing on long-term value creation, of capital, approximately fifty institutional investors from around an approach shared by our high quality investor base. the world form the capital and client base of the Group. The strong support our investors have shown us throughout During the first quarter of 2017, Investindustrial finalised the the recent recession has started to be rewarded as the impact of raising of its Fund IV Build-Up for approximately €0.9 billion. the European recovery feeds through into portfolio companies and as attractive new opportunities emerge from the investment Investindustrial ended the year with approximately €1.9 billion landscape. of capital available in addition to the capabilities of its Furthermore, this support now places us in a privileged position co-investment partners. The Firm’s objective is to remain active to take advantage of restored M&A activity in the region. Breakdown of Investors (%) Banks/ Insurances/ Middle East Other and Asia Financials Pension Funds/ Governments 5% 16% 35% Europe 54% Funds North of Funds America Endowments/ 19% Foundations/ 41% Family Offices 31% Emeru staff in operation. Approximately two thirds of the capital that Investindustrial manages is on behalf of pension funds and universities, benefitting workers and students across the world. The PH Artichocke an iconic product of the high-end design brand Louis Poulsen. An agreement to acquire the company has been signed by a subsidiary of Investindustrial post year-end. 76 77 The partially post-consumer recycled paper used for printing this document has resulted in CO2 emissions of approximately 3.2 tonnes. Since 2009 Investindustrial reviewed its overall carbon footprint and invested in renewable energy projects to offset the emissions and achieve carbon neutrality. FOR MORE INFORMATION PLEASE CONTACT US AT info@Investindustrial.com www.investindustrial.com www.investindustrial.com
