2017 Sustainability Report Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. Report Profile Every year since 2008, Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. ( Huawei , the company , or we ) has voluntarily released sustainability reports and disclosed our sustainability performance so that the public can better understand the strategy, approach, and implementation of our sustainability efforts. Doing so helps us be more sustainable and facilitates communication, awareness, and interaction with our stakeholders and the public. This report covers all entities that Huawei either has control of, or a significant influence over, in terms of financial and operational policies. The scope of the entities covered in this report is consistent with the scope of organizations discussed in the 2017 Huawei Annual Report. Unless otherwise specified, this report describes the economic, environmental, and social performance of Huawei and its subsidiaries worldwide during the January 1, 2017 to December 31, 2017 reporting period. All data contained herein is derived from Huawei's official 2017 Sustainability Report documents and statistical reports. Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. This report is prepared in accordance with the Core Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Corporate Profile Guidelines. Huawei engaged Bureau Veritas, an external assurance provider, to verify the reliability, fairness, and Huawei is a leading global provider of information and transparency of this report and to issue an independent communications technology (ICT) infrastructure and assurance statement (see Appendix IV). smart devices. With integrated solutions across four key As an independent record of sustainability, this report is domains – telecom networks, information technology (IT), published online and in print in both Chinese and English in smart devices, and cloud services – we are committed to June 2018. (The report for 2016 was published in June bringing digital to every person, home and organization 2017.) The 2017 Sustainability Report can be viewed at for a fully connected, intelligent world. www.huawei.com. Huawei's end-to-end portfolio of products, solutions For any report-related questions or suggestions, please and services are both competitive and secure. Through contact: Tel: +86 (0)755 2878 0808 open collaboration with ecosystem partners, we create lasting value for our customers, working to empower E-mail: sustainability@huawei.com people, enrich home life, and inspire innovation in organizations of all shapes and sizes. At Huawei, innovation focuses on customer needs. We invest heavily in basic research, concentrating on technological breakthroughs that drive the world forward. We have more than 180,000 employees, and we operate in more than 170 countries and regions. Founded in 1987, Huawei is a private company fully owned by its employees. (For more information, refer to the Huawei 2017 Annual Report) CONTENT A Message from Our Chairman 03 A Message from the Chairman of the Corporate Sustainable Development Committee 04 Overview of Huawei's Sustainability Initiatives in 2017 06 01 02 Sustainability Management Sustainable Products and Services Sustainability Management 11 Green Products and Services 23 Business Ethics and Integrity 15 Circular Economy 27 Stakeholder Engagement 16 Driving Sustainability Through 29 Innovation Cyber Security and Privacy 32 Protection 03 04 Sustainable Operations A Sustainable World Caring for Employees 37 Bridging the Digital Divide 55 Safe Operations 41 Supporting Stable Network 63 Operations Green Operations 44 Supporting Local Communities 65 Sustainable Supply Chain 48 Appendix I: Sustainability Goals and Progress 69 Appendix II: GRI Standards 70 Appendix III: Terms and Abbreviations 76 Appendix IV: Assurance Statement 77 Sustainability Management 01 02 A Message from Our Chairman enterprises globally have access to broadband faster than 10 Mbps. This makes it hard for businesses to go digital and move to the cloud. Huawei is working hard to bridge the digital divide and is driving the digital transformation of industries and society. We are a leader in ICT, and our products and solutions are widely deployed across more than 170 countries and regions, connecting over one-third of the world's population. A better, more intelligent world awaits us on the other side of these efforts. Future sustainable development will be inseparable from digital and intelligent technologies. Huawei is dedicated to acting as a bridge, helping to bridge the digital and intelligent worlds. We are the fertile soil in which everything and everyone can connect and thrive. By gaining access to the digital world, people can learn new things, seize opportunities, and maximize personal potential to a degree never before imagined. Broadband networks and intelligent devices allow families to enjoy better health, entertainment, and living standards. By going digital, industries can also make their operations smarter and more We live in a rapidly changing world, and change is accelerating sustainable. along with progress in digitalization. Everything in our lives is Looking ahead, our focus is clear. We will continue changing – from how we live and work, to how we learn and spend our work in ICT infrastructure and smart devices. our time. And thanks to digital technology, we are able to do things We will connect the unconnected, and make the more efficiently and more intelligently than ever before. intelligent world a reality. We will continue to Last year, Huawei confirmed its new vision, which is to bring digital invest in innovation and applications that drive to every person, home and organization for a fully connected, sustainability and create more value for our intelligent world. We are confident that we can make the world a customers. We see a future where every person, better place by fully connecting everything and everyone. home and organization enjoys the benefits of innovation and connection. As we encourage But the future is still full of challenges. The world's population is more inclusive and sustainable global economic growing. The digital divide is wider than ever, and broadband growth, we sincerely hope to contribute more to service coverage remains surprisingly low in many areas. In the ICT our world and the future. industry, we wish to leverage our expertise to build a sustainable, fully connected, and intelligent world to address these challenges. Digital and intelligent technologies are opening up exciting new possibilities and opportunities, and yet many people still don't have access to this new world. According to Huawei's recently released Global Industry Vision (GIV 2025) report, there are still five billion people around the world who don't have a smartphone. In addition, only 40% of homes have access to broadband, and Dr. Howard Liang coverage is less than 1% for gigabit broadband. Only 10% of Chairman of the Board Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. Sustainability Management 03 The fourth industrial revolution has begun, driven by the deep integration of the physical and digital worlds. Intelligent connections are being forged between people, between things, and between people and things. They are weaving a better connected, intelligent world, which will bring entire new varieties of business, and new levels of efficiency and sustainability. New ICT technologies are creating new solutions for sustainability. Digital technologies like 5G, big data, Internet of Things, and cloud computing are enabling the world to grow in a way that is more sustainable and broad-based. Over the past year, to advance our corporate sustainable development (CSD) strategy, we have shifted the center of gravity of CSD down into the organization. We established CSD sub-committees in various departments for a much more comprehensive CSD organization. Departments will now share responsibility for CSD and will work together to achieve our CSD goals. We also continued to build up the effectiveness of our CSD systems, driven by our overarching strategy. We are leveraging Huawei's strengths in ICT to drive sustainability, and to bring the benefits of new ICT to more people. A Message from the Chairman of the Corporate Helping build a green and sustainable world Sustainable Development ICT technologies are being deployed in every Committee industry. They are transforming the global economy into a digital economy. The ICT industry is playing a critical role in addressing challenges as diverse as climate changes, education, healthcare, pollution, and resource scarcity. Remote video services, for example, can bridge the geographical distance between people. Now we can talk without the carbon emissions caused by long-distance transport. Smart city and smart transportation will make cities more sustainable and reduce environmental pressures. According to Huawei's Global Industry Vision, by 2025 the global savings in energy and emissions made possible by the ICT industry will be 11 times greater than in 2015. This more than offsets the energy consumption and emissions of the industry itself by a massive margin. ICT will become a key enabler of global sustainable development. 04 Huawei delivers ICT infrastructure and smart devices. We Embracing a sustainable future provide a smart, digital, highly automated environment where The year 2018 marks the 30 th anniversary of products and solutions that help address sustainability issues Huawei's establishment. As the Chinese can flourish. So far, Huawei's innovative ICT technologies have philosopher Confucius said, at thirty, we stand. helped 102 telecom carriers become more efficient and We actively benchmark our operations against consume less energy. Together, we are building green, low-carbon best industry practices to keep ourselves networks. Huawei's Smart City solutions have been deployed in up-to-date. We now intend to set more aggressive more than 120 cities across over 40 countries and regions, goals and pursue innovation in sustainability making cities more efficient, greener, and sustainable. We have practices, as this can help improve the sustainability forged comprehensive partnerships with most of the top 100 of the whole industry. We are well aware that we photovoltaics companies. We aim to build an open, smart need to work together with industry organizations, ecosystem for photovoltaics, expand the use of clean energy, customers, suppliers, and partners. The road to and help build a greener world. sustainability must be one of openness and growth for the whole ecosystem. Only in this way Bringing the benefits of new ICT to everyone can a business create commercial value and share For many, digital technology means more choices and more success with other industry players. convenience. But for underprivileged groups, new connections To achieve anything of value requires enormous and new technology mean more services and more opportunities. effort and focus. We will face numerous difficulties ICT can represent a chance for a better life. In 2017, Huawei's and challenges on the road to sustainability. But innovative WTTx solution helped resolve the last-mile access we will also be presented with many opportunities. issue in both densely populated cities and sparsely populated We believe that as long as we move in the right rural areas. We brought fast broadband services to more than direction and patiently apply ourselves to one million households. We also deployed RuralStar 2.0, our making breakthroughs, we will contribute more innovative solution for rural networks, for 12 carriers in eight to the healthy and sustainable development of countries and regions including Thailand, Ghana, and Mexico. the economy, the environment, and society. And This solution helps cut access costs and increase network we can play a bigger role in creating a sustainable coverage in rural areas. Expanded network coverage means future. that more people, especially those in under-developed countries and regions, can access the online world. This brings huge changes in their lives. Huawei uses cloud technology to support education in local communities where we operate, giving more people equal access to education resources. Our Intelligent Operations Center solution acts like a brain or nerve center in a smart city, making cities safer and more sustainable. Our Mobile Money solution supports financial inclusion by making financial services more accessible, especially in areas where banking services are unavailable. Our innovative ICT technologies allow more people to enjoy the efficiency and affordability made possible by the Internet and digital technology, creating new opportunities to build a sustainable world. Kevin Tao Board Member and Chairman of the CSD Committee Sustainability Management 05 Overview of Huawei's Sustainability Initiatives in 2017 Bridging the Digital Supporting Network Divide Stability and Security and Protecting Privacy Huawei's WTTx solution helps Supported the stability of over resolve last-mile access issues 1,500 customer networks and cut connectivity costs by 75% Guaranteed network stability The Huawei RuralStar 2.0 solution during over 200 key events and was successfully deployed by 12 natural disasters worldwide carriers in 8 countries and regions Submitted 186 security standard Deployed Smart City solutions in proposals to 3GPP SA3 more than 120 cities across over 40 countries and regions Delivered privacy awareness training to all employees Ran the Seeds for the Future Program in 108 countries and regions 06 Promoting Environmental Building a Healthy Protection Ecosystem Energy efficiency of major products Invested more than CNY12.64 increased by 20% on average, making billion in employee benefits our products among the most energy-efficient in the industry EHS audits on more than 4,100 sites worldwide Received the UL110 highest-level green certification for five of our Convened the 8 th Huawei mobile phones Global Supplier Sustainability Conference, attended by nearly Suppliers reduced carbon emissions 210 supplier executives by 63,000 tons via pilot energy conservation projects Launched approximately 200 community support programs Introduced 932 million kWh of clean in more than 100 countries and energy, equivalent to a carbon regions emission reduction of 450,000 tons Sustainability Management 07 08 01 Sustainability Management Sustainability Management Business Ethics and Integrity Stakeholder Engagement Sustainability Management 09 Overview Sustainability Maturity Protecting Intellectual Operational Compliance Assessment Property Rights In 2017, Huawei's sustainability In 2017, Huawei made an ongoing effort As of December 31, 2017, maturity assessment covered all to improve its regional compliance Huawei has been granted a major business departments. oversight system. Huawei has total of 74,307 patents. These assessment results have established basic management Huawei has filed a total of been verified by a third party and systems for overseas subsidiaries 64,091 patent applications in show that improvements have to lay a more solid foundation for China and 48,758 patent been made since 2016. compliance management by applications outside of China. subsidiaries as legal entities. Ongoing Improvement Stakeholder Engagement to the Anti-Corruption Sustainability Initiatives Activities and Anti-Bribery System All Huawei employees are In 2017, Huawei held several stakeholder Huawei is a member of required to understand and sign engagement activities to understand organizations such as the Huawei's Business Conduct their opinions, needs, and expectations United Nations Global Guidelines (BCGs). In 2017, so that we can respond rapidly and Compact (UNGC), the 99.5% of our employees signed effectively. For example, Huawei and United Nations Broadband the BCGs and we also passed on CSR Europe held the third Sustainability Commission, the Global our anti-bribery requirements & Innovation Conference. We were an e-Sustainability Organization to our partners, requiring them official partner for the 11th CSR Asia (GeSI), the Responsible to sign the Agreement on Summit. Huawei and BT also invested Business Alliance (RBA), Honesty and Integrity. GBP25 million to set up an R&D group and the CSR Europe. at the University of Cambridge. 10 1.1 Sustainability Management Huawei remains customer-centric in While growing our business, we are Huawei considers sustainability a priority our sustainability management. We also actively fulfilling our corporate in its corporate strategy. We have continue to increase our operating responsibilities and contributing to determined the areas that a leading ICT efficiency and competitiveness in a the local communities where we company should focus on from three responsible and innovative way. We operate. We pay special attention to aspects: economic responsibility, work with partners from various operational sustainability and allow environmental responsibility, and social sectors to face challenges and seize our customers to more effectively use responsibility. It is our goal to leverage opportunities in sustainability, and to our sustainable products, solutions, our own influence to drive sustainability drive ongoing improvements in society, and services. We are committed to across our entire value chain. the economy, and the environment. contributing to a sustainable society. Sustainability Strategy Provide people across all geographic areas with easy access to voice communications services Ensure ubiquitous broadband for all and promote future-oriented ICT technologies to address global challenges Establish training centers and launch joint teaching initiatives to develop local talent, transfer knowledge, and increase people's engagement in the digital society Provide customized ICT applications and solutions that meet individual, corporate, and Bridging the Digital Divide regional needs to improve economic performance, quality of life, productivity, and competitiveness Prioritize network stability and security over commercial interests, especially at critical times (e.g., earthquakes, tsunamis, and other natural disasters and emergencies) Enhance the robustness and security of products through continuous innovation and full consideration of business continuity and network resilience; support independent testing, verification, and certification of products to provide internationally recognized security assurance to customers; work and communicate proactively with stakeholders in an open and transparent manner; comply with applicable security standards, laws and regulations Supporting Network Stability Emphasize the protection of privacy; work with partners on privacy protection; adopt and Security and Protecting recognized methodologies and practices; integrate privacy protection into our day-to-day Privacy business activities Incorporate green concepts into product planning, design, R&D, manufacturing, delivery, and operation and maintenance (O&M); use resources more efficiently through ongoing technological innovation and provide leading energy-conserving and environmentally friendly products and solutions to customers Increase resource utilization in offices, production facilities, logistics centers, and labs to reduce waste and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and build Huawei into a role model for environmentally friendly operations Continuously ensure the environmental compliance of Huawei's products and our partners' operations; promote energy conservation and emissions reduction across our supply chain Promoting Environmental and improve Huawei's competitiveness in the industry ecosystem Protection Continuously promote green and integrated ICT solutions to support energy conservation and emissions reduction in various industries; and proactively drive an energy-saving, environmentally friendly, and low-carbon society Sustainability Management 11 Provide employees with varied career paths based on their particular skill sets to help them realize their individual value Make significant contributions in all communities and countries in which we operate Abide by strict ethical business practices; oppose corruption, dumping, and monopoly; operate with integrity and in compliance with applicable laws and regulations Focus on sustainability risk management in our own operational activities and services, gradually become the leader in sustainable development in the industry and around the world Building a Healthy Industry Work closely with suppliers to develop standards and benchmarks; shift our focus on supplier Ecosystem risk management to efficiency management, leading sustainable development in the industry ecosystem Sustainability Management System Huawei's CSD Committee is comprised of Process & IT Management Department. The In 2017, Huawei established 14 CSD more than 20 members representing our committee is responsible for formulating sub-committees from a business value chain, including research and and implementing the company's dimension to move the center of gravity development (R&D), manufacturing, sustainability strategy, making decisions of CSD lower down in the organization. procurement, human resources (HR), and on critical issues, and supporting internal We aim to further solidify our CSD project delivery. The CSD Committee is collaboration. It also sets forward-looking organization and capabilities and chaired by Kevin Tao, board member and goals that Huawei uses to guide future ensure that CSD goals are met in all President of the Quality, Business actions. business domains. Set CSD goals Achieve CSD goals Set CSD goals and work plans for Departments achieve CSD goals key tasks of each department and implement key tasks. CSD based on the resolution from the sub-committees identify the CSD strategy workshop and risks and difficulties in the current state of business and implementation, and provide report them at the Q1 CSD guidance and monitoring during Committee Meeting. 2 Achieve 3 the process. strategic CSD goals Annual strategy workshop 1 4 Review goal achievement CSD sub-committees review Hold a CSD strategy workshop at the achievement of annual the beginning of each year and goals, analyze gaps and areas set annual CSD priorities based for improvement, develop an on customer requirements, improvement plan, and report industry insights, CSD risks, and the plan at the Q4 CSD opportunities. Committee Meeting. 12 Growing Maturity in Huawei's Sustainability Management System Purposes for sustainability maturity assessment: in sustainability management, help us identify weaknesses Improve our sustainability maturity assessment tool by and pain points where we need to improve, and continue to referring to best industry practices to make it better match improve our business capabilities and help achieve our our business. Provide neutral and specialized assessments strategic business goals. and recommendations for improvement to all business Help us meet sustainability requirements from customers domains. and other important stakeholders and increase customer Assess the maturity of all business domains and departments satisfaction. In 2017, Huawei improved its sustainability maturity assessment (SMA) tool and carried out a department-based assessment. The assessment covered major business departments and addressed three main areas: business goals and results, business processes and expertise, and business foundation and support. The 2017 SMA results were markedly better than those in 2016, showing that Huawei's sustainability management system has been continuously improved. Business goals and results Level Trend Assessed departments Assessed items Carrier Consumer Enterprise 2012 Supply Manufact Resource mgmt. Process P&S Leadership BG BG BG Laboratories Chain -uring (capability) operations Regions Capital Performance Quality and GSPO PACD HR Procurement Administration Mgmt. Dept Construction evaluation operations org. Business processes and expertise 3.1. Process management 3.2 Process mgmt. organization 3.3 IT support for processes Business foundation and support Maturity assessment model Winning an Award from Global Compact Network China In 2017, Huawei won the Chinese Enterprise in Achieving SDGs – Best Practice in Global Partnership award from the Global Compact Network China in recognition of its efforts to push forward the 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda. Sustainability Management 13 1.2 Business Ethics and Integrity Operational Compliance We conduct business with integrity, worked and communicated openly and 80000 74307 observing international conventions proactively with government agencies 62519 and all applicable laws and regulations and successfully passed governmental 60000 50377 in the countries and regions where we audits in Europe and Japan. We invited operate. This is the cornerstone of external consultants to review our 40000 operational compliance at Huawei, and compliance in key domains, and actively 20000 has long been a core principle of our walked relevant stakeholders through management team. Under the all of our compliance initiatives to 0 As of the end As of the end As of the end of 2015 of 2016 of 2017 guidance and oversight of top company foster mutual understanding and trust. # of patents granted over the past three years executives, efforts to strengthen a Through ongoing efforts to strengthen culture of operational compliance are compliance and increase transparency, ongoing. We have set up dedicated Huawei continues to win the respect compliance and oversight teams to and recognition of more governments Anti-Corruption and further bolster the management and and partners around the world. Anti-Bribery oversight of our global business operations. Through training, awareness Integrity is at the core of our operations, programs, performance appraisals, Protecting Intellectual and we have zero tolerance for bribery or and accountability management, we Property Rights corruption. We have launched various consistently reinforce awareness of programs to improve our anti-corruption laws and operational compliance Intellectual property rights (IPRs) are a and anti-bribery management system. among our employees at all levels. core competency of every enterprise. To Outside of the organization, we openly maintain our company's IPR competency All Huawei employees and third parties share our experience with our business at the level needed to compete in the who do business on behalf of Huawei partners, giving them insight into our market, Huawei invests at least 10% are required to comply with the laws own path towards developing a global of its revenue in product R&D and and regulations of the countries and compliance system. technological innovation every year, regions in which we operate as well as making the company one of the largest our customers' anti-corruption and In 2017, Huawei made an ongoing effort R&D investors around the world. anti-bribery requirements. All to improve its regional compliance employees must understand and sign oversight system, enabling our Huawei complies with and uses our BCGs. We also share our overseas subsidiaries to reach their international IPR rules and handles IPR anti-bribery requirements with our compliance targets despite complex affairs in accordance with international partners, requiring them to sign an political, economic, and business conventions. Huawei approaches IPR Agreement on Honesty and Integrity. conditions. We also established basic issues in a proactive and open manner, We have established complaint management systems for overseas using various mechanisms such as channels through which employees subsidiaries to lay a more solid cross-licensing and business partnerand other parties can report violations. foundation for compliance management ships. If no solution can be agreed upon by subsidiaries as legal entities. for an IPR issue despite much effort, Huawei resorts to legal procedures to Ongoing Improvement to In 2017, Huawei continued to address them in accordance with the Anti-Corruption and strengthen compliance in multiple international conventions. business domains, including trade, Anti-Bribery Management cyber security, data and privacy Huawei is one of the largest patent System protection, anti-corruption, and holders in the world. As of December trade secret protection. By increasing 31, 2017, Huawei has been granted Huawei complies with all applicable investment in organization and 74,307 patents. Huawei has filed a laws and regulations in the countries resources, we continue learning from total of 64,091 patent applications in and regions where we operate and all best practices across the industry to China and 48,758 patent applications relevant international conventions. reinforce our compliance system. We outside of China. Following the company's guiding 14 principles, we make an ongoing effort anti-corruption and anti-bribery. processes and policies. Through to establish and improve our These initiatives include oaths taken internal control assessments and anti-corruption and anti-bribery by managers, anti-corruption and audits, we discover violations and processes and management system. anti-bribery training programs take disciplinary actions against targeting employees and partners, violators following applicable We have also adopted a series of and disciplinary actions against regulations. measures to put in place anti-corruption violators. and anti-bribery practices in our External communications: subsidiaries worldwide. Compliance management: We continually communicate with Huawei reviews how its compliance industry peers, partners, and Based on these efforts, Huawei keeps management system works by non-government organizations improving its anti-corruption and (NGOs) about compliance, showing checking risk control points and anti-bribery management system to them our position and attitude keeps improving its anti-corruption make it better suit our own business. and anti-bribery compliance towards anti-corruption and management system. We regularly anti-bribery. We want to ensure that Culture of integrity and compliance: assess compliance risks, develop all stakeholders have a clear underHuawei has adopted a series of risk management strategies, and standing of Huawei's compliance initiatives to foster a culture of break these strategies down to regulations and policies. Channels for submitting complaints and reporting violations E-mail: BCGcomplain@huawei.com Huawei keeps any information concerning whistleblowers who report BCG violations strictly confidential and ensures that their legitimate rights are well protected. We forbid any attempts – direct or indirect – to obstruct, suppress, retaliate against or discriminate against whistleblowers. Sustainability Management 15 1.3 Stakeholder Engagement Huawei's stakeholders include needs, and expectations. Based on sustainability programs; jointly customers, consumers, employees, this communication, we adjust our organizing conferences with customers suppliers, governments, NGOs, sustainability goals and actions and industry organizations; launching industry organizations, the media, accordingly to ensure we respond stakeholder surveys; attending academia, and the general public. We rapidly and effectively. sustainability workshops or research have established a comprehensive programs; communicating and stakeholder engagement program to Our communication with stakeholders interacting on social media; and communicate and engage with comes in various forms, including publishing research papers and survey stakeholders on topics of common attending forums and conferences on reports. These are only some of the interest to understand their opinions, various topics; conducting joint ways we gain stakeholder insights. 2017 Stakeholder Engagement Activities In May 2017, Huawei held the ICT Energy Efficiency Summit 2017 in Dubai. At the summit, Huawei shared its views on ICT industry energy trends with experts from the global energy industry. Participants also shared best practices in carrier network energy management, helping carriers embark on an open road to smart energy. ICT Energy Efficiency Summit in Dubai In September 2017, Huawei attended the 11th CSR Asia Summit in Thailand as a partner. The theme of the summit was Future-proofing Sustainable Business . Breakfast meeting at the CSR Asia Summit In October 2017, Huawei and CSR Europe jointly held the third Sustainability & Innovation Conference, with a theme of Connecting the Future – ICT and the SDGs . The event attracted more than 150 attendees, including policy makers, business communities, and NGOs. Sustainability & Innovation Conference held by Huawei and CSR Europe In November 2017, Huawei attended Guangdong's first International Sustainability Conference in Shenzhen, with a theme of Building a World-Class Business Environment across the Maritime Silk Road. The conference brought together more than 300 attendees, including politicians, business leaders, and representatives from civil society and other international institutions. Huawei Board Member and Senior Vice President Chen Lifang delivers a speech 16 Huawei has demonstrated over the years a strong and firm commitment to the sustainable development agenda. The research on the contribution of ICT to the UN Sustainable Development Goals is a landmark work that maps out the way forward. Huawei is taking a leading role in its sector in advancing the need for collaboration with other companies, cities, associations, and other stakeholders. Stefan Crets CSR Europe Executive Director BT and Huawei to Invest GBP25 Million to Set up an R&D Group at the University of Cambridge In November 2017, BT and Huawei announced a new five-year initiative which aimed to establish a joint research and collaboration group at the University of Cambridge. Backed by GBP25 million in funding over the next five years, the research group is expected to focus on projects related to photonics, digital and access network infrastructure, and media technologies, alongside work aimed at enhancing the societal impact of communications technologies. The Chief Executive of BT Group, Vice-Chancellor at the University of Cambridge, and Ken Hu, Deputy Chairman and research project aims to bring together experts from the BT Labs, the Rotating CEO of Huawei (l-r) sign a collaboration agreement Huawei R&D team, and researchers from the University of Cambridge to explore new technologies which have the potential to impacts to society. These impacts include reducing unlock economic benefits for UK businesses and organizations, such inequality, particularly for those groups excluded from as reducing the cost of network infrastructure and boosting digital transformation, and using ICT technologies to operational performance. The projects are also expected to focus on improve the resilience of communities to climate the critical role that new technologies can play in delivering positive change. Huawei Innovation Research Program The Huawei Innovation Research Program (HIRP) is a wireless, network, storage, and devices. platform for open innovation and collaboration between With HIRP, Huawei issues a call for proposal to global Huawei and leading universities and research institutes. The universities to attract researchers to be part of our open program expands Huawei's open collaboration as part of the innovation and research programs. company's overall strategy. HIRP establishes a channel for external communications Huawei establishes deep, long-term partnerships with and maintains regular contact with top researchers from leading industry research teams by setting up joint labs or leading global universities on 19 key technologies including signing long-term framework contracts. HIRP Gaining Recognition from Academia In 2017, Huawei received a Corporate Academic Citizen Award from the Faculty of Applied Science & Engineering of the University of Toronto; a Distinguished Knowledge Transfer Award from Hong Kong Polytechnic University; and a Business Model Transformation Award at the World Open Innovation Conference (WOIC) 2017. HIRP receives a Business Model Transformation Award at WOIC 2017 Sustainability Management 17 Focusing on Material Issues By identifying our material issues, we are able to find the areas overall rankings from the survey responses of multiple for improvement and optimize our sustainability management. stakeholders, we determine the priority of issues on the To assess our material issues, we have determined which vertical axis. Based on risk analysis (led by in-house issues affect our business and which issues are important to experts), strategy alignment, and maturity assessment our stakeholders. The result is the matrix that displays the results, we then determine the priority of issues on the issues of highest concern to stakeholders (vertical axis) and to horizontal axis. our own business (horizontal axis) shown below. Based on the Material issue assessment High Supplier sustainability mgmt Broadband for all Impacts on stakeholder assessment and decision-making Green products and services Reducing energy consumption Product security and carbon footprint Compensation and benefits Resource utilization and Actively addressing cyber circular economy security challenges Health and safety Social contributions and charity events Voice communications for all Ensuring network stability Contributing to SDGs ICT talent education Operational compliance Workforce diversification Employee capability development Sustainability mgmt system ICT application Low High Importance of economic, environmental, and social impacts Working Together to Contribute to Sustainable Development Goals Huawei believes that ICT technologies will act as a key ICT investment can help nations achieve SDGs faster. enabler in driving large-scale, rapid attainment of SDGs In the subsequent chapters, we will show our specific while pushing forward the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable sustainability actions towards achieving the SDGs. Our goal Development. As such, Huawei published the 2017 Huawei is to contribute to a fairer, a more prosperous, and a more ICT Sustainable Development Goals Benchmark report, in sustainable future by leveraging our influence and working which we selected six SDGs and analyzed 15 different closely with all stakeholders. countries and regions as case studies. The results show that 18 26 19 02 Sustainable Products and Services Green Products and Services Circular Economy Driving Sustainability Through Innovation Cyber Security and Privacy Protection Sustainable Products and Services 20 Overview Energy-efficient Energy-efficient Green Product Products and Solutions TubeStar Site Certification Huawei NE9000 backbone router The TubeStar solution won the Five Huawei phones received won Runners-up in the CarriGreen Mobile Award. the highest level (Gold) UL110 er/ISP Networking Category at certification and three laptops Interop Tokyo 2017 for indusand seven servers were try-leading energy efficiency. ENERGY STAR® certified. Higher Reuse Rate of Recycling Centers for BT NGA 2.0 Network Products Consumer Products The five-year program of NGA 2.0 In 2017, the reuse rate of We have 1,025 recycling stations can cut CO2 emissions by 11% Huawei's products was 81.2%. in 48 countries and regions. and reduce energy use by 8% on average. Driving a Sustainable Contributing to Cyber Privacy Protection World Through Innovation Security Standards Education for Employees We actively invest and innovate We have made ongoing, major We provide training to all in 5G to drive a more sustainable achievements in cyber security employees to foster a strong global economy. standards and submitted 186 culture of cyber security and security standard proposals to privacy protection across the 3GPP SA3. company. 21 2.1 Green Products and Services As society continues to develop quickly, the number of network connections is soaring, leading to enormous traffic growth and huge bandwidth demand. ICT infrastructure is becoming smarter and can offer faster and smoother connectivity. However, ICT infrastructure and smart devices are consuming more energy and resources. The ICT industry is facing the significant challenge of how to maximize the efficiency of networks and minimize energy consumption and other environmental impacts, without compromising network performance and user experience. Leading Green ICT Technologies We have embedded green requirements into our end-to-end we drive energy conservation and emissions reduction product lifecycle, from development and manufacturing to across product lifecycles, with three key focuses: delivery and O&M. All our offerings meet or exceed the Engineering energy conservation and emissions reduction requirements of applicable laws, regulations, and standards, into solution designs allowing our customers to bring their environmental performance to the next level. Through continuous technological Driving energy conservation and emissions reduction innovation, we offer energy-efficient solutions for across the entire supply chain networks, sites, and equipment that enable customers to operate at lower costs and with higher energy efficiency. Applying innovative technologies to drive energy conservation We aim to build a fully connected, green world. To get there, and emissions reduction for products Innovative, Green TubeStar Solution Advancements in mobile communications have changed society and the way people live their lives. More sites are needed to further develop and upgrade existing networks. However, site and other social resources are becoming increasingly scarce and mobile communications infrastructure is consuming huge amounts of energy. It is increasingly necessary to reduce the resources occupied by mobile towers and contribute to a low-carbon society. Huawei's TubeStar solution features end-to-end system-level site design. The BBU, RRU, power supply module, battery, and transmission equipment are all integrated into one tube. This innovative design eliminates the need for equipment rooms and cabinets. The TubeStar solution satisfies current network requirements while paving the way for future evolution. A single site supports five to seven bands for multiple radio access technologies (RATs) (GSM/UMTS/LTE). The solution also reduces the footprint of a traditional macro site by over 96% (from approximately 50 m2 to less than 2 m2) and makes site deployment 70% faster. In terms of energy consumption, the solution features a 98% high-efficiency power supply Huawei's TubeStar Solution is widely module, a site-level power-saving system, and air-conditioner-free design. Energy deployed around the world efficiency is 30% higher than that of traditional sites. Rapid deployment also lowers labor and engineering costs, enabling a significant drop in the carbon footprint per site. During Mobile World Congress 2018, GSMA awarded the Green Mobile award to Huawei's TubeStar Solution. This award honors Huawei's innovation in communications infrastructure and recognizes its efforts in reducing emissions, boosting energy efficiency, and lowering O&M costs. It also celebrates Huawei's outstanding contributions to the ICT industry's long-term sustainability. Sustainable Products and Services 22 Driving Energy Conservation and Emissions Reduction Across the Entire Supply Chain The carbon footprint of a product includes carbon emissions parts and suppliers that produce the largest amounts of created during the manufacturing process. Huawei encourages emissions during the product lifecycle. After that, we suppliers to conduct energy audits, identify opportunities to examined Huawei's and suppliers' energy conservation reduce energy consumption and carbon emissions, and and emissions reduction initiatives and their results, in implement energy conservation and emissions reduction accordance with the International Performance Measurement practices. and Verification Protocol (IPMVP). In collaboration with BT, suppliers, and other stakeholders, we developed In 2017, BT announced a new target to reduce its carbon baselines and targets for energy conservation and emissions by 87% by 2030 against a 2016/2017 baseline. emissions reduction for NGA 2.0. Specifically, the five-year Emissions reduction of the supply chain is part of the plan. program can cut CO2 emissions by 11% and reduce energy To support the customer's target, Huawei worked closely use by 8% on average. On top of that, we continue to with upstream suppliers. We ran a pilot program using our communicate with all stakeholders to implement various next-generation access (NGA) product, and adopted the energy-saving measures. Lifecycle Assessment (LCA) methodology to identify the In 2017, as in previous years, Huawei worked closely with BT on a number of projects. Most notably, in the Next Generation Access 2.0 (NGA 2.0) supply contract between Huawei and BT, we included a unique sustainability clause, which committed Huawei and its suppliers to demonstrating carbon savings during the lifetime of the contract. We were delighted both with Huawei's enthusiasm in adopting a new and challenging requirement, and also with the results after just a year which showed that Huawei and its suppliers had saved thousands of tons of carbon. Huawei and BT also joined forces in a unique collaboration with the University of Cambridge to commence research into the use of technology to tackle the digital divide and the effects of climate change. These are important areas where thought leadership can be very powerful, and we are delighted that Huawei is taking such a lead role. Tony Roy SPM-Head of Governance & Sustainability Group Procurement, BT Supporting Future Network Evolution with Innovative Energy-saving Technologies In collaboration with universities and research institutes around the world, we made ground-breaking progress in multiple areas of 5G such as Massive MIMO, network architecture, air interface, and all-digital radio frequency technology. These technologies lower end-to-end network costs while boosting spectrum utilization and energy efficiency. Helping Carriers Cut Network Energy Consumption with Energy-efficient Sites In 2017, Huawei and its customers – China Mobile, China Telecom, Vodafone, and Orange – applied innovative technologies with lower energy use and emissions and extensively deployed energy-efficient features in networks. They developed energy-efficient technologies that can deliver on Double Zero goals (zero watt@zero load) and researched how to improve the energy efficiency of 5G. We helped China Mobile cut energy use on all their networks. By the end of 2017, the carrier had built over 400,000 energy-efficient sites, saving nearly 300 million kWh of electricity. 23 Huawei's Energy-efficient NE9000 Backbone Router Helps Carriers Address Data Flow Challenges in the Cloud Era At Mobile World Congress 2017, Huawei unveiled the industry's highest density 4T router line card. The NE9000 backbone router can reach a capacity of 80 Tbps while reducing power consumption of each device to only 0.4 W/G, half of the industry average, which satisfies the energy efficiency requirements for backbone network equipment in the cloud era. Huawei's NE9000 backbone router and 4T line card won Runners-up in Huawei NE9000 Backbone Router and 4T Line Card win Runners-up in the Carrier/ISP Networking Category at Interop Tokyo 2017 the Carrier/ISP Networking Category at Interop Tokyo 2017. Huawei Contributes to Energy Efficiency Standards for the ICT Industry Involved in development of energy efficiency standards for sites (ES 202 706) and networks (ES 203 228) as a co-drafter and key contributor to ETSI Environmental Engineering (EE) standards Contributed to the energy efficiency standards for networks and 5G of ITU-T SG5 Played an active role in standardization initiatives led by the China Communications Standards Association (CCSA), including national standards (Energy Saving Parameters and Test Methods for Access Equipment: GPON Systems [GB/T 34087-2017] and EPON systems [GB/T 34086-2017] and industry standards (Energy Saving Parameters and Test Methods for Access Equipment: XG-PON Systems [YD/T 3289-2017] and 10G-EPON Systems [YD/T 3288-2017]). Green Certification for Products We are conscious of the environment when we design our products, and we implement rigorous controls throughout product lifecycles, from selection of raw materials, manufacturing, packaging, transportation, and usage to maintenance and support, disposal, and recycling. Our goal is to minimize the impact of our products on the environment. We actively participate in green certification programs to offer customers and consumers more competitive and sustainable products. In doing so, we ensure that our products comply with or even exceed relevant standards and requirements. China Environmental Products Labeling Huawei embeds the concept of design for the environment across the full lifecycle of its servers to minimize negative impacts from our products and conserve energy resources. In 2017, Huawei's 180 server models, including rack servers, blade servers, multi-node servers, integrated storage servers, and distributed storage servers, were accredited by the China Environmental Products Labeling program, Huawei servers are accredited by the China Environmental known as the 10-Ring Certification . Products Labeling program Sustainable Products and Services 24 FSC Certified Packaging Huawei has sought FSC® certified packaging for our products to minimize the impact that our product packaging has on the environment and to protect biodiversity. FSC is a supply chain management certification that ensures the materials for our packaging 119839 come from well-managed sustainable forests. FSC Mark on the Package of Huawei In 2017, the packaging for many of our products was FSC certified, including the Nova Mate 10 Pro Smartphone Lite, P10, P10 Plus, Mate 10, Mate 10 Pro, and MateBook. UL 110 Certification for Smartphone Sustainability UL110 is a green certification program that assesses the environmental performance of products across eight metrics: sourcing of raw materials, production and processing, energy use, health and safety, packaging, recycling of scrapped products, corporate sustainability management, and innovation. In 2017, five Huawei mobile phones – the Huawei P10, P10 Plus, P10 Lite, Mate 10, and UL 110 Green Certificate for Mate 10 Pro – received the highest level (Gold) UL110 certification. Huawei Mate 10 Smartphone China Quality Certification (CQC) for Environmentally Friendly Electrical and Electronic Products The certification program was designed based on the lifecycle stages of electrical and electronic products, from product design and manufacturing to product use and recycling. It assesses the environmental factors (e.g. ecological design, energy and resource consumption, material use, pollutant discharge, and reuse) at each of these stages and assigns the assessed products a grade – A, B, or C. In 2017, eight Huawei smartphones and three tablets received an A, the highest level Grade A Certificate for of certification. They include the Honor 7X, Honor 9 Lite, M3 MediaPad Lite 10, M3 Honor 7X Smartphone MediaPad 8, and Honor WaterPlay. TÜV-WT Certification The TÜV–WT Certification is a joint program organized by TÜV SÜD and Wearable Technologies Group AG (WT AG). They provide testing and certification services for wearables, covering product features like environmental protection, safety, performance, interoperability, and durability. In 2017, the Huawei Watch 2 was TÜV-WT certified. TÜV-WT Certification for the Huawei Watch 2 TÜV Green Product Mark TÜV Rheinland's Green Product Mark is a certification program that assesses products across many metrics, including environmental protection, recycling, energy conservation, electromagnetic compatibility (EMC), safety, carbon footprint, and corporate social responsibilities. In 2017, a total of seven models of Huawei routers and switches received TÜV Rheinland's Green Product Mark certificates. TÜV Rheinland's Green Product Mark certificate for switches 25 ENERGY STAR® Certification ENERGY STAR® is a voluntary energy conservation certification program jointly launched by the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Department of Energy (DOE). Its goal is to help businesses and consumers save money and protect the environment by reducing energy use and GHG emissions. Huawei MateBook ENERGY STAR® In 2017, we had many of our products ENERGY STAR® certified, including seven Certified servers, two uninterruptible power systems, six tablets (Honor Play Tab 2, MediaPad M3 Lite, etc.), and three MateBook laptops. Product Lifecycle Assessment We adopt the Lifecycle Assessment (LCA) methodology to quantify the environmental impact of our products. In fact, we went a step further by introducing quantitative LCA (QLCA), which helped improve both accuracy and efficiency of lifecycle assessment of our major products. LCA not only helps quantify the environmental impact of different products, but also informs how we can improve design for the environment for our products, spanning material selection, process optimization, energy use improvement, transportation, and recycling. In 2017, Huawei ran a Product Environmental Information platform for consumer products. On the platform, consumers can find the environmental information about our products. In 2017, we analyzed the carbon and water footprints of nine smartphones and released related environmental information reports. Link to the platform: http://consumer.huawei.com/en/support/product-environmental-information/index.htm Carbon footprint of a Mate 10 smartphone Water footprint of a Mate 10 smartphone 4.91% 0.12% 7.25% Raw Material and Manufacturing 4.55% Mobile Phone Assembly Blue Water Footprint 32.76% Distribution 57.24% Grey Water Footprint Comsumer Use 82.52% End of Life Disposal GHG emissions: 70.33 kg CO2e Water footprint: 1,270 kg 26 2.2 Circular Economy ICT can help improve resource efficiency management and support a circular economy. ICT is an enabler that helps industries go digital and smart, make more efficient use of resources and energy, and reduce their carbon emissions and environmental footprint. At the same time, the ICT industry itself has improved and transformed to maximize resource efficiency and operating efficiency. For example, cloud computing has driven the trend of software as a service, with corresponding trends in infrastructure and platforms enabling a sharing economy in the ICT industry, known as servitization. Product Design for a Circular Economy Under a circular economy model, all resources are reusable. Lightweight design: Minimize the use of materials, while still The goal is to maximize product value and reduce waste and ensuring full functionality. resource consumption, as well as impacts on the environment. Huawei has integrated circular economy practices into our Product use product designs. We adopt the latest technologies to boost Extend product lifespan through design. resource efficiency. We ensure sustainable resource use by leveraging end-to-end recycling approaches, implementing Design products as modules or platforms to make them circular economy policies and requirements, and rewarding easier to upgrade and repair. circular economy practices. End of lifecycle Elements of Huawei's design approach for a circular economy: Products are easy to disassemble. Avoid always-on Raw material acquisition design. High-value modules need to be disassembled without being damaged. Raw material selection: Use more recycled and secondary materials. Different materials can be easily disposed of separately. Huawei fully supports cross-sector collaboration and best practices sharing between governments, businesses, industry alliances, and other stakeholders. We contribute to circular economy standards to drive technology development and the circular economy. For example: We collaborate with ETSI EE and ITU SG5 to work on the Technical Report of Circular Economy in ICT and define approaches, concepts, and metrics for an ICT-driven circular economy. We collaborate with ITU-T SG5 L.CEM to work on the development of the Criteria for Assessing Mobile Phones' Environmental Impact. The aim is to develop a set of rules for assessing mobile phones' environmental impact across the entire lifecycle from material use, energy consumption, maintainability, and to waste management. We contribute to the Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI) Sustainability Assessment Standard Framework (SASF) which includes circular economy related criteria applied to companies. Within KPN we were pleasantly surprised by the eagerness of Huawei to join us in our ambitions on circularity. Over the past years, Huawei has already proved their focus on sustainability by providing us with clever solutions that extend lifespans and save energy. We look forward to exploring new roads to further improve on, for example, logistics and reducing emissions by process optimization in order to achieve our joint goals. Brechtje Spoorenberg Head of CSR KPN Sustainable Products and Services 27 Management of Returned Products For network products, we have put in place a global management system for 81.2% returned materials, incorporating the collection, storage, disassembly, testing, repair, and disposal of waste. In 2017, we launched an online management 78.1% system for scrapped items outside China, covering all countries where Huawei 77.6% has a presence. By raising the standards for handling scrapped items, we refined the classification of scrapping methods, and increased the reuse rate of components, modules, and integrated equipment. Our goal is to recover as much of the value of scrapped items as possible. 2015 2016 2017 Reuse rate of returned products At Huawei, every scrapped item is categorized by lifecycle phase and quality. from 2015 to 2017 Reusable materials that meet certain criteria are first allocated to our internal reuse channels such as for R&D, parts, and manufacturing. If there is no internal demand for these materials, we resell the items or have them In 2017, we handled 11,318 tons of disassembled and recycled by certified recycling service providers without scrapped materials globally, among incurring cyber security risks. In this way, a scrapped item becomes circular which 98.46% were recycled and reused, again. This is how we recover the value of products as much as possible. As of and only 1.54% of them were landfilled. the end of 2017, the reuse rate of Huawei's returned products was 81.2%. Global Green Recycling Program for Mobile Phones Huawei runs a Global Green Recycling Program for scrapped mobile phones, tablets, and other electronic products, in which we strive to fulfill our extended producer responsibility. In addition, we organize various phone recycling initiatives and are continually extending the recycling program, aiming to give consumers a better understanding of Huawei's recycling channels, and allow them to participate in the process. In doing so, we strive to maximize the value of scrapped electronic products and contribute to a circular economy. By the end of 2017, we had 1,025 recycling stations in 48 countries and regions. In 2017, we further scaled up our product trade-in program. In China, apart from online trade-in, our program provides two additional options: in-store trade-in and home pick-up recycling. Our online trade-in program is now available in 15 countries, including Malaysia, Italy, Germany, the UK, and South Africa. In 2017, we recycled more than 200,000 phones in China through the online trade-in program. Online trade-in platform in China: https://www.vmall.com/recycle Online trade-in platform outside of China: https://www.hihonor.com/uk/tradein/index.html Online trade-in platform in the UK 28 2.3 Driving Sustainability Through Innovation In today's world, ICT technologies and solutions are becoming more essential for industrial and social sustainability. The ICT industry should not be content with just ensuring its own sustainability. Rather, it should work to provide innovative products and solutions to enable other industries' energy conservation and emissions reduction initiatives, drive the development of smart cities and green ecosystems, increase operating efficiency, address climate change, and contribute to a better connected, greener world. Huawei is committed to providing green products through innovation. Every time we develop a new product, we think about how we can use green technologies to ensure all environmental requirements are met across the lifecycle of our product. In 2017, we continued to increase our investment in future-oriented technologies such as 5G, chipsets, and smart devices. A large part of the CNY89.69 billion (14.9% of annual revenue) we spent on R&D in 2017 went to our initiatives to drive innovation, efficiency, energy conservation, and environmental protection. We believe that ICT innovations such as 5G, AI, big data, and cloud computing are key enablers for achieving the UN's 2030 SDGs. How 5G Can Contribute to Sustainable Development According to GSMA, 5G could account for as many as 1.4 billion connections by 2025. By that time, 5G networks are likely to cover one-third of the world's population.The impact will be profound. 5G is more than a new generation of technology: It marks a new era in which connectivity will become key to connecting everything. Huawei X Labs aims to explore opportunities for 5G applications and how technologies like IoT, cloud computing, AI, and big data can provide a platform for connected machines, robots, 3D-printing, virtual reality (VR), augmented reality (AR), automated processes, blockchain technology, guided vehicles, goods, and remote work. We believe these innovations will not only expand our business, but also vastly improve resource efficiency and environmental protection, making for a more sustainable global economy. We have selected a few use cases to help illustrate the opportunities that can be introduced by these new digital capabilities. We hope that this can showcase the wide range of exciting possibilities and encourage more people to embrace digital transformation. Connected cars: Connectivity is developing into an parts on an oil rig, for instance, which could improve important enabler of safer, more sustainable mobility. safety and reduce the chance of contamination Key technology trends include autonomous driving, incidents. cooperative mobility, and sensor data crowdsourcing, Connected drones: 5G networks will allow new levels which will deliver improved environmental and safety of drone automation that will have a transformative performance both at highway speeds and in dense urban impact on multiple industries. Rather than having a live environments. inspection of potential rotor blade damage on a wind Closed-loop manufacturing: Advanced sorting, robotic turbine done by a human operator, an autonomous disassembly, and digital tracing will allow for much drone fleet will be able to capture and analyze the better material recovery and re-use. This will be equipment using video. Similar solutions may help particularly important for industries that move to protect high-risk energy infrastructure, or increase sharing business models as manufacturers retain productivity in agriculture, for example. ownership of their products (for example cars), thus Advanced modeling and virtual reality: Digital replicas incentivizing higher levels of circular recycling. of physical assets can be used not only for research and 3D-printing: The fabrication of components allows for design, but also remote and real-time performance the production of hardware without large manufacturing monitoring, making preventive maintenance more operations. This helps to reduce waste while also making effective and helping to keep products in use for much it possible to quickly produce replacement longer. Sustainable Products and Services 29 Digital traceability: Blockchain solutions for traceability Dark factories: Automated and robotic manufacturing and transparency could help prevent illegal or contaminated with limited or no human intervention would mean that materials from entering supply chains. For example, factories could be operated continuously and without improving traceability in the food industry would be an lighting and air-conditioning. important breakthrough for retailers. In response to the challenges of big data, heavy data traffic, and technologies for ICT and infrastructure. high energy consumption, the Huawei network energy team To date, Huawei has helped 102 carriers around the world promotes the digital transformation of ICT infrastructure to build improve network energy efficiency, increase O&M efficiency, a green, intelligent world. We provide comprehensive network reduce energy consumption, and ensure network security energy solutions that meet the requirements of many different and reliability. We have deployed more than 800 large data ICT scenarios, focusing on communications energy, data center centers globally with energy solutions that offer low Power energy, and smart photovoltaic (PV). Our solutions integrate Usage Effectiveness (PUE), helping customers reduce power electronic and electrical technology, digital technology, consumption and carbon emissions. We have established communications technology, and IoT technology. According to comprehensive partnerships with the top 100 players in the the Huawei Global Industry Vision 2025 report, by 2025, the global PV industry. Together with industry partners, we strive average annual carbon emissions per connection in the global to cultivate an open, healthy, and intelligent PV ecosystem ICT industry is expected to fall to 15 kg, down by 80% compared founded on shared success. with 75 kg in 2015, through continuous innovation in energy-saving Applying Innovative Technology to Provide Energy-Efficient Data Center for Dubai Airports Over the past several years, Dubai Airports' business has grown rapidly. Committed to providing a better passenger experience and fulfilling its social responsibility of eco-friendliness and energy conservation, Dubai Airports has placed data center construction at the heart of its digital transformation. Huawei's FusionModule1000B prefabricated modular data center solution was adopted to build the new data center for Dubai Airports. The 10 kW/rack power density requirement, plus the extremely high temperatures in Dubai, posed a great challenge to heat dissipation for the data center. Huawei FusionModule1000B uses a wide range of innovative technologies to improve energy efficiency. The variable-frequency in-row air conditioner, highly efficient modular UPS, and aisle containment are solutions that can help achieve the optimal PUE. Enabled by these technologies, Huawei's data center solution consumes at least 30% less energy than a traditional one. In addition, Huawei equipped the new data center with the NetEco intelligent management system to simplify O&M and cut management costs. With the ISO standard-compliant size of the prefabricated modules, capacity can be easily expanded by adding modules as needed. In contrast to traditional data centers, this enables flexible expansion, saves engineering costs, and reduces equipment footprint. The data center at Dubai Airports 30 Helping Telefonica Build Green and Efficient Solar Powered Sites Telefonica has set a goal to reduce energy usage per unit by 50% and carbon emissions by 30% by 2020 as part of its commitment to energy conservation and emissions reduction. Huawei's mission is to provide green and efficient network energy solutions to help our customers save energy and reduce emissions. In collaboration with Telefonica, Huawei built a solar-powered base station in central Chile. The customer had previously faced many challenges installing base stations at this very remote site, including a lack of mains electricity, high fault rate of traditional diesel generators, and difficulty in maintaining the equipment. Huawei’s solar power solution wins To address these pain points, we provided a self-adaptive solar power solution. Best Energy Efficiency Solution The goal was to increase the use of solar power through self-adaptation and self-optimization. With this solution, Telefonica was able to make full use of Chile's abundant solar energy resources to reduce carbon emissions and lower OPEX. In November 2017, Huawei's solar power solution was awarded the Best Energy Efficiency Solution at the 8th Global Workshop on Energy and Climate Change held by Telefonica. Promoting the Development of the Smart PV Industry Using Innovative Technology With the help of Huawei, Huanghe Hydropower, a subsidiary of the State Power Investment Corporation, was among the first in the industry to adopt the Internet + PV model. We helped the customer build smart PV stations in Golmud and Gonghe County of Qinghai, as well as in Shaanxi Province and other places. These power plants combined generate power of 2 GW. The average power generation per plant increased by more than 2%. The State Power Investment Corporation will soon build the world's largest PV plant control center that will manage all PV plants through a central control interface. Enabled by digital technology, the control center makes intelligent O&M possible. With intelligent management, O&M efficiency can be improved by over 50% with much less or even no human intervention. As the first digital, intelligent, and centralized management platform for PV plants in China, it can shed light on the construction and operations of PV stations elsewhere in the world. Through joint innovation, Huanghe Hydropower and Huawei released smart diagnosis technology. Equipment using this technology can be used to precisely examine each string (set of solar cells or modules) online, and remotely perform comprehensive troubleshooting scans for PV plants to accurately locate PV string faults and find the root causes, greatly reducing O&M time and costs. In addition, the health of PV plants can be comprehensively evaluated to enable proactive detection of problems and preventive maintenance, ensuring long-term and efficient power generation for PV plants. This technology is a new testament to how intelligent and digital technologies can drive innovation in the PV field. Digital and smart PV power station Sustainable Products and Services 31 2.4 Cyber Security and Privacy Protection New technologies like cloud computing, the Internet of Things (IoT), big data, and 5G are improving our lives and also causing profound changes in the ICT industry. The ecosystem is opening up. Solutions are becoming more diverse. New services are going online faster than ever. These changes are making the digital economy more vibrant, but at the same time greater challenges relating to cyber security are emerging. At Huawei, we believe that new challenges are not an excuse for standing still. We should use more advanced technology to solve the problems that we face today, and use new security concepts and measures to address the challenges of new technology. We should build security through consumer businesses, to bolster the UNESCO headquarters in Paris. innovation, enhance security through emergency security response (e.g., At the event, Mr. Hu delivered a collaboration, and work together to building a vulnerability ecosystem and keynote highlighting the inherent build a digital world that we can trust. rapid recovery capabilities) and opportunities and challenges that This is our core approach to cyber ultimately reduce cyber security risks new technologies bring to cyber security at Huawei. for users security. He shared Huawei's cyber security concepts building security Huawei is actively strengthening its Active involvement in open source through innovation, enhancing competitive edge in cyber security to communities like helping improve security through collaboration, and create greater value for our customers. code security for the Linux open source jointly building trust in a digital In 2017, we again saw good results in community, and working with industry world. the development of international peers to launch the Open Security technical standards for security. Some Controller Project to centralize security In July 2017, Tobias Gondrom, Director of our achievements include: service orchestration for multi-cloud of the Security Solution Planning & environments. Architecture Design Department at Submitting 186 security standard Huawei, delivered a keynote titled proposals to 3GPP SA3 In addition to hands-on contributions, we Changing the game: Next-generation actively share our ideas and practices strategies protecting global IT Contributing technical proposals on regarding concepts, architecture, new systems against new fast evolving 5G security architecture technologies, and new solutions in cyber threats at the Gartner Security & Risk Participating in the development of security. Examples of these include: Management Summit. In his speech, security standards for southbound he shared Huawei's insight into cyber and northbound interfaces of SDN In February 2017, Huawei and the security threats that new technologies controllers and network-wide Spanish National Institute of Cyber bring, as well as Huawei's exploration defense standards at IETF Security (INCIBE) jointly released into intrusion-immune security the Building a Trusted and Managed architecture. Leading the development of IoT World white paper at the Mobile security specifications for cloud World Congress 2017 in Barcelona. In September 2017, we showcased operating systems at CSA. This white paper analyzes the the security capabilities of Huawei development of IoT security products and solutions at HUAWEI Huawei works closely with all of our technologies, summarizes IoT CONNECT 2017, including cutting stakeholders to improve security security practices, and proposes -edge security technologies. At the capabilities and address global multilayered end-to-end security event, Huawei also released two cyber security challenges. These assurance mechanisms for the IoT. white papers: Huawei Cloud initiatives include: Security and Huawei IoT Security. In April 2017, Ken Hu, Rotating CEO Continuously expanding cooperation We organized presentations and and Chairman of Huawei's Global with the security teams of leading discussions with the British Cyber Security and User Privacy global carriers Standards Institution (BSI), CSA, Protection Committee (GSPC), DarkMatter, and other third-party Introducing industry best practices attended the conference on organizations and customers on like DevSecOps to two new business Building International Peace security solutions for new business domains, our cloud service and andSecurity in the Digital Society at domains. Other topics which were 32 discussed include security massive potential of 5G security to In line with our in-house chip technologies like encrypted state provide protection for a wide variety business, we have built system search and trusted technology. of services. defense capabilities that combine software and hardware to improve In October 2017, Vladimir M. We are constantly building and the overall security and efficiency of Yordanov, a cyber security expert in improving upon our end-to-end cyber our systems. Huawei's Enterprise BG, delivered a security assurance system to ensure speech titled Building a Secure that all cyber security requirements are We use AI to significantly speed Internet of Things World: How effectively met across the company. upidentification and repair of Billions of Connected Devices Are Our GSPC is the company's highest vulnerabilities. We are also Transforming the Cybersecurity organization for managing cyber actively researching and deploying Landscape at the Information security and user privacy protection, anti-exploit technologies like Control Security Forum (ISF) annual and has been operating in this capacity Flow Integrity (CFI). congress in France. In his speech, for many years. We incorporate cyber Cloud services: Our cloud security he elaborated on Huawei's 3T+1M security management into our business service architecture includes security IoT security model (i.e., three layers processes to make it an integral part of services, security governance, and of key security technologies and our business activities. We specify the security engineering capabilities. We one layer of security management). cyber security responsibilities of each have also launched cutting-edge business department, and ensure that In November 2017, Huawei's Global full-stack security services, such as they have the right resources to fulfill Cyber Security & Privacy Officer those used for database security, these responsibilities. We continue to John Suffolk addressed the fifth which support features like sensitive improve our capabilities in end-to-end Global Conference on Cyberspace in data identification and dynamic cyber security R&D, security India. During his speech, he pointed anonymization. These help companies technology, cloud services, supply, and out new opportunities in the cyber meet compliance requirements when professional services. Building the security protection industry, noting moving their data and applications to security awareness of each and every that these opportunities are not just the cloud. employee is also a priority. about security management, but Supply chain also about design, architecture, and R&D: We have steadily strengthened monitoring. On the topic of In 2017, Huawei received Authorized the security engineering capabilities protecting critical information, Mr. Economic Operator (AEO) certification that we have developed over the Suffolk shared Huawei's cyber in 12 new countries and regions course of many years, including security strategy and Huawei's such as Canada, Hungary, Brazil, configuration management, code views about data security in the Turkey, and Hong Kong. We also compilation, open source and future, stressing the importance of received AEO certification in six third-party software management, governments working together to countries, including the US R&D tool management, and cleanse the digital world. (Customs-Trade Partnership traceability platforms. These capabilities are included in Huawei Against Terrorism, C-TPAT), Mexico In November 2017, Huawei attended products and solutions to bolster (NEEC, Mexico's equivalent of the Fourth MBB Cyber Security the security of customer systems. C-TPAT), China, and Malaysia, Mindshare Forum in London. At the among others. event, Huawei released two white Security technology: We continue papers: 5G Security Architecture We have made further improvements to increase investment in this White Paper and Top N Cyber in hardware and software domain. Security Threats for Mobile traceability. For hardware, we are Communications Networks and We continually develop and able to trace any replaceable Countermeasures. In these white strengthen fundamental capabilities components such as capacitors, papers, Huawei explained security that target vertical industries and IoT, diodes, and chips within 24 hours. architecture and new security including distributed digital identity For software, we have source features in 5G (e.g., scalable identity authentication and protocols for code-level tracking capabilities, and management, distributed identity lightweight transmission and can automatically trace all related authentication, and network slicing authentication. software versions within one hour. security) and showcased the Sustainable Products and Services 33 Professional services: We continue platform received certification for reinforce our engineering practices in to improve compliance and information security management security quality improvement, build delivery quality of our cyber from BSI and gold certification out a security system that optimizes security activities throughout the from the CSA Security, Trust & synergy between chips, devices, service delivery process. Assurance Registry (STAR). networks, and the cloud, and create an end-to-end chain of trust. Together Our global service centers in Security culture: Regular awareness with our customers, we will strengthen Romania, India, and Mexico training and education on cyber the application of big data and AI received ISO 27001 certification security and privacy protection is technology to build secure and for their information security conducted for all Huawei employees. trustworthy communications management systems. Fostering a company-wide climate networks. In addition, we will work and culture of cyber security Huawei’s Operation Web Services more closely with ecosystem partners awareness helps ensure that every (OWS) is an open, programmable, to cultivate a robust and sustainable employee accounts for cyber software-driven O&M platform security ecosystem that, with security and privacy protection in with micro-services architecture, combined strength, is better equipped their everyday work. aimed at managing networks in to address increasingly complex cyber real time and on-demand. The Moving forward, we will continue to security threats around the globe. 34 35 03 Sustainable Operations Caring for Employees Safe Operations Green Operations Sustainable Supply Chain Sustainable Operations 36 Overview Workforce Investment in Global Procurement of 932 million kWh of Electricity from Localization Rate Employee Benefits Clean Energy Sources We employed more than 35,000 Our 2017 investment in global We procured 932 million kWh of staff in countries outside employee benefits exceeded electricity from clean energy sources, China, with a localization rate CNY12.64 billion, an increase with carbon emissions reduction of nearly 70%. of 12% year-on-year. estimated at 450,000 tons. Passing ISO 50001 Building Solar Power Reduction in GHG Certification Stations Emissions Our Shenzhen campus We built solar power stations with In 2017, our CO2 emissions per passed the ISO 50001 total capacity of 19.3 MW in unit of sales revenue were 3.11 (an energy management Dongguan and Hangzhou. These tons per million RMB, 9.3% lower system standard) solar power stations generated than the benchmark year. certification. over 17 million kWh of electricity in 2017, equivalent to a reduction in CO2 emissions of over 15,000 tons. Global EHS Audits Managing a Responsible Global Supplier by Third Parties Cobalt Supply Chain Sustainability Conference In 2017, professional third We ran a survey of the cobalt We convened the 8th Huawei parties conducted EHS supply chain and released the Global Supplier Sustainability audits on more than 4,100 Huawei Statement on Responsible Conference under the theme sites worldwide. Cobalt Supply Chain. of CSR/Sustainability Creates Business Value , attracting over 210 supplier executives. 37 3.1 Caring for Employees Workforce development is a key issue that every company must address as it goes global. Specifically, the company must give employees equal access to learning and promotion, irrespective of their nationality, gender, age, race, or religion. The company also needs to increase its workforce localization and effectively select, deploy, develop, and retain talented staff to unlock their fullest potential. A positive workplace where employees can work in harmony and take good care of each other is also essential. By advocating proactivity, diversity, and openness, we are building a talent management system that promotes collaboration and shared success between Huawei and people who help us thrive. We face a more dynamic business environment today than ever before, and internal demands are growing in complexity. We need to open up the organization to outside talent, and explore ways to unite the world's most outstanding minds under a common purpose. We need to absorb the energy of the universe over a cup of coffee, and serve as the glue that unites the best minds in the world. Internally, we fast-track the promotions of strong performers and give them more growth opportunities. We also adopt different approaches for different groups of talent within the company, forming an integrated structure of commanders, experts, and professionals, each with their own unique purview. This will encourage our top performers to maximize contribution in their prime, in the roles that suit them most, and receive the greatest possible rewards in return. Workforce Diversification As of December 31, 2017, Huawei employed approximately Our employees come from 161 countries and regions. In China 180,000 staff in various business segments worldwide. In total, alone, our employees are from 38 ethnic groups. We have 45% of our employees – approximately 80,000 people – were launched many diversity initiatives geared toward nationality, involved in R&D. gender, age, race, and religion. We emphasize gender equality 1.70% in employment and prohibit gender bias in strict compliance with all applicable international conventions as well as local 27.59% laws and regulations. The ratio of our female employees has Below 30 30-50 remained stable over the past several years. We also prioritize 70.71% Over 50 the selection of female managers and help them advance their career. In 2017, women made up 7.32% of our management Age breakdown of workforce (2017) team. 78.9% 79.3% 79.8% 79.9% 79.9% 21.1% 20.7% 20.2% 20.1% 20.1% Male Fomale 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Gender composition of workforce (2013–2017) As a global company, we actively recruit staff from all over the 72% 71% 70% world to boost workforce localization. Hiring local employees enables us to better understand the unique culture of each country and region where we operate, while promoting local employment and economic growth. In 2017, Huawei employed more than 35,000 staff in countries outside China, with a localization rate of about 2015 2016 2017 70%*. Huawei's workforce localization rate (2015–2017) *Localization rate = Total number of employees hired overseas/Total number of employees working overseas x 100% Sustainable Operations 38 Growing Together with Our Employees Huawei maintains an open and inclusive environment than ever before and maximize contribution in the roles that approach as we welcome outstanding internal demands grew in complexity. suit them most, and receive the greatest talent from all domains. We believe that We fast-tracked the promotions of 4,500 possible rewards in return. growing human capital is more important top-performing employees and gave them more growth opportunities. In Practice makes perfect. To help than growing financial capital. Therefore, 2018, we will aim to bring that number employees grow their careers more we adopt a proactive, diverse, and open up to 6,000. Responsibilities and results, rapidly, in 2017 Huawei built two approach to talent. We consider talent to rather than seniority, are the basis of our practice bases in China – one in be a critical element that contributes to fast-track promotions. We take a Guangdong and another in Guizhou. our company's long-term success and practical approach, promoting people In these bases, employees learn how the driving force behind Huawei's based on the scope of their responsibilithings work in the field, how we create long-term development. We are building ties and the outcomes they produce. We value for customers, what services and an open talent mix to ensure that our will help improve their competency and solutions Huawei has, and what our talent grow together with the company qualifications. We will also adopt culture of customer-centricity is all for shared success. different approaches for different about. By immersing themselves in work We encourage fast-track promotions groups of talent within the company, and at these practice bases, employees are of outstanding employees. In 2017, we cultivate a fertile environment where better able to create value for customers faced a more dynamic business everyone can leverage their strengths, and rapidly foster their skills. Huawei's Songshan Lake practice base in Dongguan, Guangdong, China iLearningX – Our Next-generation Learning Platform We have developed and run the next-generation learning platform – iLearningX – on the Huawei Cloud and big data platforms, and adopted new approaches to training that combine desktop and mobile platforms. The iLearningX platform has been developed based on experience from advanced online learning platforms and offers powerful functionality for learning and improvement. Our aim is to deliver better digital learning experiences to our employees. During the development and operations of the iLearningX platform, our team made full use of the Huawei Cloud and the company's IT infrastructure to meet business needs from the front line. We adopted a digital mindset when developing products and services. In terms of learning methods, we have used Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) and Small Private Online Courses (SPOCs) to deliver a large number of high-quality training and practice sessions. In 2017, the iLearningX platform played a significant role in the training and practice of the Strategic Reserve. A total of 380 MOOC and SPOC classes were run on the platform, covering 13 domain tracks, 7 elite teams, and more than 300 courses across 48 learning curriculums. Last year, 34,000 people participated in courses through the platform, with an average of 109 minutes of learning per person. 39 Compensation and Benefits Huawei has a highly competitive compensation system. We regularly survey protect employees from trouble and compensation data, and adjust employee compensation based on survey results, difficulty. corporate performance, and individual performance when needed. There is no gender Our 2017 investment in global employee bias in our compensation standards. We employ a Contribute and Share bonus benefits exceeded CNY12.64 billion distribution system, which links employee bonuses to corporate, departmental, and (US$1.87 billion), an increase of 12% individual performance. In line with our corporate compensation policy, we review the year-on-year. bonus distribution plan each year and revise it as necessary. In 2017, we continued 12.64 implementing the Time-based Unit Plan (TUP) worldwide, granting time-based units 11.27 to employees so they can share in the benefits of Huawei's growth. 9.24 7.39 We have implemented an effective employee benefits system, which acts as an 6.3 umbrella to protect our employees. Employee benefits include three parts: social insurance, commercial insurance, and medical assistance. Apart from mandatory insurance plans, we offer every employee global accident insurance, critical illness insurance, life insurance, medical insurance, and business travel insurance, as well 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 as other forms of commercial insurance. We have also implemented medical Investment in global employee benefits assistance mechanisms to protect our employees under special circumstances. With from 2013 to 2017 (CNY billion) these three types of employee benefits, we are able to offer sufficient benefits to Natural disasters, critical illnesses, and deteriorating safety situations in certain regions could have considerable implications for employee health and safety. Huawei regards employee safety as a top priority, at all times and under all circumstances. We convey this principle to our employees, and collaborate with international insurance companies and emergency rescue institutions to offer 24/7 employee healthcare services all over the world. Emergency Medical Transport Huawei has established an Employee Health Coaching and Emergency Response Department. The department develops policies, standards, processes, and contingency plans for employee health coaching, insurance, and emergency response. It also identifies and assesses employee health risks, adheres to the principle of prevention first , and provides solutions to these risks. We have established long-term partnerships with qualified insurance suppliers, involving them in our health management. This is necessary for us to help constantly improve our employees' health. Huawei arranges a medevac flight to transfer an employee suffering a serious illness to another hospital Sustainable Operations 40 At the end of 2016, an expatriate in a country suffered a sudden serious illness, was unable to speak or walk, and ran a high fever. Due to the lack of medical resources in the country, the managers and colleagues of the representative office were very anxious and called the Employee Health Coaching and Emergency Response Department for help. After receiving the request, the department immediately coordinated efforts between the insurance company and a rescue agency. They arranged a medevac flight to transfer the employee to a hospital in Turkey where the employee could receive better medical care. After a week of treatment and with the kind care of local colleagues in Turkey, the employee's condition gradually stabilized. Subsequently, the company sent medical personnel to Turkey, bringing the employee back to China to continue treatment until recovery. Malaria Prevention and Control Pilot Project in Tanzania To create a healthy work environment for employees in hardship areas, Huawei teamed with insurance companies in 2017 to carry out a pilot project for malaria control in Tanzania. We arranged for professional medical personnel to assess the local environment, survey local medical institutions, and develop and implement malaria control solutions. We also provided training related to infectious diseases and first aid to more than 90% of local employees. This greatly improved employee health awareness and knowledge in this regard. Health and Stress Tests Employee health is always our top priority. Health and stress self-assessment is one of the many tools used to help employees assess their stress level. We encourage employees to assess their stress at least once a year. This enables employees to know better about their mental health, become aware of their own stress level, and make changes based on the assessment results. We are responsive to employees' requests and provide support and assistance as needed. The stress test has been positively received by employees for its professionalism, interesting forms of participation, and detailed analysis reports. 41 Creating a Favorable Workplace As a global company with a presence in and local governments, the media, and also require the same of our suppliers over 170 countries and regions, Huawei other external stakeholders. Our goal is and conduct regular audits to ensure has built a global value chain with the to become an innovative enabler of the their compliance. best resources from around the world. information society and a collaborative We respect the legal rights of our In every country and region, we operate industry contributor. employees with regard to freedom of in compliance with local laws and When it comes to employee recruitment, association and collective bargaining. regulations, and share value with our promotion, and compensation, we never We never prevent employees from global partners and customers. When discriminate against our employees on participating in the lawful activities of executing corporate human resource the basis of race, gender, nationality, registered labor unions as long as policies, as well as developing and age, pregnancy, or disability. We prohibit participation is voluntary and is not in implementing local regulations, we the use of forced, bonded, or indentured violation of local laws. We never harass, always keep in mind local laws, labor. We have detailed, equitable discriminate, coerce, or retaliate against regulations, and industry standards. regulations covering each major phase these employees. We also give special consideration to of an employee's relationship with the local customs and conventions. Our Employee Relationship Department company, including recruitment, has created communication channels We place significant emphasis on the employment, and exit. No incidents of to collect and understand employees' management and development of local forced labor have taken place over the opinions and suggestions. Employees hires. In addition to boosting the course of Huawei's history. can file complaints through channels operating efficiency of our local offices, We prohibit the use of child labor, and like complaint hotline of the Committee we support local communities by have effective polices and preventative of Ethics and Compliance (CEC) and HR creating jobs and paying taxes. Through measures in place to prevent the services complaint and suggestion smooth communication, we enhance recruitment and use of child labor. We hotline. mutual understanding between Huawei Release of Statement on Modern Slavery In 2017, Huawei released its Statement on Modern Slavery, stating its commitment to supporting the UK's Modern Slavery Act and ensuring there is no modern slavery within its supply chain or in any part of its business across the company. Huawei's Statement on Modern Slavery https://huawei.eu/sites/default/files/docs/Huawei_MSA%20Statement_Signed_June2017.pdf 42 3.2 Safe Operations Safety is the foundation for a company to sustain healthy business development. It should always be a top priority for each and every responsible corporate citizen. Every ICT company should emphasize both operational safety and the safety of in-house staff and contractors working in high-risk environments, especially during project delivery. Huawei EHS Guidelines: Safety First, Green Environment, Caring for Employees In all countries and regions where we operate, we implement In 2017, we continued to deploy and optimize our EHS an EHS management system and corporate-level global management system, with 74% of our representative offices accountability mechanism for safety incidents. We enforce our now certified for their occupational safety management. In line EHS Absolute Rules, and have moved the center of gravity of EHS with EHS-related laws and regulations, we further improved management down in the organization. We also cultivate a our EHS management system to mitigate EHS risks and meet robust safety-first culture. These actions enable us to customer requirements. We also enhanced cooperation with minimize safety risks and protect the health and safety of our professional EHS management enterprises and consultants to employees, contractors, and other stakeholders. We take EHS provide EHS training and conduct onsite assessment incidents very seriously. We have an IT platform for EHS incident worldwide. This helped us identify EHS risks in advance and management that enables incident reporting, investigation, and take preventive measures. In 2017, our regional offices from improvement. If an incident occurs, we follow it through until it Latin America and the Middle East to Southeast Asia improved is resolved and closed. We discipline managers who are involved their EHS systems by enhancing their EHS leadership and in EHS incidents with significant implications, and we also better managing subcontractors' EHS activities. These actions reward best practices in safety management. led to reduced EHS incidents. Continuous Improvement of the EHS Management System of Huawei's Latin American Regional Office In 2017, our Latin America Regional Office continued to pursue excellence in EHS and involved leaders from both subcontractors and Huawei in developing standards for the EHS management system. They implemented these standards from end to end, from guidelines, goals, plans, budget, and organization to resources. The regional office also measured and evaluated the performance of subcontractors based on data in IT systems, which helped us make better-informed decisions on rewards and penalties for subcontracting services. This initiative motivated subcontractors to continuously and effectively manage and improve their operations, and helped mitigate EHS risks and reduce EHS incidents. US Occupational Safety and Health Act training Sustainable Operations 43 Winning the Zero Accident Award in Indonesia On August 10, 2017, Maruli Apul Hasoloan, director general for labor supervision and health and work safety at Indonesia's Manpower Ministry, presented Huawei with a Zero Accident Award. The award is the country's highest accolade for EHS, and recognizes Huawei's consistent efforts on EHS. Huawei is the first ICT equipment vendor to receive it. The director general congratulated Huawei and said that he appreciated and thanked Huawei for The director general for labor supervision and its ongoing efforts in maintaining high EHS standards. health and work safety at Indonesia's Manpower Ministry presents an award to Huawei In 2017, we continued to build safety into Manufacturing Safety product design, improved our ability to work Huawei puts safety first and takes preventive measures. Our goal is to optimize the safely, and digitally managed sources of risks. Out ultimate goal is zero casualties. To that processes and technologies relating to safety and better manage manufacturing end, we continued to enhance our managesafety. We implemented multiple initiatives in 2017: ment of health and safety on delivery projects Upgraded the standards for design by safety to Version 3.0 to ensure that every person who works for Digitally managed sources of risks, and produced a digital map for the Huawei or our contractors is safe. Manufacturing Department Huawei incorporates EHS requirements into Implemented safety improvement plans with coaching from DuPont consultants all of our business processes. We put health and safety first in everything we do, and we are Continued to build a culture of safety, such as organizing Safe Manufacturing progressively improving the maturity of our Month and Electrical Safety Week EHS management system, as part of our Built safety training centers and provided training to increase expertise in safety commitment to sustainability. assurance work Digitally Managing Manufacturing Safety In 2017, Huawei continued to manage sources of risks in manufacturing with digital technologies and built an IT platform that monitors safety and gives alerts when identifying any sources of danger. Specifically, it provides the following functions: Real-time monitoring of toxic, hazardous, flammable, and explosive gases, as well as test systems with high voltage and high current Sending reminders to address significant hazards in everyday work, including maintenance, calibration, and replacement Online monitoring of dynamic sources of danger, such as hot work operations and working at heights Identification and closed-loop management of safety risks 44 Managing Project Delivery Safety In 2017, Huawei further integrated EHS requirements into business processes, and fostered EHS capabilities during project delivery. To prevent workplace accidents, we created scenario-specific EHS standards for business activities that involve high risk, and produced and implemented detailed rules. We also incorporated delivery EHS into our compliance management system, and developed tailored criteria for different countries. In addition, we stepped up efforts to manage delivery EHS from end to end, and reinforced compliance checks. An interactive IT platform was developed and launched to manage our delivery EHS. We used the ISDP-Smart QC mobile application to record and monitor worker violations. When we appraised contractor performance, we took the number of violations into account. We worked with third-party EHS audit agencies to conduct EHS audits on 4,144 sites in 130 countries and representative offices and pushed representative offices to make EHS improvement on their own. Strong EHS expertise is the key to improving delivery EHS management. Huawei has taken the following measures to develop its expertise in this regard: Released an EHS training video in multiple languages. The video covers driver safety, EHS risk assessment in field environment, working at heights, hoist safety, and electrical safety. A third-party auditor is having an onsite audit Managed EHS separately for tower workers and electricians using an IT platform. The number of certified personnel available on the Huawei's EHS self-management certification. platform has reached 34,000. More than 100,000 subcontractors Regularly communicated with customers about EHS have received Huawei's training certificate. issues, learned about customer requirements and Completed a pilot project for subcontractors managing EHS on their expectations for EHS, applied them to Huawei's EHS own in five representative offices in the Philippines, Thailand, Egypt, management practices, and continuously improved our Saudi Arabia, and the UAE. Seven subcontractors received Huawei's overall delivery EHS capabilities. Huawei-Vodafone Annual EHS Summit We communicate with customers about delivery EHS management on a regular basis. In 2017, Huawei and Vodafone held two EHS summits, during which we came to understand each other better and forged a closer partnership on EHS management. Such engagement allowed Huawei and our customer to deliver business and social value. Vodafone and Huawei representatives at an EHS summit Sustainable Operations 45 3.3 Green Operations Global demands for energy, water, and other resources are growing. Water, air, and soil pollution from human activities has affected our ecosystem. This has resulted in extreme weather and climate change, which in return poses risks to society. To support the achievement of the 2030 UN SDGs, all enterprises around the world need to face these pressing issues head-on, take measures to conserve energy, reduce emissions, and fight climate change. It's also important to minimize environmental pollution, and adopt new technologies to address environmental problems. Minimizing the environmental footprint of our operations is a long-term initiative at Huawei and we use a number of approaches to reduce our energy consumption and CO2 emissions. These include implementing an ISO 50001-based energy management system, launching energy conservation programs, making managerial and technological improvements, and utilizing clean and renewable energy. Our goal is to help fight climate change. Through operational and technological measures, we saved 33.57 million kWh of electricity in 2017. We also built solar power stations on our campuses, generating over 17 million kWh of electricity. These measures combined to reduce our CO2 emissions by more than 45,000 tons*. * This only includes statistics of Huawei campuses in China. Energy Consumption Statistics of Huawei's China Regional Office from 2013 to 2017 Energy Unit 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Natural gas 1,000 m 3 4,230 4,910 5,220 9,930 7,110 Gasoline Ton 1,668 390 363 358 600 Diesel Ton 60 46 41 116 256 Electricity Million kWh 940.82 1,133.25 1,347 1,686.53 2,070.95 Steam Ton 20,854 19,881 20,561 20,352 21,801 Water Ton 4,950,000 5,480,000 7,000,000 9,360,000 8,130,000 Building an ISO 50001-based Energy Management System Huawei has established an energy management system in accordance with the ISO 50001 standard and relevant laws and regulations. In 2017, our Shenzhen headquarters obtained an ISO 50001-based third-party certification. We continuously optimized our energy management system, making it more effective and energy efficient, with lower energy consumption. This was achieved through multiple initiatives, including routine monitoring of energy conservation, energy auditing, internal auditing, and upgrading to energy-efficient technologies. When our energy management system was being audited by a third party, we adopted 28 improvement measures, completed energy upgrading projects that saved 2.07 million kWh of electricity, and leveraged management approaches that saved 2.5 million kWh of electricity, equivalent to a carbon emissions reduction of over 3,965 tons. 46 Maximizing Energy Conservation with Big Data Analytics We have introduced third-party experts to assess energy efficiency on our Shenzhen and Dongguan campuses. In this pilot project, we identified 36 areas for improvement in energy-saving. In 2017, we improved on 22 areas. Specifically, we upgraded the chiller plants and cooling tower fans with variable-frequency drives in the air conditioning system, and analyzed the big data from the system to develop a mathematical model. By running virtual tests of energy savings, we were able to configure the building automation system for automatic maximum savings based on the conditions outside. Over the course of a year, this system saved 4.62 million kWh of energy, equivalent to a reduction in carbon emissions of 370 tons. Using big data analytics to maximize energy conservation of major systems Energy efficiency Huawei's Review of the Verification of energy assessment decision-making implementation solution saving results Decide on and Verify the Identify Propose Review Review the implement Support effectiveness Accounting systems with solutions for assessment technical managerial and energy of managerial for energy high energy energy reports along improvement technological metering measures in efficiency consumption conservation with experts solution measures energy saving Building More PV Plants on Our Campuses We use clean and renewable energy to build environmentally friendly campuses with low carbon emissions. Our Hangzhou Research Center and Southern Factory in Dongguan completed construction of their smart PV plants in June 2012 and March 2015 respectively and connected them to the grid. The two PV plants together have a capacity of 19.3 MW, and generate over 17 million kWh of electricity each year, equivalent to a reduction in CO2 emissions of over 15,000 tons. In 2017, Huawei continued to increase its investment in PV plants. Currently, the PV plant in Beijing Research Center is under construction. The project is planned to have a capacity of 771.3 kW, which will meet the majority of the energy needs of the research center. Project Name: Beijing Research Project Name: Hangzhou Research Total Copacity: 17.5 MW Center Smart PV plant Center Smart PV plant Overview of Huawei Southern 4 MW; connected to grid in June 2012; annual Capacity: 771.3 kW Capacity: 1.8 MW Factory Smart PV Plant electricity: 4 million kWh Status: Under construction Grid Connection: February 14, 2015 13.5 MW; connected to grid in March 2015 Beijing Research Center Nanjing Research Center Planning Xi'an Research Center Shanghai Suzhou Research Planning Research Center Wuhan Center Chendu Research Center Planning Research Center Hangzhou Research Center Planning Planning Planning Huawei Southern Factory Inverter Production Factory FusionSolar Cloud Management Certer To achieve Huawei's 2020 carbon emissions target, we launched a series of projects and activities aimed to save energy and reduce emissions in 2017. In addition to the initiatives mentioned above, we also renovated air-conditioning systems, upgraded light controls, and reduced energy consumption of our manufacturing and lab equipment. These measures created additional reductions in CO2 emissions of 26,000 tons. Sustainable Operations 47 Procuring Green Energy for Green Campuses As our business continues to grow, we have seen a significant increase in the electricity consumption of our labs and data centers. To reduce operating expenses and use clean energy more efficiently, we engaged in in-depth discussions with our electricity suppliers, and worked to encourage them to sign an agreement with a gas power plant that has installed clean energy capacity. The supplier ended up getting 932 million kWh of electricity from clean energy sources, all of which will be supplied to Huawei in 2018. Huawei obtained a statement on reducing GHG emissions from a third party certification organization, saying our carbon emissions reduction is estimated to reach 450,000 tons. 2017 GHG Emissions In 2017, the GHG emissions of our China Region GHG Scope 1 Scope 2 Total operations totaled 1,876,496 tons, an increase of Emissions approximately 18.4% from 2016. 35,157 1,841,339 1,876,496 (t-CO2e) This increase is attributable to two factors. First, our Proportion 1.87% 98.13% 100% business grew significantly, with annual revenue increasing to US$92.5 billion, up 23% from 2016. Notes: Scope 1 includes stationary combustion emissions, mobile combustion emissions, and Second, we expanded our building facilities. fugitive emissions. Scope 2 includes indirect emissions from energy. Huawei's carbon emissions target for 2020: Reduce carbon emissions per unit of sales revenue by 30% compared to the benchmark year (2012) by 2020. In 2017, our CO2 emissions per million RMB of sales revenue were 3.11 tons, 9.3% lower compared to the benchmark year. Unit: ton 1,876,496 Unit: ton/million RMB 1,585,369 1,272,553 1,071,833 901,084 3.77 3.71 3.22 3.11 3.04 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total GHG emissions from 2013 to 2017 Intensity of GHG emissions from 2013 to 2017 Introducing New Energy Shuttle Buses for Green Commutes Huawei encourages our service providers to reduce energy consumption and emissions. In 2017, Huawei introduced 125 shuttle buses running on renewable energy to replace the diesel engine buses serving our Shenzhen and Beijing campuses. This helped cut CO2 emissions by 5,062 tons each year. We will gradually increase the proportion of shuttle buses running on new energy, making green commute for employees a reality and reducing carbon emissions. We replace our former diesel-powered vehicles with new energy buses 48 Sustainable Design to Build Energy-efficient and Green Campuses Huawei builds sustainability into campus design at the very outset, aiming to build energy-efficient and green campuses. We used dynamic thermal simulations to optimize the thermal performance of walls, doors, windows, roofs, and building foundations, as well as the design and control of air conditioning systems. We have made full use of passive design, such as natural ventilation and natural lighting. With equipment performance and cost into consideration, we have also deployed new energy-saving equipment and designs, including low radiation glass, double-skin facade, fresh air heat recovery units, chillers with variable-frequency drives, on-demand air supply and air conditioner box control, as well as occupancy sensing lighting systems and equipment. We also deployed metering and monitoring instruments to collect data. Specifically, we have installed cold and hot water heat meters, as well as sensors to collect data about electricity, temperature, humidity, flow, and pressure. These sensors have enabled us to monitor the running data of air conditioners, lighting systems, and chiller plants in real time, and frequently collect and archive important parameters. We also track important energy efficiency indicators, such as the coefficient of performance (COP) of chiller plants, cold and hot water consumption per unit of building area, and power usage effectiveness (PUE) of data centers. Huawei's New Songshan Lake Campus (concept image) Sustainable Operations 49 3.4 Sustainable Supply Chain Awareness is growing for issues including the protection of labor rights, human rights, consumer rights and benefits, and the sustainability of supply chains. As a responsible corporate citizen, we invest to ensure the impact of our supply chain is positive for local economies, the environment, and society. We are also concerned about supply availability and risks, and the overall compliance and sustainability of our suppliers. Sustainability is now recognized as an important strategic objective of both buyers and sellers in the supply chain. We have more broadly implemented our Quality Supplier Risk Rating and Auditing First strategy. As a key element of our Quality First strategy, sustainability was assigned Every year, we audit suppliers, which combined represent 90% of our procuregreater weight during our materials and supplier ment spending, and assign them one of three priority levels: high, medium, and qualification, performance appraisals, and low based on sustainability risk. On this basis, a list of suppliers which require procurement decision-making. We strengthened particular attention is drawn up. In 2017, we audited 1,088 suppliers with cooperation in sustainability with customers, respect to sustainability risks, and conducted onsite audits on 117 suppliers suppliers, and industry organizations. We also of high-and medium-priority. employed procurement quotas as a tool to help suppliers become more sustainable. All these Supplier ratings (2014 to 2017) efforts enabled us to minimize supply risks, 1500 increase customer satisfaction, and boost the 966 competitiveness of the supply chain. 1000 797 857 666 High-priority suppliers 500 Medium-priority suppliers New Supplier Qualification 20 67 14 59 14 67 28 94 Low-priority suppliers 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 To be eligible to work with Huawei, our suppliers must be able to comply with applicable laws, regulations, and Huawei's Supplier Sustainability Number of suppliers audited onsite (2014 to 2017) Agreement. We developed this agreement based on the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA), 100 89 formerly the Electronic Industry Citizenship 67 59 Coalition (EICC), Code of Conduct (Version 6.0), 50 39 High-priority suppliers and guidelines from Joint Audit Cooperation (JAC). 28 Medium-priority suppliers 20 14 14 We have a comprehensive qualification process 0 for all new suppliers, including suppliers' 2014 2015 2016 2017 sustainability systems. This qualification process examines suppliers' capacity and their If we discover a problem during an audit, we help the supplier analyze root compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and causes, identify ways to mitigate the issue, and take targeted actions using the Supplier Sustainability Agreement. Those who Huawei's Check, Root Cause, Correct, Prevent, and Evaluate (CRCPE) fail the qualification for sustainability systems cannot be deemed qualified suppliers. methodology. All problems are recorded in Huawei's Supplier Corrective Action Requirement (SCAR) system for follow-up until closure. We are always Number of qualified new suppliers ready to help our suppliers improve. (2014 to 2017) 120 110 Problems discovered during 2017 supplier audits 100 76 80 250 230 56 57 216 60 197 200 187 174 40 150 145 20 100 77 66 63 59 0 50 46 2014 2015 2016 2017 50 0 m or kin e an nt s d h afe ea ty lth gh ou In 2017, we reviewed 76 potential suppliers in Fi re co nt sa rs a la nd rie s M an ag em ro ls af et y en ts ys te m Free do Ch em ica ls s an m d c of om as a fe ty terms of their sustainability performance, and Do m soc rm un ia ica tio tio n n ito ca esri ui p Ch ild an En du nt an nd ee d erns la age bo vir r Eq W pr mon ot en ec ta tio l 17 suppliers that failed the review were denied Bu sin es se n Fo rc th ics Di pu scri ni mi tiv na ed la bo r e m ti o ea n a su nd re s the opportunity to cooperate with Huawei. Note: During supplier audits in 2017, we did not discover any instances of child labor or forced labor. 50 Supplier Performance Management We appraise suppliers' sustainability Supply Chain Social Responsibility procurement and more business performance annually based on their Management System Guidance. opportunities, while the reverse is true work performance, onsite audit results, Suppliers are classified into four for low-performing suppliers, especially and improvements over the previous grades (A, B, C, and D) based on their those who have crossed the line we draw year. The sustainability performance of performance. These grades represent for CSR. Depending on the situation, we a supplier accounts for 5–15% of their their performance in descending order instruct low-performing suppliers to fix overall performance assessment. of acceptability. In 2017, we appraised existing issues within a specified When we appraised the sustainability the sustainability performance of timeframe and may even terminate 1,230 suppliers. business relationships with suppliers performance of tier-1 suppliers in 2017, we took into account how they The amount of business we do with that display exceptionally poor managed their tier-2 suppliers. We each supplier depends on their performance. In 2017, we restricted the encouraged our tier-1 suppliers to performance, which is also a factor tendering rights or reduced the quotas gradually establish a procurement CSR considered in our tendering, supplier of three suppliers as a result of poor management system and regularly selection, portfolio management, and sustainability performance. appraise the sustainability performance other processes. Suppliers that perform of tier-2 suppliers in line with the IPC-1401 well are given a larger share in Supplier Capability Development We provide training and coaching for suppliers on a regular basis. We also encourage them to embed sustainability into their business strategies, helping them reduce business risks and enhance operating efficiency. Benchmarking the company against industry leaders and learning best practices are low-cost and efficient ways for capability development. In July 2017, to address the popular topic amongst suppliers of how to ensure factory safety, Huawei invited industry experts to a dedicated workshop involving representatives from 50 suppliers. We shared best practices in electrical fire detection, chemical safety management, risk assessment, and root cause analysis. Representatives of suppliers at the security workshop Global Supplier Sustainability Conference In September 2017, Huawei convened its 8th Global Supplier Sustainability Conference. The event attracted 210 attendees from 75 suppliers, and representatives from our customers such as BT, Deutsche Telekom, Vodafone, and other organizations such as China's Ministry of Industry and Information Technology (MIIT), China Association of Communication Enterprises, and the Association Connecting Electronics Industries (IPC). Chairman of Huawei's CSD Committee is addressing the conference The theme of the conference was Sustainability Creates Business Value . The Chairman of Huawei's CSD Committee addressed the conference, noting that sustainability is an important part of Huawei's 'Big Quality' strategy. We have embedded sustainability into our Quality First strategy to effectively support our business success. Sustainability is a basic requirement of our customers. We view sustainability as an integral attribute of our products and the manufacturing process. We have integrated sustainability into our value chain to make our products and solutions more competitive. Sustainable Operations 51 Deepening Cooperation with Customers and Industry Organizations We see sustainability as a key customer requirement, and embed it into our procurement strategies and processes. We work closely with customers on supplier management. For example, we invite customers to visit supplier facilities, conduct joint supplier audits with customers, and carry out employee surveys and supplier capacity building projects. All these efforts increase transparency across our supply chain and help improve our own sustainability. In 2017, Huawei and four customers ran onsite audits on eight suppliers, and we shared the audit results with the customers. Driving Suppliers to Improve Through JAC In 2017, Huawei designated four suppliers to participate in JAC joint auditing, with expert groups from a third-party auditing firm carrying out onsite audits. The auditing experts and customers expressed satisfaction with the results of the audits on the four suppliers. In particular, the suppliers were found to have incorporated CSR requirements into their internal operations. By making CSR improvements, the suppliers enhanced internal operating efficiency, customer satisfaction, and employee satisfaction. Suppliers were given a high score for their quick Huawei and representatives of award-winning suppliers and effective improvements in the JAC auditing, and were recommended at the JAC CSR Forum by two of our customers to attend the JAC CSR Forum held in Guangzhou in January 2018. In 2017, JAC launched the JAC Academy project, and provided training to suppliers on auditing methods, so that they can audit their own suppliers using the JAC method. JAC also established a platform whereby suppliers can share knowledge and best practices. Huawei fully supported the JAC Academy project, participated in project design, and shared our best practices in procurement CSR management system, onsite audits, and CRCPE. We are enhancing cooperation with industry organizations, and promoting industry standardization as well as the development of a As a major supplier to DT we very much market-driven green supply chain: The IPC-1401 Supply Chain Social value our work in partnership with Huawei Responsibility Management System Guidance, an international to deliver award winning approaches to standard whose development was led by Huawei, was released in ensuring our supply chains operate to the 2017. The Manufacturer Green Supply Chain Management Guideline (GB/T33635-2017), a Chinese national standard developed with highest possible levels of sustainability. Huawei as one of the core contributors, was released in 2017. We have forged a true partnership in areas such as our supplier development program and look forward to continuing this close relationship as we scale the approach across the industry. Birgit Klesper Senior Vice President Group Corporate Responsibility, Deutsche Telekom Environmental Protection and Energy Conservation Through Suppliers Since 2011, Huawei has been a member of the Green Choice Alliance, which was established by the Institute of Public and Environmental Affairs (IPE), a non-governmental organization. We have added the IPE's enterprise environmental data to our supplier audit list and supplier self-checklist. When query results show that a supplier violates environmental rules, Huawei immediately asks them to solve the problems within a designated timeframe. In 2017, routine queries about the environmental data of 500 key suppliers revealed 19 violations of environmental protection rules, and these violations were properly addressed. Together with the IPE, we audited three suppliers onsite and requested that they make improvements to meet our requirements within a predefined timeframe. On the IPE's 2017 Greening the Global Supply Chain – Corporate Information Transparency Index (CITI), Huawei was scored as the leading Chinese company and ranked 6th in the ICT sector. 52 We encourage our suppliers to develop energy CO2 Emissions Reduction Year Number of Suppliers metering systems, audit their energy usage, (Ton) identify opportunities to reduce energy use and 2013 4 23,839 CO2 emissions, study industry-leading practices 2014 20 53,652 and case studies, and develop and implement their 2015 35 77,144 own energy conservation and emissions reduction plans. In 2017, a total of 25 suppliers took part in 2016 20 55,000 our program, together reducing CO2 emissions by 2017 25 63,000 63,000 tons. Prohibiting the Use of Conflict Minerals Huawei takes the problem of conflict minerals very seriously, and has released an open statement announcing that we will not procure or support the use of conflict minerals. We require all suppliers to not procure conflict minerals. We also ask our suppliers to cascade this requirement to their suppliers. Through the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI), formerly the Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI), we work with companies around the world to jointly address this problem, using the CFSI conflict mineral questionnaire and the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas to survey the supply chain and share results with our customers. In 2017, we shared the survey results with 15 customers. We are also an active participant in the projects of multiple industry organizations, seeking to jointly work out viable solutions to conflict mineral issues. Huawei Statement on Conflict Minerals: http://www.huawei.com/en/about-huawei/declarations/statement-on-conflict-minerals As more cobalt is used in lithium-ion batteries in recent years, responsible management of the cobalt supply chain is attracting wider attention. Huawei attaches great importance to ethical procurement in the cobalt supply chain. In May 2016, Huawei joined the Responsible Cobalt Initiative (RCI) as one of the first core members. We are committed to driving the gradual resolution of CSR issues in the cobalt supply chain, through collaboration with upstream and downstream players, and with governments and non-governmental organizations. Huawei is active in RCI activities and proactively works to fulfill its obligations for responsible management. In 2017, Huawei released the Huawei Statement on Responsible Cobalt Supply Chain, stating our responsibility, action plan, and goals on the achievement of a responsible cobalt supply chain. http://www.huawei.com/en/about-huawei/declarations/statement-on-responsible-cobalt-supply-chain Our Huawei Supplier Social Responsibility Code of Conduct includes guidelines on responsible cobalt management, and specifies that our suppliers must engage in due diligence in cobalt management. http://www.huawei.com/cn/sustainability/win-win-development/develop_supplychain/huawei-supplier-social-responsibility-code-of-conduct We have recently completed a series of surveys into the cobalt supply chain of lithium-ion battery suppliers, and these results will inform future targeted initiatives. As a founding member of the RCI, Huawei actively fulfills its social responsibilities and attaches great importance to the responsible management of the cobalt supply chain. In 2017, Huawei released the Huawei Statement on Responsible Cobalt Supply Chain and Huawei Supplier Social Responsibility Code of Conduct, stating its commitment to building a responsible cobalt supply chain, and building responsible management into its procurement. We expect Huawei to become an industry benchmark, and leverage its influence to urge and support suppliers to manage their operations more responsibly. Through RCI initiatives, we will continue to support the achievement of RCI objectives and actions, and help build a greener, more inclusive, and more responsible supply chain. Sun Lihui Sponsor and Chairman of RCI Sustainable Operations 53 26 54 04 A Sustainable World Bridging the Digital Divide Supporting Stable Network Operations Supporting Local Communities Overview RuralStar Offers a WTTx Makes Breakthrough for Broadband Affordable Smart City Solution Remote Communities for All Huawei has worked with 12 WTTx helps resolve last-mile Huawei's Smart City operators in eight countries and access issues encountered when solutions have been deployed regions, including Thailand, Ghana, using traditional fixed-line in more than 120 cities in Nigeria, and Mexico, to deploy the solutions in both densely populated over 40 countries and RuralStar 2.0 solution, providing urban centers, and sparsely regions. mobile coverage for rural areas and populated rural areas. It helps cut driving economic growth. connectivity costs by 75%. Guaranteeing Network Supporting Stable Huawei ICT Academy Availability During Major Network Operations Events and Natural Disasters Over 55,000 students from 58 In 2017, Huawei supported the Huawei guaranteed network countries and 11 regions have stable operations of over 1,500 availability during nearly 200 participated in this program, and networks. major events and natural more than 12,000 students have disasters such as the passed Huawei's certification. earthquake in Mexico and the annual Hajj in Saudi Arabia. Corporate Social Community Support Seeds for the Future Responsibility Programs Program Campaign of the Year In 2017, Huawei organized more As of the end of 2017, Huawei's Huawei's Seeds for the Future than 200 community support Seeds for the Future program has program won the Corporate programs in over 100 countries had participants from 108 Social Responsibility Campaign and regions. countries and regions, helping of the Year at the 12th cultivate ICT talent for local CommsMEA Awards ceremony communities. held in the UAE. 56 4.1 Bridging the Digital Divide Digital technologies are valuable because they create new opportunities to connect, to inspire, to communicate, to educate, and to change the world. Universal access offers an unprecedented opportunity to revolutionize social development, improve lives, and stimulate economic growth. Huawei has always invested in innovation to achieve technological breakthroughs that make connectivity easier, simpler, and more cost-effective. We work with our customers to deploy those solutions in a way that transforms lives every day around the world. We support the deployment of ICT infrastructure across the globe, because we believe it will result in greater economic, social, and environmental prosperity. Working Together to Contribute to Sustainable Development Goals Huawei is committed to bringing digital to the Internet by the end of 2019. further by low levels of digital literacy to every person, home, and organization However, this leaves 3.8 billion people and a lack of applications that provide for a fully connected, intelligent world. In unconnected, along with 870 million relevant services, both of which are 2017, more than 450 million people who do not own mobile phones. needed to drive demand. These factors were connected to mobile Internet, and Furthermore, the pace of connecting slow network growth. more than 30 million families had people has begun to slow. Uneven access to the digital economy access to broadband services. The simple fact is that many people live exacerbates economic and social According to the Broadband in areas that are unserved or inequality. For digital to benefit Commission for Sustainable underserved by ICT infrastructure. This everyone, everywhere, this divide needs Development, half of the world's is driven in a large part by associated to be closed. population is expected to be connected costs. The problem is exacerbated In 2017, Huawei's R&D expenditures totaled CNY89.69 Connecting the Unconnected and Allowing More billion, accounting for 14.9% of our annual revenue. In People to Enjoy the Digital Dividend total we have spent more than CNY394 billion on R&D Access to the Internet has the potential to boost growth, over the past decade. By investing in innovation and expand economic opportunities, and improve access to building up our operations in 170 countries and regions, services. Therefore, by connecting the unconnected we can Huawei is able to work with its partners to overcome accelerate progress to end extreme poverty and promote these inequalities and help complete this unfinished shared prosperity. task. The digital economy is growing 10% a year, significantly The following section shows how Huawei overcame this faster than the global economy as a whole. To make sure challenge in 2017 by providing basic connections, everyone benefits, network coverage needs to be extended broadband connections, and applications that drive to the 3.8 billion people that still lack Internet access. demand and transform lives, and ICT education and skills. Communications for All According to International Telecommunication Union (ITU), more than 87% of the world's population is now within range of a mobile signal, and 55% within range of a 3G network. Among the world's poorest 20% of households, nearly 7 out of 10 have a mobile phone – more households in developing countries own a mobile phone than have access to electricity or clean water. However, there is still up to half a billion people unconnected to any form of telecommunications and these people are disproportionately located in developing countries. Huawei understands this challenge and our technologies can enable the A Sustainable World 57 widest possible coverage through high power and more targeted transmission. Huawei also integrates multiple technologies such as cellular, WiFi, and microwave, to make deployment both faster and cheaper. Affordability is critical if we are to bridge the digital divide. We continuously pursue innovation in network technologies to adapt to the needs of emerging economies and demanding geographies so all people can be within range of a mobile signal. High CAPEX High OPEX Durability High modularity Huawei's solutions Low energy costs Civil work and site construction Difficult to visit rural sites. High fuel improve costs are high. Barriers for costs and transmission rental fees Low cost of repairs efficiency O investment TC Lengthy construction Long payback period High level of flexibility Low replacement costs Average revenue per user is low. Low maintenance costs Long time to build rural sites. Traditional site payback period can Challenging logistics. be over 6 years. High production output Huawei's innovations help overcome the challenges of rural coverage RuralStar Offers a Breakthrough for Remote Communities Huawei's RuralStar 2.0 solution was user can be as low as US$1 to US$3 coverage up to 60 kilometers from launched in 2017 to reduce rural in remote areas, much less than in existing macro sites. coverage costs. It is specifically urban areas. These numbers make it In the Democratic Republic of the designed to provide both 2G voice, hard for carriers to justify a business Congo, a RuralStar site deployment SMS, and mobile money services as case for expanding network coverage took only eight days – less than 60% well as 3G broadband data services in rural areas. Carriers face many of the time taken for previous towers for rural communities. With low challenges like difficulty in providing and at a third of the cost. In Ghana, power consumption, easy transmission or backhaul to sites, local villagers used to climb to installation, and innovative high civil construction costs, lack of rooftops and trees, or even ride a technologies (including battery stable power supplies, and long dozen kilometers to find telephone technology) and tower design, it deployment time. Investment in signals. RuralStar has addressed shortens the payback period for traditional network deployment can these issues. Villagers can now use carriers to less than five years and therefore take over 10 years to WhatsApp to communicate and promotes rural network construction recoup, if it is recouped at all. This share pictures at home and transfer in emerging markets. So far, the makes carriers reluctant to invest money and recharge phone accounts solution has been successfully and requires large subsidies from through Mobile Money. deployed by 12 carriers in eight governments. countries and regions, including Thanks to RuralStar, tens of millions For users, RuralStar can provide 2G, Thailand, Ghana, Indonesia, Nigeria, of previously unconnected people 3G, or 4G rural mobile broadband and Mexico. will now be able to access mobile providing rates of over 10 Mbps at networks for the first time and enjoy The cost of building and operating cell edges with a coverage of three to mobile technology. traditional rural network macro sites five kilometers, more than enough is high, much higher than in urban for most small rural villages. areas, and the average revenue per RuralStar can extend 2G and 3G 58 Cost decrease Transmission Transmission 70% Satellite communications 15% /Microwave à Relay Infrastructure CAPEX Infrastructure Tower à Pole 55% Power consumption Energy Diesel generator à Solar 20% Other Other Huawei's RuralStar solution in Ghana RuralStar Transforms Remote Communities Duse is a remote town in Northeast Kenya with an estimated population of 3,000 people. Before RuralStar was deployed, it had no communication network. People had to walk 20 kilometers to the next town to use the Internet. Literacy levels were low, and security was a challenge. Huawei and Connectivity for the first time in Duse Village, Kenya its customer, Safaricom, installed RuralStar in 2017 and brought 2G and Public security has now improved. Better education: Duse primary 3G communications to Duse for the Incidents can be reported quickly school has 320 students and eight first time. Within two months there and the Kenya Police Reserve and teachers. According to the head were 556 users, of which 95 were using Administration Police can teacher, attendance has improved smartphones to access 3G broadband. mobilize faster whenever clashes because of improved security within The effect was transformational. are reported. They can now access the village. Teachers with Better healthcare: People can now online information, monitor smartphones have been able to call for ambulance services, and events, and submit reports more access information online, show nurses who work at the local quickly. videos and other content to students dispensary can now access online to aid their teaching, and stay up to health information to help treat Better services: M-PESA from date with government notices. their patients. Previously they had Safaricom, which is Kenya's most popular mobile money service and Whilst other challenges associated to travel 20 kilometers to the runs on Huawei technology, with the digital divide remain, such as nearest phone booth to place became accessible for the first improving basic knowledge and skills orders for new medicines. Now time. Villagers and shopkeepers to access mobile services, Duse they can do this whenever can use their phones to securely witnessed real improvement in supplies run low. and conveniently save and store villagers' lives because of RuralStar. Better security: Villagers reported money, trade goods, re-stock their We believe this experience is security as a serious problem with stores, and sell their products. important and can be replicated bandit raids all too common. throughout the world. 59 Broadband for All According to the World Bank, a 10% leverage existing network and public Africa, and Sri Lanka, wireless to the x increase in broadband penetration assets to unleash site potential, and (WTTx) has provided the most boosts average GDP by 1.3% and job maximize spectrum efficiency. cost-effective home broadband creation by up to 3%. However, 6 billion services available. Over the course of a These solutions are already delivering people lack access to high speed single year, broadband connections are tangible benefits for carriers in Internet and 3.8 billion have no Internet provided for 10% and 5% of households emerging markets. CloudAIR spectrum access at all. in Mongolia and Morocco respectively. cloudification technology has helped Huawei works with customers to offer maximize spectrum efficiency in India Mobile phones still provide the main end-to-end solutions, so broadband and Thailand. Unlike traditional form of Internet access in developing networks can continue to expand and spectrum sharing solutions, CloudAIR countries. Affordable, high-quality close these gaps. Our solutions offers spectrum cloudification to allow devices are critical infrastructure and include submarine networks, different radio access technologies we provide a wide range of products at backhaul networks, backbone (RATs) to dynamically share spectrum different prices for all types of users. In networks, fixed networks, and mobile resources. This solution enables faster 2017, we shipped over 153 million networks, as well as the software that deployment of 3G and 4G networks and phones. We also worked to extend enables them all. Their primary value unleashes pent-up demand for battery life which is essential in many is to increase the efficiency of network network services. places without convenient access to operation and maintenance, make power supplies. In Mongolia, the Philippines, South broadband deployment faster, fully WTTx Makes Broadband Affordable for All Huawei's WTTx broadband solution allows for wide network coverage and fast deployment, helping carriers shorten their network deployment time and reduce network construction costs. WTTx reduces costs by 60% relative to that of fixed broadband networks. It doesn't require digging, trenching, or pole installations. Short time-to-market is another hallmark of WTTx, especially for mobile carriers. Launching WTTx typically only takes a few months. This helps resolve last mile access issues encountered using traditional fixed-line solutions in both densely populated urban centers, and sparsely populated rural areas. ITU statistics show that 148 countries around the globe have proposed national broadband strategies to enhance broadband penetration rates and Internet experiences. Many carriers in sub-Saharan Africa consider WTTx a top priority. They provided WTTx broadband access to over one million households in 2017. WTTx enabled connectivity can potentially be 75% cheaper and rolled out 90% faster than fixed-line deployments, cutting the payback period for carriers to less than two years. In developed countries, wired broadband penetration rates are high; however, suburbs often lack wired broadband networks due to feasibility and cost. Other users may also need a boost in broadband speeds. As a result, governments there also encourage carriers to provide WTTx in suburbs to promote universal access services and improve user experience. Huawei has deployed WTTx in Japan, Australia, Europe, and North America. Huawei is focused on meeting the ITU's Connect 2020 target of ensuring 50% of households in the developing world are able to access the Internet by 2020. The global success of our innovative WTTx solution has helped our customers expand their networks in a profitable way. We believe this technology is expected to play a key role in meeting the ITU's target. A Sustainable World 60 New Partnerships to Make Use of Existing Infrastructure Huawei works with industry partners in New site alliances reduce site acquisition costs completely new ways, shortening the payback period for carriers and driving further investment in network construction. Huawei helps carriers use existing infrastructure to build site ecosystems and works with partners to improve infrastructure collaboration. In 2017, Huawei helped establish over 30 site alliances to help carriers maximize the efficiency of their investment in infrastructure. Some examples are shown in the figure on the right. Lamp pole-mounted sites Garage sites Supermarket sites Applications for All Many people remain unconnected Huawei's innovative efforts as we believe communication technologies and because they do not see a need to applications can result in fast and open exchange of data, which is key to building access digital information. ICT better cities. applications must create value. This All of these solutions bridge the digital divide because they enable far greater drives demand for data and levels of social inclusion and economic participation. These applications can lead incentivizes further investment in to significant improvements in human wellbeing and quality of life in a way that expanding network infrastructure and was not previously possible without digital networks. quality. Huawei works with its customers to unlock the potential of digital solutions. Sustainable Development and the Cloud These innovations offer users access to The cloud will provide the digital infrastructure of tomorrow. It offers a world vastly improved healthcare, education, rich in benefits. From smart transportation, driverless cars and drone taxis, transportation, utilities, public safety, trains and subways, to farms and energy networks – all will be safer and energy, finance, and more that can better managed, thanks to the cloud's ability to store and analyze data. transform their lives and their The cloud is not just for business though. With cloud technology, many communities. For example, Huawei's barriers to education, healthcare, clean energy, and communication will fall Mobile Money solution drives financial away. The cloud will spread the benefits of connectivity. By doing so, it will inclusion. Mobile Money can facilitate also help empower marginalized communities, such as the unemployed, basic banking transactions and drive women, and rural residents, by giving them access to better services. inclusive financial services in unbanked rural areas. Many of these applications rely on the enabling power of Huawei's cloud technology and services. By providing the computing power to convert data In 2017, we explored how ICT-enabled into insight, Huawei's cloud innovations will help tackle hard problems like education can improve access and sustainability, education, healthcare, and more. quality of learning in Asia. Smart city has also become a key focus of Reimagining Education with Cloud Technology Huawei has invested resources in developing education solutions (see the figure below). More and more colleges and universities are integrating Huawei's cloud computing technologies and building next-generation, intelligent campus networks and large-scale data centers for teaching and research applications. Primary and high schools are increasingly utilizing Huawei's resource sharing platforms to enable school-to-school, class-to-class, and person-to-person connectivity. 61 The use of these technologies will play a crucial role in providing new and innovative support to teachers, students, and the learning process as a whole. With globalization, digital transformation, and increasing demand for a highly skilled workforce, countries are increasingly prioritizing education. Huawei is committed to creating the best tools to increase the efficiency of education systems. Improved educational equality: education MAN solution Cloud MOOC Distance eSchoolbag eLibrary eManagement Connects schools and institutions platform education Transmits different services through Education cloud platform different VPN tunnels for security isolation Internet Leading teaching research: Smart cloud Private agile campus network solution network education Data Security/ network center Privacy center Enables learning anytime, anywhere Delivers future-proof experience Eliminates information silos using ubiquitous access technology Cloud terminal Unlimited sharing: Multimedia Interactive cloud data center network solution Office Library Playground classroom classroom Supports infinite expansion and sharing Education cloud network promotes education model innovation of big data Provides open interfaces for service integration Education promotes equality and lifts people out of poverty. It teaches children how to become good citizens. Education is not just for a privileged few; it is for everyone. It is a fundamental human right. —Ban Ki-moon, 8th Secretary-General of the United Nations. Role of ICT in Driving Education Development As of December 2017, the global population is estimated to be 7.6 billion with almost a quarter under the age of 18. ICT solutions will be critical to achieving SDG 4 (Ensure inclusive and quality education for all and promote lifelong learning). Together with CSR Asia, a leading Asia-based consultancy, Huawei prepared a whitepaper to explore the potential of ICT in China and the Southeast Asia region. In the whitepaper, we call for a re-imagining of learning experiences with ICT to provide universal access to a quality education. The whitepaper maps out a number of education opportunities that could benefit from digital solutions, including the provision of specialized learning methods for vulnerable people, improving the quality of education systems, and enabling lifelong learning by creating flexible learning spaces, such as interactive websites, chat rooms, web-based courses, and online libraries. Link to the whitepaper: http://www.huawei.com/~/media/CORPORATE/PDF/Sustainability/huawei-csr-asiawhite-paper-february-2017 A Sustainable World 62 Smart Cities Drive Sustainability According to the World Bank, cities generate over 80% of global GDP. They also consume two-thirds of the world's energy and produce over 70% of global CO2 emissions. In 2014, 54% of the world's population lived in urban environments and the number is expected to reach 66% by 2050, an increase of 2.5 billion people. This continued growth will have significant ramifications for the future and could further exacerbate current issues like traffic, access to clean water, crime rates, and the growth of slums or informal settlements. Smart city technologies will play a key lamps in real time, adjusts brightness automatically, and detects faults, role in tackling these challenges. Using among other functions. This system helped reduce electricity consumption new ICT like cloud computing, big data, by 80% and maintenance costs by 90%. IoT, and Artificial Intelligence (AI), Additionally, Huawei and the Weifang City government established the Smart City solutions will help drive Huawei-Weifang IoT Innovation R&D Center and the Huawei-Weifang Smart unified coordination, cross-sector City IoT Industry Alliance. These initiatives are designed to enhance and collaboration, and intelligent analysis expand industrial applications of NB-IoT and drive continuous improvement and provide better public services. of city management and public services. Currently, Huawei's Smart City solutions are serving over 120 cities in more than 40 countries and regions. AI and Smart Cities Last year, Huawei launched our new Intelligent Operations Center (IOC) – a Huawei's Smart City Solution for Smart City brain or nerve center that controls our systems. The Weifang in China AI-enabled IOC is an important breakthrough for smart city technology. Huawei's Smart City project for Weifang Instead of simply managing operations according to pre-defined rules and City in Shandong, China, was recognized processes, the IOC can interpret data and come up with meaningful as a model for others to follow at the actions depending on actual circumstances. The solution also applies 2017 Smart City Expo World Congress virtual reality (VR) and augmented reality (AR). (SCEWC). Our approach was developed This means the IOC can retrieve data from various sources, visualize it in according to the city's own context, and come up with an action that suits the environment. For people-oriented, innovation-driven instance it can take static maps and overlay them with live data. A classic concept. Together with the Weifang City example would be an intelligent traffic management system. This offers government we created a Narrowband citizens great value because it eases their commuting experience. Other (NB)-IoT network following a one examples include saving electricity by using motion sensors to turn off network, one platform, N applications street lights when there is no movement. model using IoT, cloud computing, big data, and other ICT solutions. Using the Huawei's open systems all interoperate with the IOC, which means cities Huawei OceanConnect IoT platform, a can continue to add value that goes beyond what is possible today. city-level IoT platform was created for Weifang, enabling unified access, management and data collection from IoT-enabled sensors. By gathering IoT data in real time from smart devices around the city, the platform enables big data analytics. Smart lighting, an innovative IoT application enabled by the standardized NB-IoT, is the first of its kind in China. The smart lighting Huawei supports open platforms with city leaders from around the world system monitors the status of street 63 At SCEWC 2017, Huawei shared its vision for smart city development with more than 400 city administrators from around the world. With our innovations and investment in various technologies, we develop an open platform for smart cities, which is compatible with various devices and supports a wide range of applications. We aim to be the rich soil that supports the robust and sustainable development of Smart Cities. Huawei is one of the few ICT solutions providers in the industry that can offer end-to-end cloud-pipe-device solutions, leading the way to connecting the physical and digital worlds. We will continue to work together with our partners to create top-level designs addressing city administrators' needs and achieving the ultimate goals of a smart city – to enable good governance, promote industry development, and deliver benefits for the people. World's First Commercial Smart Water Network in Shenzhen Sending utility staff to homes to read water meters is costly and inefficient. More importantly, these staff are unable to record water losses from pipes. Records in China suggest that municipal water mains have a 37% loss rate due to leaking pipes. In March 2017, Huawei partnered with Shenzhen Water Group and China Telecom to launch the world's first commercial smart water network, deploying more than 1,200 NB-IoT-enabled smart water meters across the city. Deployment was complicated, requiring city-wide network coverage that could also connect with meters mostly located on underground inlets or in basements. Despite this challenge, the solution saved money and improved data completeness and accuracy. To date, data is retrieved from over 99.5% of the meters at every reading. The meters are also able to check water pressure, and compare throughput across the pipe network, which enables the company to identify leaks and carry out preventive maintenance. Smart meters also enable differentiated rates at peak and non-peak times of day, helping the utility company use its water resources more efficiently. Mobile Money: Improving Financial Inclusion in Emerging Economies Globally, two billion people do not have financial inclusion. According to GSMA, there are more than 690 million registered bank accounts and 200 million small mobile money accounts around the world which collectively move around a billion businesses in emerging economies lack dollars a day. To give an indication of the level of digital disruption underway, access to formal savings and credit. approximately 70% of these accounts are provided by mobile carriers rather than Their financial transactions are in cash traditional banks. and they have no safe way to save or invest their money. Instead they rely on Large-scale Benefits of Digitally-enabled Financial Inclusion informal lenders and personal According to global management consulting firm McKinsey, digital finance in networks for credit. In other words, they developing economies could: have no access to safe, secure, and affordable financial services. Provide access to 1.6 billion unbanked people, more than half of whom are women However, 1.6 billion of these people do Boost GDP by US$3.7 trillion (6%) by 2025 have mobile phones. Mobile technology can provide access to savings Create 95 million new jobs accounts, credit, and loans, which can Reduce annual leakage in public spending and tax collection by US$110 billion expand middle-class populations and Create US$2.1 trillion in new credit stimulate further economic growth. Create US$4.2 trillion in new deposits Mobile money is one of the most exciting innovations to address Source: McKinsey Global Institute A Sustainable World 64 This opportunity is clear to see; however, the business landscape is complex and unique as it straddles both the financial and telecommunication industries, and responds to the needs of individuals that have never used formal financial services before. Huawei has applied its technology, and worked diligently with its customers and partners to help overcome this challenge. Huawei's Mobile Money solution is able to provide innovative, asset-light, and reliable mobile banking services to people who need it most. It utilizes existing communications network capabilities, so these services can be used seamlessly with feature phones or smartphones. Huawei's Mobile Money solution has so far been commercially deployed in 19 countries and regions and serves over 152 million users, accounting for 22% of the world's registered accounts. In fact, approximately 50% of all mobile money transactions now take place on Huawei's platform. Our partners in Africa include Safaricom, Vodafone, Vodacom, and Teasy Mobile in 10 African countries, including big markets like Kenya, Ghana, Nigeria, and Zimbabwe. In 2017, we continued to expand our service and joined forces with Xpress Money, one of the world's most dependable money transfer brands. By growing Xpress Money's mobile money footprint and strengthening Huawei's international reach, our new partnership will help to further reduce the cost of remittance services and drive financial inclusion for millions of more mobile At the International Forum for China Financial Inclusion (IFCFI) in September 2017, Huawei shared its experience in mobile payment and financial inclusion platform construction in Africa as a partner of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation's Level One Project. The director of Huawei Mobile Money said, It's Huawei's goal to fully integrate and develop its core technologies and capacities in the financial sector, provide large-scale and cost-effective financial services for people in the poor and low-income bracket, make financial services more accessible and convenient, and promote Huawei shares its experience to encourage open platforms financial inclusion. and collaboration among stakeholders Offering Premium Applications to Shape a New Experience in an Intelligent, Fully Connected World Huawei is committed to offering premium applications and solutions, providing global users with a convenient, digital experience. We offer a full portfolio of products and solutions for different types of user groups. We provide unique solutions based on our deep insight into the habits of different types of consumers. We provide easy-to-use office applications for business people; solutions for students that can reduce the negative impacts on their eyesight due to long-term use of bright-screen products; solutions for those with disabilities enabling them to easily access information; QR code plus one-click ordering solutions for consumers; and Huawei Pay, a mobile payment solution that is secure and protects user privacy. We put our consumers first and bring them innovative communications technology and a brand new experience in an intelligent, fully connected world. Improving Digital Skills Connectivity alone cannot bridge the digital divide – limited information and digital tools available to them. An inclusive knowledge and training in digital technologies and a lack of digital economy can lead to more trade, better capital use, digital skills exacerbates the divide. Huawei recognizes that improved efficiency, and accelerated innovation. This is why efforts are needed to educate more people about the benefits Huawei continues to focus on improving ICT education. With of digital technologies and how to access and use such the right skills, many more people will be able to invent, create, knowledge. communicate, and share knowledge with others in ways that help stimulate local job markets and enrich the world even Through better training, people can make better use of the further. 65 Huawei Authorized Information and Network Academy Continues to Grow In 2013, Huawei launched a joint project with universities called the Huawei Authorized Information and Network Academy (HAINA), or the Huawei ICT Academy. Through this project, cooperating universities deliver courses on Huawei ICT technologies, encourage students to get Huawei certifications, cultivate professionals with practical skills for the ICT industry, and build a healthy ICT talent ecosystem. Since we started in 2013, over 55,000 students from 58 countries and 11 regions have participated in this program, and more than 12,000 have passed Huawei's certifications. In 2017, 5,475 students obtained HAINA certifications and continued on to attend training to expand their career. In 2017, the project included Edinburgh Napier University, Northumbria University, and the University of Surrey in the UK, the University of São Paulo in Brazil, the University of Johannesburg in South Africa, Shanghai Jiaotong University, and Hunan University in China, as well as many other new universities and colleges. The project provides courses over six main areas, including routing and switching, security, WLAN, cloud, storage, and big data. ICT Skill Competition is part of the HAINA project. In 2017, the competition attracted 12,500 students from 26 provinces in China and five regions overseas, including Western Europe, Southern Pacific, Southern Europe, the Middle East, and South Africa. The ICT Skill Competition Middle East Final attracted 10,285 participants, with 30 of them from 10 Middle Eastern countries standing out to vie for the top 3 places. As a mature talent cultivation program, the competition plays a critical role in helping build an ICT talent ecosystem. Huawei's Global ICT Skill Competition Final 2017 in Shenzhen The future of education is set to change dramatically. ICT provides us with an opportunity to increase access to education amongst the poor and vulnerable, breaking the cycle of poverty. It also provides us with tools to increase the quality of education for all and enhance life-long learning. Huawei has been a leader in thinking about how the whole industry can play a part in these new and exciting opportunities. Richard Welford CSR Asia Chairman A Sustainable World 66 4.2 Supporting Stable Network Operations Connectivity is fundamental to modern life. When networks are down, there are real economic and social consequences. Supporting stable network operations is Huawei's most important social responsibility. Even under extreme conditions like earthquakes and typhoons, our employees will do their utmost to support network stability. Huawei has established a comprehensive This system allows us to quickly restore of the world's population, and customer network support system across customer networks and resume supported the stable operations of four dimensions: organizational stable operations following critical over 1,500 networks in more than 170 structure, personnel, processes, and IT emergencies, thus helping safeguard countries and regions. We guaranteed tools. In doing so, we ensure that lives and property. network availability during nearly 200 everyone is entitled to communication major events, natural disasters, and We have established three global and and information access and sharing special occasions such as the nine regional technical assistance anytime anywhere. We have also magnitude 8.2 earthquake in Mexico, centers. Nearly 4,000 Huawei technical established a mature business continuity the magnitude 7.0 earthquake in support engineers provide 24/7 services management (BCM) system that provides Jiuzhaigou, Sichuan, China, and the worldwide. In 2017, we ensured smooth a contingency plan for emergencies such annual Hajj in Saudi Arabia. communication for more than one-third as for earthquakes or outbreaks of war. Supporting Network Availability During the Mexico Earthquake On September 7 and 19, 2017, Mexico City was struck by two earthquakes, recorded at magnitudes 8.2 and 7.1 respectively. The disaster disrupted 1,081 communications sites of our customers. Duty called. Soon after the first earthquake, our Global Technical Assistance Center initiated its Business Continuity Management procedures for emergencies and formed an emergency support team. To restore the damaged networks, within just 15 minutes of the disaster occurring, our team obtained customer consent to remotely access their networks and began repair work. Our Mexican subsidiary also assigned experts to work on site. Our close collaboration with local carrier customers supported strong lines of communications in disaster-stricken areas. We assigned over 170 engineers to work on site for over 2,200 hours, and supplied 12 diesel generators and 24 vehicles for relief efforts. We also helped a customer rapidly migrate users from a peer's congested network to a new one. We temporarily shut down 4G cells in order to extend the battery life of sites. We also implemented a contingency plan to protect networks from the impact of traffic surges. Supporting smooth communications, and enabling rapid disaster recovery and stability of networks to protect lives and property: These are our most important social responsibilities. Our network support team won positive customer recognition through our professional processes and organizations, visualized real-time monitoring, and rapid emergency response measures. Huawei engineers recover network services via Huawei sends diesel generators to a site to ensure smooth authorized remote access communications 67 Ensuring Smooth Communications in Areas Hit by Volcanic Eruptions and Floods in Indonesia In early October 2017, smoke could be seen wafting up intermittently from Mount Agung. That prompted Huawei's O&M team in Indonesia to immediately set up a key event assurance team. This team took a wide range of actions to mitigate risks including identifying vulnerable sites and checking stock levels for spare parts. We added battery capacity, reduced exposure to dust at VIP sites, and prepared a drill for the eventual volcanic eruption. On November 21, Mount Agung spewed ash and fumes, sending glowing red columns of ash 4,000 meters into the sky. The region's international airport closed and some 100,000 residents from 22 villages had to be evacuated. Thanks to our thorough preparation, the impact on network equipment was limited. On the day of the eruption, a central supporting base station went down. As a result, the five base stations it served were also affected. A Huawei employee drove through the ash cloud to the site and fixed the station, ensuring smooth communications. On November 28, floods hit Pactitan and Yogyakart, resulting in more than 200 sites in East Java going offline. We immediately adjusted the transmission plans for the sites that were down and restored more than 20 sites within three hours. We also prepared materials for the sites in advance together with customers so that they could be ready once the remaining flooding subsided. For high-priority VIP sites, we did everything we could to get out to the sites and power them with over 20 mobile diesel generators. After the flood waters had receded some ten hours later, we had a bulldozer clear roads to affected areas so materials could be delivered overnight. After a grueling 30-plus hours, we had all sites back up and running. Ensuring Smooth Communications During the Hajj in Saudi Arabia From August 29 to September 5, 2017, 3.5 million pilgrims from around the world headed to Mecca for the Hajj, marking a 30% increase over the previous year's participation. The pilgrims gathered in an area of 10 square kilometers, causing a spike in international roaming users and a surge in voice traffic, placing great strain on communications networks. To ensure smooth communications, Huawei established a project team, covering five major telecom carriers in Saudi Arabia. The team consisted of 740 experts providing support either onsite or remotely. To increase network reliability, they took a series of measures in advance, including checking the health of networks in key regions, eliminating risks, upgrading software, expanding network capacity, developing contingency plans for possible emergencies, and performing drills. Starting on August 25, the project team worked around the clock, monitoring network operations in real time, promptly reporting any network abnormalities, and regularly sending progress reports to customers. Due to abnormal power supply during this period, large numbers of communications sites went down three separate times, with over 100 sites dropping each time. Each time, Huawei's project team recovered networks within 30 minutes, preventing any serious impact. During the eight-day Hajj, Huawei delivered uninterrupted communications for 33 million users, who generated 7.8 million hours of voice traffic and 70,000 terabytes of data traffic. Huawei's network support team for Hajj 68 4.3 Supporting Local Communities Every company, large or small, can make long-term contributions to local communities by creating jobs, reducing poverty, and fostering an entrepreneurial environment. Companies can enrich local culture, support local healthcare, generate income, and build infrastructure. We actively fulfill our social responsibilities and support local communities while pursuing our own business growth. Local recruitment is one of our priorities. We create jobs in the local communities where we operate. Beyond that, we integrate leading local companies into our global value chain and extend their reach worldwide. Local creativity and innovation can generate value globally, and local ICT industries can become more competitive. Together with governments, customers, and non-profit organizations, we use our ICT expertise and management experience to roll out many different projects aimed at giving back to local communities. Through these projects, we support ICT innovation; facilitate green initiatives and traditional cultural events; enable talent development and education; and support underprivileged groups. Our goal is to be a responsible and respected corporate citizen in every community where we operate. Seeds for the Future Program: Training ICT Professionals Seeds for the Future is our flagship global CSR program. Initiated in 2008, the program seeks to develop local ICT talent, enhance knowledge transfer, promote a greater understanding of and interest in the ICT industry, and encourage greater participation in digital communities at regional and national levels. By the end of 2017, the Seeds for the Future program has had participants from 108 countries and regions. To date, the program has benefited over 30,000 students from more than 350 universities worldwide. Through this program, a total of 3,600 top college students have been able to visit and study at Huawei's headquarters in China. Seeds for the Future in Turkey Top students from seven leading Turkish universities were awarded opportunities to study in China. Senior Turkish government officials and the Chinese ambassador to Turkey attended the awards ceremony. Turkish Seeds for the Future participants Seeds for the Future in Romania Seeds for the Future has run in Romania for four straight years, helping cultivating ICT talent for local communities. In 2017, the program brought 40 students to study in China. The Romanian Minister of National Education and Minister of Communications and Information Society publicly praised Huawei for its outstanding contributions to the country's education and economy. The Deputy Minister of Communications and Information Society of Romania, the CEO of Huawei Romania, and Romanian Seeds for the Future students A Sustainable World 69 Seeds for the Future in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) In March 2017, Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi; Hamdan bin Mohammed Al Maktoum, Crown Prince of Dubai; and the UAE Minister of State for Higher Education met with students participating in the Seeds for the Future program, listened to their reports on the project, and commended Huawei for its outstanding contributions to knowledge transfer and talent cultivation. Hamdan bin Mohammed Al Maktoum, Crown Prince of Dubai, meets with Seeds for the Future participants Global Social Contribution Activities Companies receive the support and respect of local communities when they consider the local impacts of their operations. Companies should also play their part in supporting local traditions, caring for underprivileged groups, and developing local education. As a responsible corporate citizen, Huawei undertakes a range of social contribution projects, and works hand-in-hand with community organizations to deliver health services, provide support in times of natural disasters, and organize other activities for the benefit of the communities in which we operate. Giving Away 100 Pianos to Schools in Low-income Areas of New Zealand In April 2016, Huawei CEO Ren Zhengfei pledged to give away 100 pianos to schools in low-income areas of New Zealand during his meeting with the then New Zealand Prime Minister Bill English. As of the end of 2017, 70 schools in lowand middle-income areas have received this surprise from tens of thousands of miles away. Although New Zealand is considered to be a rich country, many schools in lowand middle-income areas are in serious shortage of musical instruments, and some even do not have a piano. Many children who love music are eager to have one. Huawei and the Play It Strange Trust organized a competition for schools in lowand middle-income areas. Schools competed for the pianos by submitting student-created songs, dances, short stories, poems, plays, or murals. Georaeah Edmonds, a 9-year-old student at Rongomai School, loves music, but she had never learned how to play piano. As soon as her school received one of the prize pianos, she immediately started to play it with joy. Through this program teachers of winning schools were able to give at-risk students opportunities to perform, helping them find self-confidence in music. To cultivate talent, Huawei pays equal attention to knowledge transfer in particular domains and support for basic education. We hope to help broaden students' horizons, and develop their character and way of thinking. As an indispensable part of basic education, music inspires imagination. With these pianos, we want to fully unleash students' imagination and help them build a bridge leading to an intelligent world. Students gather around a piano Nine-year-old student Georaeah Edmonds-Cooper enjoys a piano donated by Huawei 70 Donating Necessities to Refugees in Northern Nigeria Huawei has been operating in Nigeria for over 18 years and has been active in fulfilling its corporate social responsibilities. After hearing news reports about the refugees in northern Nigeria, Huawei and the Federal Ministry of Interior of Nigeria donated rice, cooking oil, and sugar to the refugees, offering them humanitarian assistance and disaster relief. At an event held on February 10, 2017, the Federal Minister of Interior accepted the donation from Huawei, and said that providing assistance to refugees was not just the responsibility of government. He encouraged more foreign companies to learn from Huawei's example and to provide assistance to refugees when necessary. After the ceremony, the supplies were delivered Providing assistance to Nigerian refugees directly to the refugee camps in northern Nigeria by the Ministry of Interior. Providing ICT Skills Training for Young People in Nigeria Huawei's training center in Nigeria Young people in Nigeria learn ICT knowledge through the ICT for Change program Nigeria has a population of 180 million, the largest in Africa. Its unemployment rate remains high at 14.2%, and many of the unemployed are youth. This creates a breeding ground for social problems. Since it took power in 2015, the incumbent government has been working to create jobs for young people and has made reducing the unemployment rate as one of its major goals. Huawei has worked with the federal government to provide an ICT for Change training program for 2,000 people. We offered unemployed youth practical courses in areas such as website design, computer repair, and the Huawei Certified Datacom Associate (HCDA) program. The purpose of this program was to equip young locals with the necessary skills to start a career and promote local employment. The program completed at the end of 2017, receiving wide acclaim. Donating Food to Plague-stricken Areas in Madagascar Madagascar is one of the poorest countries in the world. Due to its under-developed economy and limited access to proper hygene and healthcare, there are more than 200 cases of plague every year. In 2017, a plague outbreak hit densely populated areas, such as the capital Antananarivo. Most of the infected were diagnosed with pneumonic plague which carries a high risk of death. This was different from previous years when plague usually broke out in remote regions. Due to the serious conditions, Madagascar declared a state of emergency and the UN and the World Health Donating food to plague-stricken areas Organization provided large-scale assistance. in Madagascar Huawei donated two tons of rice, one ton of white sugar, 1,350 barrels of cooking oil, and 1,350 boxes of cheese to the disaster-hit areas through the First Lady's Office and the President's Office. We wanted to help the government fight against the epidemic, take better care of the patients, and allow local residents to eat clean and healthy food so they could recover from the disease as soon as possible. A Sustainable World 71 Restoring Communications for Areas Hit by Mudslides and Donating Supplies to Residents in Peru In March 2017, 13 of Peru's 24 regions were hit by serious floods and mudslides. Nearly 100,000 people were displaced by the disaster, with almost 100 dead, and 627,000 people affected. Huawei provided networks for 80% of local residents, so ensuring the stability of communications networks was Huawei's primary social responsibility. Huawei Peru assigned large numbers of engineers and invested many resources in working with local carriers to restore equipment. We Donating supplies to disaster-stricken areas in Peru restored communications networks as quickly as possible and ensured smooth communications and disaster relief. Huawei also donated supplies weighing 20 tons with a value of 100,000 sol to residents in the disaster-stricken areas as well as eLTE emergency communications equipment worth US$600,000, helping Peru with its disaster relief efforts. Organizing the First Technological Innovation Competition for the Elderly in Partnership with the Chilean President's Foundation Chile has more than three million people aged over 60 and the social needs of this group are increasing as technology advances. However, this population is often ignored by technological progress. To address this problem, Huawei and the Chilean President's Foundation jointly organized a technological innovation competition for the elderly, the first of its kind in the country. The competition called on entrepreneurs, SMEs, and Minister of Transport and Telecommunications of Chile, individual innovators to develop IT solutions that can improve chair of the President's Foundation, and Huawei Chile CEO present awards to the winners quality of life for the elderly. A total of 89 innovative proposals were received. Through this event, the public paid more attention to the elderly and had a better understanding of Huawei's technological innovations. The event was held in high regard by Chilean President Michelle Bachelet. In an interview, the President said, It's the responsibility of all Chilean people to improve the quality of life of our elderly since they have contributed greatly to the development of our country. We should give back by improving our innovation capacity and developing technology. So please join Huawei and the President's Foundation and apply innovative technologies to drive social development. Let's use our wisdom, goals, and imagination to build Chile into a fairer and more harmonious society. Huawei France and Web@cadémie Join up to Help Secondary School Dropouts Acquire Professional Skills In 2016, Huawei announced a three-year partnership agreement with French nonprofit education group, Web@cadémie, to provide ICT training to students who didn't graduate from secondary school. The program will help equip them with necessary skills to work in IT companies. The program was supported by former French President Mr. François Hollande, Minister of Education Ms. Najat Vallaud Belkacem, and Minister of Labour Ms. Myriam El Komri. In addition to scholarships, Huawei also arranged for its R&D experts to share knowledge with program participants. By 2019, Huawei and Web@cadémie will carry out educational programs in 12 cities across France, benefiting more than 1,000 students. During this time, Huawei will arrange for engineers and researchers to provide students with training and help them garner an understanding of the latest technological trends. Huawei specifically will grant 10 scholarships a year to talented students so they can complete their studies at Web@cadémie, and every year, 10 students from the Web@cadémie program will be invited to participate in Huawei's Seeds for the Future program. These students will travel to Beijing and Shenzhen in China to undergo an immersive training program, where they will learn about cutting-edge technology and the Group shot with outstanding students from latest ICT industry trends. Web@cadémie program 72 Appendix I: Sustainability Goals and Progress Appendix I: Sustainability Goals and Progress No. Goals and Initiatives Progress Status Release the world's first 2017 ICT Sustainable 1 The report was released in June 2017 Development Goals Benchmark report Support network continuity during major 2 100% events and natural disasters worldwide Develop practices for end-to-end security 3 Completed and privacy in solutions and products Reduce carbon emissions per unit of revenue 4 9.3% by 18% compared to benchmark 33.57 million kWh of energy was 5 Conserve 43 million kWh of energy every year conserved in 2017 6 Reduce landfill to 1.85% of products 1.80% Reduce the use of wood in product packaging Shipped 746,000 products using green 7 by 45,000 m3 packaging and cut use of wood by 138,000 m3 Reevaluate suppliers when their Green 8 100% Partner certification requires updating Expand the Global Green Recycling Program Established 1,025 recycling stations in 48 9 to 1,000 recycling stations in 50 countries and countries and regions regions 16 of Huawei's products obtained the industry's 10 of Huawei's device products (e.g., highest-level green certification: 5 Huawei smart 10 smartphones, tablets, PCs, and wearables) phones received the Gold UL110 certification; to obtain the highest level green certification 8 Huawei smartphones and 3 tablets received anA, the highest level of China Quality Certification Develop basic compliance policies for 95 Compliance policies have been completed 11 overseas subsidiaries for 96 subsidiaries Complete sustainability audits on all new 12 suppliers and all existing mediumand 100% high-priority suppliers Launch Seeds for the Future The program has been launched in 108 13 in 100 countries and regions countries and regions 287 universities participated, with more than 14 Sponsor university competitions in China 2,000 projects in total Held 10 engagement activities with stakeholders, Improve communication with customers, such as the Huawei Global Supplier Sustainability 15 governments, the media, and other key Conference, and the Sustainability & Innovation stakeholders Conference held by Huawei and CSR Europe Ensure zero serious safety incidents in 16 No serious safety incidents in manufacturing manufacturing Establish CSD sub-committees to make for Established 14 CSD sub-committees at the 17 a stronger CSD organization department level Optimize sustainability standards and Completed sustainability standards, now gradually 18 incorporate them into business processes incorporating them into business processes Complete the 2017 sustainability maturity 19 The assessment has been completed assessment ●Achieved ◎Partially achieved ○Not achieved Appendix 73 Appendix II: GRI Standards Appendix II: GRI Standards General Disclosures Organizational profile Disclosure Indicators SDG Page 102-1 Name of the organization 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 102-3 Location of headquarters 102-4 Location of operations 102-5 Ownership and legal form 102-6 Markets served 102-7 Scale of the organization 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 102-9 Supply chain 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 102-12 External initiatives 102-13 Membership of associations Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Governance 102-18 Governance structure 102-19 Delegating authority 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees SDG16 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body SDG5,16 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 102-25 Conflicts of interest SDG5,16 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 74 Appendix II: GRI Standards 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts SDG16 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 102-35 Remuneration policies 102-36 Process for determining remuneration SDG16 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 102-47 List of material topics 102-48 Restatements of information 102-49 Changes in reporting 102-50 Reporting period 102-51 Date of most recent report 102-52 Reporting cycle 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index 102-56 External assurance Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Appendix 75 Appendix II: GRI Standards Specific Disclosures Economic Performance Disclosure Indicators SDG Page 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed SDG2,5,7,8,9 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change SDG13 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 201-4 Financial assistance received from government Market Presence 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage SDG1,5,8 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community SDG8 Indirect Economic Impacts 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported SDG11,2,5,7,9 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts SDG1,10,17,2,3,8 Procurement Practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers SDG12 Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption SDG16 205-2 Communication and training about anticorruption policies and procedures SDG16 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken SDG16 Anti-competitive Behavior 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices SDG16 Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume SDG12,8 301-2 Recycled input materials used SDG12,8 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials SDG12,8 Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization SDG12,13,7,8 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization SDG12,13,7,8 302-3 Energy intensity SDG12,13,7,8 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption SDG12,13,7,8 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services SDG12,13,7,8 Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source SDG6 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water SDG6 303-3 Water recycled and reused SDG6 76 Appendix II: GRI Standards Biodiversity Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected 304-1 SDG14,15,6 areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity 304-3 Habitats protected or restored IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with 304-4 habitats in areas affected by operations Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions SDG12,13,14,15 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions SDG12,13,14,15 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions SDG12,13,14,15 305-4 GHG emissions intensity SDG13,14,15 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions SDG13,14,15 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) SDG12,3 305-7 Nitrogen oxides(NOX), sulfur oxides(SOX), and other significant air emissions SDG12,14,15,3 Effluents and Waste 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination SDG12,14,3,6 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method SDG12,3,6 306-3 Significant spills SDG12,14,15,3,6 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste SDG12,3 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff SDG14,15,6 Environmental Compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations SDG16 Supplier Environmental Assessment 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover SDG5,8 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to 401-2 temporary or part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave SDG5,8 Labor/Management Relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes Occupational Health and Safety Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health 403-1 SDG8 and safety committees Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 403-2 SDG3,8 and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Appendix 77 Appendix II: GRI Standards Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their 403-3 SDG3,8 occupation 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions SDG8 Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee SDG4,5,8 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs SDG8 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 404-3 SDG5,8 development reviews Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees SDG5,8 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men SDG10,5,8 Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 6 SDG16,5,8 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association 407-1 SDG8 and collective bargaining may be at risk Child Labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor SDG16,8 Forced or Compulsory Labor Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or 409-1 SDG8 compulsory labor Security Practices 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures SDG16 Rights of Indigenous Peoples 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples SDG2 Human Rights Assessment Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact 412-1 assessments 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human 413-3 rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening Local Communities Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, 413-1 and development programs Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on 413-2 SDG1,2 local communities Supplier Social Assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Public Policy 415-1 Political contributions SDG1,2 78 Appendix II: GRI Standards Customer Health and Safety 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts 416-2 SDG16 of products and services Marketing and Labeling 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling SDG12 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service 417-2 SDG16 information and labeling 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications Customer Privacy Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy 418-1 SDG16 and losses of customer data Socioeconomic Compliance Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic 419-1 area Appendix 79 Appendix III: The Glossary Abbreviations English Full Name 3G The Third Generation Mobile Communication Technology 3GPP The 3rd Generation Partnership Project 4G The Fourth Generation Mobile Communication Technology 5G The Fifth Generation Mobile Communication Technology APP Application BCG Business Conduct Guideline CEO Chief Executive Officer CFSI Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative CSR Corporate Social Responsibility CSD Corporate Sustainable Development EHS Environment, Health and Safety EICC Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition FSC Forest Stewardship Council GDP Gross Domestic Product GHG Greenhouse Gas GeSI Global e-Sustainability Initiative GRI Global Reporting Initiative GSMA Global System for Mobile Communications Association ICT Information and Communications Technology IPC Association Connecting Electronics Industries ISO International Standardization Organizations ITU International Telecommunication Union JAC Joint Audit Committee LCA Life Cycle Assessment LTE Long Term Evolution NB-IoT Narrow Band Internet of Things NGO Non-government organization PUE Power Usage Effectiveness SDN Software-Defined Networking SDG Sustainable Development Goals TUP Time-based Unit Plan UNGC United Nations Global Compact UPS Interruptible Power Supply WLAN Wireless Local Area Networks WTTx Wireless To The x 80 Appendix V: External Verification Certificate INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT Introduction and objectives of work BUREAU VERITAS has been engaged by Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.(hereafter referred to as “Huawei”)to conduct an independent assurance to Huawei 2017 Sustainability Report (hereafter referred to as“the Report”). This Assurance Statement applies to the related information included within the scope of work described below. This information and its presentation in the report are the sole responsibility of the management of Huawei. Bureau Veritas was not involved in the drafting of the Report. Our sole responsibility was to provide independent assurance on its content. Scope of work Data and information included in the report for the report period from 2017.1.1 to 2017.12.31; Appropriateness and robustness of underlying reporting systems and processes, used to collect, analyse and review the information reported; The assessment team visited Huawei head-quarters (located in Longgang District, Shenzhen City, China) and relative functional departments, BV did not visit its other stakeholders. Excluded from the scope of our work is any assurance of information relating to: Activities outside the defined assurance period; Positional statements (statements of beliefs, goals, future intention and future commitment); Much of the operating financial data in this Report is taken from Huawei Annual Reporting and accounts, which is separately audited by an external auditor and therefore excluded from the scope of the Bureau Veritas assurance. Methodology As part of its independent assurance, Bureau Veritas undertook the following activities: Interviews with relevant personnel of Huawei; Review of documentary evidence produced by Huawei; Audit of sampled CSR performance data; Assessment of data and information systems for collection, aggregation, analysis and review. Our work was conducted against Bureau Veritas’ standard procedures and guidelines for external Assurance of Sustainability Reports, based on current best practice in independent assurance. For this assignment, we have used the verification rules and instructions IASE3000, AA1000 and GRI standards. The work was planned and carried out to provide reasonable, rather than absolute assurance and we believe it provides a reasonable basis for our conclusions. Appendix 81 Appendix V: External Verification Certificate Our findings On the basis of our methodology and the activities described above, it is our opinion that: The revised information included in the report are objective, reliable and free from material mistake or misstatement. Objectivity The information and data presented in the report is objective and reliable. Huawei uses information system to collect and aggregation sustainability data. Through on-site verification, the evidence provided by Huawei is reliable and the content of the report is objective. Completeness The report covers Huawei and all its entities that have control over finances and operations. The report focuses on sustainable products and services, sustainable operations, and Bridging the digital divide. It also discloses the company's sustainable development management, community development issues etc. which stakeholders concerned. The report is accordance with GRI standards “Core” option. Materiality According to GRI standards requirements, Huawei identifies relative key sustainability issues in a rational manner, and discloses the company's strategy, management actions and performance data. The content of the report is materiality. Responsiveness Focused on issues stakeholders concerned, the report discloses and responds particularly to key sustainability issues such as green products and services, product safety, stable network operations, human resource management, and sustainable supplier management and so on. So the report is responsive. Statement of independence, impartiality and competence Bureau Veritas is an independent professional services company that specialises in Quality, Health, Safety, Society responsibility and Environmental management with 190 years history in providing independent assurance services. No member of the assurance team has a business relationship with Huawei. We have conducted this verification independently, and there has been no conflict of interest. Fanny Zou May Huang Director For Greater China Region Assurance Team Leader Bureau Veritas Certification Bureau Veritas Certification 2018-05-16 2018-05-16 82 本资料使用环保再生纸印刷 原材料中含有可再生的用后废料，无氯漂染，不含酸性。 版权所有©华为投资控股有限公司 2018。保留一切权利。 华为投资控股有限公司 免责声明 深圳龙岗区坂田华为基地 本文档可能含有预测信息，包括但不限于有关未来的财务、运营、产品系列、 电话：(0755) 28780808 新科技等信息。由于实践中存在很多不确定因素，可能导致实际结果与预测信 邮政：518129 息很大的差别。因此，本文档信息仅供参考，不构成任何要约或承诺。华为可 能不经通知修改上述信息，恕不另行通知。 WWW.HUAWEI.COM
