CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Report 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Contents 3 LETTER FROM THE CEO 86 ENVIRONMENT 87 Environmental stewardship 5 STRATEGY & MANAGEMENT 90 Climate protection 6 Company profile 94 Resource management 8 Governance 100 Plant and process safety 9 CR strategy 102 Biodiversity 11 Compliance 17 Human rights 103 SUPPLIERS 19 Stakeholder dialogue 104 Supply chain standards 22 Materiality analysis 106 Mica supply chain 28 PRODUCTS 109 COMMUNITY 29 Innovation and digitalization 110 Community Involvement 32 Sustainable products 111 Health 38 Access to health 114 Education and culture 46 Prices of medicines 47 Health awareness 117 FACTS & FIGURES 50 Chemical product safety 118 Report profile 53 Patient safety 120 Indicators 55 Counterfeit products 148 Goals 57 Transport and warehouse safety 159 Recognition and rankings 59 Responsible marketing 161 Sustainable Development Goals 61 Bioethics 164 Non-financial report 63 Clinical studies 173 GRI Content Index 67 Animal welfare 190 Global Compact CoP 70 Interactions with health systems 72 EMPLOYEES 73 Attractive employer 77 Diversity 80 Health and safety 82 Employee engagement 84 Good leadership 2 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Letter from the CEO Ladies and gentlemen, Praziquantel Consortium to develop a pediatric formulation of Dear friends of our company, this active pharmaceutical ingredient. This year we are celebrating a very special anniversary: Good healthcare is not possible without effective, safe medi350 years of our company. Our history has taught us that cines. Counterfeit drugs are extremely dangerous for remaining successful in the market depends not only on what patients and pose a global threat. The World Health Orgaa company does, but how it does it. At Merck KGaA, Darmnization estimates that more than 10% of all medicines in stadt, Germany, we recognize the great importance of this developing countries are fake. As a provider of high-caliber how and have therefore created a binding code of values products, we intend to lead the vanguard in the fight against that we use to measure our actions. One of our key Values is counterfeits. We are therefore not only working with agenresponsibility. Responsible conduct means safeguarding the cies across the world, but are also actively battling the interests of our employees, customers, shareholders, and the spread of counterfeit medicines. Flagship efforts here include community. In reflection of this ethos, we support the United the Minilab from the Global Pharma Health Fund (GHPF), a Nations Global Compact and the principles it espouses. philanthropic organization sponsored by our company. This portable, compact kit fits in a suitcase and can now test for In our efforts, we particularly pursue three strategic spheres 90 different active pharmaceutical ingredients. The Minilab of activity, specifically health, environment, and culture & enables people to identify counterfeit drugs quickly, which is education. We made great strides in these areas in 2017. especially useful in remote areas with inadequate infrastructure. In April 2017, for instance, we laid a health milestone by founding our Global Health Institute. This organization is For us, taking on responsibility also means minimizing our mandated to develop innovative, integrated solutions to products' environmental impacts, as exemplified by our improve the health of underserved populations in the develgreen solvent Cyrene™. Products such as Cyrene™ are oping world. Its efforts to address key unmet medical needs bioderived from natural resources, making them more envifocus particularly on women and children, as well as antimironmentally compatible, more biodegradable and easier to crobial resistance and infectious diseases. A good example recycle. Through these sorts of green solvents, our is schistosomiasis, an insidious parasitic infection that afflicts customers in the pharmaceutical and agrochemical industries approximately 220 million people worldwide. Roughly 10% can make their own production processes safer and more of those impacted are children younger than six, an age ecofriendly. group that cannot currently be treated using praziquantel, the standard therapy. But we intend to change this. The Global Health Institute is thus partnering within the Pediatric 3 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 As a science and technology company, we seek to make Rather than hindering sustainable success, this approach students passionate about science. We are therefore dedirepresents the foundation on which our success is built. It cated to improving biology and chemistry education and has been our creed for 350 years – and will continue to be so have been supporting the Jugend forscht young scientist far into the future. competition in Germany for over 30 years. In 2018, we’ll be marking our big jubilee by hosting the Jugend forscht Yours, nationals in Darmstadt for the third time and welcoming Germany's top young scientists to our site. As you can see, social responsibility plays a key role at our company. To efficiently oversee our efforts across all businesses and countries, in 2017 we created a new Group function called Corporate Affairs. We also founded a philanthropic foundation dedicated to improving access to innovaStefan Oschmann tive healthcare solutions among underserved communities in Stefan Oschmann, Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO developing nations. These endeavors illustrate how we make responsible governance an integral part of our operations. 4 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Strategy & Management Strategy & Management 6 Company profile 11 Compliance 3 Letter from the CEO 17 Human rights 8 Governance 19 Stakeholder dialogue 9 CR strategy 22 Materiality analysis 5 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Strategy & Management Company profile  Part of the non-financial report We are a global science and technology company headWho we are quartered in Darmstadt, Germany. With a history of nearly 350 years, we are the oldest chemical and pharmaceutical We hold the global rights to the Merck name and brand. The company in the world. In line with our strategic direction, only exceptions are Canada and the United States. In these Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany comprises three business countries, we operate as EMD Serono in the biopharmaceutical sectors: Healthcare, Life Science, and Performance Materials. business, as MilliporeSigma in the life science business and as EMD Performance Materials in the high-tech materials business. In Healthcare, we discover, develop and manufacture prescripApart from our three business sectors, our financial reporting tion medicines used to treat cancer, multiple sclerosis, and presents the five regions Europe, North America, Asia-Pacific infertility. Our products help millions of people around the (APAC), Latin America as well as Middle East and Africa (MEA). world. In Life Science, we conduct research for researchers, As of December 31, 2017, we had 52,941 employees worldproviding scientists with laboratory materials, technologies and wide, which compares with 50,414 on December 31, 2016. services. Our aim is to make research and biomanufacturing easier, faster and more successful. Performance Materials In 2017, our 217 subsidiaries with employees in 66 countries develops specialty chemicals and materials for demanding generated sales of € 15.3 billion. Our 98 production sites are applications – from liquid crystals and OLED materials for located across 24 countries. displays to effect pigments for coatings and cosmetics up to high-tech materials for the manufacture of integrated circuits. Employees and sales by region – 2017 Europe Sales € 4,756 million North America Employees 25,980 Sales € 3,810 million Employees 10,520 Asia-Pacific (APAC) Sales € 4,921 million Employees 11,294 Middle East and Africa (MEA) Sales € 608 million Latin America Employees 1,097 Sales € 1,232 million Employees 4,050 Group structure Biopharma business discovers, develops, manufactures and markets innovative pharmaceutical and biological prescription Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany is a vibrant science and drugs in four franchises: Oncology, Neurology & Immunology, technology company. Fertility, and General Medicine & Endocrinology. Biopharma is the largest of our Healthcare businesses. Our streamlined R&D Our Healthcare business sector comprises the three businesses pipeline positions us with a clear focus on becoming a leading Biopharma, Consumer Health, and Allergopharma. Our specialty innovator in oncology, immuno-oncology and immunology, including multiple sclerosis. Our Consumer Health 6 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Strategy & Management business focuses on consumer-centric innovation under the history of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany, the Life Science busiumbrellas of several strategic brands such as Neurobion®, ness sector redesigned its organizational structure in the second Bion3®, Nasivin®, Femibion®, Sangobion®, Vigantoletten® and quarter of 2017. Strategic Marketing & Innovation units and Kytta®. commercial teams have been streamlined into three distinct business units – Research Solutions, Process Solutions and Applied In the Life Science business sector, our purpose is to solve the Solutions. toughest problems in life science by collaborating with the global scientific community – and through that, we aim to accelerate Our specialty chemicals business is combined in our Performance access to health for people everywhere. We serve customers in Materials business sector. The portfolio includes high-tech chemiacademia, biotech and pharma – helping them to deliver the cals for applications in fields such as consumer electronics, lighting, promise of their work better, faster and safer. As a leading player in coatings, printing technology, paints, plastics, and cosmetics. the life science industry, we offer innovative solutions for scientists Performance Materials comprises four business units: Display Mateand engineers at every stage. Our 300,000 products range from lab rials, Integrated Circuit Materials, Pigments & Functional Materials, water systems to genome-editing tools, antibodies and cell lines, as and Advanced Technologies. well as end-to-end bioprocessing systems to support the manufacturing needs of both emerging biotech and large pharma companies. After successfully orchestrating the largest integration in the Net sales by business sector – 2017 Life Science Performance Materials € 5,882 million € 2,446 million 38% 16% Healthcare € 6,999 million 46% Governance Group strategy Based in Darmstadt, Germany, our company operates in the Over the past decade, Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany has legal form of a corporation with general partners (Kommanditgetransformed itself from a classic supplier of chemicals and pharmasellschaft auf Aktien – KGaA). The general partner E. Merck KG., ceuticals into a global science and technology company. The main Darmstadt, Germany holds around 70% of the total capital of driver was the transformation of our business portfolio, particularly Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany (equity interest); the sharethrough the divestment of our Generics business (2007) and the holders hold the remainder, which is divided into shares (share acquisitions of Serono (2007), Millipore (2010), AZ Electronic Matecapital). Our shares have been included in the DAX® 30, the rials (2014), and Sigma-Aldrich (2015). In addition, we focused blue chip index of the Deutsche Börse, since 2007. In September our businesses on innovation-driven and highly specialized prod2008, our company was added to the FTSE4Good Index, a ucts, extensively revamped our internal structures and processes, sustainability index that assesses the social, ecological and and expanded our presence in global growth markets. In line with ethical conduct of companies. this strategy, we completed the divestment of our Biosimilars business in 2017. In addition, we are preparing strategic options for our Consumer Health business, including a potential full or partial sale of the business as well as strategic partnerships. Read more on our Group strategy in our Annual Report 2017. 7 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Strategy & Management Governance  Part of the non-financial report Responsibility has been an integral part of our corporate We employ management systems to steer processes as well identity for 350 years. It is therefore one of our six Values, as define goals, actions and responsibilities. These systems together with Courage, Achievement, Respect, Integrity, and are based on standards such as the internationally recogTransparency. These core values guide us in our daily work, nized quality management standard ISO 9001, good working defining how we interact with our customers and business practices (GxP) in the pharmaceutical industry, and ISO partners. We research and develop products to enhance life 14001 for environmental management. We regularly in all its diversity, from the great questions facing humanity undergo ISO 14001 and ISO 9001 certification, which is to the little everyday pleasures. We endeavor to give patients conducted by an independent auditing firm, and hold Group and customers the best – and find solutions for the world of certificates for both. tomorrow. We support the following responsible governance initiatives: Our approach to responsible governance The United Nations Global Compact: Since 2005, we’ve been a member of the United Nations Global Our Mission Statement and Values, along with the external Compact and are committed to complying with its princiregulations and initiatives to which we are committed, give ples. Our annual progress report illustrates how we live rise to requirements for responsible governance that are our responsibility in our day-to-day actions. integrated in both our Corporate Responsibility strategy (p. Responsible Care®: As a signatory to the chemical 9) and our Group-wide guidelines. industry’s Responsible Care® Global Charter, we voluntarily go above and beyond what is required by law and Our Group-wide guidelines comprise charters and principles have adopted mandatory standards for product responsivalid for the entire company, as well as specific standards bility, environmental impact mitigation, health, and and procedures for individual business sectors and sites. safety. Together for Sustainability: As a member of the Take for example our Corporate Environment, Health and Together for Sustainability (TfS) network, we are dediSafety (EHS) Policy, which forms the basis for implementing cated to improving the supply chain with respect to envithe chemical industry's Responsible Care® Global Charter. ronmental, compliance and social standards. Or our Safety Policy for chemical products, which defines Chemie3: We are a member of Chemie3, a collaboration product safety processes and the corresponding managebetween the German Chemical Industry Association ment structures. (VCI), the German Employers’ Federation of the Chemical Industry (BAVC), and the German Mining, Chemical and How we live responsible governance Energy Industrial Union (IG BCE). Through this globally unique alliance, the partners aim to make sustainability a Derived from the provisions contained in charters, principles core part of the chemical industry's guiding principles and and policies, our internal standards give specific guidance to jointly drive the sector's position within the German to those responsible for operational processes. They are economy as a key contributor to sustainable developconstantly updated by the relevant departments and are ment. This initiative has developed a system of 40 indicaavailable on our Intranet. Our managers implement these tors to measure the progress of sustainable development standards in their respective areas of responsibility and within the chemical industry. ensure that they are adhered to. We moreover educate and train our employees on all guidelines that apply to them. 8 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Strategy & Management CR strategy  Part of the non-financial report Mankind is facing major global challenges such as climate and the people around us, which is why we’ve made responchange, growing resource scarcity, aging populations, sible conduct a pillar of our corporate culture. This approach threats to human rights, and barriers to health – the latter is also the foundation of our sustained success. Through particularly in lowand middle-income countries. To overour innovative top-quality products for the healthcare, life come these issues, not only policy makers and civil society science and performance materials sectors, we seek to help but also the private sector must join forces to find solutions. resolve global challenges. Our Group strategy aims to maximize our success, which Our approach: Looking, listening and doing goes hand in hand with respecting the interests of our employees, customers and shareholders, as well as those better of the community. Our Group strategy underpins our corpoWe are aware that as a leading science and technology rate responsibility (CR) strategy. All our CR activities fall company our business operations impact our environment under the heading of “responsible governance”, which for us most importantly means looking, listening and doing better. Our CR strategy nsibility Respo He alt ent h onm M is s C o d e o f C o n d u ct vir nd CR En io n S t a t e m e nt a Strategy er a rt Va lu e E d u c atio n Ch & C ult u r e s ts gh N U Ri G lo an ba m lC Hu om e pa c Car t R e s p o n si ble We take responsibility for our products, the environment and vating talented employees. We strive to set an example for the people around us – especially for our employees and ethical conduct and actively contribute to the communities the communities in which we operate. Through our products, we live in. we endeavor to meet people’s current and future needs. In doing so, safety and ethical aspects matter just as much We aim to quickly identify new global trends and challenges, to us as business success. In our production activities, we for instance by fostering dialogue with stakeholders (p. 19), seek to impact the environment as little as possible, which participating in initiatives and engaging other companies, requires safe manufacturing techniques, high environmental as well as by evaluating media coverage. This allows us to standards and strict quality management. Furthermore, we minimize risks while also leveraging business opportunities strengthen our company by recruiting, developing and motithat arise. In our efforts, we have chosen to pursue three 9 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Strategy & Management strategic spheres of activity, namely health, the environCorporate responsibility entwined with ment, and culture & education. governance Health Our CR strategy is approved by our Executive Board, which meets regularly to make decisions regarding our CR goals An estimated 400 million people lack access to adequate, and reporting. Also charged with overseeing corporate affordable health care. Through our Group-wide Access to responsibility, our Group function Corporate Affairs was Health strategy, we seek to eliminate barriers in lowand created in September 2017 and reports to Stefan Oschmann, middle-income countries in an effort to provide underserved Executive Board Chairman and CEO. Oschmann bears overall populations and communities in these countries with better, responsibility for the committee, which is chaired by the head sustainable access to high-quality health solutions. Develof Corporate Affairs. opments such as rising life expectancy and simultaneously declining birth rates are also reflected in our health solutions, Our CR Committee steers the implementation of our CR including our cancer research, for instance, or our fertility strategy and submits recommendations regarding CR goals treatments. You can find more information under Access to to the Executive Board. This council consists of represenhealth (p. 38). tatives from our business sectors as well as from relevant Group functions such as EQ, HR, Compliance, and ProcureEnvironment ment. Many of our innovative products from our Performance MateOur CR Committee also reviews our CR strategy to ensure that rials and Life Science business sectors help mitigate environit covers the issues relevant to our company. In doing so, we mental impacts. Moreover, we strive to continuously enhance draw on regular input from our stakeholders (p. 19) as well the sustainability footprint of our products while also helping as the results of a materiality assessment (p. 22). This council our customers achieve their own sustainability goals. also defines measures to put our CR strategy into practice and reviews the success of these efforts. In addition, it ensures As the global market and technology leader in liquid crystals, that the initiatives of our business sectors, Group functions we are driving the creation of state-of-the-art, energy-effiand subsidiaries align with our Group-wide CR strategy. The cient displays. Furthermore, we are developing materials for measures adopted by the CR Committee are implemented energy-saving lighting and photovoltaics, one of the ways by our line managers as well as by interdisciplinary project we’re tackling the issue of climate change and energy teams. scarcity. You can find more information under Sustainable product design (p. 32). The CR Committee meets three times a year. In 2017, its meetings primarily focused on human rights, environmental and Education & culture social standards along the supply chain, environmental targets, animal welfare, bioethical principles, and community involveCulture inspires people and opens their minds to new possiment. bilities, which is why we promote cultural initiatives worldwide and support education projects. After all, education Taking on responsibility worldwide is key to making culture accessible. Cultural inspiration in turn nurtures characteristics that are essential to our busiOur corporate responsibility activities align with the United ness activities as a high-tech company, such as creativity, Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Here, we focus enthusiasm for new discoveries and the courage to transcend particularly on those SDGs that best reflect our business ethos. boundaries. You can find more information under Community You can find more information on our efforts to support these (p. 110). goals under Sustainable Development Goals (p. 161). Understanding and minimizing the impacts of our operations We work to mitigate the ethical, financial and legal risks of our business activities, thereby ensuring our social license to operate. To this end, we have put comprehensive structures and systems in place to ensure compliance with legal requirements, along with ethical, social and ecological standards, which are explained in detail in the individual sections of this report. Our environmental management activities, for instance, aim to minimize environmental impacts at our production sites. 10 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Strategy & Management Compliance  Part of the non-financial report First and foremost, responsible entrepreneurship means Supported by our Group Compliance organization, our Group acting in accordance with the law, a practice also known Compliance Officer is responsible for our compliance as compliance. All our activities must adhere to laws and program, which consists of the following elements: regulations worldwide because compliance violations might not only involve legal prosecution but could also seriously Efficient solution oriented systems and processes compromise our reputation as an employer and business Enabling policies partner. Monitoring and controls Case management Our approach to compliance Anonymous reporting Continuous improvement tailored to business risks Compliance is one of our primary considerations worldwide. Target-group focused training Particularly as an international company with operations in developing and emerging countries, we have extremely stringent requirements for effective compliance management. Yet for us, there is more to compliance than adhering to regulaOur compliance program is regularly updated to reflect new tory provisions. We consistently aspire to act in accordance requirements such as those resulting from amendments to with the principles defined in our Values and believe that legislation, relevant industry codices or changes within our profitability should go hand in hand with the very highest company. ethical standards. The Group Compliance Officer reports to the Executive Board How we ensure compliance every six months on the status of our compliance activities, possible risks and serious compliance violations. In turn, Our Group Compliance organization manages the core topics the Executive Board updates our supervisory bodies at least of anti-corruption, antitrust, data privacy, dawn raid twice a year on key compliance issues. As part of regular preparedness, healthcare compliance, and transparency reporting processes, we annually compile a comprehensive reporting. Other compliance related issues are managed by compliance and data privacy report detailing the status of our the responsible functions (such as Quality, Pharmacovigicompliance program, updates that have been made, complilance, and Environment, Health, and Safety (EHS)). To cover ance and data privacy cases, and training figures. Additionthe core compliance topics, we have Group-wide compliance ally, an update is prepared at the mid-year mark highlighting policies, procedures and processes in place to ensure that current developments and the status of relevant projects and our business activities align with the relevant laws and reguinitiatives. lations. Worldwide, our Group Compliance Officer oversees 79 Compliance Officers who are assigned to business sector teams and implement the measures of our compliance program within their respective areas of responsibility. In executing their tasks, these Compliance Officers receive guidance from our Group Compliance Programs & Support team, a centralized body that drives the design and update of our compliance program across all business sectors and Group functions and is responsible for initiating necessary measures. 11 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Strategy & Management Compliance organization In addition to these efforts we have created a global TransClear chain of command for reporting violations parency Operations team to incorporate current and upcoming transparency reporting requirements in the Reports of potential compliance violations received via our health sector – such as those of the European Federation of SpeakUp Line are reviewed by Group Compliance before Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA) and the being submitted to the Group Compliance Case Committee, U.S. Physician Payments Sunshine Act. which consists of senior representatives from Internal Auditing, Group Compliance, Corporate Security, Data Since 2017, our compliance framework has been integrated Privacy, and Human Resources. Stefan Oschmann, Executive more closely within the business sectors. For example, we Board Chairman and CEO, heads the committee. An associare developing a new holistic concept that combines the ated sub-committee advises on disciplinary action if necesexisting monitoring controls into a single system, providing sary. a dashboard view of potential compliance risks across the organization. Conflicts of Interest We take all potential conflicts of interest seriously. Every In updating guidelines and training curricula, we also link conflict is disclosed to the employee’s supervisor and the compliance requirements specific to each business sector by disclosure is documented. Such issues are mainly managed integrating them into employee training material. in a direct relationship between employee and supervisor, but can also be routed to superior HR or employment law To support local Compliance implementation, we introduced functions. To involve the Executive Board, we have impledesignated Compliance Ambassadors who operate indepenmented a specific governance process, including a periodical dently of our Compliance Organization. We appointed request for information on potential conflicts to be provided ambassadors in the following regions: to shareholders and related parties. Africa: Algeria, Angola, Botswana, Egypt, Ghana, Kenya, Furthermore, we document our commitment to an approMauritius, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, South priate conflict of interest process in our Annual Report. Africa, Tanzania, Tunisia, Uganda Middle East: Bahrain, Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Data Privacy integrated into Compliance Lebanon, Oman, Palestine, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Syria, United Arab Emirates, Yemen Our Data Privacy unit has been organizationally integrated South America: Argentina, Chile into Group Compliance. As required by law, this unit acts China independently and compiles a comprehensive data privacy report as a part of the compliance report. Furthermore, the Germany Data Privacy team submits regular data privacy updates as part of our overall Compliance reporting. Since 2017, the team has comprised four employees in Darmstadt. We have Data Safety Officers in place at numerous sites. 12 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Strategy & Management Our commitment: Guidelines and standards Devices and Services unit into the scope of existing Biopharma Compliance policies and created separate legal Our compliance program builds on our Values and integrates and compliance guidance for business interactions with our these into our compliance framework, which contains guidekey stakeholders. lines for entrepreneurial conduct that are mandatory for all our employees Group-wide: We recognize the fact that we are increasingly interacting with patients and patient organizations and therefore Our Code of Conduct provides our people with a tool that revised our corresponding compliance policy. promotes ethical business practices. At the end of 2017, we started the roll-out of an updated version of our Code Requirements for our business partners of Conduct called “What guides us”. Approved by the Executive Board, this version has a strong relation to our To be effective, compliance management needs to go beyond Values along with newer topics such as data protection, the boundaries of our own company, which is why we expect supplier due diligence and bioethics. The updated code is all our business partners worldwide to comply with our available to employees both digitally and as a print compliance principles. We only collaborate with partners who brochure. Available in 22 languages, it explains the prinpledge to comply with all applicable laws, reject all forms of ciples for interacting with business partners, employees, bribery, adhere to environmental, health and safety guideand the communities in which we operate. lines, and refuse to tolerate discrimination. Furthermore, we Our Human Rights Charter supplements our Code of contractually require our business partners to demonstrate a Conduct with globally valid principles regarding human commitment to internationally recognized human rights and rights as well as the core labor standards of the Internalabor standards, as well as to our own compliance requiretional Labour Organization (ILO). ments. We also monitor adherence to these standards for Our Anti-Corruption Policy stipulates that all business existing business relationships – usually when a contract is activities must be conducted in accordance with legally being considered for renewal, or alternatively at least every applicable anti-corruption standards. All forms of bribery four years. – whether giving or receiving – are strictly prohibited. We have reinforced our policy by adding and updating releWhile our supplier management processes (p. 104) focus vant corruption prevention sections. One example is the on vendor compliance with our standards, our Global Busichanges made to the gifts and hospitality section. Addiness Partner Risk Management Process governs interactions tionally, we have created guidelines on local limits and with sales partners such as distributors and wholesalers. Our thresholds in giving or receiving gifts and hospitality to or Business Partner Risk Management approach was updated in from third parties (including public officials and external 2017 and integrated into our Anti-Corruption Policy. business partners). Moreover, in 2017 we also incorporated our Global Business Partner Risk Management prinIn general, we are not able to negotiate social and enviciples into our Anti-Corruption Policy. ronmental responsibility, compliance or integrity issues with Our Pharma Code (for prescription medicines) and our each of our customers individually. Therefore in 2017, our Consumer Health Code (for over-the-counter medicines) Performance Materials business sector compliance team set out key principles for interactions with our partners in developed a global approach for responding to external Code the health industry. of Conduct acknowledgment requests. To implement this Our Group-wide Antitrust and Competition Law guideline framework, our Performance Materials Compliance team stipulates that all business activities across the Group are introduced the Corporate Responsibility Letter of Merck to be carried out in compliance with applicable competiKGaA, Darmstadt, Germany and a correlation clause, starting tion regulations at all times. We acknowledge the imporwith the Performance Materials business sector. tance of fair competition and expect the same of contract organizations acting on our behalf. Harmonizing data privacy Group-wide Our “Policy for Data Protection and Personal Data Privacy” defines the standards according to which we process, save, use, and Since 2016 we have been using an online confirmation transmit data. This approach allows us to achieve a high level of process to send Group-wide policies to relevant managers, protection for the data belonging to our employees, contract partGroup Compliance and Legal. Recipients then confirm not ners, customers, and suppliers, as well as patients and particonly receipt of the policies, but also that they are being ipants in clinical studies. Our Group-wide understanding of adhered to and implemented appropriately at the relevant data privacy is based on European and German legislation. sites. However, we also take into account local data privacy requirements, as not all requirements at all sites are covered by EU Guidelines for new business units standards. In case of doubt, the respective national legal obligations take precedence. Whatever the situation, we fundamentally Where necessary, we update our policies according to respect the rights of those affected. external requirements. In 2017, we integrated the Medical 13 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Strategy & Management We are already applying the new requirements of the Euroonline course on our Anti-Corruption Policy in 15 pean General Data Protection Regulation. In line with this languages. In 2017, a total of 7,315 employees and regulation, we have established working groups to review contractors took part in anti-corruption training. the compliance of our various business units and improve existing measures where necessary. Some seminars on special topics are specifically developed for professionals in certain roles. When participating in Compliance audits pharma-specific training, for example, employees in our Healthcare business sector also receive training on relevant As part of operational audits, our Group function Internal compliance issues. Auditing regularly reviews matters relating to compliance at our sites to determine which compliance guidelines, To complement the online courses we offer, numerous classprocesses and structures are in place and how effective they room courses are also held for employees Group-wide with are. In addition, Internal Auditing also checks for violations a particular focus on local issues. In 2017, we furthermore of our Code of Conduct and our Anti-Corruption Policy, and developed a game for our sales representatives that simureviews the workplace requirements set out in our Human lates typified behaviors tailored to a multitude of compliRights Charter. ance scenarios that our sales heads experience on a regular basis. Our audit planning aims to provide comprehensive risk assurance through the best possible audit coverage. Our In addition to these training offerings, Group Compliance has annual audit planning process is risk-based and includes partnered with our Chief Medical Office team to develop a factors such as sales, employee headcount, systematic training course for our Medical employees. Accessible via our stakeholder feedback, and the Corruption Perceptions Index education portal, this course comprises important modules (CPI) published by the non-governmental organization containing compliance-related topics such as Medical EducaTransparency International. If an internal audit results in tion Funding (p. 71), Medical and Commercial Interactions recommendations, Group Internal Auditing performs a (p. 70) and Patient Support Programs (p. 46). The course is systematic follow-up and monitors the implementation of the also open to all interested employees, including those from prescribed corrective actions. other units. Compliance training We also regularly provide data privacy training courses that new employees must complete, focusing especially on data We regularly provide compliance training in the form of privacy rules and the new European General Data Protecclassroom and online courses that cover our Code of tion Regulation. Furthermore, we keep all employees up to Conduct, anti-corruption, antitrust awareness, data privacy, date through regular refresher training. and healthcare compliance standards. These courses are attended by employees at all levels as well as independent contractors and supervised workers (such as temporary “Compliance. Because we care” staff). We regularly update our training plan and adapt it to Our internal “Compliance. Because we care” initiative aims new developments. to increase awareness of compliance throughout our Group. Harnessing the power of emotion, we have incorporated evocative visuals to bring key compliance aspects closer to our employees, thus heightening their sensitivity to these 11,521 issues. Launched in 2017, the initiative is being implemented gradually Group-wide. In addition to providing training in the form of webinars, people were trained on our Code of Conduct and sensitized Skype meetings and on-site events, we inform our staff to the consequences of compliance violations through our eabout compliance issues through a variety of media, learning system in 2017. A further component of this training including our Intranet, newsletters, our employee magazine focuses on preventing compliance violations. “pro (p. 83)”, and posters. SpeakUp Line for potential compliance We are currently working on a business sector-specific eviolations learning program centered on our new Code of Conduct. We plan to roll this program out in 2018. All Group employees are encouraged to report potential compliance violations to their superiors, Legal, HR, or other relevant departments. Worldwide, they can also use our We continually educate our employees on new compliance central SpeakUp hotline to report violations by telephone or requirements, guidelines and projects, and also offer an via a web-based application in their respective national 14 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Strategy & Management language, free of charge – and, if desired, anonymously. In 2017, we continued our compliance training for the Based on recommendations from the Group Compliance Case employees of our business partners as part of our Business Committee, where necessary disciplinary actions may also be Partner Risk Management Process. This training is mandatory taken by the responsible superiors against employees who for all personnel who come into contact with our company or have committed a compliance violation. These actions may products. It is available in eight languages and focuses on range from a simple warning to dismissal of the employee, general compliance, corruption prevention and competition depending on the severity of the violation. Our Business law. In 2017, 3,699 employees from our partner companies Partners who have undergone the Business Partner Risk completed this training. Management Process can also use the SpeakUp Line to report violations of internal or external rules. Ensuring data privacy and information security Both the number of reports of suspected compliance violations and the number of actual compliance cases has We operate a data privacy management system as part of remained largely stable in recent years. In 2017, 39 compliour Group Compliance organization. This system has been ance-related reports leading to investigations were received harmonized across the Group. Moreover, we also protect via the SpeakUp Line and other channels. In 2017, there our information systems, their contents and our commuwere 14 confirmed cases of violations of the Code of nication channels against criminal activities (eCrime, cyber Conduct. The majority of these constituted minor, isolated attacks) of any kind, including unauthorized access, informaincidents resulting from the misconduct of individual persons, tion leaks and misuse. To do so, we work with our Group and appropriate disciplinary action was taken. One case Security unit to undertake a variety of technical, organiconcerned a testing facility and comprised issues relating to zational and process-based measures based on recognized site management as well as control deficiencies in certain international standards. We have harmonized electronic and areas. Another case related to interactions with healthcare physical security measures (such as access control) to professionals and organizations where local practices did not bolster our ability to handle sensitive data such as trade meet the requirements of our Group policy. secrets. Group Internal Auditing verifies that we are implementing and complying with our data privacy policy and data Risk analysis and management of business security programs. partners Our data privacy management system aligns with the PDCA We apply a risk-based approach to selecting sales-related principle (plan, do, check, act), which is intended to ensure business partners. The greater we estimate the risk to be that data privacy policies and tools (plan), data privacy regarding a certain country, region or type of service, the training (do), inspections and assessments (check), and an closer and more carefully we examine the company before incident and issue management process (act) are all in place. entering into a business relationship with them. For these risk assessments, we use the Corruption Perceptions Index To support local Data Privacy Officers at our sites, we have (CPI) maintained by Transparency International and assess introduced standardized data privacy consulting potential partners against other parameters such as the services that can be requested by data controllers and nature of the intended service. We also tap into background processors as needed. We have also implemented a central information from various databases and information reported IT tool to provide a single source for data privacy processes, by the business partners themselves, for instance on their e.g. answering data privacy questions and reporting potential own compliance programs. data privacy incidents. In 2017, we re-designed our Business Partner Risk ManageEFPIA Transparency Initiative ment Process and automated certain processes. This change allows us better scrutiny of our business partners in highSince 2016, members of the Transparency Initiative of the risk environments such as countries with a CPI rating below European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Asso50 (0 = highly corrupt/100 = very clean). This enables us ciations (EFPIA) have been required to publish all contrito further reduce legal and reputational risks that may arise butions to medical professionals and organizations in the from bribery committed by third parties. health sector, along with the names and addresses of individual recipients. Beyond this initiative, several countries If we encounter compliance violations, we decide whether have introduced legislation to further increase transparency to reject the potential business partner or terminate the in the pharmaceutical industry. We comply with these existing relationship. However, our partners are generally requirements and additional standards governing interacwilling to adapt their structures and processes in line with our tions in the healthcare industry (p. 70) and have been strict compliance requirements. Since launching this process including them in our EFPIA reporting since 2016. in 2013, we have assessed more than 2,800 business partners, and in 2017 we used this process to assess 690 new business partners. 15 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Strategy & Management Alliance for Integrity courses, and by sharing best practices on how to develop and implement effective corruption prevention systems. We are a member of the Alliance for Integrity Steering Committee. Established by the German Society for InterEngaging stakeholders national Cooperation (GIZ), the German Global Compact Network (DGCN) and the Federation of German Industries In 2017 as well, we engaged stakeholders in a dialogue (BDI), this initiative aims to achieve a corruption-free primarily through our memberships in various associations. business world in developing and emerging countries. Amongst other organizations, we are members of the Its activities are concentrated in Argentina, Brazil, Ghana, German Chemical Industry Association e.V. (VCI), the India, and Indonesia. The Steering Committee leads the German Institute for Compliance (DICO), the European decision-making process for developing measures in these Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations countries, while local advisory groups oversee implementa(EFPIA), the German Association of Voluntary Self-Regulation at the country level. Our local Compliance organizations tion for the Pharmaceutical Industry (FSA), the International also collaborate with these groups and provide training that Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and Associations is offered to small and medium-sized companies. We further(IFPMA), the Alliance for Integrity, and the German Associamore support anti-corruption conferences such as the World tion for Supply Chain Management, Procurement and LogisConference hosted by the German Chamber of Commerce, tics e.V. (BME). which will be held in February 2018 in Frankfurt. Beyond these efforts, we continuously assist the Alliance for Integrity through business-to-business workshops and training 16 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Strategy & Management Human rights First and foremost, all nations have a duty to establish a human rights such as our Code of Conduct, our Corporate regulatory framework to protect human rights. Particularly Environment, Health and Safety Policy, our Responsible for international enterprises, it is important for this frameSourcing Principles, and our Charter on Access to Health in work to be implemented across all countries to level the Developing Countries. Our Human Rights Charter was develplaying field for competition. As a company, we in turn also oped in collaboration with human rights experts from various have a duty to uphold human rights, taking steps to ensure countries, including representatives from trade unions and that they are not compromised by our business activities. We business federations. are constantly working to integrate human rights due diligence into our processes in an effort to minimize the risk of At the end of 2016, the German federal government adopted human rights violations and to protect these rights within our a National Action Plan for implementing the UN sphere of influence. Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights (NAP). We are committed to these principles, which codify the duty of states to protect human rights as well as the Our approach to human rights due responsibility of companies to uphold them, providing a framework for how nations and businesses should do so. diligence Through our current efforts and initiatives, we are on the We are committed to upholding and protecting human rights. right track to fulfilling the requirements stipulated in the To this end, we seek to better understand the potential National Action Plan. impact of our business activities and relationships on human rights. Moreover, we examine our processes to identify the In the United Kingdom, the UK Modern Slavery Act practices already in place at our sites that fulfill the function requires us to report on the steps we are taking to counter of human rights due diligence. This knowledge helps us adapt forced labor and human trafficking. Our company issued its our Group-wide human rights due diligence efforts to better first UK Modern Slavery Statement in 2017. This statement meet local needs and adapt our processes in response to has been endorsed by our Executive Board and is available the respective risk profiles. In doing so, we can develop on our website. approaches to overcome particular challenges. At the same time, we are working to identify the opportunities presented Constantly improving our risk management by the positive impacts of our operations. Based on the findings from our 2012 Group-wide human Within the German Global Compact Network (DGCN), we are rights risk assessment and our 2014 human rights impact a member of the Business & Human Rights Peer Learning assessment pilot in India, all our subsidiary heads conducted Group, a working group in which we engage with other a human rights self-assessment at the end of 2016. Using an companies to share lessons learned as well as successes in electronic survey we created, they provided detailed inforimplementing human rights due diligence. mation on the main subject areas covered by our Human Rights Charter. This survey will help us better understand how our subsidiaries perceive human rights risks and How we promote respect for human rights manage them locally, while also raising human rights awareOur Executive Board bears ultimate responsibility for ness and creating a foundation for systematic support. upholding human rights within our organization. Our Group function Corporate Affairs handles the coordination of activIn 2017, we evaluated the results of the survey and held ities and processes relating to human rights due diligence. discussions with subject matter experts in Group functions Progress and measures are regularly discussed at CR such as Procurement, Human Resources and Compliance. Committee meetings, while subject matter experts within The conclusion was that our subsidiaries are thoroughly our Group functions, business sectors and local units are in aware of human rights risks, guidelines and processes. This charge of implementing measures. includes their employees' work conditions, potential product impacts, data protection, privacy protection, and access to health. Many of our subsidiaries also displayed sound knowlOur commitment: Guidelines, charters and edge of and great interest in human rights. At the same time, laws we identified some areas where we can improve. Regarding several issues, we need to increase risk awareness within Our Human Rights Charter affirms our commitment to our subsidiaries and must work to implement due diligence respecting human rights while also defining the relevant more stringently, embedding this approach more deeply at requirements for our company. This charter furthermore the operational level. We intend to use these findings to unites and complements existing policies and guidelines on make our Group-wide approach to risk management more 17 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Strategy & Management effective. In the course of enhancing our processes, we will the corrective actions identified. Furthermore, we've used implement risk-based measures to increase awareness of the results to formulate numerous measures aimed at reinslavery (such as forced labor and human trafficking) within forcing human rights due diligence within our company. In the Group. Furthermore, in an effort to constantly improve 2018, for instance, we plan to review our company’s existing ourselves, we will be reviewing our mitigation actions with grievance mechanisms, focusing particularly on their scope respect to external staff, product and service sourcing, and and effectiveness. collaboration with local contract partners. Human rights and investment decisions In September 2017, we launched an electronic confirmation course for our Human Rights Charter as one of the first When projects exceed a certain cost threshold, our Investfollow-up actions from our human rights self-assessment. ment Committee must approve the expenditure. The This course is mandatory Group-wide for all site directors as committee's decision takes into account factors such as enviwell as all managers directly below Executive Board level. ronment, safety and health. When it comes to investment Procurement executives from the second and third manageprojects, we are also bound by our Code of Conduct, which rial tiers below the Executive Board are also required to stipulates compliance with the principles of the UN Global take the course, which focuses on modern slavery and the Compact and therefore also with the core labor standards increasing regulatory requirements for companies such as of the International Labour Organization (ILO), such as the those set out in the National Action Plan and the UK Modern prohibition of child and forced labor. Slavery Act. By taking the course, participants confirm that they have read and understood our Human Rights Charter, Keeping employees informed and are implementing it within their area of responsibility. We use a variety of channels to educate our employees on In early December 2017, we informed all self-assessment human rights, including specific Intranet sites along with participants of the aggregated results and called on them to videos and other articles featuring employees explaining how take steps within their sphere of responsibility to implement their work intersects with human rights. 18 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Strategy & Management Stakeholder dialogue Our business activities converge with the interests of many Dialogue at various levels people, which is why engaging with our stakeholders is particularly important to us. We aim to unite divergent interOur key stakeholders include our employees, customers and ests as far as possible, as well as build and sustain trust. business partners, patients, the Merck family, and our Through this dialogue, we communicate our decisions and suppliers. We maintain continuous contact with them actions transparently in an effort to ensure social license to through a variety of channels, including stakeholder surveys, operate. issue-specific dialogues, roundtable discussions, and information forums. We also engage stakeholders through our advocacy work and industry coalitions. Our stakeholders Regulatory Sales & agencies business Employees partners Media Patients Merck Employee family representatives Shareholders Scientists Suppliers Community Federations Healthcare & policy systems makers NGOs Competitors Customers 19 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Strategy & Management Regular stakeholder surveys Performance Materials products to advance various ideas and serve as a source of inspiration. We also discussed how to We regularly conduct surveys among our employees, guide research and development efforts onto the right track customers and business partners, as well as other relevant from the very beginning. Further information can be found stakeholder groups. We want to know which issues they under Sustainable product design (p. 32). consider to be of importance to our company now and in the future, along with how they rate our performance in Roundtables and informational forums addressing the individual issues. We also seek to understand their expectations of us as a responsible company. Our CR We have set up roundtable discussions and informational Report reflects the results of these surveys and presents the forums for local residents at our major sites. Since 1994, we actions we’ve taken in response. have been holding an annual public planning forum in Darmstadt to discuss the development of our site with members In November 2017, we conducted a Group-wide employee of the city council, local authorities and the community. In survey in 22 languages. Around 42,100 employees took part, 2017, this forum mainly focused on the changes resulting representing an 84% response rate. from our ONE Global Headquarters initiative (p. 82), particularly the new sewer system being laid by the City of Darmstadt and the future design of Frankfurter Strasse. Issue-specific dialogue Our business operations in the areas of healthcare, life Advocacy groups and industry coalitions science and performance materials intersect the interests of various social groups, whom we engage via questionnaires, We actively participate in the political process and advocate workshops and seminars, or even at major conferences. Our our views by engaging policy makers in a direct dialogue departments organize such forms of exchange at the local, as well as through our work with industry coalitions. Below national and international level, depending on the topic and are several examples of major national and international degree of importance. Beyond this, we are also involved in industry associations in which we are members and hold industry networks and participate in symposia. In 2017, we positions: intensified our efforts in the following areas: German Chemical Industry Association e.V. (VCI) Improving access to health: As part of our aim to improve European Chemical Industry Council (Cefic) access to health in lowand middle-income countries, we German Association of Research-based Pharmaceutical continuously engage various stakeholders through channels Manufacturers e.V. (vfa) such as our Access Dialogues, which in 2017 focused on open innovation, intellectual property, and local supply chain chalEuropean Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and lenges. Launched in 2013, this event series provides a platAssociations (EFPIA) form for public and private sector stakeholders to exchange International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers important information and share best practices pertaining to & Associations (IFPMA) access to health. You can find more information under Access to health (p. 38). Examples of positions held by members of our Executive Sourcing mica responsibly: In November 2017, we Board include: attended the Delhi kick-off of the Responsible Mica program, which was launched in response to the 2016 Mica Summit. Stefan Oschmann, Chairman of the Executive Board As founding members, we are committed to increasing the and CEO: traceability of mica all along the supply chain and to improving the living conditions of the communities in the mining regions. At the event, members endorsed a five-year European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and action plan that defines steps for establishing a responsible Associations (EFPIA), President and completely traceable mica supply chain. Further inforGerman Chemical Industry Association e.V. (VCI), Board mation can be found under Mica supply chain (p. 106). of Directors Deutsche Welle, Business Advisory Board Partnering with pioneers: We seek to engage with pioneers who look far into the future and develop cuttingedge technologies. To this end, we established the annual Udit Batra, Executive Board member and CEO Life Displaying Futures symposium, which was held for the eighth Science: time in 2017. Under the banner of “Digital Transformations“, we convened in Tokyo (Japan) to examine digital transformaGreater Boston Chamber of Commerce, Board member tion from different angles and explore new societal trends. At this conference we asked ourselves how we could use our Massachusetts High Technology Council (MHTC), Vice Chair 20 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Strategy & Management University of Delaware College of Engineering, member of Marcus Kuhnert, Executive Board member and Chief the Advisory Council Financial Officer: German Committee on Eastern European Economic RelaKai Beckmann, Executive Board member and CEO tions, member Performance Materials: Deutsches Aktieninstitut e. V. (DAI), Board member Federal Employers' Association for the German Chemical Industry e.V. (BAVC), President Involvement in initiatives Darmstadt Rhein Main Neckar Chamber of Industry and Commerce (IHK), Vice President We collaborate with numerous civically engaged organizaFraunhofer Institute for Computer Graphics Research tions such as the Goethe-Institute, the Joint Conference (IGD), Chairman of the Advisory Board Church and Development (pharma dialogue) and the World Environment Center (WEC). Furthermore, we are also Confederation of German Employers' Associations (BDA), involved in initiatives and projects (p. 8) that share our interVice President pretation of responsible entrepreneurial conduct. That is why we support, for instance, the Code of Responsible Conduct for Business and are members of the Chemie3 and ResponWalter Galinat, Executive Board member: sible Care® initiatives. German Chemical Industry Association e.V./Hesse Political donations Chapter (VCI Hessen), Chairman of the Hesse Chapter Trade Policy Committee of the German Chemical Industry In general, we do not make donations in the form of financial Association e.V. (VCI), member contributions or services to political parties or related organizations. Donations to holders of political office or candiBoard of Trustees of the Chemical Industry Fund (FCI) dates for such, as well as to political initiatives, must always within the German Chemical Industry Association e.V. comply with the statutes in force in the recipient's country. (VCI), member This approach is stipulated in our internal guidelines. In the United States, political action committees (PACs) have been set up through which our employees can donate money to Belén Garijo, Executive Board member and CEO support political candidates and organizations. Such donaHealthcare: tions are not made by or on behalf of the company; they are reported to the U.S. Federal Election Commission and Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America publicly disclosed. (PhRMA), Board member 21 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Strategy & Management Materiality analysis  Part of the non-financial report Which issues – in terms of our corporate responsibility – Our stakeholders rate product responsibility as very imporare of particular significance to our long-term success? And tant, including product quality, the safety of chemical prodwhat expectations do stakeholders have of our company? In ucts, innovation, and research & development. In terms of an effort to answer these questions, we regularly conduct issues relevant to our company, two additional topics were materiality assessments that aim to rate sustainability topics identified as a result of the validation process: capacity according to their importance to our company and external building was deemed an important component of increasing stakeholders. This allows us to align our business activities health awareness (p. 47) and our experts also identified with their priorities. In applying this approach, we fulfill genome editing as a key aspect of bioethics (p. 61). Both the requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), topics have been integrated into the relevant sections. the international framework on which we’ve based this CR Report, as well as meeting the obligation arising from the The topics rated as material form the focus of this CR Report. CSR Directive Implementation Act that was ratified in Since our stakeholders also expect information and transGermany in 2017. Consequently, in 2017 we reviewed the parency from us regarding less significant issues, we also results of the comprehensive materiality assessment we report on these, albeit in less detail. conducted in 2016 to ensure they were still up-to-date and relevant. Identifying issues for non-financial disclosure Validating material issues The German CSR Directive Implementation Act obliges us to review the “double materiality” of topics according to In 2016, we conducted a comprehensive materiality assessSection 289 (3) of the German Commercial Code. The prinment in which we evaluated media reports, inquiries from ciple of double materiality requires companies to disclose investors and sustainability ratings. We then weighted the non-financial information when the following two criteria are issues based on the results of stakeholder surveys and intermet: Firstly, the information is necessary to understand the views with experts. Both this process and the findings from company’s business performance, business results and finanthe materiality assessment were reviewed by internal cial situation. And secondly, the information makes it specialists and the CR Committee (p. 10). possible to understand how the company’s business activities affect non-financial aspects. We have reviewed the double In 2017, the 43 key issues identified in the 2016 materiality materiality of the issues validated in 2017, which were idenassessment were reviewed and validated by experts from the tified in the 2016 materiality assessment. The issues that fall respective business sectors. In doing so, we took account of within the scope of this definition are marked in the materithe latest developments, updating the analysis where necesality matrix. sary. 22 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Strategy & Management Material topics Supply chain standards Ethical Conduct Product safety and quality Supply chain standards Bioethics Safety of chemical products Clinical studies Patient safety Animal welfare Counterfeit products Transport and warehouse safety Labeling of chemicals and other products Health for everyone Good Business Practice Pharmaceutical and chemical Access to health Compliance residues in the environment Prices of medicines Responsible marketing Nanotechnology Medicals to combat rare and Community involvement neglected diseases Interactions with health systems Health awareness Governance Advocacy Sustainable products Resource efficiency Data security Sustainable product design Waste and recycling Re-use and recycling of Water management our customers’ waste Human rights Climate Change Attractive employer Human rights Energy efficiency and Diversity and equal opportunity renewable energy Attracting, recruiting and Greenhouse gas emissions retaining employees Employee development Good leadership Employee engagement Technology Environmental stewardship Safety and health Innovation and R&D Process and plant safety Work life balance Digitalization Biodiversity Compensation Digitalization of the workplace Other emissions Very high importance High importance Medium importance Part of the non-financial reportipsum 23 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Strategy & Management Material issues in our value chain The following table shows where our main issues fall within the value chain: upstream in our supply chain, in the course of our own activities, or downstream with customers and patients. Moreover, we have listed the issues to show the breakdown of materiality by business sector and stakeholder group. These topics are linked to the respective chapters in this report. Upstream Performance Downstream Healthcare Life Science activities Materials activities Product safety and quality Chemical product safety Material for: Customers, Merck family, Shareholders, Government agencies, NGOs, Commercial and business associates Patient safety Material for: Merck family, Shareholders, Government agencies, NGOs, Health systems, Patients Counterfeit products Material for: Customers, Merck family, Shareholders, Federations and policy makers, Government agencies, NGOs, Commercial and business associates, Health systems, Patients Transport and warehouse safety Material for: Customers, Government agencies, Suppliers, Commercial and business associates, Communities Labeling of chemicals and other products Material for: Customers, Federations and policy makers, Government agencies, NGOs, Media, Suppliers, Scientists, Commercial and business associates, Health systems, Communities, Competitors Pharmaceutical and chemical residues in the environment Material for: Federations and policy makers, Government agencies, NGOs, Communities Ethical conduct Bioethics Material for: Customers, Federations and policy makers, Government agencies, NGOs, Scientists Clinical studies Material for: Merck family, Shareholders, Federations and policy makers, Government agencies, NGOs, Media, Suppliers, Scientists, Patients Animal welfare Material for: Government agencies, NGOs, Media, Suppliers, Scientists 24 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Strategy & Management Good business practice Compliance Material for: Employees, Merck family, Shareholders, Government agencies, NGOs, Suppliers, Commercial and business associates, Health systems, Competitors Responsible marketing Material for: Customers, Federations and policy makers, Media, Commercial and business associates, Health systems, Patients Community involvement Material for: Merck family, NGOs, Media, Communities Interactions with health systems Material for: Federations and policy makers, Government agencies, NGOs, Health systems, Patients Governance Material for: Employees, Employee representatives, Merck family, Shareholders, Government agencies Health for everyone Access to health Material for: NGOs, Media, Suppliers, Commercial and business associates, Health systems, Patients Prices of medicines Material for: Merck family, Shareholders, Government agencies, NGOs, Media, Commercial and business associates, Health systems, Patients Medicines to combat rare and neglected diseases Material for: NGOs, Scientists, Health systems, Patients Health awareness Material for: NGOs, Media, Scientists, Commercial and business associates, Health systems, Patients, Communities, Competitors Supply chain standards Supply chain standards Material for: Customers, Merck family, Shareholders, Federations and policy makers, NGOs, Media, Suppliers, Competitors 25 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Strategy & Management Human rights Human rights Material for: Customers, Federations and policy makers, NGOs, Media, Suppliers, Communities Sustainable products Sustainable product design Material for: Customers, Scientists Re-use and recycling of our customers’ waste Material for: Customers Attractive employer Diversity and equal opportunity Material for: Employees, Employee representatives, Merck family, Media Attracting, recruiting and retaining employees Material for: Employees, Employee representatives, Shareholders, Competitors Employee development Material for: Employees, Employee representatives Good leadership Material for: Employees, Employee representatives Employee engagement Material for: Employees, Employee representatives Health and safety Material for: Employees, Employee representatives, Government agencies 26 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Strategy & Management Technology Innovation and R&D Material for: Customers, Merck family, Shareholders, Scientists, Health systems, Patients Resource efficiency Waste and recycling Material for: Government agencies, NGOs, Communities Water management Material for: Government agencies, NGOs, Communities Climate change Energy efficiency and renewable energy Material for: Federations and policy makers, NGOs Greenhouse gas emissions Material for: Customers, Federations and policy makers, Government agencies, NGOs, Media, Suppliers 27 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Products Products 29 Innovation and digitalization 55 Counterfeit products 32 Sustainable products 57 Transport and warehouse safety 38 Access to health 59 Responsible marketing 46 Prices of medicines 61 Bioethics 47 Health awareness 63 Clinical studies 50 Chemical product safety 67 Animal welfare 53 Patient safety 70 Interactions with health systems 28 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Products Innovation and digitalization  Part of the non-financial report We develop products and technologies that enrich people’s enabling us to create innovative products, services and lives, and are constantly on the lookout for groundbreaking pioneering business models. At the same time, digitalization developments and trends. Research and development (R&D) is decreasing the time-to-market for new ideas, creating as well as innovation are the cornerstones of our success. opportunities we intend to leverage. In 2017, we spent around € 2.1 billion on R&D. In particular new technologies and the advance of digitalization are Research and development costs by business sector – 2017 Life Science Performance Materials € 241 million € 225 million 11% 11% Healthcare € 1,632 million 78% Our approach to innovation and digitalization we are open to external impetus. Our end-to-end innovation process seeks to achieve exactly that. Our three business sectors Healthcare, Life Science and Performance Materials have established strategies to drive Based on this approach, we source and advance ideas and new product developments for the benefit of patients and our projects from the brainstorming stage onwards. Following customers. The diversity of our business sectors provides us the ideation phase, promising projects progress to an incubawith a breadth of technologies and depth of market knowtion and growth phase, where we provide project teams with how, giving us a competitive advantage in developing new a suitable environment in which to develop their business products. In 2017, we established an organization to seize models. Project progress is monitored in a lean, gate-based this opportunity by facilitating innovation between the indiprocess – applying strong criteria to evaluate the advance vidual business sectors and beyond our current strategy. Our of the projects at each gate. All activities are supported new Group function Strategy and Transformation overby experts in business model design, business development sees an end-to-end process that ranges from setting the and market research, as well as agile methodologies. The innovation direction, through ideation, incubation and growth objective is that, after market launch, the new products or of projects, to establishing long-term business models. services will make a measurable contribution to our business success. We are investing in forward-looking ideas. In deciding where to invest, we analyze current megatrends to determine the Driving digital innovations innovation fields in which we see potential for new business. We endeavor to identify innovation projects that transcend A major focus of our innovation efforts is digitalization. We our current portfolio and develop them from the initial idea want to leverage the opportunities this provides to boost our all the way to a functioning business model. This can only business performance and are therefore increasingly forming succeed if our business sectors work closely together– and if 29 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Products new strategic partnerships with organizations that offer Even though we are open to innovation around the world, different perspectives. We expect to see progress in the many potential partners for innovation projects are based in following particularly promising areas: Silicon Valley, California (USA) – one of the key sites in the global high-tech industry. We are therefore currently building Research and development: Digital technologies an innovation hub in Silicon Valley to be in closer proximity to enable us to access and quickly analyze large volumes of the innovation partners there, be it companies or institutions. data, thereby accelerating our research and development The head of our future hub is moreover building up a team activities. This is especially the case in our Healthcare of technology scouts to tap into the Silicon Valley innovation business sector, where we are working to advance the ecosystem. Also in 2017, we established the China Strategy development of new drugs to provide patients with faster and Transformation Group, which is responsible for driving access to effective medicines. our strategy, innovations and digitalization efforts between and beyond our business sectors in this fast-evolving market. Supply chain management: Digital technologies help us to better manage our supply chain. By collating all data centrally, we have access to crucial real-time data. Our strategic Ventures Fund provides up to € 300 million for This enables us to predict supply bottlenecks around the investments in start-ups. The fund is structured to enable world and respond promptly, making sure medicines us to invest in external independent start-up companies reach their destination. aligned with the strategies of Healthcare, Life Science and Performance Materials, as well as to invest in brand new Interactions with customers: Thanks to modern data businesses. collection and analysis methods, we can make more efficient use of customer-relevant data. This information helps us to understand our customers more fully and Our commitment: Protecting innovative facilitates our dialogue with them, allowing us to adapt ideas our products and services where necessary. To ensure the fully confidential handling of sensitive informaDigital product innovations: Digitalization enables us tion, especially intellectual property in digitalization projects, to broaden our existing product portfolio, for instance to and to protect our innovative ideas, we adhere strictly to all include new digital services. Moreover, we intend to data protection regulations. Our Policy for Data Protection promote health awareness and improve patient treatand Personal Data Privacy defines the standards that govern ment through innovative e-health offerings such as DORA how we process, save, use, and transfer data. You can find (Diabetes Online Risk Assessment). more information on data protection under Compliance (p. 11). You can find more information on research and development in our Annual Report 2017. Spotlight on the Innovation Center Having started operations in the modular Innovation Center How we’re driving innovations in May 2015, we completed the construction of our new Innovation Center in Darmstadt and moved into the new The organizational set-up of our research and development premises in early 2018. It will be officially inaugurated during activities reflects the structure of our company. In line with our 350th anniversary celebrations in May. The Innovation their individual innovation strategies, all three of our busiCenter offers our people and external partners an optimal ness sectors operate their own independent Research and environment in which to cultivate their ideas. We provide Development (R&D) units. On top of that, our Group function the infrastructure needed to advance cutting-edge projects, Strategy and Transformation has developed a new end-toalong with state-of-the-art methods and tools. Our work end process for innovation both within and beyond its current focuses on the following initiatives. innovation strategy and is responsible for its implementation. This function reports directly to Stefan Oschmann, CEO and Chairman of the Executive Board. Synergizing external ideas: Start-ups and crossindustry collaboration Our Innovation Committee (IC) oversees the implementation Numerous start-ups are working on new technologies and of innovation projects both between and beyond our business innovative business models. Our global Accelerator sectors. It is tasked with ensuring that the decision-making program supports these enterprises in the early stages of process for selecting innovation projects is both transtheir development, with a focus on projects in the fields of parent and consistent, and furthermore reviews the our business sectors and other current trends. In return, progress of ongoing efforts. The committee consists of senior we gain insights into the innovative start-up scene and are executives from our Group functions and our three business able to identify emerging market trends early on. Moreover, sectors. If we participate in projects requiring larger-scale we aim to link these start-up companies with our innovation investments, the IC consults our Executive Board. projects or our business sectors for future collaboration. 30 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Products Our Accelerator is complemented by hackathons that we Since 2015, our Innovation Think Tank has been analyzing supported in 2017 in countries such as Israel, the United current trends and technologies to generate new ideas for States, Germany, and Italy, as well as a Virtual Challenge innovation projects. Here, we work closely with internal and in Africa. A hackathon is an event at which students and external experts, research institutes and companies. young professionals from various disciplines collaborate to Through open campaigns, we support idea-givers right quickly develop solutions to specific issues. We ran Africa’s from the initial idea through to the development of a busifirst-ever hackathon in 2016, which led us to invite the ness plan. Our employees can submit their ideas online and start-up Peach Technologies to join our 2017 Accelerator in develop them to maturity with our support through resources Nairobi, Kenya. At this event, they developed an electronic such as online courses. patient file and prevailed against 200 competitors. The most promising ideas sourced through these ideation The 198 participants of our Virtual Challenge, an online channels become innovation projects. We offer employees competition, tackled real-life problems in Africa in an effort the chance to focus on their innovation project by hosting to devise solutions. Examples included improving healthcare them in the Innovation Center. In addition to financial delivery and outcomes, safe food production and water sanisupport we provide a protected ecosystem and dedicated tation. We provide six months of funding and support for the support, as well as clear governance and decision-making to best idea to come out of the Virtual Challenge. In 2017, we efficiently grow and scale innovation projects into sustainable selected Zelij Invent, a project that put forward a solution future businesses. for producing flooring products made out of plastic waste. Its application will be fast tracked to the shortlist for the AccelInnovator Academy: Supporting innovation programs erator. Within our Innovator Academy, we run needs-based training We also supported the start-up program Highest 1877 run sessions and workshops for idea-givers, internal project by the Technical University (TU) of Darmstadt. In March teams, members of think tanks, and start-ups. In May 2017, 2017, we teamed up with TU Darmstadt to organize a roundwe launched “traintoinnovate.com”, an online platform that table for entrepreneurs at our Innovation Center, which was provides the participants in our Innovation Center access to attended by around 50 start-up founders and other key programs with additional information and methods for innoactors in the field of innovation and entrepreneurship. vation. Employees can also use this platform for independent study and to share their ideas with others. At the end of 2016, we entered into a two-year partnership with the European Space Agency (ESA) through Second Displaying Futures Award which we hope to leverage synergies in areas such as innovation, digitalization and materials research. Within this frameThe aim of our Displaying Futures Award, run by our Perforwork, in 2017 we joined forces with Airbus to sponsor the mance Materials business sector, is to support teams from Sustainable Exploration Challenge within the ESA Space academic and institutional backgrounds. In 2017, the Exploration Master’s program. The competition is specifically target topic area was “flexible applications in the field of aimed at start-ups and endeavors to find solutions capable hybrid electronics”. Submitted by creative minds from 22 of supporting human life in space – for instance by making countries, the number of ideas received rose from 31 in use of special chemical and biological processes. Further2016 to 69 in 2017. The three winning teams focused on more, we hosted the Space2Health hackathon at our Innofuture-oriented technologies such as portable biomonitoring vation Center in October 2017, where participants developed devices, soft robotics, electronic sensors, and packaging; solutions for specific challenges using data from the health they were evaluated on innovative value, business potential, and aerospace industries. and impacts on society and the environment. The Displaying Futures Award is worth a total of US$ 150,000. Channeling internal ideas to generate innovation projects Fostering young talent: An investment in the future We want to maximize the innovative power within our company, which is why we give our employees around the world the opporWell-trained talent is the best foundation for future innovatunity to present their ideas to us via various channels. Our objections, which is why we endeavor to spark young people’s tive is to identify ideas between our business sectors and beyond interest in science. Students who are curious about chemour current scope that have the potential to become viable busiistry and biology can use our Junior Lab and livfe BioLab to nesses. Within our Innospire (innovation and inspiration) initiaconduct their own research and experiments. We run both tive, we encourage our employees to submit ideas for new prodlaboratories in partnership with the Technical University (TU) ucts, services and business models. The best suggestions are then of Darmstadt. developed into business plans in a multi-stage process. You can find more information on this topic under Employee engagement Beyond youth labs, we also partner with various schools in (p. 82). the vicinity of our global headquarters in Darmstadt. For 31 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Products example, we provide STEM teachers with educational mateusing advanced analytics, we can decrease packaging waste rials and organize annual teacher events such as Science and lead times when changes need to be made to product Days, where they learn how to incorporate new technologies information. This means that we can pass newly discovered into their science classes. Moreover, we regularly invite information on to our customers more quickly. We are also groups of students to our company to explore our research exploring options for active packaging that will allow patients activities and have been hosting the “Jugend forscht” student to look up the latest information on their smartphones. competition for over 30 years. You can find more information on our educational initiatives under Community (p. 114). Improving customer experience through artificial intelligence Maximizing the opportunities of digitalization We are currently developing chatbots, text-based dialogue systems that enable people to ask computer systems quesIn early 2017, we launched a strategic partnership with tions in natural human language – exactly as they would Palantir Technologies, a California-based company. We write messages to another person. This means we are availintend to use Palantir’s data analysis capabilities to able to answer our customers’ questions 24 hours a day. improve and accelerate the development, commercialization In the future, for example, patients with multiple sclerosis and delivery of new medicines. will be able to order refills for their RebiSmart® injection device via chatbot. Future chatbots may even be capable To harness these capabilities, we have established three joint of reminding patients to order extra supplies as soon as initiatives. Medical Research & Drug Development aims to they run the risk of no longer observing the recommended accelerate the drug manufacturing process; Global Patient dosage. Moreover, chatbots are more cost-effective for us Intimacy intends to enhance patients’ experience with our than traditional customer services. products, and Global Supply Chain focuses on improving demand-forecast accuracy in our supply chains. As well as Online diabetes campaign these initiatives, we have built capacities for data analysis within our own company. In the future we hope to make use In Africa, approximately 62% of diabetes cases go undiagof Palantir technology in all three of our business sectors. nosed. To improve early diagnosis and promote awareness of the disease, we joined forces with various partners in March 2015 to launch a digital initiative known as DORA (Diabetes Smart packaging processes and drug information in Online Risk Assessment). Thanks to this initiative, people real time in South Africa, Namibia, Kenya, Ethiopia, Ghana, Nigeria, Mozambique, and Mauritius can use their smartphones or Our Smart Packaging project allows us to make our drug computers to take an online test. In just a few clicks, they packaging processes more efficient and flexible. We have can ascertain how high their risk is of developing diabetes. connected our packaging machines via the Internet of Things Since its launch, the DORA website has received more than and are currently assessing the potential of this technology 740,000 hits, with more than 100,000 coming from people to improve the accuracy and reliability of our machines while who have taken the test. also increasing their output. Additionally, our new predictive maintenance capabilities will reduce machine breakdowns. By connecting systems across the entire organization and Sustainable product design Respect for the environment and natural resources is at the Our approach to sustainable product heart of sustainable conduct. As a major actor in numerous design sectors, we see it as our duty to not only conserve resources in developing our own products, but also to help our Due to the different contributions of our individual business customers increase the sustainability of theirs. For instance, sectors to sustainability, sustainable product design is our Performance Materials business sector manufactures approached differently by each respective sector. liquid crystals that make displays more energy efficient, while our Life Science business sector develops technologies Performance Materials develops and produces numerous products and solutions to make research and biotech production that in turn help our customers manufacture sustainable and envisimpler, faster and more successful. Here too, we take ronmentally compatible goods. Our aim is to develop smart prodsustainability into account right from the earliest stages of ucts that allow people to save energy in everyday life. product development. 32 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Products In our Life Science business sector, we particularly endeavor Through our Design for Sustainability program (DfS), we to reduce the impacts of our products on health and the envihave developed a comprehensive approach to increasing ronment. This applies to their entire lifecycle, from manuthe sustainability of life science products through the facture and use to disposal. At the same time, we seek to analysis of different sustainability criteria. make our products more efficient and user-friendly, asking Green chemistry assessment tool: In addition to our DfS ourselves right at the start of product development how to program, our Life Science researchers are developing best reconcile these requirements. innovative solutions in line with the 12 Principles of Green Chemistry developed by chemists Paul T. Anastas How we include sustainability in product and John C. Warner. design Through our self-developed web-based tool DOZN™, we can assess the green alternatives of various chemicals, In Performance Materials, we have established the Perforthereby creating transparency for our customers. mance Materials CR Committee with representatives from all four business units and other relevant internal stakeholders. The committee functions as a platform to discuss corporate responsibility issues and meets three to four times per year. Current product examples from Performance Materials The CR group within our Life Science business sector is Our Performance Materials products help boost sustainability responsible for coordinating and driving product-related in a variety of ways: sustainability. This includes our Design for Sustainability (DfS) program for eco-friendlier life science products, and Energy-efficient displays DOZN™, a web-based tool for the quantitative assessment of greener alternatives. Liquid crystals ensure high picture quality in computer monitors and televisions, while also making them more power The responsibilities described here likewise apply to packefficient. This is because our PS-VA technology (polymeraging (p. 36) as well as reuse and recycling (p. 37). stabilized vertical alignment) arranges the liquid crystals so as to make better use of the backlighting, the display component that consumes the most power. PS-VA equipped devices Our commitment: Chemicals and product require significantly less energy than their predecessors. policies Self-aligned vertical alignment (SA-VA) is the next-generaTo meet the product safety regulations relevant to our tion liquid crystal technology now in the pipeline, with the company, our Regulatory Affairs Group Policy (p. 50) details first SA-VA products expected on the market in 2018. SAour Group-wide processes for managing and implementing VA helps conserve resources and is even more environproduct safety, including the necessary management strucmentally sustainable because less energy and solvent are tures. required to manufacture the displays. Moreover, its manufacture is more efficient as it requires fewer process steps. Since In addition, the following guidelines set out several requireSA-VA technology can be applied at lower temperatures, it ments for sustainable product design within our Performance is also suitable for sensitive materials such as those used in Materials business sector: premium products, or for forward-looking applications such as flexible displays. Green Product Policy: This ensures that we adhere to all national and international laws and statutes (e.g. REACH Mobile-device displays have increasingly high resolutions, and the European Union RoHS Directive), as well as to yet are still expected to be as energy-efficient as possible. industry and customer-specific requirements. This is where our liquid crystals for touchscreen applications Our raw materials for the cosmetics industry fulfill the come in. Based on ultra-brightness FFS technology (UB-FFS), high standards of the Cosmetics Directive and are these liquid crystals provide displays with 15% more light produced in line with Good Manufacturing Practices for transmission. This can reduce the energy consumption of Cosmetic Ingredients (EFfCI GMP). smartphones and tablets by around 30%, thereby prolonging battery life. UB-FFS furthermore enhances picture resolution. We are currently working to advance this technology for nonmobile applications such as high-resolution flat-screen LCD Our processes for sustainable product design televisions, where UB-FFS can help boost energy efficiency. Within our Life Science business sector, a variety of approaches help our experts to drive sustainability improveOptimizing liquid crystal production ment during product and packaging development: By enhancing the standard C-C coupling reaction – where two hydrocarbon fragments are coupled via a new carboncarbon bond – during the manufacture of liquid crystals, 33 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Products we have considerably reduced production waste while also Alternative to plastic microbeads saving € 12 million in production costs. Moreover, this We manufacture mineral-based pigments and functional change means we used fewer carcinogenic, mutagenic, and/ fillers used by the cosmetics industry in formulations for or reprotoxic (CMR) substances. various purposes. Our RonaFlair® functional fillers series provides an alternative to plastic microbeads contained in Switchable windows skin care products. Through this range, we are supporting Windows that can be darkened in a matter of seconds are initiatives such as the declaration of Cosmetics Europe, which now a reality thanks to our liquid crystal window (LCW) advocates a phase-out of microplastics in rinse-off products technology. The darkened windows also regulate the heat by 2020. Microbeads are tiny, non-biodegradable polymer generated by direct sunlight while creating a certain sense of particles that cannot be filtered out by wastewater treatment privacy. Commercialized under our licrivision™ brand, initial plants. They end up in marine and terrestrial ecosystems, estimates show that this technology can lower the energy where they can harm the organisms living there. consumed by building climate control systems by up to 40%, thus replacing conventional sun shading. In 2017, we Displaying Futures – Annual dialogue received the Frost & Sullivan Technology Innovation Award in the Smart Glass Industry category in recognition of our Pioneering advances are only possible through close collabosmart windows. We have invested € 15 million in the ration with our partners. We seek to engage with trailblazers construction of a facility in the Netherlands to manufacture who look far into the future and conceive groundbreaking these switchable glass modules, which will start deliveries in technologies. To encourage this dialogue, we instituted the 2018. annual Displaying Futures symposium, which took place in November 2017 for the eighth time. OLEDs Held in Tokyo (Japan), this year’s conference was dedicated Organic light-emitting diodes (OLEDs) likewise increase the to the topic of “Digital Transformations”. We examined energy efficiency of displays while also providing brilliant digital transformation from various angles and explored colors and razor-sharp images. Over the past several years, current societal trends, asking ourselves how we as Perforwe’ve been collaborating closely with printer manufacturers mance Materials can advance various ideas and also serve as to research innovative printing processes for the efficient a source of inspiration for research and development efforts. production of large-area OLED displays. In September 2016, we opened a new production plant for OLED materials at our site in Darmstadt. Costing around € 30 million, this plant Sustainable product design in the Life represents one of the largest single investments we’ve made Science business sector at the Darmstadt site in recent years. Through our Design for Sustainability (DfS) program, we Innovations in photovoltaics have developed a comprehensive approach to increasing the sustainability of life science products. The DfS program We supply the photovoltaics industry with materials for the provides our product developers with a range of tools production of solar cells. These materials enable the realizaenabling them to analyze the impact of the product on the tion of innovative applications for photovoltaics, such as flexfollowing areas: materials, energy and emissions, waste, ible, semi-transparent and lightweight solar cells that can be water, packaging, usability, and innovation. For each of used in buildings, on curved or straight surfaces, and even in these areas we have developed several sustainability clothing. Take for instance the solar trees that we've installed criteria that are noted on a scorecard. When developing a next to our Innovation Center in Darmstadt. The organic new product, our aim is to improve on as many of these photovoltaic modules used in the trees were manufactured criteria scores as possible. We conduct product life cycle with our printable formulations of modern high-performance analyses to understand the potential environmental impacts polymers. The energy generated is stored during the day and within different product life cycle stages. The findings of used to illuminate the trees at night. these analyses show us how we can improve our products and are incorporated into subsequent development stages. More natural-based cosmetics During this process, experts from R&D, Product ManageIn 2017, we teamed up with French company Agrimer to ment, Quality, Procurement, and other departments are in co-develop RonaCare®RenouMer, a skin care product that constant contact with one another. is extracted from a natural sea algae. Responding to the ever-growing popularity of natural cosmetics, we are working closely with our customers in the cosmetics industry to manufacture products such as RenouMer. We develop cosmetic formulations that comply with strict criteria. By the end of 2017, approximately one-third of our cosmetic raw materials met the criteria of Ecocert’s Cosmos standard for organic and natural cosmetics. 34 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Products Wide range of solutions 35% Our Life Science portfolio comprises a broad array of products, each with different properties that are taken into consideration when applying our DfS approach and the Principles of Green Chemistry. The following examples illustrate the results. of our product development projects currently meet three or more product sustainability criteria thanks to our DfS Greener laboratory filters process. Under our DfS approach, we have significantly reduced the environmental footprint of our EZ-Fit™ Manifold laboratory filter. In comparison with its predecessor the Hydrosol ManiWe intend to incorporate our suppliers into our DfS program fold, the EZ-Fit™ Manifold requires 47% less raw material. as well. In 2016, we launched a pilot project to define the Its packaging consists of 100% recyclable cardboard, and relevant requirements for our vendors. In particular, our overall, 99% of its parts are recyclable. Because the objective is for our suppliers (p. 104) to become engaged in heads can be easily removed for cleaning, it is no longer Together for Sustainability (TfS), a chemical industry initianecessary to autoclave the whole device, which saves energy tive. and results in a 91% reduction in the carbon dioxide emissions produced during cleaning. In 2016, we furthermore Green chemistry assessment tool expanded our range to include a disposable filtration device used to determine the microbial count in liquid samples. In addition to DfS, our Life Science researchers are develThanks to DfS, we have in particular improved the packaging oping innovative solutions in line with the 12 Principles of of these products. Green Chemistry developed by chemists Paul T. Anastas and John C. Warner. These aim to make research as environGreener chemistry mentally compatible as possible and to minimize negaIn 2017 we received the European Bio-Based Chemical Innotive impacts on human health. In total, we offer more than vation of the Year Award for our greener solvent Cyrene™. 750 products that align with the Principles of Green ChemBioderived from waste cellulose, this solvent is used as istry, making them a greener alternative to conventional an alternative to dimethylformamide (formic acid), which products. has been the subject of increasing criticism in recent years due to its mutagenic effects. Through Cyrene™ and other Through our self-developed web-based tool DOZN™, we can greener solvents, we are helping our customers in the pharassess the green alternatives of various chemicals, thereby maceutical and agrochemical industries make their produccreating transparency for our customers. Under DOZN™, the tion processes safer and more environmentally sustainable. 12 Principles of Green Chemistry provide a framework for We've teamed up with leading institutions and start-ups rating our products in three major stewardship categories, to co-develop further such green solvents. In contrast to namely “Improved resource use”, “Increased energy efficonventional solvents, these are based on natural ciency” and “Reduced human and environmental hazards”. resources such as corn cobs and sugar cane bagasse, The system calculates scores based on the Globally Harmomaking them more eco-friendly, more biodegradable and nized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals easier to recycle. In 2017, we published the results of these (GHS) as well as the Material Safety Data Sheet information R&D efforts in leading trade journals. on each substance. One score is given for each of the 12 principles, enabling an easy comparison of the products. The Eco-friendly lab water use approach of the evaluation system has been verified by an independent body. To date, we have used this matrix to In mid-2017 we launched Milli-Q® IQ 7000, our new lab assess and improve more than 40 products. The DOZN™ water purification and monitoring system. This product uses processes and methods were validated by an environmental mercury-free UV oxidation lamps and has a hibernation consulting company, and a peer-reviewed paper was mode to save energy while still preserving system water published in March 2017. quality. 35 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Products Packaging Packaging protects our products from external influences pulp components can be easily recycled with other paper and ensures that they reach the customer undamaged. It materials and compacted together for storage and transport. also prevents materials from leaking. Our packaging must We have therefore initiated a substitution program in which therefore remain intact across the entire life cycle of our we are developing solutions to replace EPS as far as possible products – from transport and storage, through usage to with molded components made of cellulose and recycled disposal. Beyond safety, we also endeavor to design packpaper pulp. In doing so, the safety of the packaging is aging that uses as few resources as possible. We are therealways our top priority. fore working to reduce the amount of material required, as well as increasingly utilizing eco-friendly materials where When shipping items from our major distribution centers possible. In the process, we ensure that the quality and in the United States and Germany, a large portion of our safety of our packaging are not adversely impacted. reagent bottles are secured using molded pulp components. Since 2017, we’ve been using molded pulp inserts to pack our 4X4 liter bottles in shipping boxes, thereby replacing Our new sustainable packaging strategy around 350,000 EPS parts per year. We are currently conducting safety tests on new pulp designs for shipping We aim to deliver our products in packaging that is safe other bottles of various sizes. As of 2018, our 6x0.5 liter and easy for our customers to handle, and as sustainable and 1x4 liter reagent bottles are also to be secured using as possible. The more than 300,000 products in our Life molded pulp. Overall, we use a total of 324 metric tons of Science portfolio – ranging from biochemicals to lab chemmolded pulp packaging material each year. In addition to icals, from filter materials and systems to instruments – these measures, in 2017 we replaced foam packaging with pose a variety of challenges when it comes to packaging. biodegradable air cushions at our distribution center in AllenWe strive to improve the sustainability of this packaging town, Pennsylvania (USA). through measures such as reusable packaging systems or by avoiding the use of polystyrene. To achieve this goal, we As well as finding eco-friendlier alternatives to ship our prodare in the process of defining our new sustainable packaging ucts safely, we are working with Biogen, a specialist biotech strategy for Life Science to formalize our approach and set company, to develop a more sustainable bulk-packaging meaningful targets. This strategy is built on the three pillars design to transport our Millistak+® Pod Disposable Depth of optimizing resources, choosing more sustainable mateFilter. We are currently conducting a Life Cycle Assessment, rials, and recapturing post-use value. We are establishing with promising initial results. We expect a 21% reduction priorities, goals, and specific initiatives to support them in in used corrugated cardboard, which translates to a 19% the coming years. In doing so, we are continuing to position decrease in greenhouse gas emissions from the producourselves vis-a-vis our customers as an ambitious partner tion of packaging materials. In addition to these savings, the committed to the circular economy. large packages will cut down our delivery trips by 12%, thus further reducing emissions and energy use. Moreover, 70% Making packaging more sustainable less time is required in the processing of products and their packaging. A great deal of our packaging is based on wood fiber. We are constantly working to increase the share of corrugated cardMore cardboard instead of plastic board boxes certified to the standards governing sustainable forestry. These include the Sustainable Forestry InitiaThe analytical technique of titration is utilized in laboratories tive (SFI), the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) and the to assure the quality of various products by verifying the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification purity of the raw materials. Although the necessary solvents Schemes (PEFC). In adhering to these standards, we are are conventionally packed in plastic bottles, we use Titripac doing our part to prevent deforestation. ® because it offers an eco-friendlier alternative for supplying solvents to our Life Science customers. Using a cardboard Cellulose and air cushions replace polystyrene and carton and plastic liner with an integrated withdrawal tap, we have made the packaging more recyclable while also cutting foam its weight by more than half. As a result, the greenhouse In the past, we secured glass reagent bottles using expanded gas emissions arising across the entire product life cycle are polystyrene (EPS) molded foam to prevent them from 61% lower than for plastic bottles. Because the withdrawal breaking during transport. While EPS, also known as Styrotap protects the product against contamination, the contents foam®, is an excellent cushioning material, it is manufaccan be used to the very last drop, thereby reducing chemtured from non-renewable petrochemicals. It is also difficult ical waste. In 2016, Titripac® was recognized with the Green to recycle and takes up a lot of space. By contrast, molded Good Design Award for sustainable product design. 36 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Products Reusing EPS boxes reusable steel containers such as the EMD ReCycler®. We started the program with containers of 18 and 50 liters in Many of our Life Science products need to be kept cool during 2010. Since then we have filled more than 12,000 reusable shipping and are therefore packed in special EPS boxes. To containers annually. Over the years we have partly shifted to mitigate waste, we offer our U.S. customers the option of containers of 1,250 liters, which now make up roughly 10% sending us back these boxes. If they are still fully functional of all containers filled. we reuse them – and with more than 20,000 boxes used per year, this significantly reduces waste. Our customers can return the empty containers to us for refilling, enabling us to significantly reduce the consumption Integrating stainless steel canisters in production of primary packaging materials. Since the stainless steel containers are shipped without additional packaging, we also In Korea and Taiwan, our Performance Materials liquid crystal save a lot of the packaging material normally needed to ship mixtures are delivered to display manufacturers in stainless glass bottles, which must be packed in boxes and cushioned steel canisters, an approach we extended to China in 2017. by molded components. Our customers utilize these Standard Canisters from our company directly on their production lines without decanting. In Europe, we also deliver solvents required in bulk for The empty canisters are then sent back to us and cleaned. preparative chromatography in reusable stainless steel In 2017, 1,512 standardized canisters were in circulation containers. Our customers send the empty containers back within this closed system, allowing them to be reused over to us, where they are properly cleaned and then reused. multiple years. Approximately 70,000 of our stainless steel containers are currently in circulation across Europe. The rate of return is at Steel instead of glass around 90%. Thanks to our bulk product delivery system, our solvents are delivered to our U.S.-based Life Science customers in special Reuse and recycling Many of the products we supply to our Life Science launched a comprehensive recycling program at the beginning of customers are used only once and then discarded. This is 2015 to serve our Life Science customers in the United States. necessary in certain cases to minimize the risk of contaUnder this initiative, product waste from their research labs and mination and is thus common practice within the industry. biopharmaceutical manufacturing operations is collected, saniMoreover, this approach helps reduce costs as our customers tized and recycled into plastic lumber. This material can don’t have to clean disposable products, thereby saving time be used in many industries, such as construction, landscaping, and resources such as energy and water. However, these transportation, and marine construction. The program includes products do consume a great deal of material, so we’ve put our Biopharma Recycling and Ech2o Collection and Recycling recycling programs in place to help our customers properly Programs. dispose of and recycle our products and packaging. We are continuing to expand this program throughout the United States and are exploring options for extension to other regions Our Design for Sustainability program such as Europe and Asia. Since the program is dependent on the technology provided by Triumvirate, we would require new Our Design for Sustainability (DfS) program encourages our processing plants, as well as licenses, transportation and trained Life Science business sector to design products with reduced personnel in the respective regions. life cycle impacts. This process focuses on utilizing recyclable or reusable materials that can be easily recovered Triumvirate’s innovative process enables the recycling of biohazor separated. Through DfS, we are continuously working to ardous waste that contains multiple types of plastic and other reduce the ecological footprint of our products and make materials. Our partner has developed a sterilization and shreddisposal as easy as possible for our customers. ding component that is combined with an extrusion process to make multiple plastic lumber products. Since launching the Recycling program updated program, we have recycled 1,347 metric tons of waste generated from the use of our products, with 901 metric tons in 2017 In cooperation with Triumvirate Environmental, a wastealone. The program now serves 11 customers, almost twice as management company based in Massachusetts (USA), we many as in 2016. 37 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Products Access to health strategy Across the globe, two billion people do not have access How we’re improving access to health to medicines. The World Health Organization (WHO) and the World Bank have estimated that 400 million people lack Our Access to Health unit investigates the factors that make access to effective and affordable health services, especially it more difficult for underserved populations to receive in lowto middle-income countries. However, according to healthcare, working with various partners to develop ways WHO, these regions also bear approximately 90% of the to reduce these barriers. Our A2H team is backed by world’s disease burden. In cooperation with strong partners, a steering committee comprising representatives from our we’re working to tackle this complex challenge by Healthcare and Life Science business sectors, along with researching innovative solutions, developing new approaches representatives from our subsidiaries. The committee and improving existing programs to help people at the point ensures that the programs developed support our business of care. Moreover, we're striving to make health solutions strategy and can be implemented locally in order to have the affordable, raise awareness of diseases and teach people desired effect. how to manage them. To support this objective, in 2015 we established the Open Innovation Committee, a body dedicated to overcoming access barriers in regions with major unmet needs. The Our approach to help improve healthcare committee helps to promote intellectual property as an We seek to improve access to high-quality health soluenabler of innovation, allowing access to our knowledge tions for underserved populations and communities in lowand compound library to accelerate early discovery with and middle-income countries, a goal that underlies our leading partners in areas of high unmet need. For now, our Access to Health (A2H) approach. efforts are focused on areas where we have no portfolio or competencies. The Open Innovation Committee is co-chaired by our the heads of our Access to Health and International To achieve this aim, we're leveraging our expertise from all Patents units. our business sectors. However, we’re aware that individual companies and organizations can only do so much to improve access to health, which is why we collaborate closely with Our commitment: Our Access to Health a wide range of partners. To bolster the impact of our A2H Charter efforts, we participate in industry-wide initiatives and work with other businesses to develop new approaches. Our Access to Health Charter sets out guidelines on the following: Our A2H strategy focuses on the following four areas: Our approach Availability: We research, develop and refine health Pharmaceutical product donations solutions that address unmet needs, tailoring them to Fake medicines local environments. R&D for neglected tropical diseases and priority commuAffordability: We seek to provide assistance to those nicable diseases who are unable to pay for the health solutions they Pharmaceutical product pricing require, including addressing challenges surrounding pricing and intellectual property. Further information can Intellectual property rights be found under Prices of medicines (p. 46) and Community (p. 110). Awareness: We help raise awareness for diseases and Sharing and protecting intellectual proptherapies (p. 47) by empowering medical professionals, erty communities and patients to make informed decisions. Accessibility: We promote initiatives that strengthen When it comes to access to health, pharmaceutical manusupply chains (p. 44) and develop localized health solufacturers’ approach to their intellectual property plays an tions. Medicines should reach the people who need them important role. In most developing countries, we often do quickly and safely. not file or enforce patents. In markets where we do register product patents, we are committed to sharing data with researchers and to improving public access to clinical study data. We report on the patent status of our products via publicly accessible databases. Furthermore, we support voluntary licensing agreements of all kinds, including non38 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Products exclusive voluntary licenses, legally binding non-assertion companies. Pat-INFORMED will act as a global gateway to covenants, and clauses that aim to widen access to health. medicine patent information, offering new tools and Moreover, we support the concept of patent pools, but resources to determine the existence of patents relevant to believe that these should be structured to improve access products sought by national and international drug procureto medicines and prevent anticompetitive effects as well ment agencies. The transparency to be provided by Patas geographic limitations. We consider joining patent pools INFORMED seeks to make it easier for drug procurement when they are relevant to our portfolio and meet all our effiagencies to access a basic body of patent information cacy, quality, and safety requirements. necessary to implement disease management strategies, or other work addressing public health needs. The initiative The responsible treatment of intellectual property does not is backed by the World Intellectual Property Organization pose a barrier to health, but rather guarantees safety and (WIPO) and the International Federation of Pharmaceutical high quality for patients worldwide. Nearly all medicines that Manufacturers and Associations (IFPMA). address the highest burden of disease in developing countries are not protected by patents. For example, approxOpen innovation collaboration: WIPO Re:Search imately 95% of the 2013 WHO Essential List of Medicines are off-patent. Through our initiatives and partnerships, we We are one of more than 100 members of the WIPO provide access to patent information and in some cases also Re:Search platform, whose goal is accelerating early access to parts of our compound libraries for efforts such as discovery for infectious diseases as well as sharing members' open innovation research projects. knowledge and intellectual property. This platform is sponsored by the World Intellectual Property Foundation (WIPO). We initiated our first WIPO Re:Search partnership in 2015, Agreements and guidelines on intellectual property joining forces with the University of Buea in Cameroon in a A great deal of time and money is required to develop new bid to use compounds from our library to develop a treatdrugs – without any guarantee of success. It can take ten to ment for onchocerciasis (river blindness). In 2017, we 15 years for an effective health solution to be market-ready. reached the final phase of the initial screening of a variety Pharmaceutical companies therefore need a solid, transof compounds. Also in 2017, we entered into a partnership parent and reliable legal framework to protect their with the University of California, San Diego (USA) to share intellectual property rights and enforce their patents, which compounds from our compound library under the WIPO provide a sufficient period of time and degree of protection Re:Search open innovation umbrella. This is part of our joint to compensate for R&D costs. effort to identify potential cures for leishmaniasis, Chagas disease (American trypanosomiasis) and human African trypanosomiasis (HAT sleeping sickness). We support TRIPS, an international agreement administered by the World Trade Organization (WTO) that addresses trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights, along Open innovation collaboration: Drugs for Neglected with TRIPS addenda such as the 2001 Doha Declaration Diseases Initiative (Special Declaration on the TRIPS Agreement and Public Health). The Doha Declaration extends the deadline for leastIn April 2017, we formed a partnership with the Drugs for developed countries to apply TRIPS provisions to pharmaNeglected Diseases initiative (DNDi) under which we’re ceutical patents until 2033. participating in the Drug Discovery Booster project for neglected tropical diseases. This project pursues an open innovation approach in which the various companies simultaneously search for new treatments for leishmaniasis and 45 Chagas disease. We are joined in this project by five other companies (Eisai, Shionogi, Takeda, AstraZeneca, and Celgene). Alliances for better access to health medicines provided by us are listed on the WHO Essential Medicines List and/or are classified as first-line treatments, We are a member of the Business for Social Responsibility such as bisoprolol/amlodipine, metformin (Glucophage®) (BSR) initiative and have also endorsed the BSR Guiding and praziquantel. Principles on Access to Healthcare, which provide a framework for us to refine and enhance our A2H efforts. In 2017, we collaborated within the BSR Healthcare Working Group to draft a new working paper on innovative financing models New initiative improves access to patent information (p. 44). Moreover, we drove the development of the BSR working paper entitled “Advancing Access to Healthcare We are a founding member of the Patent Information InitiaMetrics“. tive for Medicines (Pat-INFORMED), which was established in 2017 by 20 leading research-based biopharmaceutical 39 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Products New initiatives for non-communicable diseases Two workshops hosted in Amsterdam in June and September 2017 by the Access to Medicine Foundation. At the World Economic Forum held in Davos, Switzerland “The Global Debate on Intellectual Property, Trade and in January 2017, we joined forces with 21 other leading Development: Past, Present and Future A Conference in pharmaceutical companies to launch Access Accelerated, a Honour of Pedro Roffe“, held in Geneva in June 2017. global initiative that seeks to improve both the treatment “CAMP-N” (a coalition for access to medicines and products and prevention of non-communicable diseases in lowand for non-communicable diseases) held on the eve of the UN middle-income countries. General Assembly in New York in September 2017. Panel session at the World Health Summit to discuss Best practices recognized by the Access to supply chains and improving access to health, held in Medicine Foundation Berlin in October 2017, co-hosted with Roche and Novartis. In 2017, a report published by the Access to Medicine Foundation provided the first comprehensive landscape of Panel session on “Accelerating Innovation & Access to company activities illustrating how 16 pharmaceutical Vaccines” at the WIPO Global Challenges Seminar on companies are improving access to cancer care in lowVaccines in Geneva in November 2017, including the and middle-income countries. We were included in the study, launch of the new Global Challenges Report and the Access which mentioned our access initiatives in this area, including to Vaccines Index published by the Access to Medicine our intellectual property approach and patient access Foundation. programs (p. 46) for improving access to cancer medicines. Belén Garijo, CEO Healthcare, represented our company at the fifth anniversary of the London Declaration to Combat In 2016, we were ranked fourth in the Access to Medicine Neglected Tropical Diseases. You can find more informaIndex, which assesses the degree to which companies have tion on the London Declaration under Infectious diseases improved access to medicines in developing nations. (p. 41). The foundation highlighted several of our initiatives as being Fourth Global Forum on Human Resources for Health best practices, including our endeavors to combat infectious under the banner of “Building the health workforce of the diseases (p. 41) and counterfeit pharmaceuticals (p. 55), future”: Attended by over 1,000 delegates from around strengthen transparency in the drug supply chain (p. 44), the world, it was the largest open conference on human and boost health awareness (p. 47). They also recognized resources for health-related issues. our efforts to align our access targets (p. 148) to the UN You can find details on the Accessibility Platform dialogue Sustainable Development Goals (p. 161). series on local supply chain challenges under Supply chain (p. 44). Engaging stakeholders Partnerships and dialogue are key instruments for improving Activities at the local level access to health. Our partners include multilateral organizations, government agencies and NGOs, as well as acadIn 2017 we also actively engaged stakeholders on a local emic institutions, health industry associations, companies, level, examples of which include: and experts from the private sector. We continued our Unmasking Your Thyroid awareness Our Access Dialogue Series and education campaign in the Philippines. You can find more information under Health awareness (p. 47). In 2017, our Access Dialogue event series put the spotlight As part of our Prediabetes and Thyroid Care initiative, we on open innovation and intellectual property, as well as partnered with the Mexican Society of Nutrition and supply chain and delivery challenges in developing countries. Endocrinology to train 500 health workers in Mexico. We engaged our public and private stakeholders to discuss ways of eliminating access barriers to health. We initiated this event series in 2013 to provide a platform for publicand private-sector stakeholders to exchange information and Employee events raise awareness share best practices on broadening access to health. We seek to motivate and inspire our employees to actively engage in our access to health efforts. In this vein, in April Discussions at a global level 2017 the Access to Health team organized an event at which In 2017, we participated in many other events, a selection of various internal and external experts presented our range of which are presented below: initiatives and efforts. Speakers included Peter Hotez from the National School of Tropical Medicine in Houston, Texas (USA), who discussed the topic of science and humanity, emphasizing how important it is to redouble efforts in neglected tropical disease drug discovery. 40 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Products Infectious diseases Many infectious diseases endemic to developing countries Our efforts to address bacterial infections and antimicrobial are barely known in industrialized nations. Referred to as resistance concentrate on neglected tropical diseases, these infections consequently attract little public attention and research funding. One developing assets for antibiotic quality and laboratory poignant example is schistosomiasis, an insidious parasitic capacity to detect antimicrobial resistance, disease that still lacks a treatment suitable for children under improving the use of antibiotics by healthcare providers and six. Malaria, too, continues to pose a threat to public health. patients, According to estimates by WHO, nearly half of the world’s population is at risk of malaria. Although a large range of helping define industry-wide guidelines for the control of approved products and investigational compounds are availantibiotics. able to treat malaria, the number of resistant pathogens is on the rise. New treatments and health solutions are therefore urgently needed. Bacterial infections and antimicrobial resisBeyond these efforts, we also sponsor capacity building educational tance also pose global challenges that are becoming increasprograms and initiatives to enhance research capability and infraingly acute. Urgent action is needed to prevent and control structure in African countries. these issues. How we structure our activities to fight infectious diseases Our approach to preventing and treating infectious diseases Our Global Health Institute is responsible for our Group-wide initiatives, programs and sponsorships pertaining to infectious diseases. We seek to improve healthcare in developing countries Our experts there collaborate closely with our Healthcare, Life by creating novel and integrated health solutions for infecScience and Performance Materials business sectors to synergize tious diseases and ensuring the sustainable implementation their strengths and competencies. For instance, the internal collabof these innovations. Our Group-wide initiatives and oration with Performance Materials aims at introducing the malaria programs particularly address the key unmet medical claim for our insect repellent IR3535®. needs of women and children, with a focus on schistosomiasis, malaria, bacterial infections, and antimicrobial resisWe also cultivate partnerships with leading global health tance. Here, our integrated strategy is centered not only on institutions and organizations in both developed and develdeveloping and providing medicines, but also on improving oping countries. Take for instance the Pediatric Praziquantel diagnosis, countering disease transmission, and disease Consortium, a public-private partnership that is working to develop control, as well as strengthening local health systems. pediatric formulations to treat schistosomiasis in children under six. Our comprehensive global health portfolio includes programs Our commitment: Guidelines and voluntary for the following: commitments 1. Development of a pediatric formulation to treat schistoOur programs and initiatives to fight infectious diseases are part somiasis of our efforts to improve access to health (p. 38). Our Infectious 2. Development of a new active ingredient to treat and Diseases Research and Development guideline is particularly releprevent malaria in children vant here. 3. Screening of our compound library in search of potential new active ingredients to treat schistosomiasis and Our Global Health Institute acts in alignment with the United malaria Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs (p. 161)). In particular, the Institute’s initiatives and programs aim to address SDGs 4. Development of diagnostic kits for schistosomiasis and 3, 4, 6, 9, and 17. malaria 5. Development of products and technologies to enhance We were among the first organizations to endorse the London prevention Declaration when it was launched in 2012 to fight neglected tropical diseases. Participating companies, governments and private organizations promise to help control or even eliminate the top ten most prevalent of these infections. We are particularly engaged in the fight against schistosomiasis. 41 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Products Battling schistosomiasis Enabling the treatment of children In 2017 we continued our schistosomiasis research to In September 2017 we initiated the Phase I study of our combat this disease. anti-malarial drug program. We have been developing a new, innovative drug for the treatment of malaria since 2015. Around 10% of the approximately 220 million patients worldThe new compound is intended to be developed as a singlewide with schistosomiasis are younger than six years old. dose combination treatment to treat and potentially prevent These children cannot be treated with praziquantel, the stanmalaria in children. Performed in Australia, the Phase I study dard therapy for this parasitic disease. While clinical data in healthy volunteers will allow us to assess the safety of is lacking, there is also no formulation of this drug suitable the compound. A malaria human-blood challenge model will for children under six. This is a situation we intend to allow us to obtain an early read-out of the compound’s antichange. Since July 2012, we have been working within a malarial activity to confirm the potential for a single-dose consortium of partners from industry and science, as well as cure. Phase I and challenge model results are expected in the with funding organizations, to develop a pediatric formulasecond quarter of 2018. These activities are being supported tion of praziquantel. In 2016, we initiated a Phase II study by the Wellcome Trust, a biomedical research charity based in Côte d’Ivoire that aims to assess the efficacy and safety in London. of two different formulations for orodispersible tablets in schistosomiasis-infected children under the age of six. We Developing new lead programs expect to have the initial results by mid-2018. In 2017 the Japanese Global Health Innovation Technology Fund awarded Initiated in 2015, our strategic collaboration with the Univerthe consortium an additional research grant in recognition of sity of Cape Town in South Africa has led to the development its efforts, the third time it has received this honor. of a new research and development platform. It leverages our proprietary compound library to identify new lead programs for the treatment of malaria, targeting liver-stage Partnering to find new solutions forms and long-lasting compounds to improve post treatSince 2017, we've been collaborating with the Australian Institute ment prophylaxis. In a separate collaboration, we are in the of Tropical Health and Medicine at James Cook University in process of developing a new cell model of liver-stage malaria Townsville, Queensland, and Baylor College of Medicine in Houston, infection. Texas (USA) to research new biomarkers in order to develop diagnostic tools for schistosomiasis. Also in 2017, we established a Preventing and controlling transmission drug discovery platform to search for new, long-lasting compounds to treat juvenile forms of schistosomiasis, improve efficacy and To help prevent malaria from spreading, we are working prevent reinfections. In addition, through academic collaborations, to improve access to insect repellent as a vector control we aim to research a new genome editing method for vector control method. Through internal and external collaborations, we to combat schistosomiasis. are working towards demonstrating the efficacy of IR3535® against malaria in Africa in a bid to foster the malaria claim for this insect repellent. IR3535® is already being utilized to Fight against malaria help prevent the spread of the Zika virus and Dengue fever, Malaria control also requires an integrated approach. As a science and is particularly suitable for children and pregnant women. and technology company, we are well-positioned to help improve the treatment of malaria, as well as to develop and enhance diagDialogue and best practice sharing on nostics and prevention. In our efforts we closely collaborate with a infectious diseases wide range of partners. In 2017 the experts of our Global Health Institute continued Accurately diagnosing malaria to engage major stakeholders in a dialogue on infectious diseases, attending and holding meetings at around 30 interSometimes malaria is hard to distinguish from other febrile infecnational conferences and events, including: tions. We are developing reliable diagnostics so that antimalarials are only administered to patients who are actually suffering from The Keystone Symposia conference on Malaria, held in the disease. Kampala, Uganda in February 2017 The International Society for Neglected Tropical Diseases Our Global Health Institute is currently developing a novel malaria (ISNTD) Festival, held in London, United Kingdom in detection and typing assay adaptable to the Muse© cytometry February 2017, where we received the ISNTD Award for platform. It aims to accurately diagnose malaria and measure the Scientific Engagement type of malaria parasite as well as the infection level. In 2017 the The Towards Elimination of Schistosomiasis (TES) Conferproject made progress in the preclinical phase, yielding promising ence, held in Yaoundé, Cameroon in March 2017 results. We expect to register this new malaria diagnostic kit in 2020. 42 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Products The NTD Summit 2017, held in Geneva, Switzerland in launched in 2015 with the University of Namibia. In support April 2017. In the context of this event, Belén Garijo, of governmental malaria control programs, these scientists Executive Board member and CEO Healthcare, repreare studying the extensive spread of malaria pathogens in sented our company at the fifth anniversary of the Namibia, Botswana and Zambia, and are also working to London Declaration. We also announced the Global characterize parasite subtypes that occur in the populations Health Institute at this event. in these African countries. The Sixth International Conference on Vivax Research (ICPVR) in Manaus, Brazil in June 2017 In addition to doctoral fellowships, we also co-sponsor The World Health Summit in Berlin, Germany in October several international fellowship programs for postdoctoral 2017 researchers from developing and emerging countries via our collaboration with the European and Developing Countries The European and American Congresses on Tropical Clinical Trials Partnership (EDCTP). As well as receiving Medicine and International Health (ECTMIH & ASTMH), training on clinical aspects such as clinical trial practices and held in Antwerp, Belgium in October 2017 and in Balticlinical management, these research fellows are also given more, Maryland (USA) in November 2017 the opportunity to work for a period of up to 24 months at leading pharmaceutical enterprises, including our company. On returning to their home countries and academic instituIn 2017, our Global Health Institute furthermore joined tions, they then have the key resources needed implement advocacy initiatives such as the Worldwide Malaria Campaign their research in line with international regulatory requireand became a member of key stakeholder groups including ments and standards. the Swiss NTD Alliance and the Swiss Malaria Group. In 2017 our Global Health Institute provided the support Building capacities in the health industry needed to expand research infrastructure in several countries. For instance, we have been sponsoring a newly estabUnder our integrated approach to fighting infectious lished gynecology ward in the District Hospital of Akonolinga, diseases, we have continued to enhance health capacities in Cameroon, along with a clinical center in Côte d’Ivoire, where and for the developing world. we’re also conducting the Pediatric Praziquantel Program’s Phase II study on the treatment of schistosomiasis in very We sponsor three PhD fellowships as part of a partnership young children. 43 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Products Pharmaceutical supply chain In many parts of the world, medicines are not always availThrough our Virtual Plant Teams, we provide our contract able where they are urgently needed. We want patients in manufacturers with the support they need to comply with lowand middle-income countries to have fast, safe and our quality standards. In Africa, Asia and Latin America, our affordable access to medicines. We believe that efficient external partners are each assigned a production expert from supply chain management is key to accomplishing this, as is our company to act as a virtual site leader and provide guidsupport for local manufacturing in line with our high stanance. Our Virtual Plant Teams were recognized as a best dards. practice in the 2016 Access to Medicine Index. Leveraging organizational and technological Our approach to efficient supply chain possibilities management Accurate business forecasts are the foundation of efficient Our pharmaceutical supply chains are organized efficiently to supply chain management. In 2017, we harmonized our ensure that our products reach the right place in the right condiBiopharmaceutical business planning processes across the tion and quantity, at an affordable price and on time. Modern Group and joined them together. We furthermore rolled out supply chain solutions allow us to monitor our inventory and a special platform enabling us to plan specific demand for current deliveries, as well as to predict expected demand for medicines centrally. This data is used to manufacture and medicines, partly in real time. deliver medicines according to demand, which allows us to prevent local inventories from running out or expiring. Our activities start with demand forecasts compiled at the local Hand in hand with our partners we endeavor to improve supply level, which are rolled out to the regional level and finally chains, even in developing countries, and to guarantee the aggregated at the global level. All units involved coordinate targeted supply of medicines. To this end, we partner with with one another at least once a month. pharmaceutical companies and other supply chain stakeholders. We manufacture some of our products directly in the regions where they are needed, thereby shortening the distance to the In 2015, we rolled out a software-based solution for our consumer. Furthermore, thanks to local manufacturing we can customers in northwestern Africa. They can visit our e-shop offer medicines in these countries at considerably lower prices at any time to quickly and easily order medicines that have than in Europe. been approved by the respective regulatory authorities. The system makes demand more transparent while also reducing lead times and miscommunications. How we organize our supply chains efficiently Global Planning is the unit responsible for our efficient medicine Working with partners to achieve more supply chains and is part of the Biopharma Supply Network Operations unit within our Healthcare business sector. Global Our collaborations and partnerships are founded on the Planning collaborates with our Access to Health unit (p. 38) and Group-wide exchange of centrally stored information, which consults experts from other business sectors as needed. allows us to organize shared supply chains in a more efficient manner. Our commitment: High quality standards for pharmaceutical production Shared data platform for medicine donations All our pharmaceutical production plants operate to the same In 2016, we launched NTDeliver, a digital information tool high standard of quality worldwide. We thus fully comply with the supporting transparent supply chains for medicine internationally harmonized guidelines set out in Good Manufacdonations. This tool was developed under the auspices turing Practice (GMP) and Good Distribution Practice (GDP). This of the Neglected Tropical Diseases Supply Chain Forum, also applies to contract manufacturers. a public-private partnership. Forum members include the World Health Organization (WHO), the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, the logistics firm DHL, and six pharmaceutical Our uniform quality assurance system ensures that our companies that run donation programs: Merck KGaA, Darmquality standard is adhered to everywhere. It comprises stadt, Germany, MSD Sharp & Dohme, GlaxoSmithKline, training courses, quality control monitoring and technologies Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, and Eisai. NTDeliver transparently that are tailored to each site. The results of all audits displays the deliveries from the donating companies – from conducted by health authorities are published Group-wide, purchase orders made by WHO through to delivery to the allowing the respective units to share lessons learned and first warehouse in the destination country. Moreover, in 2017 benefit from one another’s improvements. we ran a pilot that also tracked the deliveries all the way 44 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Products to the treatment point in the destination country, providing Promoting local production end-to-end visibility of our shipments. This improves coordination of our efforts on the last mile as well as providing us, At the end of 2017 we inaugurated a new production facility the local experts and WHO with a more transparent overview in Nantong (China) that will soon supply China directly with of in-country inventory. our pharmaceutical products. In India and Indonesia, too, we manufacture drugs for diabetes, cardiovascular conditions, and diseases of the lower respiratory tract. This allows Further partnerships us to supply medicines faster and more affordably to local In addition to these initiatives, we are also a founding markets, as well as to neighboring countries such as Sri member of the Accessibility Platform, which convened in Lanka and Myanmar. 2017 to discuss local supply chains during our Access Dialogues (p. 40). This is an informal effort spearheaded by Supporting regional vaccine manufacturers the private sector that aims to raise awareness of supply chain issues as part of the access to health challenge. It In partnership with the Developing Countries Vaccine Manualso seeks to increase knowledge-sharing and information facturers Network (DCVMN), we sponsor educational exchange through open, multi-stakeholder dialogue, and to programs for vaccine manufacturers in developing and identify opportunities for collective action. We also share best emerging markets and pass on our knowledge to ensure practices with other companies and partners on efficient, the safe, high-quality production of vaccines. Since 2014, end-to-end, secure supply chains. we have conducted more than 12 training sessions as well as various technical workshops in the Asia-Pacific region and Latin America. In 2017, three seminars were held in Vietnam, India and China. 45 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Products Prices of medicines  Part of the non-financial report The growing need to provide healthcare in aging societies Our commitment: Medicine price guidelines poses major challenges to health systems. While reforms and principles often focus solely on the price of medicines, it is important to consider the costs of medicines within the context of The affordability of our health solutions is part of our broader overall health systems. Medicine expenditures make up an patient value proposition, which includes increasing accessibility, important but still small portion of total spending. According availability, and awareness. As a key component of our overto the OECD, spending on prescription medicines generally arching efforts to improve access to health (p. 38), medicine accounts for around 10%-16% of total healthcare spending pricing adheres to the stipulations of our A2H Charter. Our in many OECD countries. Furthermore, science and innovaapproach is also informed by our Pricing of Medicines guideline. tive medicines are currently transforming care and allowing Furthermore, our Patient Access Programs Policy defines stanthe treatment of many chronic diseases – the biggest costdards that enable us to offer medicines at reduced prices through drivers – more effectively, thus achieving overall cost savings our patient access programs. in health systems. At the same time, our commitment to creating a healthy society means that we must take a responsible approach to pricing our medicines. Implementing our pricing We review our prices on an annual basis to ensure they meet patient access needs. To assist this process, we use a consistent, Our approach to pricing medicines data-driven approach to monitor our local pricing. Based on the results, we define guidelines and, if necessary, adjust our prices We want to ensure that all patients have access to the to keep them affordable for patients. Our investment in enabling most effective medicines for their needs, which is why we’re technology and our dedication to patient access allow us to make working to prevent cost from becoming a barrier to treattimely strategic pricing and reimbursement strategy deciment. We therefore adapt our prices based on local market sions. We also make our products affordable to different patient access and regulatory considerations such as health system segments within individual countries by participating in governcapacity and financial standing, infrastructure, legal requirement tenders, establishing second “lower-price” brands or ments, and unmet medical and treatment needs. Partnering operating patient access programs. with governments and other key stakeholders, we adjust our prices in different geographical or socio-economic enviInnovative contracting models ronments to take account of patients’ ability to pay. In addition, we continuously monitor the dynamic healthcare We are committed to advancing value-based healthcare through environments, pricing and reimbursement systems, and legal innovative pricing and contracting mechanisms in full compliance and regulatory guidelines, adjusting our prices as necessary. with applicable local laws. In collaboration with payers such as health insurance companies, we have developed various Patients are at the very heart of our health solutions. We productand market-specific reimbursement and contracting support patient access programs, flexible pricing, differential models with the aim of providing patients prompt access to pricing, and risk sharing agreements. Moreover, we seek to our innovations. Examples of such models include a sharedimprove data efficiency in health systems in order to achieve risk agreement recently established in the UK that will provide an optimal distribution of funds and resources. By following immediate access to Mavenclad® for MS patients, while the this approach, we balance our commitment to improving health service only has to pay for medicines for those patients access to our products with our dedication to maintaining a that respond to the drug. sustainable medical innovation environment for future generations of patients. Government tenders to serve low-income patients How we set medicine prices We work in partnership with governments and stakeholders on innovative, differential pricing schemes. Moreover, we reguOur Global Pricing and Market Access unit reports to the larly participate in government tenders for products that are Chief Marketing and Strategy Officer of our Healthcare busiused in public hospitals serving low-income patients. Many of ness sector. This team sets our initial prices in coordination these tenders take place in developing countries. For instance, with the respective businesses. Our subsidiaries are responwe supply reduced-price products to governments in Africa, Asia, sible for managing prices and continually adapting them to Latin America, and the Middle East. local environments. 46 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Products Second “lower-price” brands with a local charity, ECPAP is geared primarily toward lowincome patients, providing them with the drug free of We have established second “lower-price” brands of some of charge. Since 2015 we have also been partnering with the our existing brands. In South Africa, for instance, a second China Charity Federation (CCF) and helping cover the costs brand of our antihypertensive agent Concor® (named Ziak®) of treating middle-income patients. In some cases, we split is available at discounted prices. these costs with patients and a local insurance fund. To date, around 10,000 patients in China have benefited from our Patient access programs ECPAP donations. Worldwide, we operate patient access programs that allow us We run similar assistance programs in other countries such to make our products more affordable to different patient as India, where we also offer Erbitux® at discounted prices. segments within individual countries. These include In South Africa, we support the Savanti Patient Access programs in China to expand access to our oncology drug Program, which enables patients to be treated with Erbitux® Erbitux®, which is used to treat conditions such as colorectal at a lower co-payment rate. cancer. One example is our Erbitux® China Patient Assistance Program (ECPAP). Launched in 2012 in collaboration Health awareness Many people are ill without realizing it. The result? Although In 2017 we launched a foundation, a philanthropic limited effective medicines and therapies are available, these indiliability company (gGmbH) that consolidates key initiatives viduals do not receive treatment, or don’t receive it in time. as part of our efforts to support the community by To prevent such an outcome, we conduct global campaigns building health awareness. A Board of Trustees consisting to raise awareness and improve knowledge of diseases, their of members of the Board of Partners and the Executive Board symptoms and treatment options. Ultimately, healthcare of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany monitors the foundaprofessionals, communities and patients can only make tion's activities and acts in an advisory capacity. informed decisions if they possess the appropriate knowledge and information. Our commitment: Access to health through awareness Our approach to raising health awareness Awareness forms part of our A2H strategy, which is laid out in our Access to Health Charter. Our awareness campaigns Awareness plays a key role in our strategy to improve access are also subject to the responsible marketing (p. 59) printo health (p. 38). We seek to empower communities, medical ciples set out in guidelines such as our “Pharma Code for professionals and patients with appropriate tools, informaConducting Pharmaceutical Business and Pharmaceutical tion and skills so that they can make high-quality, informed Operations“. They are also governed by our internal policies decisions on prevention, diagnosis, treatment, care, and and guidance for reviewing our interactions with health support. systems and by the review processes for communication materials. In our educational campaigns for prevention, early diagnosis and awareness, we often join forces with strong partners. Global awareness campaigns We also seek to build the capacities of medical professionals working in the fields of research, technology and healthcare. We regularly conduct campaigns to raise awareness of various diseases across the globe. Our efforts concentrate on those diseases that align with our core competencies, How we're building awareness expertise and experience along the health value chain, in Our efforts and the strategic direction of our awareness particular cancer (specifically colorectal, as well as head and activities are aligned with our respective businesses. Thus, neck cancer), thyroid disorders, diabetes, and multiple scleour various business units plan and implement our diverse rosis (MS). In our awareness-raising activities we frequently awareness projects either on a global level, or through their collaborate with patient advocacy groups. In the 2017 national and local offices, organizing local projects according period, we conducted or participated in multiple campaigns, to the specific needs of the area in which they operate. In our enabling us to reach millions of people. global campaigns they are additionally responsible for local mobilization. 47 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Products Awareness and knowledge transfer for thyroid disorAwareness campaigns for cancer ders In September 2017, we supported the fifth annual Head and Throughout 2017, we worked to raise awareness of thyroid Neck Cancer Awareness Week, an initiative of the Make disorders. On the global level, we updated our Thyroid Aware Sense campaign. Under the banner of “Supporting Survivorwebsite and joined campaigns in support of International ship”, teams from our Group came together in a global Women´s Day (IWD) and International Thyroid Awareness effort spanning nearly 30 countries to post more than 670 Week (ITAW). Within the ITAW we connected with more than messages and pictures of themselves holding messages of 5,000 healthcare professionals (HCPs) and reached more support for head and neck cancer survivors. All images and than 2,500 people through our own events, of which more videos were shared on our #SpeakUp wall microsite and our than half were directed at HCPs. Furthermore, over 158,000 social media channels. Overall, our efforts generated more people followed our own social media activities in 16 counthan 31,000 hits on social media. tries during the week. On February 4, 2017, we joined World Cancer Day (WCD), an initiative driven by the Union for International Cancer Control (UICC) that aims to bring the cancer community ~13 closer together. We evolved the UICC’s three-year campaign “We can. I can.” and the 2017 motto “Support Through Sport” into our own call to action: “We can. I can. Jump in!” Participants were asked to submit images of themselves jumping in order to show their support in the fight million: During ITAW, we reached 13 million people through against cancer. Our people worldwide provided over 500 news coverage, social media and events. This was the ninth photos from across 37 countries. The campaign was also time we have participated in ITAW. opened to external audiences and received over 3,000 likes on social media. On the regional level, our National Endocrinology Congress in In March, we recognized the colorectal cancer (CRC) AwareSouth Africa reached more than 2,000 people, including 300 ness Month 2017, an annual initiative to raise awareness of HCPs. Other regional activities during ITAW 2017 included CRC, its symptoms and the importance of early diagnosis. As a public seminar held by our subsidiary in Indonesia in part of this initiative, we developed a multi-faceted campaign collaboration with the Ministry of Health, bringing together platform, as well as a website with an interactive pledge 100 HCPs and 250 members of local communities and nonmap, CRC quiz and factsheet. In total, we received pledges governmental organizations. Our subsidiary in Jordan sent from six continents and over 60 countries. a bus around the country to carry out testing and raise awareness of thyroid disorders in women (p. 50). It was World Multiple Sclerosis Day Activities approached by an estimated 1,100 women. In Saudi Arabia, we partnered with the Ministry of Health in a long-term In May 2017, we supported World Multiple Sclerosis (MS) awareness program named “Fly like a butterfly” and signed a Day, an annual MS International Federation (MSIF) initiative. memorandum of understanding to raise awareness of thyroid Under the banner of “Life with MS”, the campaign reflected disorders. In Russia, our employees and endocrinologists the need for better understanding and a clearer focus on the shared their expertise on thyroid disorders and treatment needs of care partners living with MS sufferers. Under this options. umbrella, we launched the global campaign “MS2020”. In the Philippines, we held our Unmasking Your Thyroid As part of the MS 2020 campaign, we announced a collabocampaign for the third time in collaboration with the Philipration with the International Alliance of Carer Organizations pine Thyroid Association (PTA) and the Philippine Ministry of (IACO). In partnership with IACO, we undertook a survey to Health. In its efforts to educate people on thyroid disease, deepen our understanding of the unmet needs of MS care this initiative utilizes a wide variety of media. It also offers partners. A preliminary analysis revealed that 41% of MS training to health workers located in village communities, care partners suffer from anxiety, 38% from depression and with approximately 250 people participating in 2017. Another 34% from insomnia. Additional data showed that many care integral feature of the campaign are workshops for partners suffer from chronic pain and worry about issues general practitioners, which have provided 380 physicians such as finances, intimacy, divorce, and parenting. with advanced training on the diagnosis and treatment of thyroid disorders since 2016. Furthermore, together with the Also on World MS Day, we held a Tweetathon in PTA and healthcare provider Healthway, we’ve been offering which employees across 19 countries took part, sharing training on accurately diagnosing thyroid disease since March details of local awareness-raising activities under the hash2017. tags #MS2020 and #LifeWithMS. Activities ranged from a sponsored run in the Netherlands to an outdoor photo exhi48 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Products bition in Norway. The content was viewed over 70,000 times, Ghana, India, Indonesia, Kenya, Mozambique, Namibia, and local events run by our teams involved more than 1,500 Uganda, Tanzania, and the United Arab Emirates, providing external participants from the MS community and beyond. them with clinical diabetes and hypertension management training in a bid to equip them with skills to better treat and prevent these diseases. Our goal is to reach more than Initiatives and programs from our Founda30,000 students through this program by the end of 2018. tion Launched in 2017, the Foundation sponsored by Merck KGaA, In 2017, we once again presented our Diabetes and HyperDarmstadt, Germany manages key parts of our efforts to tension Awards to 37 medical students from over 30 universupport underserved communities by building healthcare sities in Africa and Asia. Through these awards, we have capacities and raising awareness. The foundation is also been building a platform of diabetes and hypertension driving many of our existing initiatives and programs. experts across the globe and driving awareness in these fields since 2015. Instigating cultural change To promote medical and scientific education, in October 2017 Through our “More than a Mother” initiative, we aim to we hosted our fourth Africa Asia Luminary Congress in Cairo, empower infertile women through access to information, which was attended by more than 450 African physicians, education and health, as well as by encouraging a change political decision makers and researchers. The event focused of mindset. Defining interventions to break the stigma on contributions to socio-economic development in develsurrounding infertility and infertile women, the campaign oping nations through sessions led by top international was launched in Kenya in 2015 and is still being conducted experts in diabetes, fertility, oncology, cardiology, family in many Asian and African countries today. To further this medicine, women’s health, and research. cause, the Foundation sponsored by Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany is constantly seeking ways to engage government Raising local awareness agencies and representatives in dialogue, leading it to take part in the 19th General Assembly of the African Union in Our Community Awareness Program offers easy access to 2017. Furthermore, we reached agreements with the several information and educational materials tailored to local governments, including Uganda and Tanzania, to collaborate needs. We disseminate this information through broad-based more closely on health awareness. social media campaigns and use videos and posters to amplify the initiative's reach. By partnering with healthcare, “More than a Mother” features an initiative called “Empowpolicy makers, institutions, governments, ministries of ering Berna”, which helps infertile women to start their own health, and teams of interdisciplinary experts, we have business and thus achieve financial independence. The project successfully launched a wide range of targeted initiatives. was rolled out across six African nations in 2016 and expanded to include three additional countries in 2017. To date, more Bolstering STEM education than 1,000 infertile women from Central African Republic, Côte d’Ivoire, Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Liberia, Nigeria, Sierra Through our STEM Program, we are seeking to encourage more Leone, and Uganda have been enrolled in the project. young people, especially women, to pursue an education in STEM fields. The third UNESCO Africa Research Summit of By the end of 2017, 23 embryologists and fertility specialists Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany (MARS) once more offered a had taken part in our Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany key platform to pave the way for young researchers in Africa. Embryology Training program, a three-month practical Held in Mauritius in November 2017, the event focused on the seminar on fertility management also offered within the role of scientific research in response to the latest developments “More than a Mother” campaign. in cancer management and vaccines. We use this annual conference as an opportunity to present the Best African Woman Researcher Award and the Best Young African Researcher Building healthcare capacities Award. UNESCO-MARS Research Award winners go on to become ambassadors for our STEM Program within their home Through our Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany Capacity countries. Advancement Program launched in 2012, we’re collaborating with academic institutions in various countries across Africa, Asia, Latin America, and the Middle East to train medical Fighting cancer and its effects professionals. Through this effort, we are helping to build medical capacity and raise public awareness for diseases Our Cancer Access Program was launched in 2015, with the such as diabetes, hypertension and cancer, as well as inferspecific aim of educating people about cancer and cancer treattility. ment. Our “re than a Patient” initiative empowers African female cancer survivors to establish their own small business as a farmer or to open a shop. Thanks to the program’s training and By the end of 2017, this program had reached more than support, they are able to lead an independent and productive 25,000 students from universities in Angola, Ethiopia, 49 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Products life. To achieve this goal, we partner with cancer patient advoHealthy Women, Healthy Economies initiative cacy groups and cancer institutions across Africa. We aim to help women unlock their economic potential Our Africa Oncology Fellowship Program focuses on and in doing so create an impact for global economic growth. increasing the number of oncologists in African nations and Nearly one in four women worldwide are held back from other developing countries. To this end, we have been achieving their full economic potential due to preventable offering various fellowships in collaboration with universicauses, such as a wide range of communicable and nonties in Kenya, Egypt and India since 2016. By the end of communicable diseases. Healthy Women, Healthy Economies 2017, 20 fellows had participated in this initiative. has taken up this challenge. In 2014, under the auspices of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC), we collaborated with representatives of the United States and other Su-Swastha in India: Providing healthcare governments to launch this public-private partnership (PPP). to rural regions Comprising public and private sectors as well as non-governmental organizations, this initiative has developed a policy In India, around 700 million people reside in rural areas and toolkit with recommendations to improve women’s health. have no access to effective, affordable healthcare. This is because medical facilities are concentrated in India's megacities, which Under this program, we have joined forces with the Philippine account for 80% of the country’s healthcare professionals and government and the Philippine Thyroid Association (PTA) 70% of its hospital beds. Through our Su-Swastha project we to educate more than 2,000 health industry employees on are working to improve healthcare in rural India. Our goal is to thyroid disorders, a problem that disproportionately affects provide inexpensive medicines while also educating local patients women. By the end of 2017, we had reached nearly and physicians on everyday health issues and their treatment. eight million people in the Philippines through our campaign. Medical professionals hold weekly community meetings on topics In Jordan, we collaborated with the NGO Royal Health Awaresuch as coughs, childhood ailments and prevention. Moreover, ness Society to likewise train health workers on thyroid the program also provides patients with free check-ups and disorders in women. Moreover, in 2017 we formed a partoffers continuing medical education to help doctors advance their nership with the Wilson Center. Hand-in-hand with this U.S.medical capacities. In 2017, a total of 482 community meetings based research institute we’re gathering data and increasing were held, reaching 11,250 people directly. Every year around awareness to illustrate how important women's health is 70 workers from the health industry participate in our continuing to their participation in the economy. Furthermore, we are education programs, with 346 people having received training developing policy recommendations designed to support since 2012. Due to its business model, the project is currently women in both paid and unpaid work in an effort to achieve running self-sustainably. It was recognized as a best practice in greater work-life integration and improve their overall health the 2016 Access to Medicine Index. and well-being. Another collaboration with the University of Miami's Department of Public Health Sciences is currently focused on women’s unpaid labor in China, Canada, Chile, Mexico, and Peru. Chemical product safety  Part of the non-financial report Many of our chemicals are classified as hazardous substances substances may have. Along the entire value chain of our and are therefore subject to an array of national and interchemical products – from import or production through national regulatory requirements to ensure that they do not commercialization, handling, recycling, and disposal – we pose any risk to people or the environment. Fulfilling these fulfill all statutory requirements, often even exceeding them. statutes and guidelines is crucial to our business activities. We furthermore publish extensive information on our website In addition, we strive to meet the expectations stakeholders so that both our customers and the general public can learn such as customers and employees have of a comprehensive about our products and how to use them safely. risk management system. How we ensure the safety of chemical products Our approach to safe chemical products Our Life Science and Performance Materials business sectors Product safety is our top priority. Starting in the development each have their own Product Safety units. Working in close stage, we investigate the potential impacts chemical collaboration, these units are responsible for all product 50 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Products safety activities such as registering chemical products, clasIn line with the Strategic Approach to International Chemisifying hazardous substances and communicating risks cals Management (SAICM), a global policy framework overthrough safety data sheets and labels. In addition to these seen by the United Nations, requirements for registering activities, they also assume similar duties for our Healthcare and licensing chemicals are being recognized in a growing business sector. number of countries. Thanks to our experience in implementing REACH, we are well prepared for such a procedure Our Group Product Safety Committee (GPSC) monitors reguand have already initiated the registration process for select latory requirements worldwide to check for relevant changes, substances. initiating and reviewing the measures needed to integrate these changes into our processes. Transcending laws Our Group-wide governance unit Regulatory Affairs (EQ-R) In an effort that transcends statutory requirements, we ensures that steps are taken to address gaps in regulatory support the goals of the Global Product Strategy, an intercompliance as soon as these arise. Reporting directly to the national initiative of the chemical industry. In this vein, we head of our Group function Corporate Environment, Health, publish product safety summaries for all lead substances Safety, Security, Quality, EQ-R is independent of our busiwe've registered under REACH on the website of the Internaness sectors and is not subject to any operational committional Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA). ments. Any necessary corrective or preventive action is carried out by the operating units within each business Safety analysis during product developsector. EQ-R further supports individual units in implement menting and harmonizing efficient processes. We believe that product safety starts during the development stage. By conducting hazard, exposure and risk assessOur commitment: Observing statutory ments, we seek to ensure that our chemical products can regulations and Group-wide guidelines be safely used later down the road. All our product innoWe have implemented Group-wide guidelines that guarantee vations undergo a formal EHS analysis, which examines compliance with national and international regulatory aspects such as their impact on human health and the envirequirements, and have also endorsed general voluntary ronment. Before launching a new product, we evaluate all commitments of the chemical industry such as the Responrelevant hazardous substance data and classify it accordsible Care® Global Charter. ingly. In conducting these safety assessments, Regulatory Affairs provides advice and support to employees in our Life Science and Performance Materials business sectors. To meet the product safety regulations relevant to our company, in 2017 we adopted the Regulatory Affairs Group Policy, which details our Group-wide processes for managing Safe nanotechnology and implementing product safety, including the necessary Nanotechnology is a highly innovative field of development management structures. The statutory requirements applicthat researches and uses structures 50,000 times thinner able to our operations include the Globally Harmonized than a human hair. This technology makes it possible to System of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals (GHS) produce materials with completely new properties and funcand its implementation in regional and national legislation tions for a myriad of applications. (such as the CLP regulation in the European Union and HazCom 2012 in the United States), the EU chemicals regulation REACH, the amended U.S. Toxic Substances Control Nanotechnology opens up many opportunities for our Group. Act (TSCA), and the German federal law on protection from In our Life Science and Performance Materials business hazardous substances (ChemVerbotsV). Our Group-wide sectors, we can use nanoscale materials to develop prodpolicy also incorporates legal norms concerning the transport ucts with new functions and properties – meaning, for of hazardous chemicals, biocides, cosmetics, and products instance, that resources and energy can be used more effiused in food and animal feed. ciently. In our Healthcare business sector, we partner with research institutes and other European companies to explore the use of nanomaterials to improve therapeutic options. REACH registration on schedule Under the auspices of European research partnerships, we We are working to register all our chemical substances under are also investigating the suitability of nanoparticles as vehiREACH. We successfully completed registration phase 1 in cles to deliver active pharmaceutical ingredients to the 2010 and registration phase 2 in 2013. The next step, part of required site of action. phase 3, is due by June 2018 and requires us to evaluate and register all substances produced or imported in quantities However, the special structure of nanoparticles can also ranging from one to 100 metric tons annually. This process entail risks, which we assess in line with statutory requirenow also includes the substances added to our portfolio ments such as REACH. Moreover, we only utilize this new through the acquisition of Sigma-Aldrich and is on schedule. technology with the greatest care, abiding by the precau51 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Products tionary principle and taking nanomaterial safety issues very information on the physicochemical, toxicological and seriously. In doing so, we consider Group-wide requirements ecotoxilogical properties of the agent, and reflect the relefor safety as well as environmental and health protection, vant regulatory requirements of the countries in which they employing our existing processes and systems for product are published. We therefore produce country-specific safety safety. Whether using nanomaterials in pharmaceutical and data sheets in 41 languages for our Performance Materials chemical laboratories, production plants, filling plants, or business sector and in 37 languages for our Life Science warehouses, we abide by our Group-wide Policy for Use and business sector. Although not mandated by law, we also Handling of Nanomaterials. provide safety data sheets for the non-hazardous materials and finished medicinal products manufactured by our HealthIn the manufacture and processing of our products, we care business sector. adhere strictly to all statutory regulations and other applicable standards, such as the guidelines of the German Federal Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (BAuA), as well ~23 as the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI). We also provide our customers safety data sheets containing information on the proper handling of nanomaterials, during transport, processing, storage, and disposal. million safety data sheets in total are made available to our Consolidating knowledge of nanotechnology customers. Over and above our internal efforts, we continuously engage other companies, associations and regulatory agencies in a dialogue on the opportunities and risks of nanotechSince all these documents must be kept up to date and nology. We also participate in committees and working consistent, in 2017 we automated the majority of our Groupgroups such as the Nano-coordination group of the VCI's wide hazard communication processes. Now the aim is to Technology and Environment committee, as well as Responcentralize the creation of safety data sheets in our business sible Production and Use of Nanomaterials, a joint technology sectors. Within Performance Materials, for instance, we working group of DECHEMA (Society for Chemical Engibegan drafting all safety data sheets Group-wide using a neering and Biotechnology) and the VCI. Under the auspices single system this year. of the VCI, we furthermore help to review current scientific literature in order to glean new findings on nanotechnology. Informing customers and increasing awareness Standardized product safety information All information on the safe use of our products is also available on our website, where our customers can additionally As part of our efforts to communicate the potential dangers access the ScIDeEx® program. This tool allows them to check of our products, we provide our customers with in-depth whether they can use a chemical agent safely in line with the informational material on all our chemical products. These EU chemicals regulation REACH. brochures contain instructions for use and handling to prevent them from posing a danger to people and the enviWe aim to increase awareness for the safe handling of ronment. Our goal is to give our customers product safety hazardous chemicals, providing users with best practice information that has been standardized worldwide. advice and information. To this end, we regularly conduct seminars and information sessions worldwide that teach We issue all chemicals classified as hazardous with safety basic lab safety rules such as the handling of flammable data sheets, which, in accordance with UN regulations, solvents and the storage of chemicals in safety cabinets and follow a globally harmonized format. These sheets contain warehouses. 52 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Products Patient safety  Part of the non-financial report The safety of patients treated with our medicines is a critical How we monitor patient safety priority. That is why we consistently monitor risks and adverse effects as they arise, and take the necessary action Our Global Patient Safety unit is responsible for pharmato minimize them. Through rigorous benefit-risk assesscovigilance; it continually collects current safety data from ments, we ensure that the benefits of our drugs always a wide variety of sources across the globe, including clinical outweigh the risks for patients. studies, spontaneous reports on adverse effects, and articles published in medical and scientific journals. In 2017 we launched a new methodology and technical system providing effective, state-of-the-art capabilities for signal detection and Our approach to ensuring patient safety management using data collected worldwide and big data analytics. Our pharmaceutical products need to be effective in treating the respective disease while also posing as little risk as possible to patients. To ensure their safety, every new mediOur experts ensure that all information on the potential risks cine passes a series of precisely defined development stages. and adverse effects of our medicines is properly documented, Prior to using a drug in humans, we first conduct extensive tracked and reported to the respective health authorities preclinical testing both in vitro and in vivo. Through toxicoin accordance with regulatory requirements. Global Patient logical testing, we determine whether an active pharmaceuSafety analyzes all data and uses this as required to tical ingredient is toxic to living organisms and if so, at what reassess the benefit-risk profile. We then inform reguladose. This also helps us determine the dose that humans can tory authorities, physicians and patients about potential risks safely tolerate. Only once this is complete do we perform and changes in the benefit-risk balance. clinical studies (p. 63) to investigate the safety and efficacy of the drug when used in humans. During clinical developTo meet the growing demands of our innovative R&D ment, we diligently use all collected data to continuously pipeline, Global Patient Safety underwent a strategic reorevaluate the drug's benefit-risk profile. We only submit ganization and specialization process in 2017. This resulted an application for marketing authorization to the regulatory in two dedicated units specializing in the co-development authorities if the medicine has a positive benefit-risk profile. and benefit-risk management of our investigational pipeline products, and in the global pharmacovigilance of our broad Continual monitoring portfolio of products marketed worldwide. This specialization has already created new capabilities in advanced benefit-risk After a drug is launched, the number of patients being management, big data analytics, advanced signal detection treated with it increases significantly. In certain circumtechnology, and pilot processes in patient-centric adverse stances, rare adverse effects that go undetected during clineffects collection. ical development may occur, which is why we continually monitor and update the benefit-risk profiles even after Our Product Quality unit (MBQ) processes quality complaints market launch. For new products approved in 2017, we relating to our products. When quality defects may have an introduced educational materials for patients and healthcare impact on patient safety or lead to adverse effects, Global providers on potential risks. Patient Safety gets involved. Pharmacovigilance is the process of continuously moniOur Medical Safety and Ethics Board toring a drug to detect, assess and understand adverse effects in an effort to take appropriate action to minimize Our Medical Safety and Ethics Board (MSEB) oversees the risk. safety and benefit-risk evaluations of our drugs throughout clinical development and commercialization. As required, it We always provide physicians and patients with the latest initiates appropriate measures to minimize risk, such as information on the safety of our drugs. This applies to the package insert updates. This board is chaired by our Chief entire life cycle of a product, ranging from development, Medical Officer (CMO) and consists of experienced physimarket launch and commercialization to expiration of the cians, scientists and experts from our company. Throughout marketing authorization. a drug's entire life cycle, the MSEB reviews and assesses important medical safety risks and benefit-risk issues, and reviews ethical issues if necessary. 53 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Products Our commitment: Guidelines and statutory as our own internal standards for drug safety. In Germany, requirements these are handled by the German Federal Institute for Drugs and Medical Devices (BfArM) and the Paul Ehrlich Institute To evaluate benefits and risks, we have introduced a (the German Federal Institute for Vaccines and Biomedicines Benefit-Risk Guide to our Global Patient Safety unit. This (PEI)) on behalf of the European Medicines Agency. In 2017 manual builds on the results of a joint initiative of the Europharmacovigilance inspections were conducted in Canada, pean Union and the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Colombia, France, Japan, and Switzerland. All inspections have Industries and Associations (EFPIA) in which we are involved. continually confirmed the proper functioning of our PharmaWe benefited from the recommendations when compiling covigilance system. the documentation for marketing authorization of the drug cladribine. Subsequently we made use of these learnings for Furthermore, we perform our own audits to ensure that all the documentation required for the marketing authorization our departments, subsidiaries, vendors, and licensing partners of avelumab. involved in pharmacovigilance consistently meet all requirements across the globe. In 2017, we found no significant deviIn producing pharmaceuticals, quality assurance is a key ations from these requirements. Such audits help us hone our aspect. The Current Good Manufacturing Practice (CGMP) pharmacovigilance processes so that they surpass statutory regulations ensure that pharmaceuticals meet the standards requirements. set for identity, purity, potency, and safety. Compliance with these regulations is mandatory for pharmaceutical compaLabeling of products nies and is closely monitored by health authorities. As a pharmaceutical manufacturer, we have appropriately trained Package inserts inform physicians and patients on how to employees, as well as suitable facilities, processes and properly use the respective drug. In accordance with statuprocedures in order to meet all requirements. tory regulations, the insert contains all relevant information such as ingredients and dosage, storage, mode of action, We want our pharmaceutical products to be readily available instructions for use, warnings, precautions, and possible to physicians and patients and always arrive on time. For this adverse effects. Should the medicine contain ingredients that to happen, our distribution processes must function relimay impact the environment, the package insert may also ably all over the world. By continually auditing our distribcontain information on the proper disposal of the product. ution network, we ensure that both our subsidiaries as well as our partners and contractors adhere to our quality and We review and update all package inserts as necessary, safety requirements. All distribution activities must comply ensuring that they contain the latest information about our fully with Good Distribution Practices (GDP). medicinal products. These leaflets also reflect changes initiated by our MSEB, such as new warnings. In accordance Meeting statutory requirements with statutory requirements, all modifications to the inserts are submitted to the respective regulatory authorities for We always adhere to all statutory pharmacovigilance regulaapproval. tions in force in those countries where we market our products and are continuously working to incorporate requireInternal and external training ment changes in our Group-wide standards and processes. In 2017, for instance, we upgraded our safety database and All employees involved in the safety and quality of pharmathe associated reporting processes to meet the new requireceutical products are trained according to our global training ments of the European Medicines Agency (EMA). standards. We verify compliance with these requirements by performing regular audits. In addition, all our Biopharma Collecting information and checking employees receive basic pharmacovigilance training once a year that covers how to report adverse effects from our prodprocesses ucts. In March 2017 we rolled out agReporter, a mobile app for reporting adverse effects from the use of our products. This Through such training, all employees are kept consistently uptool was initially intended for use by field nurses and our to-date. This includes their professional expertise and training sales representatives. Furthermore, we plan to add a on internal standard operating procedures and other relevant patient-friendly interface to the app, thereby putting requirements. In this way, we ensure adherence to Good Pharpatients center stage in our efforts to consistently collect macovigilance Practice (GVP) requirements. We provide our adverse effects data. training via a global e-learning platform. Supervising drug safety In 2017 we initiated a pharmacovigilance campaign in Mexico to raise awareness for adverse effect reporting. This effort is Regulatory authorities conduct regular inspections to verify that targeted at both patients and health workers (such as health we are complying both with statutory requirements as well authorities, physicians and nurses) along with our own Marketing 54 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Products & Sales people. To ensure the campaign’s success, we offered Sharing expertise with other countries a special training program for our Marketing & Sales staff, who also receive additional informational material every two months. We also work to transfer our drug safety expertise to other Moreover, we are conducting a poster campaign to make countries, especially those where health workers still lack the health sector employees more aware of the importance of necessary knowledge regarding pharmacovigilance. In reporting adverse effects. November 2017 we launched the “Africa kommt!” project in an effort to educate trainees from Africa on the safe use of pharmaceutical products, with the ultimate goal of them subsequently implementing the educational content in their home countries. Counterfeit products  Part of the non-financial report According to the World Health Organization (WHO), a considThis includes products erable proportion of the medicines in developing countries are illegal, counterfeit or substandard. In industrialized with incorrect active ingredients or concentrations thereof nations too, however, such products are becoming increaswithout any active ingredients ingly available on the market through unlicensed internet pharmacies and underground business-to-business (B2B) with dangerous impurities platforms, ultimately posing a risk to public health. Chemical with modified/altered packaging and/or incorrect brand names products can furthermore be used for illegal purposes such with an authentic active agent, but not one produced under as the manufacture of illicit drugs. GxP conditions that have expired that were removed from the legal supply chain (e.g. through Our approach to anti-counterfeiting theft). Our company develops and manufactures products of the utmost quality. In order to protect both customers and patients, we secure our products against counterfeiting and 2. Illegal diversion of products: This term refers to the diverare deeply committed to fighting product-related crime. For sion of either chemical or pharmaceutical products from within instance, we collaborate with regulatory and law enforcethe legitimate supply chain for illegal export, for use in the ment agencies at the regional, national and internaproduction of illegal drugs, weapons or explosives, or for any tional level. When cases of product crime are identified, other illegitimate purpose. we also cooperate with customs authorities in the respective countries, along with Interpol, the World Customs Organiza3. Black market crimes: This refers to the sale of counterfeit tion, various health authorities, and our peer industry. Our and/or diverted products via illegal channels such as the guidelines, standards and processes apply to all our business Internet, or for illicit purposes. sectors and markets worldwide, thus protecting our reputation as a supplier of quality products. 4. Misappropriation of products: This refers to theft from production sites and warehouses, or while in transit. What we mean by product crime 1. Counterfeit products: In line with the Trade-Related How we're tackling product crime Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights Agreement (TRIPS) Our Group function Corporate Security coordinates all our antiand WHO standards, we define a counterfeit product as “a counterfeiting activities. All such efforts are carried out under the product that is deliberately and fraudulently produced and/or supervision of our Chief Security Officer and the Head of Envimislabeled with respect to its identity and/or source to make ronment, Health, Safety, Security, Quality (EQ). Furthermore, all it appear to be a genuine product.“ our sites have a Product Crime Officer who investigates potential cases of counterfeiting, acting as the interface between local regulatory and law enforcement authorities, national associations, our Group functions, and our facilities. Depending on the type, violations are first investigated by the unit in charge. 55 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Products Group-wide anti-counterfeiting network Reviewing our efforts Our Anti-Counterfeiting Operational Network (MACON) is responWe evaluate the effectiveness of our measures according to sible for globally monitoring and implementing all anti-counthe number of reported, investigated and solved cases, as terfeiting measures for our products. Along with coordinating well as their severity. preventive measures and the development of security systems, this organization is also responsible for investigations. Comprised Supporting customers and patients of experts from various units such as Legal/Trademarks, Product Security, Export Control, Supply Chain, Patient Safety, and Quality We believe that patients should be able to determine the Assurance, MACON is coordinated by our Corporate Security unit. identity and authenticity of a pharmaceutical product themAll MACON activities are now overseen by the new Global Anti selves. We are therefore rigorous in meeting the requireProduct Crime unit, created in 2016. ments of the EU Falsified Medicines Directive, for instance by applying a unique serial number to our pharmaceutical To investigate suspected cases, MACON collaborates with the packaging. In the United States, this practice has been appropriate law enforcement agencies and regulatory authorities. required by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) since This network has allowed us to identify more cases of counterthe start of 2018. We were the first company to have feiting and take decisive action, especially in high-risk countries. complied with this requirement by the end of 2015. As an In 2017, MACON reviewed and investigated approximately 128 EU company, we are likewise legally mandated to label all cases, including inquiries from authorities that arose during backpharmaceutical packaging with a unique product identifier by tracking investigations. We furthermore uncovered four underFebruary 2019. We are in the process of implementing this ground laboratories that were counterfeiting several of our prodprovision. ucts. In parallel to meeting these provisions, we are also Our commitment: Group-wide guidelines pursuing our own initiatives: and standards We apply Security M, a security label containing our color Our Crime Relating to Products guideline of Merck KGaA, Darmtravel pigments, to some of our products, taking a riskstadt, Germany describes our goals and strategies for combating based approach to identifying those products that should counterfeiting. Our Group-wide Product Crime Investigation Stanbe labeled in this manner. The Security M enables users dard sets out binding requirements and defines the knowledge to easily verify the authenticity of our products and is sharing process within our company in an effort to provide a solid considerably harder to counterfeit than the holograms legal footing for dealing with illicit products. commonly used. Through our Track & Trace system, pharmacists and Enhanced monitoring and reporting distributors of our products can trace the supplier of the systems medicine to verify its authenticity. Having implemented this system for all our pharmaceutical products in the We analyze and document all counterfeit product incidents using United States and China, in 2017 we expanded it to a Group-wide reporting system. This approach provides us with Colombia as well. We intend to furthermore include a complete picture of the security situation and enables us Europe, the Middle East, Egypt, and Russia by the end of to identify possible links between different cases, thus equipping 2018. us to combat similar future incidents more effectively. ImpleOur free Check My Meds app for smartphones allows mented at the end of 2017, our “Data and Documentation Quality patients in the United States and since 2017 also in Management” SOP details the associated process. Colombia to scan the serial number of their medicines and quickly verify their authenticity. Tracking system for chemical substances In our Mobile Anti-Counterfeiting System (MAS) project in Nigeria, we are working closely with one of our We monitor chemicals that could be misused to produce illegal suppliers on a text message-based identification system. weapons, explosives or narcotics. These are tracked through an Patients scratch off a barcode that is printed on the internal tracking system that flags suspicious orders and/or product packaging and then send this code via text orders of sensitive products, which are only released once we've message to an assigned number. They immediately confirmed the existence of a (verified) end-user declaration. receive back a response telling them whether their code is authentic. In addition to fulfilling the duties stipulated by statutory provisions on export control, we also report suspicious orders, inquiries and requests to the competent authorities. Through these efforts, we are honoring a voluntary commitment of the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI) and meeting the terms of the Guideline for Operators published by the European Commission. 56 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Products We sponsor the non-profit Global Pharma Health Fund Educating our employees and business (GPHF), which supplies GPHF Minilabs® to test the partners quality of 90 different active ingredients. With this compact test kit, counterfeit medicines can be detected We endeavor to raise awareness of product crime among quickly, easily and inexpensively, a tool that especially our employees and business partners, educating our people benefits developing and emerging countries. You can find worldwide on the subject. In the countries where we don’t more information on this project under Community (p. have our own subsidiaries, we offer training for our business 111). partners. We offer our customers in the pharmaceutical industry Candurin® pearl effect pigments, which feature All staff involved in security, such as Product Crime Officers, unique color properties that make tablets and capsules participate in onboarding and training programs aimed more difficult to counterfeit. at building their capacities and promoting idea sharing. We are constantly refining these programs and adapting them to new trends. In 2017, for instance, we held incident reporting & intelligence systems training for our Product Crime OffiIndustry-wide exchange cers. In an effort to fight product crime, we have joined forces with organizations such as the European Federation of PharSecurity audits for contract manufacturers maceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA), the Internaand distributors tional Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & Associations (IFPMA), and the German Association of ResearchWe regularly check whether our distributors and contract based Pharmaceutical Manufacturers e.V. (vfa). We also manufacturers are complying with GMP and GDP (Good support industry-wide initiatives. For instance, we work Manufacturing Practice/Good Distribution Practice). In doing particularly closely with the Pharmaceutical Security Institute so, we also ascertain the extent to which our security (PSI), a non-profit organization dedicated to protecting requirements are being implemented. In general, our public health by sharing information on pharmaceutical councontract partners meet these requirements. However, special terfeiting and initiating enforcement actions through the security audits are conducted if significant deviations are appropriate authorities. Our Chief Security Officer is the Vice identified. Such audits are also conducted when we certify Chair of the PSI Board of Directors. Furthermore, we are a external service providers for our Security M label. This member of Rx-360, a consortium of global pharmaceutical applies to both pharmaceutical contract manufacturers as manufacturers and suppliers that aims to prevent counterwell as print companies that print packaging. This auditing feit products through the introduction of a global quality system is based on the EMA ICH Q10 pharmaceutical quality assurance system. assurance standard. In 2017, we conducted ten security audits of our partners worldwide, who have since taken the necessary corrective action. Transport and warehouse safety  Part of the non-financial report We transport and store products and materials worldwide hazardous goods and the corresponding transport involved – such as chemicals and pharmaceuticals, raw materials, interwhether by road, rail, plane, or ship – are governed by regumediates and waste, as well as technical materials and packlations applicable worldwide. We ensure safety and compliaging, all of which could pose a hazard if handled incorrectly. ance with these rules through our standards, regular audits of our sites and employee training. Our approach to safe transport and storage How we achieve transport and warehouse safety We strive for all our shipments to reach our customers and sites safely, undamaged and with the required safety inforTransport and warehouse safety falls under our Group funcmation. Several of the materials we store and transport are tion Environment, Health, Safety, Security, Quality (EQ) (see classified as hazardous. To prevent danger to people and Environmental stewardship (p. 87)), which sets Group-wide the environment, we therefore adhere to extremely strict standards and guidelines. In addition, our individual sites safety regulations across our Group. The storage of such are subject to various national and international regulations 57 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Products governing environmental stewardship and public rials. We update our Group standard to reflect current safety, which local site directors are responsible for implerequirements every two years and support our site directors menting. in implementing the relevant changes at the local level. Each of our sites around the world has an EHS manager and Enhancing transport and warehouse safety a dangerous goods manager, a position that equates to the “dangerous goods safety advisor” required by EU regulations. In addition to the inspections conducted by our EHS and Both of these advise the site director on issues regarding dangerous goods managers, we regularly perform riskthe safe storage and transport of hazardous goods while also based audits across our company to ensure that our sites monitoring compliance with statutory requirements and our are complying with warehouse and transport safety regulaown internal standards. tions. We generally conduct these audits every five years, performing them more frequently at facilities that pose a Our EHS managers are also responsible for monitoring our potentially higher risk. If major shortcomings are identified, third-party warehouses. Before signing a contract with a we re-audit the respective site the following year. warehouse provider, we assess whether they properly Conversely, we may decide to extend the period between adhere to national and international storage and transport audits at facilities where, based on the findings from previous regulations and if they are able to implement our additional audits, we deem the risk potential to be low. requirements. The findings from this audit are summarized in a statement issued by EHS. If off-site warehouses employ In 2017, we audited 37 of our warehouses for compliance additional subcontractors, these are also included in our with our Warehouse Safety and Transport Safety standards. audit. In response to the deficiencies identified by this audit, we are currently optimizing our Group-wide packaging selection process with a focus on our portfolio of acquired SigmaOur commitment: Internal standards and Aldrich products. international rules Our Group-wide safety concepts and standards govern Third-party warehouses and contract transportation compathe safe storage of hazardous substances. The Warehouse nies are also regularly audited by our EHS managers. In Safety standard, for instance, defines measures to prevent 2017, we audited 15 third-party warehouses and external substances from leaking or igniting. According to this stanlogistics providers, developing corrective action plans where dard, risk evaluations must be conducted on all stored shortcomings were identified. Along with implementing indisubstances, and it also sets out special rules of conduct that vidual corrective measures, we also intend to optimize packapply to all warehouse employees. aging and disposal processes at our third-party warehouses. In this vein, we are therefore currently compiling information for off-site warehouses in Asia and Latin America. To ensure third-party warehouses also adhere to our strict Using real-life examples, this brochure will describe and safety requirements, our Group standard Warehouse explain our safety concept and guidelines. This is one of the Requirements for Third-party Warehouses defines specific ways we support our providers in meeting our strict requirestructural and organizational requirements for a facility. ments. Before we sign a contract, warehouse providers must submit a statement detailing how they plan to meet our stringent safety standards. As a member of the Logistics & Distributors User Group of SQAS, a service provided by the European Chemical Industry Council (Cefic), we receive additional audit reports on our In Germany, the Technical Rules for Hazardous Substances logistics service providers. In 2017 we developed criteria to (TRGS) govern the storage of hazardous substances in nonevaluate these reports, which we subsequently make availstationary containers. Across all our warehouse and distribable to the relevant units in our company. ution centers worldwide, we have implemented this regulation’s requirements for storing various hazardous materials together and in 2017 we began rolling out software that In 2017, no incidents that could have significantly impacted will help us keep track of everything. We also comply with the environment or community were recorded at our the current requirements of the Globally Harmonized System company, our third-party warehouses or logistics providers, of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS) at all our nor were there any infringements of international regusites, with the sole exception of India, where the GHS system lations. has not yet been fully transposed into national regulations. Continuously improving safety concepts Our Group Transport Safety standard defines the safety levels for our sites and is based on the United Nations Our local EHS and dangerous goods managers regularly Recommendations on the Transport of Dangerous Goods. review and evaluate our transport and warehouse activities, This is especially important for facilities in those countries informing site directors of shortcomings and opportunities with no local regulations on the transport of hazardous matefor improvement. Based on a strength and weakness 58 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Products analysis of each site, we calculate key performance indiSuch meetings also provide a platform to discuss current cators for transport and storage safety, which help us deterissues, for instance transport and warehouse safety during mine where to institute additional improvements. Rolled out natural disasters such as Hurricane Harvey, which hit the in 2017, our in-house e-learning concept for basic manageUnited States at the end of August 2017. ment courses on the transport of dangerous goods is mandatory for all logistics, EHS and dangerous goods managers; Ensuring correct transport additional courses on transport safety and storage are currently under development. Our products are primarily delivered to our customers by logistics providers. In Germany, we transport the majority Employee training and best practice of our hazardous waste ourselves, but do sometimes also enlist the services of other companies if necessary. Furthersharing more, we participate in the German Transport AcciSeveral times a year, our warehouse workers and all dent Reporting and Emergency Response System employees involved in the transport of goods undergo (TUIS) operated by the German Chemical Industry Associatraining on our standards and procedures, as well as on tion (VCI). Within this system, we exchange expertise and changes to international requirements and incident managebest practices on chemical transport with experts from other ment. All our truck drivers hold a dangerous goods driving chemical companies and also provide hands-on assistance license, while in Germany they complete additional training in the event of a chemical transportation accident. When in line with the German Professional Driver Qualification Act a transport or warehouse accident occurs, we can use our (BKrFQG) and on securing cargo. Across the globe, every “TUIS Messkonzept Südhessen” to quickly calculate the rate year we conduct around 1,000 internal and external training at which hazardous substances are spilling and spreading. seminars on transport and warehouse safety. In some cases, the managers of third-party warehouses also participate in Making transport vehicles safer these sessions. The safe transport of dangerous goods requires safe vehicles, Furthermore, our EHS managers meet regularly at the EHS another area we pursue. In the past few years, for instance, Conference in Darmstadt (Germany), where they have the we have been constantly improving our SafeServer truck opportunity to share lessons learned and best practices, body technology. In this design, the aluminum panels inteas well as participate in transport and warehouse safety grated into the side walls of the truck render the walls training. These topics are also covered in the mandatory extremely stable, making it largely unnecessary to secure three-day orientation seminar for all new EHS managers. cargo. Responsible marketing  Part of the non-financial report We commercialize both prescription medicines and over-thethe law and in line with the highest ethical standards. counter products. Pharmaceutical marketing is regulated by Our compliance program is complemented by our internal legislation worldwide. In Germany, for instance, manufacguidelines and various voluntary commitments that, in many turers are only permitted to advertise prescription drugs to cases, exceed the applicable statutory regulations. We regumedical professionals such as physicians and pharmacists. In larly review all our internal guidelines, adapting them to new doing so, they must always disclose the active ingredients, developments. adverse effects and contraindications of the advertised drug. In marketing our pharmaceuticals, the wellbeing of patients How we conduct ethical marketing is always our primary consideration because they deserve effective, high-quality treatment. Our Group Compliance unit is responsible for setting up internal compliance policies and procedures to ensure that our business activities adhere to the statutory regulations applicable to our sales and marketing activities. Our Global Our approach to responsible marketing Regulatory Affairs unit has also established a dedicated We adhere strictly to all regulations on pharmaceutical policy and complementary process document on the review marketing. All guidelines pertaining to marketing and adverand approval of our promotional materials. The necessary tising are part of our Group-wide compliance program, which training and communication are carried out by each policy requires us to always conduct business in compliance with owner. On the operational level, the businesses and every 59 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Products employee involved in our sales and marketing activities must Addressing violations of standards and regulations carry out these activities in adherence with our internal policies and procedures. Our Internal Audits unit regularly A variety of channels has been established so that wrongful conducts risk-based reviews of our sales and marketing marketing practices can be reported to the industry associations to activities. You can find more details on how we ensure which we belong. For instance, when members of the FSA or third compliance with statutory regulations worldwide under parties suspect a violation of the FSA Code, they can file complaints Compliance (p. 11). directly with the respective Arbitration Board. In 2017, no such complaints were lodged against our company. Our commitment: Code of Conduct and In addition to external reporting options, we have also established industry-wide regulations a SpeakUp Line that allows our employees to anonymously report Our Group-wide “Pharma Code for Conducting Pharmaceupotential compliance violations. If our marketing or advertising tical Business and Pharmaceutical Operations” defines the rules of conduct are violated, we have a committee in place to take relevant standards for our ethical marketing practices. It also immediate countermeasures. Appropriate corrective action is taken governs our interactions with physicians, medical institutions to deal with violations as required. and patient advocacy groups. Due to specific regulations in the United States, our pharmaceutical activities there are We have not identified any significant cases of non-compliance subject to a specific guideline entitled “Pharmaceutical Operregarding regulations and voluntary codes. ations of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany and the biopharmaceutical business sector in the United States“. Regular employee training Through our “Principles of Review and Approval of PromoEmployees responsible for our pharmaceutical advertising receive tional Materials and Other External Communications“, we regular training on current guidelines. This particularly applies to ensure that all promotional materials conform to our individuals working in sales, marketing and drug registration. These rigorous standards. In 2017, we updated these principles seminars are conducted locally in a classroom setting, but are also along with the associated standard process, focusing particoffered online and as e-learning courses. In 2017 for instance, ularly on our requirements for scientific communication with more than 1,100 employees took part in the training course on the health workers. All employees involved in creating promo“Review and Approval of Promotional Materials and Other External tional materials worldwide have received training on these Communications”. Additionally, the employees in charge can also updates. access our compliance guidelines on the marketing and promotion of pharmaceuticals via our Intranet. Beyond national laws and our own standards, we furthermore comply with the codes of conduct of various industry Direct marketing only in certain countries organizations, such as the Code of Practice and Code of Pharmaceutical Marketing Practices published by the InterDirect-to-consumer (DTC) advertising for prescription drugs is national Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & Assoallowed in some countries such as the United States. We only ciations (IFPMA). Moreover, we are a member of the German pursue DTC campaigns in these jurisdictions. Through direct Association of Voluntary Self-Regulation for the Pharmaceuadvertising, we hope to increase people’s awareness of certain tical Industry (FSA), which has defined its own code of diseases as well as available therapies, empowering consumers and conduct regarding collaboration between physicians and the patients to make informed decisions about their own treatment. industry. Marketing chemicals Reviewing marketing material Group-wide We approach the marketing of our chemical products with the Our aim is to review all promotional material end-to-end to deepest sense of responsibility. For instance, we only supply our ensure that it meets our standards, which is why we apply chemicals to commercial customers with proven expertise and a Group-wide review and approval system. In 2016, we furthermore provide them with detailed information on the safe updated this system and harmonized a variety of locally used handling and use of our products. We have an extensive safety tools. Since the beginning of 2017, approximately 2,200 and security network in place to prevent the misuse of dualHealthcare employees have been using a centralized platuse products. This network features standardized export control form that allows us to streamline the review and approval guidelines for these products, which are monitored by our central process more efficiently, while also providing a better Export Control & Customs Regulations unit, as well as by trade overview of global marketing data. This helps us identify and export control officers at our local subsidiaries. If we suspect opportunities for improvement. misuse, we terminate our business relationship with the respective customer. In 2017, too, there were attempts to obtain our products for illegal purposes. In questionable cases, we additionally engage the responsible authorities to prevent illegal use. 60 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Products Bioethics  Part of the non-financial report Bioethics are foundational in guiding how we use the rapidly and legal requirements pertaining to stem cell research. advancing power of life sciences and technology responsibly This also includes collaboration with external partners. The and ethically to the ultimate benefit of society, humans, and SCROC works under the guidance of the MBAP. other living beings. However, factors such as diverse cultural backgrounds have led to heated debates, with controversy Our commitment: Identifying issues early on surrounding certain bioethical issues arising from the explosive progress in science and particularly molecular biology. As a global company, it is crucial for us to promptly identify In light of this situation, we believe it necessary to clearly and address new developments concerning bioethical issues state our position on these issues. in order to define our own stance. Although we align all our business activities with international and national legislation, many bioethical discussions raise questions that far exceed the current purview of legislators, which is why we also seek Our approach to ethical business conduct the advice of external experts. In the course of our activities, we encounter various bioethical issues, including stem cell use, animal testing, the use Bioethics Advisory Panel discussions of genetically modified microorganisms, the potential impact of new genome editing techniques such as CRISPR/Cas, In 2017, in addition to organizational changes, the MBAP and our own clinical research. We are strongly committed discussed the establishment of our new Global Health Instito conducting research in an ethical manner. In treating tute, as well as fertility research (p. 62), stem cell research patients with our drugs and supplying academic researchers (p. 62) and genome editing (p. 62). We have submitted the and the biopharma industry with our products, patient panel's advice and scientific recommendations for publication benefit and wellbeing are always of utmost importance. in a peer-reviewed journal. When faced with controversial topics, we carefully evaluate all relevant positions to ensure we make informed deciOur Global Health Institute aims to improve access to healthsions in line with the highest ethical standards. care, particularly in developing countries. Its focus areas are addressing the unmet needs of women and children, as How we assess bioethical issues well as infectious diseases (p. 41) and antimicrobial resistance. The panel has suggested developing a guideline for Our Bioethics Advisory Panel (MBAP) of Merck KGaA, Darmthe Global Health Institute that would define aspects such as stadt, Germany convenes once a year and also provides collaboration with partner organizations and research priorisupport when urgent bioethical issues arise. Co-chaired by ties. our Global Chief Medical Officer (CMO) and the head of our Global Health Institute, the MBAP provides clear guidance Biotechnology and genetic engineering on bioethical questions, which we take as a basis for our entrepreneurial conduct. For the benefit of our employees, We utilize genetically modified organisms (GMOs) in our we publish summaries from MBAP meetings on our Intranet. research and development work and have been manufacturing biotech products using GMOs since the 1980s. Without In 2017, we adapted the organizational structure of the this technology, the major medical advances of past years MBAP to reflect the current requirements of bioethical issues would not have been possible. so that it now advises on bioethical questions pertaining to all three of our business sectors. Moreover, by appointing Our most important research hubs for medical biotechnology external experts from Africa and Asia to the panel, we have are Darmstadt, Boston (MA, USA), Beijing (China), and also integrated the views of these regions more strongly in Tokyo (Japan). Major biotech production sites are located bioethical discussions. Our Dedicated Guidance Panels for in Martillac 9France), as well as Aubonne and Corsier-surGenome Editing and Stem Cell topics are also now operVevey, Switzerland, the latter of which is one of the largest ating under the overarching MBAP. These panels are responbiopharmaceutical production facilities in Europe. sible in particular for the operational implementation of our positions and are empowered to make decisions regarding Across our Group, we manufacture our biotech products specific questions on individual projects. Formed in 2011, according to the highest standards , and all our biotech the Stem Cell Research Oversight Committee (SCROC) veriactivities are subject to strict statutory regulations worldfies in advance all internal research proposals employing wide. Compliance with these regulations is monitored by human stem cells, compliance with our ethical guidelines, our biological safety officers. We continuously track regula61 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Products tory changes pertaining to biotech products and adapt our Biosampling and biobanking processes accordingly, thus ensuring we adhere to all statutory requirements. Biological samples obtained from patients within clinical studies are indispensable to the development of new precision treatments and advanced diagnostic methods. We Using genome-editing applications handle these samples in a responsible and ethical manner, in We are a leading supplier of technologies such as CRISPR/ compliance with all regulatory requirements, and according Cas9, which can be used to target and modify specific genes, to the consent given by patients for the use of their samples. a process known as genome editing. CRISPR/Cas9 opens up new possibilities in genetic engineering research that could When conducting clinical studies in which biological samples bring about major advances in the treatment of serious are collected, we inform study participants upfront about diseases or in “green genetic engineering”, the use of genome the purposes for which we use their samples. On this basis editing techniques in plant cultivation. Statutes in different participants may consent to the use of their specicountries allow for a varying degree of latitude in applying this mens, thereby enabling us to learn more about the study technique, which is why in 2017 the MBAP once more thordrug, the disease, or other medical questions. Participants oughly discussed the current possibilities and ethical boundcan withdraw their consent at any time. aries of genome editing systems. The results of this discourse have been incorporated into our new Genome Editing TechIn addition, study participants are given the opportunity to nology Principle, which took effect at the end of October 2017. authorize the use of their biosamples for further medical This principle provides our employees with background inforresearch beyond the clinical study. This way they help to mation and explains our current stance on such technology. address future scientific questions and ultimately support It thus defines a mandatory ethical and operational framemedical progress. In 2017 we implemented a policy and work – firstly for us as a supplier of custom targeted nucleases a standard operating procedure defining the principles and and genetically modified cell lines, and secondly as a user of processes of human biosample management during and after genome editing technologies for scientific research. clinical studies. Stem cell research Biological samples, including tissue samples and body fluids, are permanently stored in biobanks together with the correAt present, we neither participate in clinical programs that utilize sponding encrypted patient and specimen data. While these human embryonic stem cells or cloned human cells for the treatare extremely important to our research, their storage and ment of diseases, nor do we pursue such approaches ourselves. use for research purposes requires us to adhere to stringent However, we do make use of stem cells in our research. In addition, ethical standards. In 2017 we implemented new rules we offer our customers several select stem cell lines. Our updated governing biobank operation and the use of stored samples. Stem Cells Principle, which was discussed by the Stem Cell Research Oversight Committee in 2017 and took effect in October 2017, ensures compliance with our ethical approach. The panel Clinical studies further recommended a new Informed Consent form for the use We discover and develop innovative medicines that meet of induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs), which are identical to patient needs. In doing so, we adhere to all relevant statuembryonic cells and can generate every type of cell in the human tory and regulatory requirements, as well as scientific and body. ethical standards. For clinical studies, these standards particularly include the Declaration of Helsinki, in which the World Fertility research Medical Association has formulated ethical principles for medical research involving human subjects, and the Good Because we develop treatments for infertility and seek to improve Clinical Practice (GCP) of the International Council for the success rate of in vitro fertilization, we are frequently confronted Harmonisation (ICH). More details can be found under Clinwith various bioethical issues relating to such treatments. For ical studies (p. 63). instance, may embryos resulting from artificial insemination be screened for genetic disorders and then selected on this basis? In such questions, the German Embryo Protection Act is our legislative Off-label use point of reference. Developed based on guidance from the MBAP, We endeavor to drive scientific and medical progress, our new Fertility Principle came into force at the end of October often doing so in close collaboration with medical profes2017. Further discussion topics on the MBAP’s 2017 agenda sionals. We regularly receive inquiries about the off-label included various issues pertaining to medical technology and use of our products, i.e. indications for which the drug was products for fertility research. We have the support of the panel not originally approved. While each medicine is authorized in establishing a data pool of clinical evidence regarding fertility for specific indications, cases do arise in which a physician technologies. wishes to prescribe a drug to treat a disease for which it is not approved. Such applications can benefit patients. However, to use a drug in this way, solid evidence must 62 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Products exist showing that it can be effective in the treatment of the ends and provide such information to healthcare professpecific disease. sionals only for medical purposes and only upon direct, unsolicited request. The information must be backed by scientific Our principles for disseminating information regarding the evidence and factually balanced. Our employees are not off-label use of our products are set out in corresponding permitted to make any sort of treatment recommendations globally applicable policies. In particular, we only market our for individual patients. medicines within the scope of the drug’s marketing approval. We never share information on off-label use for commercial Clinical studies  Part of the non-financial report Our company develops medicines that help people with We are intentionally expanding our medicinal product develserious diseases. Before obtaining regulatory approval, we opment to more diverse markets in order to address the conduct clinical studies with patients and, if necessary, also healthcare needs in various regions and countries and to with healthy subjects to test the safety and efficacy of these support the development of their healthcare systems. products. These trials generally run for multiple years. Prior to doing so, extensive preclinical testing must first be In performing clinical studies in developing countries, where performed to demonstrate that the drug poses no unacceptthere is usually a lower level of healthcare and less develable risks. This preclinical test phase typically includes proceoped healthcare infrastructure, we adhere to the same prindures such as animal testing. We only test medicines in ciples that apply when conducting such trials in industrialized patients if the compounds show great therapeutic promise countries. When we perform studies in developing countries, and have a positive benefit-risk ratio. we also: only do so in an environment in which the principles of Our contribution to safe and transparent Good Clinical Practice can be upheld; particularly in those clinical studies places where ethics committees and well-trained Clinical Investigators are present. We conduct high-caliber clinical research that always only investigate diseases and innovative medicines that complies with applicable laws and regulations. When are relevant to the local population. performing clinical studies, we adhere to the highest ethical only conduct clinical studies in countries where we expect and scientific standards worldwide. that the drug tested will be submitted for marketing authorization and made available to patients after we We only conduct clinical studies to investigate issues that are have proved its efficacy and safety. relevant to patients, healthcare professionals or society as a assure that no subject enrolling in a clinical study is whole. In addition to this prerequisite, a sound, established discriminated against on the basis of ethnic origin, scientific methodology must be available to investigate these gender or socio-economic status. scientific or medical questions. We only enroll the number of participants required to answer the respective questions. Protecting the safety, wellbeing, dignity, and rights of the How we govern clinical studies patients and healthy volunteers participating in our clinical Overall responsibility for pharmaceutical development as well studies is of utmost importance to us. We do not intentionally as the related governance process is borne by our head expose study subjects to undue risk or irreversible harm. of Global Research and Development, who, hand-in-hand Personal data privacy is extremely important to us, and the with the Chief Marketing & Strategy Officer, co-chairs the confidentiality of all data and information collected is ensured Development Operations Committee (DOC). This top-ranking in compliance with statutory regulations. Biopharma committee ensures a cross-functional approach to the governance of drug development. Clinical studies in developing countries Under the umbrella of the DOC, two further committees We conduct all our clinical studies in accordance with local oversee our clinical studies. The Integrated Clinical Study laws and regulations. In addition, we also adhere to all releCommittee (ICSC) is responsible for studies in pharmaceuvant international scientific and ethical standards at all times. 63 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Products ticals that are under clinical development, while the Global The “Joint Position on the Disclosure of Clinical Trial Medical Affairs Decision Board is responsible for studies Information via Clinical Trial Registries and Databases” involving approved medicines. Both bodies consist of medical and the “Joint Position on the Publication of Clinical Trial scientific experts and executives with long-standing Results in the Scientific Literature”, published by the experience in clinical research. Each committee meets International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers regularly to conduct a comprehensive review of the proposed & Associations (IFPMA), the European Federation of Pharclinical study concepts to verify that our studies are scienmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA), the tifically sound, have a legitimate scientific purpose, and are Japan Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association (JPMA), performed according to the latest standards and best pracand the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of tices. Our therapeutic area review boards support the ICSC America (PhRMA) by conducting thorough scientific assessments of new drug/ The “Principles for Responsible Clinical Trial Data pharmaceutical study concepts. Sharing” published by EFPIA and PhRMA Before administering a new drug to human subjects, there must be sufficient evidence that it offers a potential therRegular supervision of clinical studies apeutic benefit, is sufficiently safe for use in humans, and has a positive benefit-risk profile. Only after diligently Our clinical study procedures are regularly inspected by conducting extensive preclinical testing do we take the health authorities to ensure compliance with the applicable critical step of a first-in-human clinical trial. This important laws and guidelines. We also conduct our own internal quality step of exposing humans to an investigational drug is assurance audits. In both cases, we respond immediately to governed by the Human Exposure Group chaired by our any issues found by defining and implementing corrective Global Chief Medical Officer. and preventive actions to improve our processes accordingly. Potential risks for subjects are carefully and continuously Conducting clinical studies responsibly analyzed before and during the course of our clinical studies. Our Medical Safety and Ethics Board (MSEB) oversees the Prior to enrolling subjects, every clinical trial must first be safety of subjects participating in our clinical studies and, as assessed and approved by a qualified independent ethics necessary, reviews the benefit-risk profiles of investigational committee. Furthermore, all regulatory authorizations drugs. You can find further information on the MSEB under required in the respective country must be obtained. In Patient safety (p. 53). accordance with Good Clinical Practice guidelines (ICH-GCP), all subjects must give their explicit informed consent before Our commitment: International guidelines enrolling in a clinical study. Subjects are fully informed about all aspects of the clinical trial in a language that they underand agreements stand; this includes the potential risks and benefits from Our Clinical Research policy provides the framework for participating in the study. All participants are given ample conducting clinical studies and ensures that we adhere to time and opportunity to inquire about details before deciding all legal, ethical and scientific standards. In addition to the whether to participate. All questions are answered by the relevant national laws and regulations, these standards also clinical investigator or another qualified healthcare profesinclude: sional familiar with the study. As far as possible, non-interventional (observational) studies are also assessed by an ethics committee. The subjects are further provided with The Good Clinical Practice (GCP) guidelines of the Interthorough information. national Council for Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for Human Use (ICH) Every study follows precisely defined procedures to ensure The Declaration of Helsinki published by the World that studies are conducted to the highest quality stanMedical Association dards in line with good working practices for the developThe Belmont Report from the Office for Human Research ment and manufacture of drugs (GxP), the ethical principles Protections, USA of the Declaration of Helsinki, and other international guideGood Pharmacovigilance/Laboratory/Manufacturing/ lines and regulations. This approach ensures in particular Distribution Practices (GVP/GLP/GMP/GDP) that studies are designed, conducted, recorded, and reported The International Ethical Guidelines for Health-related in line with all applicable requirements. In 2017, no signifResearch Involving Humans published by the Council for icant issues regarding these clinical study procedures were International Organizations of Medical Sciences (CIOMS) raised by third parties or regulatory agencies. We continuously collect and communicate safety data for our investigational drugs and promptly provide clinical investigators with important new findings relevant to the safety of subjects. In this way, we ensure the safe use of our phar64 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Products maceuticals. Potential adverse effects and risks are taken the Declaration of Helsinki. This also applies to study centers into consideration in an effort to evaluate the benefit-risk (for example hospitals) involved in our clinical studies. ratio of our products and manage risk. Product information, In 2017, these audits did not reveal significant non-compliincluding the Investigator’s Brochure and Subject Informaance with the above-mentioned standards. tion, is updated accordingly. You can find more information under Patient safety (p. 53). Close dialogue with patients and advocacy groups Conducting clinical trials in vulnerable populations We want to ensure that patients’ voices and needs are The implementation of clinical studies in vulnerable popuadequately taken into consideration when planning and lations requires special attention and care in order to carrying out clinical studies. To this end, we established comply with the highest ethical and scientific standards. Patient Advisory Boards (PABs) in 2014. Our Patient Advisory When a drug is intended for use in vulnerable populations, Boards Charter describes the process on how to involve such as children or people with mental disabilities, in some the Patient Advocacy Groups in our clinical research. During cases clinical studies must be conducted in these populaAdvisory Board meetings, caregivers and representatives tions. Their wellbeing is our utmost priority as, in general, from patient advocacy groups are invited to provide feedback these groups are relatively (or absolutely) incapable of on clinical study matters. This advice and wealth of valuable protecting their own interests. We therefore only conduct insight applies to both the design of the clinical trial as studies with patients from vulnerable populations if there is well as its operational implementation. Cumulatively, we use no other way to achieve conclusive results. When performing this information to render clinical development and clinical such studies, especially when informing study participants studies more patient centric. and obtaining their consent, we comply strictly with all statutory regulations. Furthermore, we are involved in the European Patients’ Academy on Therapeutic Innovation (EUPATI), a publicOne example of a trial involving vulnerable populations is private partnership within the Innovative Medicines Initiative our praziquantel study in Africa to develop a formulation (IMI) that initially ran from 2012 to 2017. In 2017, we for children under the age of six. Praziquantel tablets are extended our participation in EUPATI for an additional three only suitable for adults and children older than six. Due to years. EUPATI is a pan-European project led by the European a lack of clinical data and no suitable pediatric formulaPatients Forum (EPF); it features partners from patient advotion of praziquantel, pre-school aged children must currently cacy groups, universities and not-for-profit organizations, go untreated. Within a public-private partnership, we are along with a number of pharmaceutical companies. This working to develop, register and provide access to a pediatric project focuses on helping patients better understand formulation of praziquantel that is suitable for children under pharmaceutical research and development while also the age of six. To this end, a Phase II study is currently offering them a way to incorporate their needs into the ongoing in Côte d'Ivoire, and Phase I trials have been development of clinical studies. EUPATI furthermore aims to completed in South Africa and Tanzania. This clinical improve the availability of objective and reliable information program was designed in line with U.S. Food and Drug for the public. Administration recommendations for pediatric development. It was planned and implemented with the support of regulatory authorities and a panel of international experts, Responsible data sharing including clinicians from endemic countries. Further details We support professional circles in advancing medical and can be found under Infectious diseases (p. 41). scientific knowledge, thereby allowing for informed healthcare decisions for the benefit of patients. To this end, Teaming up to get results upon request we provide qualified researchers with study protocols, anonymized patient data, study data, and clinical To provide a broad, in-depth basis for the development study reports. In doing so, we share data and information in of new medicines, we frequently conduct clinical studies a manner that is consistent with the following joint Principles in collaboration with external partners in academia and for Responsible Clinical Trial Data Sharing of the EFPIA and industry, as well as with medical scientific advisory boards, PhRMA: service providers and vendors. We expect all our partners to abide by the same set of high standards when conducting Safeguarding the privacy of patients clinical research. This applies especially to contract research organizations (CROs) performing studies on our Respecting the integrity of national regulatory systems behalf. Maintaining incentives for investment in biomedical research Our CROs, partners and suppliers are subjected to regular audits within our quality assurance strategy to verify their compliance with Good Working Practices (GxP, for example ICH GCP), other international guidelines and regulations, and 65 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Products Disclosure of clinical studies and publication of results In 2017, avelumab was granted its first marketing authorization in several countries (including the United States and We are obliged to disclose information from our clinical Japan) and the European Union for treatment in patients studies, which we do publicly in a complete, accurate, with metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma (mMCC), a rare and balanced, transparent, and timely manner, as laid out in aggressive form of skin cancer. Subsequently, avelumab was our Clinical Trial Disclosure Policy. Our clinical study designs granted regulatory approval by the U.S. Federal Drug Adminand results are made public in the international Clinicalistration for the treatment of patients with locally advanced Trials.gov database run by the U.S. National Institutes of or metastatic urothelial carcinoma (a malignant tumor of the Health (NIH), which can also be accessed via the World urothelium that lines the urinary tract) that had progressed Health Organization’s International Clinical Trials Registry following platinum-containing chemotherapy. Meanwhile, Platform (ICTRP). Furthermore, in accordance with EU reguavelumab continues to be evaluated in several ongoing regislations, we publish results from our clinical studies in the trational Phase III studies across multiple different tumor European Union Drug Regulating Authorities Clinical Trials types, including lung, gastric, ovarian, renal cell, and head (EudraCT) database, which is run by the European Medicines and neck cancers. Agency (EMA). If required by local laws and regulations, we publish study results on other publicly accessible platforms. Enabling early access to new medicines In 2017 we started providing our study participants with Lay Patient Summaries, which explain clinical study results in Not all patients can take part in a clinical study and so plain language. must wait for a new pharmaceutical product to be approved. Through our Early Access Program, we are, under specific We make sure that results from our clinical studies are circumstances, enabling patients to gain early access to new, published in medical journals in line with applicable laws and potentially life-saving medicines. The offer is aimed at people industry codes. In doing so, we adhere in particular to the with serious conditions who have already used all available current version of the Good Publication Practice (GPP3) and therapies without success. It allows them to obtain medicines follow the recommendations of the International Committee that have already been clinically tested but not yet obtained of Medical Journal Editors (ICMJE). Our Medical Publications marketing approval. Here too we meet stringent statutory, Policy ensures compliance with all relevant standards. ethical and scientific standards. By performing a thorough Furthermore, we have defined standard procedures for scienassessment of all available data, we ensure that the potential tific publications on our products. benefits outweigh the potential risks for patients. We have published a position paper on the Early Access Program on our website. Immuno-oncology: Major clinical research milestones Coming to terms with the past Immuno-oncology investigates the extent to which the body’s immune system can be activated or strengthened In the 1950s and 1960s, drugs from various manufacturers to mount an immune response against cancer. As part of were tested on children living in institutions in Germany. The a strategic alliance with the U.S. pharmaceutical company majority of such clinical studies were performed in collaboraPfizer, we are studying avelumab, an investigational antition with (university) hospitals and general practitioners. By PD-L1 (programmed cell death ligand 1) antibody initially making files in our historical archives at our global headquardiscovered and developed by Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, ters in Darmstadt available, we are now supporting efforts Germany, as a potential treatment for a broad spectrum of to understand and come to terms with this episode in the tumor types. Under this collaboration, in 2015 we launched history of science. As part of these efforts, we opened our JAVELIN, our comprehensive international clinical study archives to researchers in 2015. It is important that the findprogram in which we are investigating the potential theraings and completion of their work be awaited before making peutic benefit of avelumab in multiple tumor types. By the a final assessment of this complex issue. We guarantee full end of 2017, more than 7,200 patients had been evaluated transparency and will do everything necessary to help the within this program. affected institutions come to terms with the past. 66 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Products Animal welfare From both an ethical and scientific perspective, animal our company or on our partners. Moreover, all our animal research is indispensable and is furthermore mandated by science and welfare experts regularly interact through our law. Through animal studies, we test both the safety of global laboratory animal science network. A platform our chemical and medicinal products, and the efficacy of for sharing best practices and lessons learned, this network our pharmaceuticals. We enforce stringent animal welfare supports the animal welfare units at our sites along with all standards that exceed applicable laws and extend these projects and processes related to animal science and welfare. high expectations to our suppliers, contract research organizations and other partners. We conduct animal testing Our Group Animal Welfare Council convenes twice a year. within our Healthcare business sector as part of the official Comprising representatives from all our business sectors, drug approval process. However, animal welfare is also a this council discusses relevant developments and makes prominent issue for our Life Science business sector, which decisions regarding our Animal Welfare Strategy. In 2017, keeps laboratory animals for the production of antibodies, our efforts focused on creating various guidelines and certifor instance. In addition, our subsidiary Bioreliance conducts fying contract research organizations, other partners and animal testing as part of contract research work for third suppliers. To accomplish this, the council is developing a riskparties. based approach that will also apply to the procurement of products of animal origin. Our approach to animal welfare In most cases, our sites are subject to additional national regulations. In order to assess the quality of animal Our Group-wide Use, Care and Welfare of Laboratory Animals husbandry practices and ensure compliance with our stanPolicy sets forth our commitment to consistently uphold the dards as well as all statutory requirements, we appoint highest ethical standards regarding the housing, care and animal welfare officers and establish animal welfare feeding of laboratory animals. When conducting animal councils across our Group, even where not required by research, we pursue tried and tested methods that ensure law. In 2017, for instance, we appointed an animal welfare high-quality results and furthermore strive to replace animal officer for our Life Science business, who is greatly involved testing with alternative methods wherever possible and in conducting audits and identifying potential animal welfare permissible by law. We therefore subscribe to the internarisks in our supply chain. tionally recognized 3Rs for animal-based research: Work with committees and associations Reduction using the minimum number of required animals As part of our efforts to improve animal welfare, we are Refinement minimizing distress or discomfort before, involved in several organizations such as the European during and after testing Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA), the German Association of Research-based PharReplacement replacing animal studies with non-animal maceutical Companies (vfa), and Interpharma, a federation systems of research-based pharmaceutical companies in Switzerland. Our Chief Animal Welfare Officer has an active role in various committees to advocate our position on animal welfare. We promote the 3Rs outside our company as well. Under Moreover, he represents EFPIA on the AAALAC International the International Consortium for Innovation and Quality in Board of Trustees, where he ensures adherence to European Pharmaceutical Development (IQ Consortium), for instance, standards. At the end of 2016, he was appointed to the Execwe have joined forces with other companies to support the utive Committee of AAALAC International for a term of three Global 3Rs Awards Program. In partnership with the Associyears. In addition to these positions, he is a member of the ation for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal German Federal Animal Welfare Commission. Care International (AAALAC International), this initiative recognizes innovative contributions to the 3Rs of animal research to advance ethical science in academia and industry. Our commitment: Group-wide methodology and standards How we ensure animal welfare Through our Group-wide Use, Care and Welfare of Laboratory Animals Policy, we have made a commitment to global As head of Corporate Animal Science and Welfare (EQ-A), animal welfare principles and the highest possible ethical our Chief Animal Welfare Officer is responsible for creating standards in animal research. In 2017, we updated this uniform animal welfare standards. This individual also initipolicy to establish a basis for the work of our Group Animal ates EQ-A audits, sometimes performing these himself within Welfare Council. The policy further sets out principles on the 67 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Products housing, care and feeding of laboratory animals. We strive of humans. Laws and regulations govern all aspects of animal to provide our animals with high-quality living conditions and research, such as the housing conditions of laboratory consistently seek ways to make improvements. This ethos animals, the conduct and approval of studies, and the reliaapplies equally to the contract animal research services we bility and expertise of all involved individuals. offer third parties. In addition to our policy, our Group-wide Animal Science and Welfare manual describes the requireThe majority of laboratory animals are ments for implementing, maintaining and improving animal welfare practices. Moreover, in 2017 we created a new rodents guideline entitled Housing and Husbandry Practices for Approximately 97% of the laboratory animals we use are Common Laboratory Animals, which applies to our external rodents (mice and rats). Other animal species are only used partners as well. We also drafted a Standard on Vendor if specified by statutory regulations or if deemed necessary Qualification, which describes our criteria for evaluating the for scientific reasons. For example, regulatory agencies quality of our suppliers’ and partners’ animal welfare pracsometimes require investigational drugs to also be safety tices. This standard took effect in March 2018. tested on a non-rodent species such as monkeys, dogs or pigs. Guidelines such as REACH also require testing on nonLegal requirements rodents under certain circumstances. This allows researchers to identify potential adverse effects with the necessary Animal research is only permitted if there are no recognized accuracy and include them in the risk assessment (p. 53) alternative methods available. In many fields, however, of a substance. In performing tests on non-rodents, we must animal studies are indispensable and legally mandated by meet additional requirements pertaining to animal care and ICH guidelines or REACH, which place priority on the safety study design. Animal types 2.2% 1.3% Guinea pigs Other: Hamsters, rabbits, goats, dogs, non-human primates, fish, sheep 96.5% Rodents Auditing our research facilities It goes without saying that we adhere to the highest international animal welfare standards at all times. All our We perform regular audits on our animal research facilities to Healthcare laboratory animal facilities have been certified to ensure adherence to our animal welfare standards. In 2017, the standards of the Association for Assessment and Accredfor instance, our Corporate Animal Science and Welfare unit itation of Laboratory Animal Care International (AAALAC conducted two internal audits at our Healthcare sites in International). Furthermore, one of our Life Science laboraBillerica, MA (USA) and Ivrea (Italy). We have initiated the tory animal facilities has also received AAALAC accreditation. relevant corrective measures where necessary. No critical shortcomings were identified during these audits. 68 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Products Collaborating with partners and suppliers How we implement the 3Rs We perform the majority of animal studies ourselves and for To minimize the discomfort and distress to animals before, the most part procure our animals from specialized breeders during and after testing (refinement), in 2017 we introduced or, in very few cases, from our own breeding colony. Someour own innovative group housing concept for rabbits and times, however, we also hire contract research organirats at one of our sites. By keeping animals together in zations (CROs) to conduct animal research on our behalf. groups, they are generally healthier and less stressed. Furthermore, we work with both the private sector and academic institutions. When collaborating with such organizaMoreover, we actively support the development of altertions, we expect them to adhere to the same high standards native testing methods and their official recognition at an as we do, as set out in our Use, Care and Welfare of Labointernational level. There is a serious need for action here ratory Animals Policy. We verify compliance with this policy because animal research can only be truly reduced if a new through a risk-based qualification procedure and, where methodology is internationally accepted. Without this global necessary, also conduct audits, generally every three years. recognition, both animal studies and alternative testing In order to harmonize animal welfare efforts within our have to be conducted in parallel when developing pharmacompany, in 2017 we created a Group-wide standard entitled ceuticals intended for worldwide distribution. Housing and Husbandry Practices for Common Laboratory Animals, which also applies to our partners and vendors. To help rectify this situation, we support the European Partnership for Alternative Approaches to Animal Testing (EPAA). Regularly auditing our partners This collaboration between the European Commission, European trade associations and companies from various sectors We perform regular audits on our animal breeders and seeks to pool knowledge and resources to accelerate the contract research organizations to ensure compliance with development of alternative approaches to animal use in our animal welfare standards. As part of our work with Interregulatory testing. Through our membership in the German pharma, we have developed a cross-company audit concept Association of Research-based Pharmaceutical Companies that concentrates on those partners that are relevant to (vfa), we also support the set Foundation, which seeks to the maximum number of companies involved. In 2017, two reduce and replace animal testing. To achieve this objective, audits were conducted in Europe. The results are shared the foundation funds projects that conduct research into among Interpharma member companies and treated confialternative methods. Our Chief Animal Welfare Officer is dentially. If critical defects are not corrected, we reserve currently Vice Chairman of the set Board of Trustees. Our the right to terminate our collaboration with the respective own scientists are also working on developing alternative vendors. methods and have received numerous accolades for their efforts: Comprehensive employee training 2014: The Hessian Animal Welfare Research Prize for We regularly train all employees who work with laboratory Alternative Methods to Replace or Reduce Animal Testing animals, thereby ensuring that animal studies are conducted according to the latest scientific standards and that animals 2010: The IUTox Bo Holmstedt Scientists Award for Alterreceive the best care possible. The nature and scope of native Test Strategies according to the 3Rs this training is based on national and international legis2009: The Eurotox Gerhard Zbinden Young Scientists lation, as well as local requirements. The respective reguAward latory authorities monitor our activities to ensure compli2008: The Eurotox Bo Holmstedt Young Scientists Award ance. In addition to this training, our employees regularly for Alternative Test Strategies according to the 3Rs participate in external continuing education programs 2007: The Hessian Animal Welfare Research Prize for such as accredited laboratory animal science courses offered Alternative Methods to Replace or Reduce Animal Testing by the Federation of European Laboratory Animal Science Associations, the American Association for Laboratory Animal 2006: The German Animal Welfare Research Prize Science, the Society of Laboratory Animal Science, the Laboawarded by the Federal Ministry of Food, Agriculture and ratory Animal Science Association, and the InteressengeConsumer Protection (BMELV) for alternative methods to meinschaft Tierpfleger (Community of Animal Caregivers). replace or reduce animal studies 2005: The Eurotox Gerhard Zbinden Young Scientists Award 69 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Products Interactions with health systems  Part of the non-financial report We want all patients to receive the best possible medical ness Partner Risk Management unit in the respective selectreatment. To achieve this, it is essential that research instition process. The Compliance (p. 11) chapter of this report tutes, physicians, patient advocacy groups, and other key provides more details on how we implement legal requireactors in health systems have access to detailed and upments across the Group. to-date information on diseases and treatments. We help facilitate this access by sponsoring independent initiatives Our commitment: Group-wide guidelines and medical capacity advancement programs, as well as by donating money and supplies. In addition, we promote and industry standards outstanding research projects. In all our endeavors, transOur “Interactions with Patients, Patient Opinion Leaders and parency is our number one priority. Patient Organizations” policy provides a comprehensive framework for our prescription medicines business. For our over-the-counter product business we have a comparable Our approach to interacting with health policy that was revised in 2017 and is now in effect throughout the Group. Supplementing this, our guideline systems “Good Practice and Process Guidance: Engagement with We support health systems by providing information, making Patients, Patient Opinion Leaders and Patient Organizations” monetary contributions, and donating supplies to profesprovides additional guidance for our interactions with sional medical associations, university clinics and other patients and patient advocacy groups. It furthermore hospitals, as well as to patient advocacy groups. These ensures that patient wellbeing is always our top priority. contributions are expressly not intended to influence deciThrough this policy, the supplementary guideline and specific sions regarding treatment, prescriptions or purchasing. local policies, we provide a robust compliance guidance Consequently, we have committed ourselves to providing structure to support our employees in conducting compliant complete transparency. We prepare detailed reports on interactions with patients, patient opinion leaders and our donations that align with industry-wide codes and with patient organizations. statutory requirements such as those governing data protection. Every year we disclose all transfers of value to healthIn all transfers of value, we comply with the principles set care professionals, healthcare organizations and patient forth by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Indusorganizations. We also report on transfers of value made by tries and Associations (EFPIA) in its “Code on disclosure of our R&D activities in every country where our company opertransfers of value from pharmaceutical companies to healthates within the region covered by the European Federation of care professionals and healthcare organizations”. FurtherPharmaceutical Industries and Association (EFPIA). Furthermore, our efforts are aligned with the Code of Conduct of more, we fulfill the relevant voluntary commitments of our the German Association of Voluntary Self-Regulation for the industry. Pharmaceutical Industry (FSA). How we’re ensuring transparency and In addition to complying with these codes, we adhere to all compliance at an organizational level statutory transparency requirements worldwide, such as the stipulations of the Sunshine Act in the United States and the In all interactions with health systems, Group Compliance Loi Bertrand in France. Specific national laws and requireestablishes internal policies and related review processes ments are implemented by our local units. In doing so, we to ensure adherence to statutory requirements and transconsistently adhere to the applicable data privacy legislation parency obligations. Group Compliance also provides the and make a best effort to ensure our partners also comply necessary training and communication to all employees fully. involved. Furthermore, the Global Transparency Operations team of Group Compliance serves as a center of excellence, Through mandatory online training and classroom seminars, providing support for transparency reporting and our endthe relevant employees are kept up-to-date on our interacto-end management process for interactions with healthcare tions guideline and policy, as well as on important changes professionals, healthcare organizations, patients, and patient to reporting requirements for transfers of value. advocacy groups. Transparent reporting Our Internal Audits unit monitors the implementation of these initiatives locally. Before entering into a partnership In 2017, we continued to publish all financial and non-finanor collaboration with third parties, we also involve our Busicial contributions made to European medical professionals 70 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Products and organizations in the health industry. As required by the Transparently promoting research and EFPIA Disclosure Code, this information includes the names education of individual recipients and their addresses, as well as the purpose and amount of the transfer. Before publishing, we We sponsor research and continuing medical education secured all necessary informed consent forms as required around the world in order to contribute to medical advances by applicable data privacy regulations. In 2017, as part of that will benefit patients. Through our Grants for Innovation, the EFPIA transparency initiative, new laws were adopted for example, we support research projects in fertility, in several European countries including Greece, Spain, multiple sclerosis, oncology, and growth disorders. Through Belgium, and Turkey. These changes have already been our Global Medical Education unit we also provide grants incorporated into our 2017 reporting processes. Other than to continuing medical education providers, enabling them disclosing monetary transfer of value on an individual level, to develop and deliver advanced medical training to scienwe also published our overall spending on our research & tists, physicians, nurses, pharmacists, and other healthcare development activities as required by the EFPIA Disclosure professionals. We take an entirely transparent approach to Code. this collaboration as well. All direct and indirect financial aid aligns with the principles of EFPIA. According to our Partnering with patient advocacy groups internal “Medical Education Funding Policy”, all requests for medical education funding are channeled through an evalPatient advocacy groups support patients, family members uation process under the responsibility of our R&D and and caregivers, providing them with information on disease Compliance functions. This process ensures that all funds for management. Just like these organizations, our company has medical education programs are granted according to estabalso made it our goal to improve patient quality of life, lished internal guidelines and criteria while also complying which is why we endeavor to support their vitally imporwith all applicable laws and industry codes. tant work. We provide the highest level of transparency on our donations by publishing the details of contributions In 2017, we partnered with other experts belonging to a to European patient organizations. Updated annually, the sub-group of the International Pharmaceutical Alliance for 2017 report includes all donation amounts, recipients and the Continuing Medical Education (iPACME) to write a joint posipurpose of each donation, thus fulfilling our obligation as a tion paper setting out suggestions for improving and harmomember of EFPIA. nizing quality standards for continuing medical education (CME) in Europe. We explicitly invited our stakeholders to take part in this discussion. The position paper was published in July 2017 in the Journal of European CME and is supported by the European CME Forum and the Global Alliance for Medical Education. 71 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Employees Employees 73 Attractive employer 82 Employee engagement 77 Diversity 84 Good leadership 80 Health and safety 72 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Employees Attractive employer  Part of the non-financial report We recognize that our employees are crucial to our success. Succession Management Process, we work with leaders and our To secure our future viability, we seek to attract people who HR unit to systematically prepare candidates for leadership posihave the potential to take on greater future roles. Demotions, allowing us to fill vacancies quickly and efficiently. graphic change is heating up the competition to hire top talent, especially in Europe, the United States and parts of How we structure our personnel manageAsia. By contrast, in several emerging countries, filling leadership positions is one of the greatest challenges. ment All global HR expert and business partner roles are organized in Owing to the ever-faster pace of technological progress, the one global structure, serving all businesses and functions. Our bar on professional requirements is constantly being raised. Talent, Development & Recruiting , Rewards , and EngageIn response to this situation, we constantly work to advance ment & Inclusion expert units focus on strategies to advance our employees’ career development and help them build and promote our employees, organization and culture, coorditheir skills. In doing so, we as an employer must also meet nating the implementation of the necessary measures. At our the growing expectations for work-life balance. sites around the world, our HR staff implements these measures in collaboration with leaders from our business sectors. In doing so, they comply with global HR guidelines and requirements, which we monitor by means of internal audits that are conducted Our approach to recruiting and retaining every two or three years. talent Our aim is to attract qualified employees and retain them over In September 2017, Executive Board member Belén Garijo the long term. In our quest to offer our people a career that is assumed responsibility for Group Human Resources, a function both professionally and personally enriching, we are committed previously performed by Kai Beckmann. Our Chief HR Officer to facilitating professional paths that align with their individual reports directly to Belén Garijo and is in charge of the various ambitions, skills and talents. Especially when it comes to new expert and business partnering HR activities. In 2017, HR challenges and development opportunities, we encourage them Services were combined with other Group Function services into to take on responsibility. one Business Services unit. Executive Board member and Chief Financial Officer Marcus Kuhnert assumed responsibility for this Business Services unit. In 2017, we introduced a new Group-wide job architecture called Expanding Horizons that provides leaders with greater flexibility in making employee-related decisions while also empowering Digital HR tools them with more responsibility. Through this initiative, we are promoting strategic objectives such as empowering our leaders, To harmonize our HR processes around the world, in 2012 engaging our employees and creating multifaceted development we introduced HR4You, an online platform accessible to all opportunities for our talent. Expanding Horizons combines employees. It is used to manage all key HR functions, such as personnel development with other HR processes such as development and succession planning, recruitment, continuing compensation and guidelines for organizational development. education, and employee performance assessments. Moreover, This initiative builds on the Global Role Framework, a catalog it helps calculate compensation and bonus payments. of positions and functions in which all employees have been remapped from Global Grades into Roles. The Expanding HoriOur commitment: People Development zons job architecture defines three fundamental career types Policy managers, experts and project managers – which all have equal opportunities. Those who wish to advance their careers Our People Development Policy provides a Group-wide frameand attain a top position within the company can also do so as work for employee development and succession planning and an expert or project manager. The job architecture thus creates contains guidelines pertaining to our development opportunities, greater transparency for individual employees regarding their as well as roles and responsibilities. The corresponding processes development opportunities and the requirements of their particare set out in the People Development process descriptions. ular Role, providing a solid framework to effectively develop human resources. Group-wide labor and social standards In addition to implementing this new job architecture, we have Our company is dedicated to appropriate labor and social stanmade it our mission to discover high-potential individuals at an dards, working hard to uphold them. Our Code of Conduct is a early stage in their career and develop their talents. Within our compulsory set of rules for our company’s entire workforce. All 73 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Employees employees receive a copy with their letter of offer. The Code partners. This 360-degree feedback helps to identify of Conduct explains the principles for dealings with business personal strengths and advancement opportunities. Using a associates, general partners, co-workers, and employees, as new feedback tool we launched in 2017, it’s now easier for well as the communities in which we operate. Thus, it supports employees to receive and submit feedback. all employees in choosing the ethical path. Our Human Rights Charter supplements the Code of Conduct with global human Employee learning and education rights principles such as the fundamental conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO), which cover topics such Our Group-wide advanced training and continuing as freedom of association, the right to organize, collective education program ensures that our employees develop bargaining, forced labor, child labor, anti-discrimination, equal the skills needed to help us realize our company strategy and opportunity, equal pay, working hours, occupational health & continue down the path of success. Our employees can use safety, and the prevention of abuse and harassment. These prinour My Learning online tool to sign up for suitable activities ciples describe our commitment to respecting fundamental labor such as seminars and online training courses. standards and are reviewed during our internal audits to check that our local subsidiaries are complying with them. In 2017, a total of 5,700 employees took part in our global classroom training. These courses are flexible, meaning that In 2017, we furthermore decided to draft a Group-wide set of while the core curriculum is uniform around the world, there guidelines on adherence to additional ILO core labor standards. is still room for adjustments, for instance to reflect specific Our intention is to make global occupational and social standards local change projects. As well as classroom training, more an integral pillar of our organization. than 3,500 employees also signed up for global e-learning courses and more than 380 completed online language Providing feedback and supporting develclasses. opment Performance-based pay We regularly provide our employees feedback on their performance through our Performance and Potential ManageWe endeavor to reward the performance of all our employees ment Process, which ensures that, in addition to the feedback, and maintain a competitive edge in attracting qualified a meeting is held once a year to evaluate their overall perforprofessionals, which necessitates commensurate compensamance. This process is applicable to all employees Group-wide tion. At our company, compensation is based on the requirewith a Role of 2 or higher, and additionally to all non-exempt ments of each position and employee performance. In staff employed by either Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany or making compensation decisions, direct supervisors always any other subsidiary based in Germany. consult with their respective superior. In addition to competitive remuneration, we offer attractive fringe and social beneThe process involves leaders and subordinates working fits. Our benefits4me package, for instance, encompasses together to define individual objectives and create a detailed three pillars, namely company-funded benefits including development plan that reflects each employee’s core tasks our company pension, health & well-being, and services. To as well as current strategic priorities. In drafting the develmeet the multifaceted needs of our workforce worldwide, we opment plan, all employees have access to the Development offer a variety of benefit packages. Advisor. Building on our competencies (p. 84), this webbased tool provides a selection of development opportunities To ensure a competitive compensation structure, we that employees can tailor to their own needs. Thanks to a regularly review our compensation policy based on data 2017 upgrade to our electronic HR4You platform, employees analyses and benchmarks. In doing so, we take internal can now create their development plan easier and faster. factors and market requirements equally into account. In making adjustments to this policy, we involve key stakeholders such as employee representatives (p. 83) in the early stages of the process. The reward structures at Merck ~51,000 KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany are gender-neutral and based on defined criteria such as job requirements and performance. Our analyses on Group level show that there are no significant gender-based compensation inequities. of our people took part in the Performance and Potential Attracting qualified university graduates Management Process in 2017, and 61% submitted a development plan. We endeavor to attract the top university graduates. As part of our efforts, for instance, we partner with the German online network “careerloft”. Furthermore, we regularly attend job fairs to reach out to potential applicants, Every three years, employees can additionally have their informing them about job opportunities and career tracks performance assessed by select colleagues and external 74 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Employees within our company. In countries outside of Germany, particImpressive hiring rate and new dual vocational ularly the United States and China, we likewise use career training programs fairs as a way of making personal contact with university graduates. In 2017, 588 people were enrolled in vocational training programs at our sites in Germany, with 205 beginning their In addition to recruitment, we also provide financial assisapprenticeship at our company. In total, we offer apprenticetance to talented students. That’s why we collaborate with ships across 23 occupations, primarily in production, laboraorganizations such as the German National Academic Fountory work and office administration. Furthermore, 18 young dation and the Foundation of German Business, and furtheradults embarked on vocational training courses in the fields more support the Deutschlandstipendium (German national of business administration, business IT, process engineering scholarship program). (chemical engineering), and mechanical engineering. Apprentices in the Laboratory group begin their training as chemistry or biology lab technicians and, subject to suitUniversity graduates can apply for a position with our ability, may receive the opportunity to start a dual study company directly or complete one of our trainee programs. program after six months. Since 2014, we have been offering Our trainees acquire international experience in various busipermanent employment contracts to all apprentices and ness sectors and functions, and take part in tailored contingraduates of dual study programs working in occupations for uing education offerings. which we have long-term demand. In 2017, the hiring rate for graduates of these programs – taking voluntary terminaSparking student and graduate interest tions into account – was over 90%. We employ trainees in units such as Inhouse Consulting, Finance and Production. In 2017, we launched trainee programs in Special vocational training opportunities Marketing, Sales, Human Resources, and Research & DevelopIn Darmstadt, our “Start in die Ausbildung” program helps ment. All trainee programs named “GOglobal” provide gradyoung people who have a high school diploma but have uates experience in various units, international assignments, been searching for an apprenticeship for at least one year tailored continuing education, mentoring, and coaching, while without success. We offer them the opportunity to complete also offering participants a high level of visibility within the an 11-month program with our company, providing insight company. Although the programs are largely centered around into professional life and improving their chances of Germany and the United States, we also employ trainees at gaining an apprenticeship. In 2017, 20 participants aged our sites in Ireland and France. In 2017, the first two trainees 16-25 started this program. Since its launch in 2006, 204 in China started our vocational training program. In 2017, we young people have already taken part in the program; 103 of employed 90 trainees. them have successfully completed an apprenticeship, while 37 are still in a vocational training program. Beyond trainee programs, we also offer internships to high school and university students. Through our Keeping Ties to In October 2016, we established a similar program for Students program, we stay in touch with talented individuals refugees. Having entered its second round in 2017, the who perform particularly well during their internship. Further“Integrating refugees through training” initiative prepared 12 more, every year we invite students from German, Austrian young people for vocational training, thereby opening the and Swiss universities to our company, where they learn about door to the German labor market. The project comprises the various career tracks and job opportunities we offer. Going language, technical, cultural, and career-related training. In forward, we intend to step up contact with students. 2017, we hired three of the participants from the 2016 program as apprentices and placed two others in apprenThe foundation: Vocational training ticeships with other companies. The seven remaining participants are now pursuing further studies at schools or acadFor us, vocational training is one of the most important emic institutions. ways to meet the current and future need for qualified professionals. In Germany, Austria and Switzerland, we offer numerous apprenticeship positions for various professions, Leveraging the opportunities of digitalizaas well as dual vocational training programs. We contintion uously invest in new technologies and integrate these into our vocational training. We also give young adults the opporOur work is becoming increasingly digital and flexible, a tunity to complete their vocational training on a part-time development described by the terms “Work 4.0” and digitalbasis. If, after completing their apprenticeship, they wish ization (p. 29). This trend is also impacting our vocational to continue studying while working, we will cover up to training and continuing education programs, where we are 100% of the costs and also allow them to take special integrating instruction on using new technologies such as leave. Furthermore, apprentices can take part in community 3D printing and trying out novel learning and innovation outreach projects. methods such as design thinking. Moreover, since 2017 we’ve been providing all new apprentices with hybrid laptop/ tablets to teach them how to navigate our company’s soft75 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Employees ware landscape and to educate them on data protection. In countries we allow our employees the flexibility to organize 2017, members of the Production Engineering group parttheir own work schedule. Our people make use of more than nered with employees from Organic Polyproduction to imple30 different part-time models. In Germany and the United ment damage simulation software. In addition to simulation States, where around 45% of our workforce is based, we software, apprentices also utilize augmented reality techoffer parental leave conditions that go beyond the statutory nology to learn how to operate plants and machinery, minimum requirements. Moreover, in Darmstadt we hold accessing useful additional information via a display. special seminars and offer referral services for employees who provide care for family members. Our EVA collaboration platform is another example of an innovative, cutting-edge working environment. EVA stands Expanding flexible working models for “Expertise everywhere, Virtual teams, Access to information” and brings our employees from across the globe We offer our employees various flexible and innovative together. It allows virtual teams to collaborate and commuworking models. The mywork program was implemented in nicate across departmental boundaries and national borders. 2013 at the Darmstadt and Gernsheim sites in Germany and In total, approximately 50,000 people have access to the is now open to all exempt and non-exempt employees. Since platform, which has won an array of international awards. A 2017, this model has been available in many countries across dedicated project team is continuously working to improve Asia and Europe, and also in Australia. In agreement with and optimize this tool. their teams and supervisors, employees can freely choose their working hours and location. Employees can decide for themselves, together with their respective supervisors, when Good standing in employer rankings and how often fixed physical presence in the office is necesOur company is one of the world’s best employers, a fact now sary for all team members. Working hours are no longer officially verified by the Global Top Employer 2017 certificate recorded or monitored. This approach aims to strengthen the awarded by the Netherlands-based Top Employers Institute. culture of performance and trust within the company. At Every year, this independent institute organizes an internathe end of December 2017, a total of 5,267 employees were tional assessment involving an external audit as well as a making use of this model. detailed survey to determine the processes and structures that make up a company’s human resources environment. In 2017, 4.6% of our employees worldwide worked parttime, 10.7% of whom were men. We believe that with these Rolled out in 2017, our newly developed employer brand flexible working models, we are on the right track to sums up what it means to work for Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, achieving a better balance between the expectations we Germany. It is built on the passion, creativity and curiosity of set as an employer and the home life demands of our the employees who have helped us become a global science employees. Ideally, such a balance should lead to greater and technology company. We believe that curiosity always employee satisfaction and increase our appeal as an leads to positive outcomes, something we hope to make clear employer. both through our employer brand and the accompanying campaign. We are aspiring to become the employer of choice Supporting parents for all inquisitive individuals, which is why this campaign centers on our promise to “Bring your curiosity to life”. We endeavor to make it easier for our employees to return to work following parental leave, which is why in 2016 we The success of our efforts is also confirmed by our ranking launched a program for parents in Darmstadt and Gernsheim among the 100 top employers for students and experi(Germany). By the end of 2017, 101 employees had signed enced scientists in Germany. This index is published annuup for this program, which gives mothers and fathers on ally by the research and consulting firm Universum and parental leave the opportunity to talk and interact while also involves a survey of more than 5,000 people. Among scienhelping them keep in touch with the company. Moreover, tists, in 2017 our Group ranked fifth in the student survey they can make use of the various training and networking and seventh among experienced professionals. offerings. We have established a similar program in the United States. In addition to this recognition, we were also ranked fourth among the world’s top employers by Science, a leading peerIn the United States, we offer the female employees in our reviewed scientific journal. Almost 7,000 employees as well Life Science and Healthcare business sectors eight weeks as managers from biotech and pharmaceutical companies of paid maternity leave. In Life Science, fathers are eligible took part in the magazine’s online survey. for two weeks of paid paternity leave, which also applies when adopting a child, while Healthcare staff are given five weeks of paid paternity or adoption leave. By contrast, the Finding work-life balance statutory minimum only provides for 12 weeks of unpaid parental leave per year. Furthermore, we also reimburse up We recognize how important work-life balance is for a to US$ 5,000 in adoption fees. productive and motivated workforce, which is why in many 76 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Employees At our sites in Germany (around 25% of our workforce), 452 temporary care for sick children. For up to two days, parents employees were on parental leave at the end of December throughout Germany can engage the services of an educa2017, 51% of whom were fathers. In other key countries, tion specialist free of charge to look after their children at we go beyond the legal requirements to offer other kinds of home. new parent support such as extended leave for employees in Brazil. In India, too, we offer five days of paid paternity Our facility in Mumbai, our main site in India, also features leave to fathers, even though it is not a legal entitlement. In a daycare center for the children of our employees. In offering these benefits, we do not differentiate between fullthe United States, parents can go to www.care.com to find and part-time staff or employees with fixed-term contracts. external childcare. Furthermore, we offer up to ten days The latter may apply for parental leave until the end of their of provisional childcare, as well as daycare center slots at term of employment. special rates and home childcare. We are currently considering the possibility of introducing measures at our other Daycare support sites as well to help our staff reconcile work and family life. For 50 years, a daycare center for children aged 1-12 has Family and elderly care: Better informed been operating at our global headquarters in Darmstadt. This facility is funded by the Merck family and offers 150 slots. Twice a year, we offer our employees in Germany family Since 2013, we’ve been providing year-round care from 6:30 care seminars on a range of topics. An external associate a.m. to 7 p.m. For the children of our employees in Gernprovides advice on all issues relating to family care and sheim, five places are available at a public daycare center. guides people in their search for suitable options. In Darmstadt, our company health insurance fund also puts people in Our Darmstadt site also offers provisional daycare touch with nurses and, in the United States, our employees services to cover times when an employee’s regular childcan use the online portal care.com to locate family care care falls through. During school breaks in the German services. Federal State of Hesse, we host a variety of vacation camps focused on sports, art, research, and nature for up to 450 children. Since June 2016, we have also been providing Diversity  Part of the non-financial report We are an international company with employees who repreto leverage their knowledge of local markets. To support sent a varied cross-section of nationalities, cultures, relithese efforts, in 2017 we developed a detailed diversity gions, and age groups, as well as different gender identities, policy for the Executive Board and Supervisory Board of different sexual orientations and an array of professional Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany. The policy is published in backgrounds. We believe that a diverse workforce – paired our management report. with a respectful corporate culture – strengthens our ability to innovate and contributes significantly to our business The strategic competencies that guide our employees and success. With this in mind, we work hard to foster a culture leaders in their tasks are set out in our Competency Model of diversity and inclusion. (p. 84), a fundamental element of HR processes such as recruitment, feedback and training for supervisors and leaders. We have software in place that allows our leaders to Our approach to diversity and equal opporquickly and reliably analyze their personnel and team data. Select data on topics such as diversity are also presented in tunity this report. Our goal is to further drive diversity across our workforce and offer all our employees equal opportunities for advanceWomen in leadership roles: Requirements and targets ment. In particular, we endeavor to promote greater opportunities for women, cultivate an international working enviOur target for 2021 is to maintain a 30% representation of ronment and form teams with a balanced age structure. women in leadership roles, and we are working to further To this end, we offer our employees global development increase the representation of women in leadership positions opportunities and are working to increase the percentage of and business units where they are still underrepresented. leaders from international growth markets across the Group To achieve this objective, in 2017 we formed special teams 77 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Employees that are responsible for developing goals and measures at a Meeting statutory requirements departmental level to help us move female candidates into positions in different areas and hierarchies. At the end of The German Law for the Equal Participation of Women and 2017, women occupied 30.3% of leadership roles GroupMen in Leadership Positions in the Public and Private Sector wide. Although these figures are increasing steadily across has been in effect in Germany since 2015. Owing to our legal the company, this is not the case within certain business form as a KGaA (corporation with general partners), this law units, Group functions and hierarchical levels. also applies in part to us. How we're making diversity a pillar of the Consisting of 37.5% women (6 out of 16 members), our Supervisory Board already meets the stipulations of the company German legislation on the gender quota. Owing to our legal Our Chief Diversity Officer is responsible for overseeing our form as a KGaA (corporation with general partners), we are Group’s diversity strategy and reports directly to Belén not required to set targets for our Executive Board. For the Garijo, the Executive Board member whose responsibilities two management levels below the Executive Board, however, include Group Human Resources. Consisting of executives the Executive Board set the following targets in 2016: from all our business sectors and select Group functions, our Diversity Council performs four key tasks: 21% women on the first management level below Executive Board 1. It is responsible for implementing our strategy for 26% women on the second management level below greater diversity. Executive Board. 2. It evaluates and further develops proposals to increase We’ve set a deadline of December 31, 2021 for reaching diversity submitted by our business sectors and functhese targets. tions as well as employee-organized networks. 3. The council members ensure implementation of the Diversity Strategy in their respective areas, monitoring Increasing diversity awareness the progress of the initiatives. 4. Members act as direct points of contact for the We seek to raise awareness for diversity and inclusion among employees in their respective areas. our employees. In a bid to educate people on unconscious bias, in 2017 we conducted pilot projects Group-wide involving a variety of training seminars and webinars. 192 Group Human Resources (HR) has also implemented a employees took part. These seminars help participants number of programs and processes in order to further recognize unconscious thought patterns and stereotypes, enhance diversity within the company. thereby preventing any unfair treatment resulting from such a mindset. In addition to raising diversity awareness, we Our commitment: Industry-wide initiatives also support our business units in their efforts to advance a and regulations greater number of women into leadership roles. Launched in 2017, our Gender Balance Toolkit enables them to identify In an effort to promote further diversity and underscore our gaps in recruitment processes and develop a custom-tailored commitment to fairness, inclusion and tolerance in the course of action to increase the percentage of female workplace, we support industry-wide initiatives: employees in their ranks. In 2017, we also started looking into ways to leverage the Healthy Women, Healthy In 2017, we adopted the new Inclusion Action Plan of the Economies toolkit, whose guidelines help identify methods of German Mining, Chemical and Energy Industrial Union promoting worker health. (IG BCE), which sets out concrete measures and provides guidance for creating a more inclusive workforce for In 2017, for the sixth year running, we dedicated the entire employees with disabilities. In endorsing this plan, we month of September to the topic of diversity and inclusion. are meeting the requirements of the United Nations Under the banner of “Different Perspectives“, we hosted a Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. variety of activities around the globe. The approximately In 2015, we furthermore signed the IG BCE Equal Oppor11,100 employees participating across 32 countries showed tunity Charter, thereby promising to do everything in our how important the issue is. Our Diversity Council sponsored power to achieve gender equality within the company. the campaign, supporting it through media articles and by participating in roundtables and employee events. In 2013, we endorsed the German industry-wide “Charta der Vielfalt” (Diversity Charter). In 2011, we joined other DAX® 30 companies in signing a declaration committing to advance women in leadership roles. 78 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Employees Networks to bolster diversity Taking action against discrimination Creating an inclusive work environment that promotes mutual As stipulated in our Code of Conduct, we do not tolerate any form respect is a particular focus of our diversity strategy. We of discrimination within our company. If an employee feels they support specific employee networks in order to foster have been discriminated against, they can report the issue via exchange among like-minded individuals. Apart from our various channels. Their first point of contact is their supervisor, internal women’s network in various countries, we also but they can also contact Human Resources, Legal or Complipromote networks that further the interests of the LGBTIQ ance. Alternatively, employees can call our SpeakUp Line anony(Lesbain, Gay, Bisexual, Trans, Intersex, Queer) community, mously from anywhere Group-wide. Group Compliance (p. 11) is Afro-American employees, and international staff. responsible for investigating alleged cases, a process coordinated by the Group Compliance Case Committee. In confirmed cases Owing to the acquisitions we have made in recent years, there has of discrimination, a subcommittee provides a recommendation been a steady increase in the number of our employee networks. for disciplinary action that is implemented by our management Going forward, we intend to better leverage the potential of these team. In this way, we ensure that similar cases are dealt with networks to benefit our business activities. Networks with similar consistently across the company. In 2017, no suspected cases objectives are to be merged and expanded internationally. Moreof discrimination were reported via the SpeakUp Line or other over, we want to help establish leadership structures within these channels. networks and define their goals. To this end, we invited leaders from all networks Group-wide to a first-ever leadership summit in Successfully integrating international 2017. employees Through our Rainbow Network for homosexual, bisexual and transOur company is becoming increasingly international. We currently sexual employees, in 2017 we supported Christopher Street Day employ people from a total of 131 nations, 23% of whom are in Frankfurt and Darmstadt (Germany). As well as taking part, we German citizens. Our leadership (Role 4+) includes representatives were the official corporate sponsor of the event in Darmstadt. Since of 65 nationalities. In 2017, 64% of leadership positions were held 2016, the Rainbow Network has also been active in the United by non-German employees. As of the end of 2017, 8% of our States and Canada. employees were working outside their home countries. Our U.S.-based Black Leadership Network is dedicated to advancing To best facilitate this international collaboration, we offer interand developing African American employees, offering its members cultural seminars for all employees along with suitable online tools. advanced training and continuing education programs, tailored For instance, our Cultural Navigator helps prepare our staff for career advice and networking opportunities. international projects and business trips abroad. We also provide the majority of our company-related documents in English, and support employees posted to other countries through language Tapping into external networks courses and international networks to help them adjust more quickly to their new country. For instance, around 600 expatriate We are a corporate partner of the Healthcare Businesswomen’s employees are members of the International Community, which Association (HBA), a non-profit organization committed to meets regularly in Darmstadt. furthering the advancement and impact of women in the healthcare industry. We encourage our female employees to get involved in this network because it gives them access to mentoring programs Addressing demographic change as well as the opportunity to attend various seminars and conferences at our global headquarters in Darmstadt (Germany), as well Another issue we’re tackling is demographic change. We expect as in Lyon (France), or Boston, MA (USA). In autumn 2017, several the average age of our workforce to continue to rise in the coming of our employees participated in the HBA’s European conference years. In Germany, we are responding to this trend with various in London (United Kingdom) as well as its annual conference in initiatives including our corporate health management program. Philadelphia, PA (USA), not to mention regional events held in cities Take for instance BELS, the tool for strain evaluation that we use such as Darmstadt. Furthermore, three of our female employees to design ergonomic work spaces that boost performance. are board members of HBA Europe. BELS takes demographic change into consideration by assessing a range of stressors through the lens of age. This approach allows us to adapt our workplaces to suit the needs of older individuals. In As well as supporting the HBA, we were also a primary sponsor addition to modifying physical working environments, in 2015 we of the 2017 Women’s International Networking (WIN) Conferdeveloped new shift models and introduced a prevention program ence in Oslo (Norway), which was attended by 15 of our for shift workers. In 2017, our company health insurance fund partemployees, some of whom gave talks. The network connects nered with our health management organization to conduct a yearwomen in leadership roles with the aim of helping them gain long campaign entitled “Time for me Building resources“. Under more influence. As a member of the Center for Talent Innovathis campaign, we hosted health and safety days that were tion, we benefit from their research on diversity and inclusion. attended by over 1,200 employees. In 2017, two of our female employees participated in the Task Force Summit held in New York City (USA). 79 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Employees Health and safety  Part of the non-financial report We take responsibility for the health and safety of our Our commitment: Policies and bylaws employees, doing everything in our power to safeguard them against work-related illnesses and accidents. When it comes Our approach to occupational health and safety is detailed to office work, issues such as stress prevention, nutrition in our Corporate Environment, Health and Safety Policy. This and mobility are top priorities. Here, we focus our efforts is an integral part of our EHS management system, which on helping our employees prevent temporary or long-term undergoes an external OHSAS 18001 audit every year. health problems. Our Group Health Policy defines how we ensure workplace safety for our employees while also promoting their health and welfare. This document details our Group-wide approach Our approach to preventing accidents and to safety and health management as well as our comprepromoting health hensive behavioral modification program to prevent workplace We seek to promote the health of our employees and maintain accidents and occupational diseases. One component of the their ability to perform over the long run, which requires policy is our Global Wellbeing and Health Promotion Framea safe workplace. One of our Group-wide objectives is to work, which describes the differing requirements in a wide step up our safety culture. Our goal for 2020 is to keep our array of countries. Our individual sites are responsible for lost time injury rate (LTIR) under 1.5. Furthermore, we are performing local workplace risk assessments and hazard working to make workplace health management a greater part analyses. of our corporate culture and leadership. At most of our sites in Germany, we work in partnership with employee representatives to craft bylaws on occupational How we manage occupational health and health and safety. Our Employee Care bylaw defines safety processes such as employee care conversations, which help our managers promptly identify health risks and mental stress Our Environment, Health, Safety, Security, Quality (EQ) in their employees. In 2017, this bylaw was extended by Group function is responsible for our Environment, Health and an additional three years. Introduced in 2017, our OccuSafety (EHS) management system. This unit reports to Execpational Integration Management bylaw governs the proceutive Board member Walter Galinat, setting objectives, overdure for protracted employee illness and applies to nearly all seeing global initiatives and conducting internal audits. Local our facilities in Germany. This bylaw aims to help keep the EHS managers ensure that each individual site adheres to employee's position open while also helping prevent adverse occupational safety laws and regulations. health impacts after their return to work. We collect workplace accident data from our sites on a monthly basis. Every facility is required to immediately report Safety certification expanded relevant accidents to EQ, where the cases are investigated By the end of 2017, all Performance Materials production sites and assessed. If necessary, we implement additional safety had been certified to the international standard OHSAS 18001. measures at our sites. In 2017, the Healthcare facilities at our Darmstadt site were certified, along with those of other units. Our Life Science faciliFurthermore, our Life Science business sector holds monthly ties in Bangalore (India), Buchs (Switzerland), Irvine and Haversafety calls with local EHS officers to share lessons learned hill (both in the United Kingdom), and Jerusalem and Rehovot and discuss recommended actions for comparable situations. (both in Israel) are now OHSAS 18001 certified. The certification process helps us pinpoint weak areas, identify opportunities At our Darmstadt and Gernsheim sites, our Health Managefor improvement and take suitable measures. Other sites have ment unit helps weave health awareness into our corporate also been required to apply this standard. culture. The strategy necessary, individual focal areas and measures required are developed by an interdisciplinary Reducing our accident rate steering committee consisting of various senior leaders such as the Head of Occupational Health & Safety, the Chairman The lost time injury rate (LTIR) is the indicator used to assess of the Works Council, and the Head of Health Management. the success of our safety efforts. This figure measures the acciTopics include workplace health fundamentals, good leaderdents resulting in at least one day of missed work per one million ship and tailored health programs. man-hours. We track the LTIR for both employees and temporary workers. After having achieved our 2010 target of a 2.5 LTIR, in 80 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Employees 2015 we set a new ambitious goal of sustainably lowering the LTIR Our employees have access to a health catalog detailing our to 1.5 by 2020. In our view, nothing is worth an accident. In 2017, Health Management offerings. Available in English and our LTIR was 1.5. The majority of incidents resulting in lost time German, it contains information on ergonomics, nutrition, were slips, trips and falls, along with accidents involving the operstress, and mental health issues. ation of machinery and equipment. In 2017, there were no fatal accidents. In 2017, we were granted the “Excellence” certification for our Germany-wide health management efforts, presented under the Clear rules of conduct auspices of the 2016/2017 German Corporate Health Award sponsored by BKK Dachverband e. V. This organization recogExperience shows that most workplace accidents can be prevented nizes companies that have implemented exemplary health by proper conduct. Through our “BeSafe!” safety culture initiamanagement programs and met the quality criteria of the Eurotive, we are working to raise employee awareness of dangers in pean Network For Workplace Health Promotion (ENWHP). the workplace and provide them with rules of conduct that help keep them safe. All production and warehouse sites have now been Launched at the end of 2016, our program to minimize chronic incorporated into the program. Eight former Sigma-Aldrich faciliback pain has become an integral component of our workplace ties have likewise implemented BeSafe! since being acquired by health management activities in Darmstadt and Gernsheim. our company in 2015. The rollout at these newly acquired sites will This initiative, which also takes mental health factors into continue until 2020. account, is offered in units with demonstrable need, such as a relatively high number of employees suffering from these In 2017, we conducted initiatives, campaigns, and awareness sorts of symptoms. efforts across the Group as part of our BeSafe! program. For instance, by means of a safety video we increased employee Throughout Germany, we also regularly offer our employees awareness in a bid to further bolster our safety culture. In addition, services such as our company´s fitness program, which several subsidiaries held safety competitions. To underscore the provides them with up to € 195 per year towards health importance of safety, we launched the Safety Excellence Award prevention classes. In Darmstadt and Gernsheim, we in 2010, which is presented annually to all production sites that furthermore run a company athletics program that currently have no workplace accidents on record for the year. In 2017, features 25 different sports. 59 of 97 facilities achieved this honor. Furthermore, we conducted refresher training on key content from our BeSafe! program. In an effort to improve our workplace, we analyze the ergonomics of individual workstations and then implement any measures Workplace health management required. Our workers also receive training on occupational ergonomics tailored to specific areas such as manufacturing, office At our Darmstadt and Gernsheim sites, our Health Management work or the laboratory. Moreover, we conduct programs at many unit conducts numerous campaigns and programs to promote the sites, doing so either ourselves or in collaboration with external health of our workforce. These activities are based on health indiproviders. Our Life Science employees at our Bedford (MA), cators derived from sources such as our employee surveys, the Danvers (MA) and Jaffrey (NH) sites in the United States, for health report issued by our company health insurance fund and instance, have access to the Early Symptom Intervention and evaluations from our Site Medical Center. We utilize the analysis Prevention Program (ESI), which saw 59 people participate from findings in the creation of prevention programs tailored to January to April 2017. In early 2018, we replaced the ESI program specific target groups or facilities. at the Jaffrey facility with a pilot of the Industrial Athlete Program (IAP). While ESI focused on individuals with pre-existing condiMoreover, our Health Management unit offers individualized health tions, IAP is open to all employees who wish to improve their programs such as awareness courses and workplace ergonomics physical and general wellbeing through exercise in small groups. consultation. Along these lines, we have a standard procedure in place for continuously assessing the working conditions and environment, making state-of-the-art updates wherever needed. If Testing and supporting our employees other sites express interest, our Health Management unit will advise Our Physical Ability Test and Health Preservation process on potential improvements or health programs. When requested, ensures that all employees meet the health requirements for we provide local consultation and promotional activities by means a their particular tasks. This test helps us implement targeted service contract. intervention as necessary. Since 2013, our Darmstadt site's restaurant & catering services Our Travel Health & Medical Advisory Service assists have been certified with the “Job&Fit Premium” certification from employees who spend a lot of time abroad on business the German Nutrition Society e. V. (DGE). For our healthy and for Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany, providing them with sustainable employee food service in Darmstadt, we were nomirecommendations on necessary vaccinations and advice on nated in 2017 for the Dr. Rainer Wild Prize, which recognizes hygiene risks. outstanding projects, individuals and initiatives in support of healthy nutrition. 81 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Employees Employee engagement  Part of the non-financial report As a science and technology company, we are always looking better sense of the situation within our company as a whole and for new solutions and working to continuously evolve our to better benchmark against our competitors, all employee surveys approaches. Engaged, curious employees are key to our are conducted Group-wide on an annual basis. This provides a platability to innovate, and therefore also to our success. We form for employees, leaders and executives to engage in a regular need a corporate culture that broadens the knowledge base dialogue, sharing ideas and experience. of our employees, one that creates exciting opportunities and motivates them to take a proactive role in shaping the Rewarding innovative ideas development of our company. Candid feedback from every individual helps show us where we have room for further In 2017, our employees submitted approximately 2,000 suggesimprovement. tions for improvement via our Germany-wide idea management program. These ideas are expected to yield around € 4.6 million in cost savings in the first year. In exchange for their proposals, our employees received roughly € 585,000 in bonuses. Our approach to engagement This concept aims to inspire our employees to think creatively and We strive to create a work environment that empowers our encourage them to contribute to the continuous evolution of our employees to think outside the box and seek new solutions, procedures and processes. We reward any ideas that are successopening the door to creative ideas and the discovery of new market fully implemented by offering employees a bonus based on how opportunities. To better engage employees, we have set clear goals much the suggestion improves our processes or cuts down our and defined the steps necessary to accomplishing them. costs. We seek to understand the needs of the people who work for us and In addition to rewarding good suggestions, we also regularly hold therefore regularly conduct employee surveys that show where we a Group-wide innovation competition called Innospire that can do better. Following each survey, we plan improvements that allows employees to submit ideas for new products, services and are implemented by the respective units. business models. Through this competition, we target ideas in specific areas such as biointerfaces and biosensing, enablers of precision farming, and artificial intelligence. However, we also How we engage our employees welcome ideas outside of these target areas. Engagement and Inclusion, a unit within our HR organization, creates and oversees our employee surveys. In 2017, nearly 900 ideas were submitted. We chose the top 18 proposals at the end of 2017, and teams have until May 2018 to further develop them, at which point the winners will be announced. In addition to conducting employee surveys, we regularly include local employee representatives in our decision-making processes. Within Germany, 14 of our subsidiaries have employee representaIn addition to Innospire, we annually present the company´s tion. These local works councils as well as a Germany-wide Group awards in recognition of outstanding ideas, teamwork and projects. works council represent the interests of our employees, discussing In 2017, the Executive Board presented four teams consisting topics such as compensation, working hours, and organizational in total of 40 employees with the awards in the categories of realignment. The Senior Executives Committee represents the Performance, People, and Technology, along with a special CEO interests of senior executives, while the Euroforum of Merck KGaA, Award. Projects were submitted Group-wide by 70 teams from Darmstadt, Germany represents our employees at the European our Healthcare, Life Science and Performance Materials business level, focusing on the economic situation, employment rates and sectors, as well as our Group functions. With submitters represignificant changes within our company. senting a variety of countries worldwide, some of the proposals even spanned multiple businesses. Understanding our employees Making room for ideas In response to a 2016 employee survey, in 2017 we initiated a series of measures to improve our employees' working enviOver the last several years, we have undergone a major evolution ronment. In terms of our IT structure, we improved the perforand grown through acquisitions. We are now transforming our site mance of programs such as Skype and Outlook, updated networks in Darmstadt into a global headquarters that will bolster our ability and optimized IT support. Moreover, we enhanced our employee to innovate, enabling us to respond flexibly to growth while also recruiting and integration processes, optimized the search function reflecting our corporate identity. This transformation is supported in and mobile access to our Intranet, and even launched an initiative part by our ONE Global Headquarters strategic initiative. to cultivate an in-house community of scientists. To give us a 82 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Employees Opening its doors in early 2018, our new Innovation Center (p. To mark our 350th anniversary in 2018, we will be hosting a 29) is the heart of our global headquarters. Replacing the previous larger anniversary edition of our Innovation Cup that will feature modular Innovation Center, this new facility will give our employees 75 talented post-graduate students and cover all three of our busiroom to explore their creativity by joining interdisciplinary teams ness sectors. All participants will also be invited to attend and collaborating on pioneering projects – all with the aim of cultiCurious2018-Future Insight, a conference we are launching in 2018 vating new businesses that transcend our existing ones. as part of our 350th anniversary celebrations. In 2017, the winning Innovation Cup team submitted an innovative project proposal on Within the walls of our Innovation Center, 15 project teams are the role of natural killer cells (NK cells) in immuno-oncology. NK currently pooling their creative energy in the pursuit of new ideas. cells are lymphocytes that target both tumors and virally infected We have also invited numerous external startups to take advantage cells, killing them. Overall, more than 1,400 scientists from across of the center as part of our Accelerator program, an initiative that the globe competed for the prize. supports fledgling enterprises. These start-up teams take up residence at the Innovation Center for three months at a time and Keeping employees informed and encourreceive financial assistance, training and access to our experts aging dialogue worldwide. In 2018, we shall be expanding our Accelerator with a focus on Africa, specifically in places with a thriving or burgeoning We keep our employees up to date and encourage exchange start-up culture. In addition, we will be modifying the platform of through a number of formats tailored to specific target groups. our first offshoot in Nairobi (Kenya), and opening small satellites in Take, for instance, our international collaboration platform EVA Lagos (Nigeria) and Cape Town (South Africa). In March 2018, we’ll (p. 75) and our international employee magazine “pro”, which is be increasing the number of startups in our Darmstadt Accelerator published in seven languages and is available in a digital format to 12, the first time we’ve had this many teams in the program. as well an app. Through “pro”, we reach more than 90% of our approximately 52,000 employees worldwide in their local language. The Innovation Center creates a fertile ground for discourse, which Several subsidiaries also publish local editions of “pro”, for example serves to benefit not only the startups, but also our own project in Germany, Korea, Mexico, and Russia. In addition to these teams. Here, for instance, all teams are provided a “maker space” formats, a variety of newsletters is also published by our busithat allows them to quickly develop prototypes. They additionally nesses. receive access to our scientific library and a web-based platform that contains tutorials, useful project tips and online courses, and Our collaboration platform EVA encompasses our global Intranet provides users the opportunity to share ideas and experiences. for all subsidiaries and business sectors and furthermore consolidates numerous collaboration applications in one central location. Beyond facilitating cross-collaboration and creativity, the InnovaEVA ranks as one of the most important internal communication tion Center team regularly conducts events, workshops, seminars, media – second only to e-mail – receiving approximately 1.7 million and webinars. Through these channels, we introduce our hits per month. Moreover, we publish articles on EVA and host employees to new innovation methods such as design thinking, various events to raise employee awareness of corporate responsiwhich has generated great interest. We also hope to accelerate bility issues. the exchange of innovative ideas within the company and build a Group-wide network of ambassadors for this facility. Deepening employee engagement Innovating with young scientists SPARK is a global volunteer program in which our Life Science employees conduct scientific experiments with school children Our company´s Biopharma Innovation Cup is targeted to science around the world in an effort to ignite a passion for science in and business graduates, graduate students or postdoctoral the next generation. Benefitting both urban and rural schools, this researchers from around the world. This competition seeks to spark initiative also gives our employees the opportunity to pass on their the interest of young talent in our company, while also offering a knowledge. You can find more information on SPARK as well as the forum for new ideas. During a one-week summer camp, 30 particdiverse range of education projects in the community in and around ipants learn first-hand how research and development works in our global headquarters under Community involvement (p. 114). the pharmaceutical industry, collaborating with current and retired employees to create new, innovative project concepts. The team with the best concept receives a prize of € 20,000. 83 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Employees Good leadership  Part of the non-financial report We think it’s essential for our leaders to develop and grow Our approach to good leadership so that they can address the diverse needs of their team members. Within our company, teams collaborate across Our strategic competency model describes core competensites and international boundaries. Their members bring a cies that should underpin the conduct of employees at all variety of skills, strengths and experience to the table that levels. Our six core competencies are Purposeful, Futureour leaders can leverage. We in turn support them in fulfilling oriented, Innovative, Results-driven, Collaborative, and their responsibilities. Since global collaboration plays an Empowering. In our day-to-day work, they play an important increasingly important role in the development of our next role in our success. This model provides the foundation for all generation of leaders, our management processes fundadevelopment activities within our HR work – for employees, mentally follow an international approach. but in particular for our leaders, who act as role models and are therefore key to building employee buy-in for the competency model. In addition, the model defines the leadership culture through which we intend to grow our business. Our competency model Be purposeful our Be empowering Be future-oriented competencies Be collaborative Be innovative Be results-driven 84 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Employees We use our Performance and Potential Management Process based Stanford Graduate School of Business to offer a new (p. 74) to gauge the impact of our development initiatives. module on leading innovation and digitalization, in which 23 Furthermore, our employees also take surveys (p. 82) to rate of our executives took part. The module features an eightthe quality of leadership within our company. week online course entitled “Innovation Process for Entrepreneurs” and also requires participants to attend classes on campus in Stanford over the course of three and a half How we facilitate good leadership days. To date, a total of 373 executives have completed Our leaders are attuned to the needs of our diverse workthe company´s University program. force and receive support in the form of resources and data. At the same time, they can access transparent feedback Another initiative we've been offering our up-and-coming through specially developed tools to track the impact of their executives since the 1990s is our International Management decisions. Program, where participants work on an interdisciplinary project over a period of nine months. The results are then presented to the Executive Board. Moreover, we partner Management programs with universities across the globe in an effort to help our In recent years, we have initiated three programs to employees obtain qualifications such as an Executive MBA. enhance the skills of our people managers. The Managerial Foundation Program imparts the basics of leadership, Leveraging growth market potential such as communication techniques, leadership styles, conflict management, motivation, and emotional intelligence. The In the development of our leaders, we also want to include Advanced Management Program covers topics such as our growth markets. In 2017, for instance, we again change management, self-reflection and resilience. In addiconducted our Growth Markets Management Program for tion, it teaches coaching methods that help leaders transition local leaders in the Asia-Pacific (APAC), Latin America, and from their first management role to positions managing Middle East, Africa, Russia, Turkey (MEART) regions. The cross-functional and international teams. The third initiative training covers a range of business administration topics is our Global Leadership Program, which focuses on compesuch as marketing and financial analysis, along with content tencies needed to ensure successful international collabospecific to our business, for instance our strategy and corporation. In 2017, the Managerial Foundation and Advanced rate culture. In 2017, we integrated a digital marketing Management programs were offered at several of our sites module into this program for the Asia-Pacific region, similar worldwide, while the Global Leadership Program was held in to the program we introduced in 2013 in China and in 2016 Germany, the United States and Dubai. in the Middle East and Latin America. To date, a total of 126 leaders have taken part. By the end of 2018, we want at least 50% of our people managers rated Role 3+ to have taken part in one of these We also offer other development opportunities in growth programs. By the end of 2017, all our top 400 executives markets. In 2017, for instance, eight employees successfully (Role 6+) had completed the Global Leadership program. completed “Afrika kommt!”, a one-year scholarship offered Since the launch of the three programs, a total of more than by the German Society for International Cooperation (GIZ). 4,000 people managers have taken part. This program offers training opportunities for young qualified experts and leaders from Sub-Saharan Africa. In supporting this initiative, we aim to build a pool of regional partners Expanding the range of the company´s to encourage economic cooperation between Germany and University courses Africa. Twelve former scholarship recipients are now working Since 1999, we have partnered with top international univerfor us in various specialist and leadership positions, five of sities to offer a university program that is multi-regional them in their home countries of Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, and and modular. Over a period of ten months, senior execuNigeria, and seven still in Darmstadt. In 2017, six new canditives take classes on management techniques and strategic dates were chosen for the sixth round of “Afrika kommt!” business development. In 2017, we partnered with the U.S.85 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Environment Environment 87 Environmental stewardship 100 Plant and process safety 90 Climate protection 102 Biodiversity 94 Resource management 86 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Environment Environmental stewardship  Part of the non-financial report As a science and technology company with manufacturing performing this role at smaller facilities. These local EHS operations, we have an impact on the environment. Take for organizations report to and work hand in hand with EQ. instance the emissions, wastewater and waste generated by our activities, or the materials we utilize that could adversely In 2017, our EHS organization comprised more than 200 EHS affect the environment if not handled properly. To mitigate managers along with other EHS personnel. At the local level, this impact, all our sites meet a strict set of environmental these employees receive support from other units. Our Group regulations. Intelligent environmental stewardship reduces function EQ conducts annual EHS seminars at our various resource use and lowers costs, which makes it highly imporsites. tant to adapt our processes to new regulatory requirements. In 2017, environmental stewardship efforts accounted for 26% of our EHS spending, which consisted of both ongoing Our approach to environmental stewardexpenses as well as investment costs. This includes items ship such as air pollution control, noise reduction and environmental remediation. A holistic approach is needed to minimize negative environmental impacts and preserve the environment. Our goal is to The EQ leadership meets with Walter Galinat on a regular diligently monitor detrimental emissions into the air, water basis, usually once a month, to report on their environmental and soil resulting from our operations and do everything stewardship efforts. Every six months, EQ provides the Execpossible to prevent them. utive Board with a report on environment, health and safety issues that also covers climate impact mitigation, water How we structure our environmental stewmanagement, waste & recycling, and plant & process safety. This report focuses on our current progress, documenting ardship practices and assessing the work EHS has accomplished. The ExecuExecutive Board member Walter Galinat is responsible for tive Board utilizes this brief as a source of information and as overall environmental governance, which also covers climate documentation for ISO 14001 and BS OHSAS 18001 certifiimpact mitigation, water management, waste & recycling, cation. and plant & process safety. Our Group function Environment, Health, Safety, Security, Quality (EQ) is in charge of steering Moreover, the Executive Board is responsible for approving all environmental measures Group-wide. At our individual internal guidelines such as our Environmental, Health and sites, each site director is responsible for environmental Safety (EHS) Policy. Internal standards are approved by the stewardship as well as occupational health and safety at head of EQ. While standards provide a concrete framework, the operational level. At larger facilities, the site directors guidelines create an overarching outline of our company's receive day-to-day support and advice from Environment, position on a specific issue. Health and Safety (EHS) managers, with EHS coordinators 87 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Environment Our EQ Group function (“Environment, Health, Safety, Security, Quality”) Executive Board Walter Galinat Group Governance and Service Unit Local operating units Environment, Health, Safety, Security, Quality (EQ) Competencies in local sites: Develop and maintain Group EQ strategy Wastewater treatment Performance of environmental and Waste management safety audits Environmental analysis Compliance audits to review Plant safety adherence to standards Occupational health and safety Implementation of EQ management systems Fire protection/risk prevention Conducting EQ improvement Approval procedures programs Consulting for investments, process development and acquisitions Conducting training programs Clearly defined incident reporting procedures Our commitment: Standards and standard operating procedures We have established a variety of reporting procedures to handle incidents as quickly as possible and take corrective Our approach to environmental stewardship is built on our action. In introducing our EHS Incident Rate (EHS IR (p. Group-wide EHS Policy (Corporate Environment, Health 100)) and EHS Leading Indicator Rate (EHS LR (p. 100)), and Safety Policy), which has been endorsed by Stefan two of our key performance indicators, we have created a Oschmann, Chairman of the Executive Board. This policy is reporting process that tracks the respective environmental now aligned more closely with the stipulations of the chemincident, its degree of severity and all risk mitigation efforts. ical industry's Responsible Care® Global Charter, as well as All incidents are logged Group-wide and reported every six with environmental management standard ISO 14001, and months to the Executive Board. it emphasizes our leadership's responsibility toward environmental stewardship, health and safety (p. 80). Moreover, it In the event of major incidents, our Rapid Incident Report addresses our suppliers (p. 104), encouraging them to adopt System (RIRS) promptly notifies the Executive Board, our similarly enhanced standards for environmental sustainEHS Group function and Group Communications. These could ability and safety. In doing so, our Corporate EHS Policy include fatalities, accidents with multiple casualties, or complements the Responsible Sourcing Principles of our injuries and damage that occur beyond our premises, along Group Procurement function. with environmental disasters such as earthquakes and floods. Through the RIRS, we can coordinate the responses The principles of our EHS policy are implemented through of all those involved and inform other potentially impacted internal guidelines, standards and operating manuals. For sites immediately. instance, our Group EHS, Security and Quality Manual describes how environmental stewardship and occupational safety are organized across the company. This manual was 88 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Environment revised in 2017 to reflect the updated ISO 9001:2015 and sible for these tasks. As needed, we use the results of 14001:2015 standards. Our environmental management such evaluations to define suitable measures. In addition, we system was also updated in 2017 to bring it in line with the have established grievance mechanisms to identify potenrequirements of ISO 14001:2015. tial violations of our requirements. In 2017, our corporate EHS audits rated more than 86% of the 43 sites audited as Potential EHS risks posed by acquisitions, divestments or “good” or “satisfactory”. We assess performance on a fivesite closures are assessed through due diligence, a process level scale: “excellent”, “good”, “satisfactory”, “poor”, and defined in our EHS Due Diligence and Post Merger Transac“critical”, which in turn determines how frequently an audit tion Standard. During audits, new sites are given priority. is conducted. If its findings are deemed to be good, a facility will undergo audits less often, while significant violations can increase the frequency. We regularly review our internal guidelines, standards and operating manuals. In 2017, we updated and introduced multiple standards and processes. For instance, we revised Aside from using audits to identify issues, we also encourage safe chemical handling standards to reflect the latest findings our employees to report potential violations of our standards and state-of-the-art safety concepts. Furthermore, we to our Compliance unit. All of these violations are reported to updated our requirements for external warehouses to align the Executive Board. In the 2017 period, no significant violathem with our Transport Safety and Warehouse Safety stantions of environmental laws or regulations were recorded dards. Group-wide. Sizable investments in environmental ISO 14001 Group certificate impact mitigation We have revamped our management systems to align them with the requirements of the updated version of ISO Preventing and monitoring air, water and soil emissions 14001:2015. In 2017, our environmental management involves large expenditures on our company's part, as does system was successfully certified to ISO 14001:2015. proper waste disposal. At our Gernsheim site in Germany, for instance, we have set aside provisions for the remediation of contamination. Moreover, we allocate an annual budget for Since 2009, our company has held a Group ISO 14001 certificate, groundwater and soil remediation to ensure our ability to which means that all production sites with more than 50 employees execute all measures required throughout the year. must implement the requirements of the certificate. Other sites are not obligated to implement an ISO-certified environmental management system. New sites must gradually establish a correOur spending on environmental protection, health and safety sponding environmental management system with predeefforts totaled € 200 million in 2017, which also includes fined indicators for factors such as greenhouse gas emissions and investments made during the year. In this period, our proviwater use, and furthermore obtain ISO 14001 certification. sions for environmental protection totaled € 137, 94% of which were attributable to Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany. Parking lot remediation continued In 2017, we continued our efforts to decontaminate a parking lot at our Gernsheim site. The scope of the environmental remediation required has turned out to be signifi83 sites worldwide are currently covered by the ISO 14001 cantly greater than originally anticipated. Since 2008, we've certificate. been working to remove hexachlorocyclohexane (HCH) residue from the soil under the parking lot and have been properly disposing of it in external incinerators. In the course of the ten-year decontamination process, we have increased Beyond this ISO standard, we have a variety of other internal stanthe relevant provisions from € 27 million to approximately dards in place that govern environmental stewardship, such as our € 50 million. Air Emissions Standard, Waste Management Standard (p. 95), and Energy Management Standard (p. 90). Assessing environmental impacts and Every year, we contract a third party to perform a certification audit. reporting violations In 2017, we passed 13 ISO 14001 audits, which also included facilIn general, we conduct risk-based assessments along with ities newly incorporated into the Group certificate. All sites pertiinternal and external audits on all our production facilities nent to the Group certificate have thus been transitioned to the every three years. Our goal is to analyze and minimize our new version of ISO 14001:2015. Furthermore, we conduct internal environmental footprint as well as to ensure that our requireaudits to ensure compliance with our requirements. ments are being met. Our Group function EQ is respon89 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Environment Stakeholder engagement and dialogue as members of the European Process Safety Center and the Commission on Process Safety of the German Federal By participating in a variety of industry associations, we Ministry for the Environment, Nature Conservation, Building, exchange information and ideas on environmental issues. and Nuclear Safety. In 2017, for instance, we took part in discussions between the German Chemical Industry Association e.V. (VCI) and Furthermore, we engage residents in the vicinity of our sites German legislators (p. 100) on eliminating the thermal value in discussions on issues of local relevance. criteria. The head of our Group function EQ chairs the VCI plant safety working group. Additionally, we contribute to the dialogue on plant and process safety (p. 100) in our capacity Climate protection Climate change is one of the most pressing challenges of How we structure our climate impact mitithe 21st century. Thus far, it has only directly affected us gation efforts to a minor extent. Nevertheless, because our operations generate greenhouse gas emissions, we intend to do our Our Group function Environment, Health, Safety, Security, part for climate impact mitigation, an approach that our Quality (EQ) is responsible for globally overseeing all climate customers and stakeholders expect of us. Shifting regulatory impact mitigation measures (see also Environmental stewardrequirements can lead to planning and investment uncership (p. 87)). At our individual sites, Facility Management is tainty. In view of burgeoning regulations and rising energy primarily in charge of implementing the specified measures. costs, however, climate impact mitigation is also becoming an increasingly smart investment. Climate impact mitigation accounted for approximately 5% of our 2017 EHS costs, which do not include the spend on individual climate impact mitigation projects (Edison program (p. 91)). Doing our part Our commitment: Standards and legal We are taking action to mitigate our impact on the climate. Our goal for 2020 is to reduce our direct greenhouse gas frameworks emissions (Scope 1) and indirect emissions (Scope 2) by Our Corporate Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) standards 20% relative to the 2006 baseline, an objective set by the on energy management and emissions from coolant ensure that Executive Board in 2009. Scope 1 covers emissions that we energy and process-related emissions are managed consistently produce ourselves, for instance by burning fossil fuels to across the Group. We conduct audits at random to verify compligenerate power, while Scope 2 pertains to emissions from ance with all EHS standards. the consumption of purchased energy, such as electricity or district heating. We know that efficient energy management plays a major role in climate impact mitigation and is also becoming increasingly Across the globe, 38 of our sites account for roughly 80% of important to our customers. With this in mind, 12 of our sites our greenhouse gas emissions, which is why we are focusing decided to obtain ISO 50001 certification, the international standard our efforts here. for energy management. Energy conservation represents an important component Our company is subject to a wide array of national and internaof our climate impact mitigation activities. By adapting and tional energy and emissions regulations such as the German updating our technology, we are improving the energy effiEnergy Conservation Act and the German Renewable Energy ciency of our R&D operations, our production processes and Sources Act. Our activities are also governed by EU Directive 2012/ our buildings. Just as important is the reduction of 27/EU, which stipulates that relevant companies must establish process-related emissions. Furthermore, we are working energy management systems and regularly audit their energy to lower the emissions resulting from energy generation. consumption. The sites subject to these requirements are responWhere financially viable, we additionally utilize renewable sible for implementing them and furthermore undergo audits energies to generate our own power. conducted by internal or external experts. The 2015 Paris Agreement on climate change is expected to lead to even more ambitious climate targets within the EU. 90 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Environment With phase four (2021-2030) of the EU emissions trading Emissions lowered despite growth program due to start soon, we expect to see a tightening of greenhouse gas emission regulations. Going forward in Despite growth in our operating business, we managed to phase four, we foresee having to purchase the emissions reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by 8% relative to the allowances that we're still largely obtaining for free during 2006 baseline. In 2017, we emitted 731,000 metric tons of phase three (2013-2020). A global set of climate change CO2 equivalents, with 711,000 metric tons in 2016. regulations could, however, reduce existing competitive disadvantages. Between 2006 and 2017, we more than doubled our sales, which means that, relative to sales, our emissions Slight reduction in energy consumption dropped significantly. We used 2,270 gigawatt hours of energy in 2017, versus 2,241 gigawatt hours in 2016. Our energy intensity relative to sales totaled 0.15 kWh/€ in 2017. Greenhouse gas emissions (metric kilotons)1 (Scope 1 and 2 of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol) 731 726 711 731 2014 2015 2016 2017 1 In line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, for all previous years (up to the 2006 baseline) the greenhouse gas emissions have been calculated based on the current corporate structure of the reporting year and retroactively adjusted for acquisitions (e.g. SigmaAldrich in 2015) or divestments of (parts of) companies, or for changes in emission factors (portfolio-adjusted). Strategic climate program have conserved around 75,000 MWh of energy in total, primarily from electricity. In 2009, we launched our strategic EDISON program to consolidate all our initiatives for improving energy efficiency and reducing By the end of the year, we had implemented or launched 40 of process-related greenhouse gas emissions. Under this program, the 81 Edison projects approved for 2017. These initiatives are our Group function EQ collaborates with a working group expected to achieve savings of around 4,100 metric tons of CO2 in comprising representatives from all our business sectors. Any site the medium term. We thus failed to achieve our goal of cutting up can propose a project, with the working group subsequently to 34,000 metric tons of CO2. One reason is that technical issues assessing the proposals according to three criteria: 1.) the total forced us to postpone an initiative for reducing process-related absolute CO2 savings, 2.) the potential cost savings, and 3.) the emissions to 2018. As in previous years, we accepted project ratio of CO2 savings to required spend. proposals for 2018. Through 30 new projects, we hope to realize potential savings of approximately 4,600 metric tons of CO2. Through more than 300 Edison projects initiated since 2012, we aim to save an annual amount of around 98,000 metric tons of In May 2017, the Executive Board approved a roadmap for CO2 in the medium term. Since the program's launch, these efforts achieving the remaining savings needed to meet our climate target. 91 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Environment Modern energy and cooling systems employees who voluntarily choose a greener car model. We intend to expand this incentive to include all subsidiaries in In 2017, we invested approximately € 700,000 in a stateGermany. of-the-art energy station for our site in Modugno, Italy. As part of this project, we installed a new refrigeration unit and The current average emission rate of our company vehicles cooling tower. The facility went live in October 2017. These is 131 g/km, with 10% of the fleet in Darmstadt and Gernefforts are expected to cut energy use by roughly 950,000 sheim being electric. kWh per year. In the United States, we provide our people with financial In Milwaukee, WI (USA), we optimized our HVAC system and incentives to live greener. For instance, they receive up to thereby lowered our carbon dioxide emissions by 721 metric US$ 1,000 in subsidies towards the construction of a private tons. At our Sheboygan, WI (USA) site, similar updates also solar power unit and up to US$ 100 towards an energy led to an emissions reduction of 372 metric tons of CO2. audit for their home. They are also eligible for as much The systems were cleaned and new coatings applied, thus as US$ 3,500 towards the purchase of a hybrid or electric enhancing the efficiency of both plants. car. To date, we've helped 55 of our employees install solar panels and motivated 361 employees to switch to a hybrid or Investing in renewable energies electric car. At our Life Science facilities in Jigani and Peenya (Bangalore, Recharging infrastructure at our sites India), we spent € 775,000 on solar power units. We installed solar collectors with a 920 kilowatt power rating. In addition to promoting electric vehicles within our motor The plants produce 1,265,000 kWh per year and lower our pool, we also want to encourage our workforce to use electric emissions by approximately 1,200 metric tons per year, cars in their private lives. To this end, our Darmstadt site covering roughly 30% of the energy required by each site. offers eight charging stations in the employee parking lot, where our employees can recharge their vehicles for free. In August 2017, the Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) gave our facility in Peenya, (India) a gold rating (the second Furthermore, we are working on an overall concept to highest ranking) in its Leadership in Energy and Environexpand the charging infrastructure at our German sites. In mental Design (LEED) index. The site's energy and water doing so, we are investigating other potential locations for reduction efforts garnered particular praise. LEED is the charging stations along with alternative options Germanyworld's most commonly used evaluation system for sustainwide for public charging and charging at home. able buildings. We have 42 charging stations across 12 Life Science sites We also installed solar collectors in Burlington, VT (USA). in the United States, Ireland and France at which our With a power rating of 182 kilowatt, this system is expected employees can charge their electric vehicles for free. These to generate 218,000 kWh of electricity per year and thus facilities are currently utilized at an average rate of 50%. reduce our emissions by roughly 60 metric tons. Jobtickets and carpooling Educating employees about climate impact mitigation We offer our workforce in Darmstadt a “Jobticket”, an annual subscription to use local public transportation whose cost we We encourage our employees to do their part to preserve partially cover. In 2017, more than 4,300 employees made the climate and regularly report on our Group-wide climate use of this option. Our people also have access to an online impact mitigation activities in our EHS newsletters while also tool that helps them organize carpools. providing helpful information and tips on our Intranet. Moreover, we support employees who prefer greener modes of Leased bikes in Germany transportation. For instance, we are constantly updating our pool of leased vehicles with more efficient models to reduce We also encourage our people to employ eco-friendly forms the average CO2 emissions of our business car fleet by 30% of transport through “bike4me”, a program enabling them by 2020, relative to 2013. to lease a bike at special rates with payments coming out of their pre-tax income. In 2017, we expanded the program Subsidies for our employees from employees in Darmstadt and Gernsheim to include all employees at German sites. In January 2017, we lowered the CO2 emission rate for newly registered company cars from 150 g/km to a maximum of Furthermore, our employees can also use the DB Call a Bike 135 g/km. Starting in 2019, we plan to further cut this service throughout Germany and borrow a bike for up to half rate to 120 g/km. At most of our German subsidiaries, we an hour free of charge. Deutsche Bahn, the German national offer a subsidy of € 100 towards monthly lease payments to rail company, has set up further rental stations all around our 92 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Environment locations in Darmstadt, and in 2017 we doubled the number Transparency of CO2 emissions and energy of bikes we're sponsoring in the city from 50 to 100. consumption Switching to sea freight The CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) assesses the ways in which companies are working to minimize the In an effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions resulting risks and consequences of climate change, along with their from the transport of our products, we utilize sea rather success and strategy for doing so. The rating scale ranges than air freight whenever possible. However, this is only an from A to D-, with A being the top score. We received a B in option for products that survive protracted transport times 2017 (Ain 2016), putting us among the top 37% of compaundamaged. At the same time, we cannot allow the quality of nies in the healthcare industry. customer service to suffer due to extended transport times. The raw material mica, for instance, is transported primarily Since 2008, we've been reporting in detail on our climate by ship. Furthermore, we have switched to using sea freight impact mitigation efforts as stipulated by the CDP. We track for shipping our Life Science products between France and our greenhouse gas emissions in line with the Greenhouse Japan or the United States. These changes are cutting our Gas (GHG) Protocol, an internationally recognized standard, annual CO2 emissions by 3,000 metric tons in total. reporting on Scopes 1 and 2 as well as parts of Scope 3. In terms of Scope 3 emissions, we only track emissions Besides transitioning from air to sea transport, in 2017 our from business trips and employee commuting, from waste Performance Materials business sector also tested using rail management, and from the manufacture and transport of to ship goods to Asia. fuel. Besides these emissions, we also measure energy consumption at our sites. However, this does not include energy use outside our field of activity such as the production of raw materials, as we do not have sufficient data available to perform these complex calculations. 93 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Environment Resource efficiency Natural resources are growing ever scarcer, which makes Our commitment: Guidelines and standards it imperative for us to use raw materials as efficiently as possible and help reduce waste. By conserving energy, water Our key guidelines and standards for resource efficiency and materials, we are not only mitigating our impact on the are detailed under Waste and recycling (p. 95) and Water environment, but are also lowering our costs. management (p. 97). Overarching standards can be found under Environmental stewardship (p. 87). We are constantly working to reduce the environmental footprint of our products and even help our customers lower their Reducing resource use own resource use, thus boosting our competitive advantage. Our manufacturing operations consume a great deal of energy, but our buildings likewise require energy in the form of electricity and heat. In a bid to lower energy use, we are Our approach to resource efficiency investing in measures to boost energy efficiency through our Edison program. These efforts are a mainstay of our commitOur approach to resource efficiency helps us minimize our ment to climate preservation (p. 90). consumption of energy, water and materials while also maximizing resource reuse. Underpinned by our climate target (p. 90), we are driving energy efficiency across our company We use water primarily for cooling, for exhaust air purifiand conserving energy. Furthermore, since 2015 we've been cation and as process water. Our water management (p. implementing a sustainable water management system (p. 97) approach combines water use reduction with wastewater 97) in a bid to reduce our water use. When it comes to treatment. waste and recycling, we are working to cut down the waste we produce by means of our Waste Scoring System (p. Our waste and recycling management approach (p. 95) helps 95). Because we utilize a large chunk of resources for the us lower waste and maximize reuse, objectives we achieve manufacture of our products (p. 32), resource efficiency is by separating waste and enhancing production processes. a critical factor in developing our products and production processes. We primarily use chemical and pharmaceutical raw materials for our manufacturing operations. Additionally, we also How we structure resource efficiency employ operating supplies and packaging materials such as folding boxes, glass bottles and ampules. The measures we employ to utilize and conserve resources more efficiently are an integral component of our environWe utilized 400.2 metric kilotons of material in 2017. We mental practices and are overseen by our Group function only record the weight of the materials that are directly used Environment, Health, Safety, Security, Quality (EQ) (see also in our pharmaceuticals and chemicals. Environmental stewardship (p. 87)). 94 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Environment Waste and recycling Waste contains valuable raw materials that can be reused in management and recycling activities, while our EHS the production stream, which is why we consider it highly managers are in charge of implementing our guidelines and important to both prevent and recycle as much of our waste requirements at our individual sites (see Environmental as possible. stewardship (p. 87)). In 2017, waste management accounted for around 25% of our EHS spending. This includes the personnel expenses of the units concerned as well as the costs for waste disposal via external service Our approach to waste and recycling providers. We work to minimize the environmental impacts of our waste disposal activities and limit the loss of raw materials. To this Waste management is part of our Group-wide ISO end, we have set the goal of reducing the ecological impact 14001-certified environmental management system. As well of our waste by 5% by 2025 (relative to the 2016 baseline). as undergoing external certification, we also conduct internal This objective was adopted by the Executive Board in 2017. Corporate Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) audits to review our waste management practices. Moreover, we regularly inform and educate our local EHS managers and site We generally try to prevent waste, for instance by developing directors on various waste disposal issues, for instance new production processes and optimizing existing ones. through EHS forums or conferences, in an effort to ensure Since this is not always feasible, whenever possible we Group-wide compliance with our environmental standards. endeavor to reuse the accrued waste to produce materials or generate energy. Through measures such as waste separation, we ensure that raw materials are recycled and Our commitment: Group-wide EHS stanthat unrecyclable waste is discarded in an environmentally dard sustainable manner in line with the strictest waste disposal standards. In doing so, we comply with local legal requireOur Group-wide EHS Waste Management standard provides ments, taking into account the available disposal options. a consistent framework for waste management across all our sites, defining organizational structures and minimum requirements. In line with this standard, all facilResponsibility for waste disposal process ities document their waste by type and quantity, reporting As a generator of waste, we are responsible for the ultimate this data to EQ. disposal of our waste products and therefore choose our service providers with the utmost care, contractually stipOur Waste Scoring System ulating disposal requirements. Each of our vendors must prove that they properly discard our waste. Through random At our company, we use a variety of methods for recycling internal audits (and external audits in the United States), we and disposing of waste, each of which have a different impact ensure the appropriate disposal of our waste, especially on the environment. To take these impacts into account in when it comes to hazardous substances. our waste reduction efforts, in 2016 we created the Waste Scoring System, which allows us to compare the amount Failure to comply with disposal regulations could result in a of waste our individual sites are producing and monitor our fine or damage to our reputation. In terms of our service various waste streams. Under this system, the volume of providers, such a violation may lead us to terminate the busiwaste is assigned to one of five categories according to how ness relationship. it is disposed of (see diagram), and then multiplied by a factor that increases based on the disposal method’s environmental impact. The sum of the scores of each category How we organize our waste management provides the total Waste Score of our company. and recycling activities Our Group function Environment, Health, Safety, Security, Quality (EQ) bears overall responsibility for our waste 95 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Environment Waste Score Most favored 2016: 2025: option Avoidance 55.6% x 3 Recycling Quality Level Waste Recycling Waste-toScore 21.2% x 4 Energy Waste-toEnergy Thermal 18.6% x 8 Disposal Thermal Disposal 4.6% x 10 Landfilling Landfilling Least 447 -5% 425 favored Reduction Goal option Reducing the environmental impacts of waste by into compost, it can be used by municipalities or individuals 2025 for planting. This method is set to reduce the amount of incinerated waste by 80 metric tons annually. In 2017, we calculated our Group-wide Waste Score for 2016. Based on this score, in 2017 the Executive Board Reducing filter waste adopted the goal of reducing the environmental impact of our waste by 5% by 2025. To achieve this objective, in 2016 In 2015, we switched our multi-step filter process for we started examining our production processes and disposal photoresists to a single-step process. Instead of requiring methods to identify potential areas for improvement, continseveral filters we now use only one, thus decreasing filter uing these efforts into 2017. All sites are expected to do their waste by around 50%-70%. Already an established practice part to reduce waste. The Waste Score excludes construcat our facilities in Hsinchu (Taiwan), Shizuoka (Japan), and tion and demolition waste, along with waste resulting from Suzhou (China), in 2017 we also introduced the process to the treatment of wastewater. our Anseong site in Korea. Relative to 2016, the amount of waste we produced in Optimizing and modernizing our Darmstadt site 2017 remained unchanged at 252 metric kilotons. Construction and demolition waste continue to account for the At our site in Darmstadt, we have initiated various processes majority of our total waste – 37% in 2017 and 31% in 2016. to prevent waste and recycle materials. In 2016 and 2017, In particular, the remodeling of our global headquarters in for instance, a solvent recycling process enabled us to Darmstadt, to be completed in 2018, has generated large recycle 500 metric tons of methanol, which is generated in quantities of such waste material. the manufacture of excipients for cosmetic products and the amino acid glycine. Establishing eco-friendlier disposal methods In addition to these efforts, in 2016 we replaced our old At our site in Molsheim (France), we are already working exhaust air purification system that used an oil scrubber towards achieving our new waste disposal target. In April with one that employs a catalytic burner. In 2017, we thus 2017, we switched from incinerating all solid media waste reduced waste generation by 340 metric tons, which transfrom production activities to composting it. This new method lated to savings of around € 150,000. involves filling biodegradable bags with the solid media waste and shipping them to a local composting facility, where the waste is mixed with vegetable and green waste. Once turned 96 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Environment Water management More and more regions across the globe are facing potable individual sites, our Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) water supply issues, and the number of areas suffering from managers work closely with engineers to implement water water scarcity is also on the rise. Both the United Nations and conservation and wastewater treatment measures. In 2017, the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) our water management spending, including the costs assoconsider water conservation a major objective for future ciated with purification of wastewater and sewage charges, efforts. At our sites, we too are dependent on a reliable accounted for approximately 9% of our EHS costs. supply of water that meets certain quality standards. We use water in our manufacturing activities as process water as Our commitment: Standards and guidelines well as for functions such as cooling and air exhaust purification, which makes sustainable water management a key Our processes and responsibility for clean wastewater are focus of our environmental stewardship. In doing so, our defined in our EHS Water Protection standard, which focuses wastewater may contain traces of heavy metals or pharmaon trace residues that impact the environment. Through ceutical active ingredients. With heightened public awareinternal audits, we verify compliance with our EHS Water ness of water pollution and increasingly stringent legislation Protection standard, which is based on the commitments governing water conservation, protecting water as a resource we’ve made under Responsible Care®. In line with this global is one of our top concerns. initiative, all our sites are required to measure and assess the risks and impacts of the hazardous substances in their wastewater. Our approach to sustainable water management We are optimizing our production and purification processes to minimize the amount of pharmaceutical active ingredient We seek to lower our water use and have therefore set residue in our wastewater. All our pharmaceutical manufacourselves the goal of implementing a sustainable water turing facilities also have wastewater treatment plants management system at sites with high consumption levels and regularly assess the composition of their wastewater. by 2020. Along these lines, we are focusing our efforts particularly on regions where water is growing scarcer and Our Group-wide ISO 14001-certified environmental managetherefore intend to cut water use by 10% by 2020 at sites ment system (p. 87) also covers aspects of water managein such water-stressed areas, i.e. those regions where the ment. This system places a greater focus on manufacturing demand for water exceeds the amount available. At the same sites than administrative facilities since they have the highest time, it is our responsibility to minimize the impact of our potential impact on water. wastewater across all our sites, which is why we oblige each individual site to develop and implement a water pollution response plan. Water from our own sources For the most part, we draw our process water from our own How we organize our water management wells and drinking water from local suppliers. We never do activities anything to compromise sensitive water sources. However, within the scope of our sustainable water management Our Group function Environment, Health, Safety, Security, activities, we keep an eye on trends that could potentially Quality (EQ) (see also Environmental stewardship (p. 87)) lead to sources being classified as sensitive. bears overall responsibility for water management. At our 97 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Environment Water use (millions m3) 13.8 14.0 7.2 7.3 4.8 4.9 1.8 1.8 0.01 0.01 2016 2017 Rain water and Surface water Drinking water Groundwater other sources (rivers, lakes) (from local suppliers) The cooling water used for production processes generally best practices such as methods to identify water-saving runs in a circular system. Depending on regulatory stanmeasures at our various sites. dards, we sometimes use fresh water in a once-through cooling system if it improves our energy footprint. For certain In 2016 and 2017, we conducted water risk assessments on applications, we treat production wastewater and reuse it. In our sites to investigate where they obtain their water from, 2017, we reused a total of 22.4 million cubic meters of water. what it is used for and where the purified wastewater is discharged. To make their internal water consumption more Sustainable water management transparent, several sites installed additional water meters. For us, sustainable water management means not negatively However, we also encourage efficient water management at impacting the bodies of water from which we obtain fresh facilities in areas of low or moderate water stress, which is water, or into which we discharge purified wastewater. why we are expanding our best practice sharing platform for sustainable water management. Through this medium, our In a bid to mitigate our impact on the water supply, we’ve set EHS officers can share ideas and lessons learned. the goal of implementing a sustainable water management system at all sites with high consumption levels by Reducing water use 2020. We seek to minimize our impact on the water situation at our To lay the ground for this undertaking, we are systematically sites, which is why we require facilities in areas of high water analyzing our water data utilizing tools such as the Water stress to transparently report their water use and idenRisk Filter of the World Wide Fund For Nature (WWF) and the tify the process steps that require a particularly high amount. Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas of the World Resources Institute In response to this information, we execute measures to help (WRI). These tools help us determine, for instance, whether our individual sites lower their water use. We aim to cut a site is located in a water-stressed area. water use at sites in water-scarce regions by 10% by 2020. For our sustainable water management efforts, we use an Our production sites in Mexico City (Mexico), Mollet del Vallès assessment tool of the European Chemical Industry Council (Spain), Kankakee, IL (USA), and Norwood, OH (USA) are (CEFIC) to evaluate water management practices and located in water-scarce regions and consume more than progress at our facilities. Based on this assessment, our sites 30,000 cubic meters of water per year. Furthermore, our draft a list of steps that need to be taken and implement facilities in Savannah, GA (USA), Hsinchu (Taiwan) and them gradually. This often results in the establishment of Taoyuan (Taiwan) are at increased risk due to local ground98 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Environment water conditions and/or seasonal water scarcity. At each of Savannah, GA (USA) facility into the Savannah River and our these sites, we aim to reduce water use by 10% by 2020 Onahama site in Japan into the Pacific Ocean. The wasterelative to 2014. By the end of 2017, we had achieved water generated at our Darmstadt site is purified in our savings of approximately 9%. treatment plants before being fed into Schwarzbach-Ried Creek, a tributary of the Rhine River. In 2017, we discharged a volume of water representing approximately 5% of the High marks for our water management practices average annual discharge of Schwarzbach-Ried Creek. We In addition to our climate impact mitigation measures (p. constantly work to meet the increasingly stringent quality 90), since 2016 we’ve also been reporting water-related data regulations set forth by law, coordinating our efforts with the to the CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project). This respective authorities. initiative collects environmental data from companies once a year, evaluating their processes and performance on a scale Wastewater continuously monitored from A to D-. In 2017, we were awarded a B for our water management, thus moving up two places over 2016. This In 2017 our wastewater management practices were monipositive score was particularly attributable to three factors, tored and reviewed in line with our Water Protection stannamely our Water Protection standard, the strategic water dard. As such, 43 internal EHS audits were conducted along use goals we set in 2016, and the concrete steps we took to with 12 ISO 14001 audits performed by an external certifier. conserve water. Improvements for self-monitoring were pitched at several of our sites. Water stewardship Antibiotic residues in wastewater We also implement measures to minimize our negative impacts at sites not located in water-scarce regions. Our We manufacture antibiotic active ingredients on a small manufacturing facilities in India, for instance, abide by a zero scale. The wastewater generated from these activities is discharge policy that requires used water to first be treated subject to an additional purification process before being before being drained back into the soil. Furthermore, our Goa discharged into the environment, as is the case, for instance, site collects rain water and lets it seep back into the soil as in Darmstadt. At this site, analyses showed that the amount well, a process that has enabled us to prevent the water level of active ingredients contained in the wastewater was there from sinking further. roughly comparable with that contained in household sewage. Our wastewater Stakeholder dialogue In 2017 we generated a total of 12.3 million cubic meters of wastewater, with around 50% of our total wastewater being Starting in 2018, as part of our sustainable water managedischarged by four sites. Our Gernsheim site in Germany ment efforts we intend to engage other local water users in discharges its purified wastewater into the Rhine, our an exchange aimed at further reducing water use. 99 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Environment Plant and process safety  Part of the non-financial report The safety of our plants and processes is a key element Our Group-wide EHS Spillage Control standard governs the of our environmental sustainability efforts. This approach handling of hazardous materials and stipulates organizational allows us to ensure the safety of our workforce as well as measures to prevent toxic substances from spilling or leaking the people in the vicinity of our sites. Furthermore, funcduring storage and transport. In addition to this standard, our tional safety systems help minimize production errors, which Risk Management Process guides all our sites in identifying and in turn lowers the risk of financial losses. assessing risks. As needed, this process can be used to develop and implement measures to minimize such risks. In 2016, we conducted our Group Procedure Hazard and Operability Study, which clearly defined the individuals responsible for identifying Our approach to plant and process safety potential hazards during a project as well as the manner in which hazards should be identified and documented. We seek to eliminate as many manufacturing hazards as possible in an effort to prevent workplace accidents, production outages and chemical leaks. We also attempt to detect The 2012 EU directive on the control of major accident hazards technical defects before they have a chance to cause involving dangerous substances (aka Seveso III) was transposed damage. By training our employees, we prevent human into German law at the end of 2016 and entered into force errors as far as possible. on January 14, 2017. Numerous amendments to this directive affect, for instance, the German Hazardous Incident Ordinance (aka 12th BImSchV). In 2017, we updated the existing How we organize our plant and process processes and documents on the assessment and communicasafety tion of potential hazards presented by our production plants and warehouses. Our Group function Environment, Health, Safety, Security, Quality (EQ) oversees plant and process safety at our company. At the operational level, responsibility for plant In 2017 we also made the necessary amendments to all our and process safety falls to our individual sites and their EHS safety reports in accordance with the new Hazardous Incident managers. Crucial to the safety of our plants and processes Ordinance. On request, members of the public may access these is above all fire protection, which makes up approximately safety reports at any time. We furthermore fulfilled our oblig22% of our EHS spending and primarily encompasses the ation to provide the public with information, including general costs for the fire departments at our sites. information such as the potential hazards caused by an industrial accident, common accident scenarios, and the measures needed to prevent or mitigate their consequences. We update We conduct internal EHS audits to review the safety of our our Hazardous Incident Brochure on a regular basis and, in the plants and processes. During this process, we also evalcase of our Darmstadt site, send the publication to approxiuate relevant suppliers, using criteria such as purchasing mately 17,000 households in the site’s vicinity. The brochure is volumes, criticality of the incoming raw materials and also available on our website. geographic location to decide which ones to audit. Our suppliers are obliged to address any deficiencies identified. Auditors use a follow-up system to monitor the implementaMaking safety measurable tion of any corrective measures required. Our EHS performance indicators make it possible to measure safety and identify opportunities for improvement. We track EHS Our commitment: Standards and legislaperformance indicators at all our production and warehouse faciltion ities, as well as at major research sites such as Billerica, MA (USA) and Chilworth (UK). In doing so, we record both acciAll our sites are subject to the same requirements for plant and dents and near-accidents. We investigate each individual inciprocess safety as set forth by our Group-wide EHS Plant and dent before devising appropriate countermeasures in an effort to Process Safety standard, which describes the safety rules for prevent such accidents from repeating themselves in the future. all production plants and warehouses. This document encompasses the entire life cycle of a plant from cradle to grave. Of particular relevance are the EHS Incident Rate (EHS IR) for Before commissioning a plant, we draft a safety concept that recording and evaluating all minor and major incidents, as well is subject to constant review and, when necessary, updated as the associated Loss of Primary Containment (LoPC) indicator. until the facility is decommissioned. This concept contains an Also important is the EHS Leading Rate (EHS LR), which is calcuoverview of potential risks and the corresponding protective lated based on an analysis of near-accidents and critical situameasures. tions. 100 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Environment In collaboration with our individual business sectors, we have In 2017, we recorded no significant incident-related spills defined specific targets for our EHS performance indicators. across all production, research and storage sites. The Executive Board receives semi-annual reports detailing the progress of these indicators. Risk Management Process EHS Incident Rate Our Risk Management Process guides all our sites in identifying and assessing risks. In 2017, various measures were Since 2013 we have been tracking the EHS Incident Rate, implemented as part of this process: an indicator that synthesizes the following four categories of data: Following its acquisition in 2014, we conducted a comprehensive audit of our Suzhou site in China in which we identified the number of workplace accidents involving our employees shortcomings and subsequently took steps to address them. and contractors who work at our sites Continuing with these efforts, in 2017 we improved the plant environmentally relevant incidents as defined by the Euroand process safety of the site’s distillation facility. pean Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC) and the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI), for instance product Training and sharing lessons learned spills the activation of operational safety precautions with no The safety of our plants and processes is predicated on the adverse impact on people or the environment, such as a successful interaction between man and machine, which preemptive systems shutdown is why it’s crucial for us to educate our employees and provide them with regular training. Our internal continuing deviations identified during external reviews and audits education programs for site, production, engineering, and EHS officers also cover plant and process safety. Likewise, newly hired EHS managers are trained in plant and process The calculation of the EHS Incident Rate includes the number safety during their onboarding. In 2017, 19 new employees of incidents and the severity of the accident relative to the completed the onboarding process. number of man-hours worked. The lower the EHS Incident Rate, the safer the site is. In the interest of improving safety, it is extremely important to share best practices and lessons learned, an approach that enables all our production sites to learn from incidents at other facilities and thereby implement preventive 3.4 measures. Once a month, for instance, site directors and EHS managers participate in safety leadership calls to share new lessons learned. Additionally, discussion rounds are held by the EHS managers at our sites. was our EHS IR in 2017. It has thus remained at the same stable level as in 2016. 101 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Environment Biodiversity The increasing loss of biodiversity is a global challenge that rate Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) standards define impacts our company as well. After all, we depend on ecosysthe way we manage waste (p. 95) and wastewater (p. 97) tems for natural resources such as raw materials. Prime treatment as well as how we improve plant safety (p. 100). examples include red algae (polysiphonia elongata), whose To minimize our impact on the environment, we furthermore cytoplasm is used in our cosmetic active RonaCare® adhere to internal standards governing air emissions and RenouMer, and comfrey root extract, which is used in our energy management. Kytta® pain relief cream. We therefore have a vested interest in preserving and promoting biodiversity. The Nagoya Protocol is an international supplementary agreement to the UN Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD), which was transposed into German law in 2015. The Our holistic approach to conserving biodiaims of the CBD include the conservation of biodiversity and the sustainable use of its components. An important versity instrument in achieving these aims is access and benefit Across all our sites, we consider the unique features of the sharing. We are currently developing processes that will ecosystems in our immediate vicinity with the goal of minicreate a consistent framework for systematically handling mizing our direct impacts. Our wide array of environmental resources that fall under access and benefit sharing. We hope sustainability efforts, such as water management (p. 97) to conclude these processes in the course of 2018. In develand climate impact mitigation (p. 90), directly contribute to oping products, for instance, we always apply the requirethe conservation of biodiversity. ments of the Nagoya Protocol when using genetic resources originating in countries covered by the protocol. Our own production sites are located in established industrial and commercial zones. Before acquiring a company – and Biodiversity conservation at our sites thus its sites – we first conduct an ecological risk assessment, taking into consideration information from public Unsealed surfaces represent an important habitat for plants sources such as neighbors and non-governmental organiand animals. At our facilities, however, we are required to zations (NGOs). The results of the assessment influence seal certain surfaces to minimize the risk of chemicals ending whether we decide in favor of the acquisition. up in the ecosystem. Our goal is to increase the percentage of unsealed surfaces insofar as safety requirements permit. How we conserve biodiversity at our sites Our measures to protect biodiversity are overseen by our Our Darmstadt site is a prime example of our commitment to Group function Environment, Health, Safety, Security, preserving biodiversity. Since 2016, we’ve been conducting Quality (EQ) (see also Environmental stewardship). In an assessment of our facilities there to evaluate the site’s designing new sites and plants, we always include our Envinature conservation efforts. Based on the results, we ronment Health and Safety (EHS) unit to ensure that the have developed an action plan for improving the surrounding ecological aspects of a project are also taken into considecosystem for plants and animals and have implemented eration. EHS is on hand to assist all sites with support and measures to create places of refuge for insects and reptiles. advice, and furthermore carries out evaluations in the case In addition to these efforts, we also assess the flora and of large-scale projects. fauna of new project sites before commencing activities there. Around 30% of the premises (0.4 square kilometers) have already been greened. In 1995, we developed a green Our commitment: Standards and agreeopen space concept for our Darmstadt site, while a 2008 ments agreement with the City of Darmstadt stipulates the ecological, economic and design optimization of our site’s green Substances that compromise biodiversity should not be areas. discharged into the environment, which is why we design and operate our plants in accordance with our Group-wide safety and environmental requirements. For instance, our Corpo102 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Suppliers Suppliers 104 Supply chain standards 106 Mica supply chain 103 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Suppliers Supply chain standards Our company procures many raw materials, packaging matethrough internal communication channels such as our rials, technical products, components, and services worldcompany intranet. All new Sourcing staff are trained on wide. Our overarching goal is to protect the stability of these sustainability aspects important for procurement. Sourcing supply chains and always provide our customers with the employees are responsible for the supplier selection process. best possible products and services at optimal quality. In our fast-paced world, we believe that secure supply chains are Our commitment: Guidelines and standards the key to our success. We expect all our suppliers and service providers to comply with environmental and social standards, which are primarily derived from the core labor standards of the International Our approach to making our supply chains Labour Organization (ILO) and the UN Global Compact. more sustainable One of the goals of our supplier management is compliance Moreover, we support the Compliance Initiative of the with fundamental environmental and social standards, German Association for Supply Chain Management, Procurealongside high quality, delivery reliability, and competitive ment and Logistics (BME) and have endorsed the BME Code prices. To achieve this, we've introduced relevant strategies, of Conduct. In particular, this code sets out rules for processes and guidelines that we are continuously improving combating corruption, antitrust violations and child labor, as to prevent violations of supply chain standards. well as for upholding human rights, protecting the environment and public health, and promoting fair working condiWe assign our vendors a risk category, taking into account tions. their country risk, product category and the share of their sales that come from our company. In doing so, we pay Our Group Procurement Policy stipulates our expectations particular attention to suppliers from non-OECD countries, as of our suppliers and specifies how we monitor compliance we consider vendors in these countries to be at higher risk of with our standards. This policy further reflects both internal disregarding environmental and social standards. and external guidelines, such as our Code of Conduct, our Human Rights Charter, our EHS Policy (Environment, Health To further intensify our activities in this area and identify and Safety Policy), ISO 14001, and the BME Code of potential sourcing risks early on, our Procurement unit has Conduct. In our Responsible Sourcing Principles we set out developed a concept for a comprehensive risk management our expectations for our suppliers in terms of corporate system that will enable us to consider a wide variety of responsibility, and formally oblige them to apply these stanrisk factors that also include sustainability aspects. Such dards to their own vendors. processes will help us avoid errors and respond promptly to new challenges. This risk management process is defined in Whenever legal frameworks are modified, we incorporate collaboration with all businesses involved. these changes and initiate the appropriate measures where necessary. How we implement CR standards in the supply chain Global procurement Group Procurement is responsible for integrating corporate In total, the goods and services we purchased from more responsibility (CR) requirements into the relevant stages of than 64,000 suppliers in over 145 countries in 2017 our sourcing and supplier management processes. It is a amounted to around € 7.0 billion. Of these goods and global organization with direct accountability and resources services (including R&D services), we purchased 50% from in procurement-relevant local subsidiaries. Our Center of suppliers based in EU countries and 35% from vendors based Excellence for Supplier Sustainability coordinates all relevant in OECD countries outside the EU. The share of goods and measures, such as updating our guidelines where necessary, services sourced from suppliers based in non-OECD countries examining processes and coordinating our participation in outside the EU increased from 14% in 2016 to 15% in 2017. external initiatives. Our Procurement employees in all countries are kept up to date on these guidelines and processes 104 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Suppliers Share of overall goods and services purchased 15% Non-OECD countries outside the EU 35% 50% OECD countries EU countries outside the EU Strategy workshop on sustainability within TfS supplier assessments and audits the supply chain Under TfS, suppliers are assessed either on information In August 2017 we held a workshop in Darmstadt focusing obtained during audits, or on the basis of self-reported and on sustainability within the supply chain. At this event we publicly accessible information provided by EcoVadis, an worked with external experts to analyze which aspects of independent rating agency. EcoVadis assesses suppliers from supply chain sustainability will become increasingly impor110 countries and 150 sectors across the four categories tant to us. The aim was to uncover risks and opportunities of Environment, Labor Practices, Fair Business Pracwithin our supply chain and devise appropriate actions. tices, and Sustainable Procurement. The results of these supplier assessments are shared among TfS member companies in compliance with all restrictions stipulated by compeHow we monitor our supply chain tition law. In 2017, the TfS initiative realigned its strategic focus to concentrate more strongly on the initiative´s We pursue various approaches to keep track of our suppliers demonstrable improvements of supplier sustainability stanand ensure adherence to our standards and values. These dards. We've been a member of TfS since 2014. approaches are generally based on the risk they pose, combining the factors of country risk, product category and sales. We now have access to the sustainability checks of more than 730 of our suppliers – 463 of which we initiated in 2017. Based on all the audits and assessments conducted Under the Together for Sustainability (TfS) initiative since joining the TfS initiative, in 2017 we focused on risk launched by companies in the chemical industry, we reduction and risk management. Our priority was the mitiencourage our suppliers to be assessed either on selfgation activities for TfS audit results, with more than five reported information or via audits. major findings and assessment scores below 30 (on a scale In selected cases we conduct our own CR audits on of 1 to 100). In 37 cases, the issues related to environmental suppliers. impacts, in 100 cases to labor practices and human rights, Regarding our mica supply chain (p. 106), we engage the and in 65 cases to impacts on local communities and society global consultancy Environmental Resources Management as a whole, while some suppliers were found to have multiple (ERM) to conduct audits and the Indian organization IGEP issues. to conduct inspections. 105 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Suppliers Conducting our own audits teamed up with vendors relevant to future procurement activities whose audits revealed critical sustainability defects. In 2017 we conducted five of our own risk-based CR audits, Together, we identified ways to boost sustainability and then assessing vendors according to both environmental and monitored their implementation. social criteria. The non-conformances identified for two suppliers as having a potential environmental impact were Favoring local suppliers for certain prodrelated to air emissions and waste management/ground contamination. In terms of social aspects, the audits found ucts no deficiencies. To correct the ecological shortcomings, we We have no internal guidelines stipulating that preference be jointly agreed on a corrective action plan and are monitoring given to local vendors in allocating contracts, and generally our vendors' progress to ensure that the improvements are procure our goods and services globally. However, in some being made. The defects identified did not lead us to termicases local vendors do have an advantage: Products bought nate business ties with any of the suppliers. locally may be less expensive, as proximity eliminates additional transport costs. Country-specific regulations such as Neither our audits nor those of TfS revealed indications of import duties and licenses also help us decide whether to violations of the right of association, the right to collective source our goods locally or globally. Furthermore, in some bargaining, cases of child labor, forced labor or compulsory countries local laws require contracts to be awarded to labor. regional suppliers. Impact on our vendors In 2017, one of the goals we set was to make a greater impact on our suppliers' sustainability. To achieve this, we Mica supply chain Mica is the primary raw material of our effect pigments, We have made a conscious decision to maintain our business which are used in applications such as automotive and indusrelationships in the north of India and are taking on respontrial coatings, as well as in the cosmetics and food industries. sibility for this region by safeguarding jobs there. To ensure Although it naturally occurs in many locations around the that we procure mica without the use of child labor, we have world, we mainly procure mica from India, where it is mined completely reorganized our supply chain and now source the in the northern states of Jharkhand and Bihar. This region raw material exclusively from qualified mines. This formal suffers from political instability and poverty with widespread working environment is the only way to ensure compliance child labor, so we’ve taken special measures to ensure with our standards, since child labor cannot be ruled out if compliance with our social and environmental standards. mica is gathered in publicly accessible areas. Our approach to responsibility in the mica supply chain Following a study conducted in 2008, we found that the people in Jharkhand and Bihar were gathering mica from the tailings of abandoned mines or off the ground– sometimes together with their children. This constitutes a clear violation of our company values and our Human Rights Charter. We do not tolerate child labor and contractually prohibit our suppliers from employing children. 106 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Suppliers How we organize our mica supply chain audits and customer visits and are available to answer any questions or address complaints. Whenever non-compliance We maintain direct, regular contact with mine lease holders, with our standards is identified, we work with suppliers to mine operators and mica processing plant owners. We have ensure the appropriate and swift implementation of correcinformed our business partners about our social and envitive measures. This year we therefore suspended two ronmental standards, and they support our efforts to keep supplier relationships. A corrective action plan was put the mica supply chain free of child labor. Our Procurement forward, and the suppliers are now implementing the rectifistaff in Kolkata, India are in direct contact with these partcation measures we required. ners; they are present at the mines or processor sites during The mica supply chain Process steered by us Legal mines that are qualified Processor by us Our commitment: Compliance with guidehealth and safety standards. Audit reports are compiled lines and standards to document any identified shortcomings and define corrective actions. Our employees in Kolkata and Darmstadt subseAs a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, we quently make sure that these issues have been resolved. are actively involved in working to abolish child labor. Going above and beyond the legal requirements, we are committed In March 2017 ERM conducted nine audits. The majority of the to ensuring that our mica supply chain adheres to the same corrective measures identified in previous audits had already been internal and external standards and guidelines that apply to implemented at this point, or were underway. Identified defects our other supply chains (p. 104). primarily involved occupational safety precautions and gaps in the implementation of management systems. When violations are Auditing our mica supply chain discovered, we work together with the suppliers to ensure that these are corrected in a satisfactory manner. When breaches are To ensure that all mines and processing companies adhere to not rectified through the appropriate corrective action, we freeze our standards, we monitor our business partners for complirelations with the respective company, or even terminate the busiance with our environmental stewardship requirements as ness relationship altogether. well as occupational health and safety regulations. We carry out comprehensive pre-announced audits, as well as unanFollowing an amendment to Indian legislation, the responsibility for nounced inspections. the licensing of mines was transferred from the Central Government of India to the individual states. To support the mine operAnnual audits ators in complying with this new legislation, ERM analyzed the relevant processes in the mines between August and October 2017. Environmental Resources Management (ERM), a global At a joint workshop we explained the new approval process to the provider of consulting services, conducts annual audits that mine operators and mica processing companies. review the working conditions along with environmental, 107 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Suppliers Monthly inspections school opened by one of our mica suppliers in 2014, we achieved our goal of providing scholarships for 200 children in 2017. Since 2013, the Indian organization IGEP has been carrying out unannounced monthly inspections of working standards in mines. In addition to our education efforts, we are committed to In 2017 four mica mines and five processing plants were checked improving local access to healthcare. To this end, in 2010 by IGEP. During these inspections, IGEP monitors occupational we established a health center operated by IGEP to serve the safety and compliance with the ban on child labor, for region’s 20,000 residents. Two medical professionals work instance, as well as consistent process documentation. They also at the center and also provide regular health services to check whether our suppliers have held the mandatory training schools. Previously there was no healthcare of any kind in sessions for their employees. this region. Tracking system for mica sources Stakeholder dialogue on the mica supply We use a tracking system to ensure that the supplied mica comes chain exclusively from legal mines qualified by our company. All mine We keep interested customers and other stakeholders reguowners record the daily extraction volume of their mines in a larly informed on our mica sourcing activities. Our employees logbook. The license fees that the mine owners must pay to the in Kolkata and Darmstadt also maintain contact with our government are based on these documented amounts of mica. On project partners and other advocacy groups, as well as with a monthly basis, we review the volumes of mica reported in the local and state authorities. logbook and supplied to the processing companies. Furthermore, we carry out a cross-check by verifying the relevant transport documentation, known as “challans”. In November 2017, we attended the kick-off conference for the Responsible Mica Initiative in Delhi. We are a founding member of this initiative, which was established following the In November 2017 our employees surveyed the mining activities Mica Summit 2016. The program is committed to improving of our suppliers to document the actual daily output of the mica the traceability of mica in the supply chain and building mines and cross-check the actual output against the documentation sustainable living conditions in local communities. At provided. the summit, a five-year implementation plan was announced to achieve a fully traceable and responsible mica supply Community outreach in the mica supply chain in India, mainly focused on eliminating child labor and chain improving occupational safety in India’s mica industry. The states of Jharkhand and Bihar are among the most impoverished regions in India. Together with IGEP, we are working to New sources of mica improve the living conditions of the families in the mica mining We have found additional sources of mica outside India that areas. The literacy rate and the number of children who attend meet our stringent quality, social and environmental stanschool are far below the Indian national average, according to a dards. Part of our mica, for example, is now supplied by 2016 study by the organization Terre des Hommes and the Centre Brazilian companies. In this way, we are securing the supply for Research on Multinational Corporations. Among our efforts, we of this raw material over the long term and avoiding potenare financing three schools run by our partner IGEP in Jharkhand, tial supply bottlenecks. Furthermore, as an alternative to where more than 500 children and adolescents are enrolled. Morepigments based on natural mica, we also manufacture effect over, tailoring and carpentry courses are also offered. At a fourth pigments based on synthetic substrates. 108 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Community Community 110 Community Involvement 114 Education and culture 111 Health 109 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Community Community Involvement We take on responsibility for the community in those areas our regionally focused activities are planned and executed by where we can leverage our expertise. In particular, we our local subsidiaries, who choose for themselves the focus support health, culture and education projects in the vicinity areas within our CR strategy (p. 9) that they would like to of our sites and in the countries where we operate. Moreover, support. we provide disaster relief in emergency situations. The Merck family, too, has long been committed to philanthropic work. Since 2016, their activities have fallen under the umbrella Our approach to community involvement of their Family Foundation, which takes on social responsibility by supporting projects that bring benefits to the people in the Across all our facilities worldwide, we are deeply committed vicinity of our sites. This organization focuses on healthcare and to supporting our communities. In selecting social projects, education, promoting citizens' initiatives, development cooperwe choose initiatives that align with our strategic focus ation, intercultural understanding, and non-profit objectives. It areas, namely health, environment, and education & culture. cooperates with government and scientific institutions as well as nongovernmental organizations, and especially supports projects that our employees are privately involved in. We are particularly determined to facilitate access to health for people across the globe. To do so, we take a multipronged approach that includes numerous health projects Our commitment: Principles for our (p. 111) aimed at supporting communities. In doing so, we community support apply our competencies, knowledge and experience in the health industry, joining forces with dependable partners to We align our projects with our Group Policy on Contributions to provide people the help they need. Society, which defines community involvement for our company along with the objectives we pursue. This policy also sets out We view education as a key component of culture – and roles and responsibilities, emphasizing that our activities should vice-versa. Education can help us understand culture, but have a long-lasting, positive effect on the community. With this culture can also build a bridge to education; it can stimulate in mind, we focus our efforts on long-term projects. curiosity, nurture creativity and inspire scientific discovery. We therefore sponsor cultural initiatives (p. 115) and This guideline provides our business sectors and subsidiaries support a number of educational projects (p. 114) to with a framework for structuring their own respective activities. spark a passion for science in the next generation. As part of these efforts, we deploy our expertise to encourage Our community involvement in numbers and inspire curious young people who share our passion for science and technology. In 2017, our subsidiaries were involved in 250 projects, spending a total of around € 34 million. This figure does not include initiaOur activities are intended to have a positive, long-lasting tives that primarily serve to market our products. effect on the community, which is why we promote many long-term initiatives, an approach that strengthens our relaLocal efforts tionship with stakeholders and helps reinforce our social license to operate. In 2017, more than 400 of our U.S. employees took part in the annual EMD Serono Community Service Day. Trading their How we structure community support working day to help out in the community, they volunteered at various non-profit organizations in the vicinity of Boston, Our Group function Corporate Affairs monitors our GroupMA (USA). Here they engaged in a number of activities, such wide community outreach and oversees a portion of our as painting pictures on hospital walls, planting gardens, giving activities, including our Praziquantel Donation Program (p. science lessons to more than 150 elementary school children, 111), the Global Pharma Health Fund (GPHF) (p. 111) and helping out at local soup kitchens, and sorting packaged goods the Deutsche Philharmonie sponsored by Merck KGaA, Darmat local food banks. In total, our people in the United States stadt, Germany (p. 114). In addition to Group-wide efforts, invested over 1,500 hours in the local community. our business sectors pursue their own projects such as our educational initiative SPARK (p. 114). Moreover, since 2017 In 2017, our employees in Brazil also engaged in volunteer several of our health initiatives in lowand middle-income work to help Rio de Janeiro’s underprivileged inhabitants. Under countries have been operating under the auspices of the our Community Action program, over 120 employees from Rio Foundation sponsored by Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany de Janeiro and São Paulo donated their time to support local (p. 111), a non-profit limited liability company. Furthermore, institutions and provide assistance for services such as free 110 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Community health exams, legal advice and cultural activities. For instance, Our subsidiaries also make regular donations to local Red local residents had the chance to undergo vision screening, with Cross and Red Crescent organizations. In the United States, our company providing free eyeglasses to approximately 160 for instance, our Life Science business sector donated more people with a visual impairment. than € 80,000 in 2017 to help the victims of hurricanes in Texas, Florida and Puerto Rico. The money was used to In Darmstadt, too, we view ourselves as part of the provide accommodation, food and medical aid. community and therefore contribute to a colorful, rich environment by supporting valuable ideas along with regional Emergency relief following earthquake in clubs and initiatives. In addition, we focus on promoting Mexico science education (p. 114) and cultural institutions. After the powerful earthquake in Mexico in September 2017, Partnering with the Red Cross our subsidiary there donated 5,000 packs of Dolo Neurobion®, our painkiller for neuropathic pain, to the Fundación We partner with the German Red Cross (DRK) in a bid to IMSS, an organ of the Mexican Social Security Institute. provide relief when disaster strikes. In 2017, for instance, we This foundation distributed the medicine among people who donated € 18,000 to provide aid to Yemen. This donation were injured by partially collapsed houses or falling pieces went towards the German Red Cross's efforts there, setting of furniture, as well as to the wealth of helpers who were up health stations and providing clean drinking water and suffering pain due to the great physical strain. Our company food. In addition to this monetary donation, we also supplied also donated various toiletries, with our employees in Mexico the local health stations with sterile gloves valued at more donating an additional half-truck load of food and toiletries. than € 21,000. We covered the cost of transporting the items to the affected communities. Health We use our expertise to support health initiatives all over the dient that can treat all forms of schistosomiasis. Since 2007, world, particularly concentrating on promoting local healthwe have been partnering with the World Health Organizacare infrastructure, providing vocational training and contintion (WHO) and providing them with donations of praziquantel uing education for medical professionals, and educating tablets. people on health issues. In particular, we are dedicated to fighting the neglected tropical disease schistosomiasis. In 2017, we formed our Global Health Institute (p. 41) with the aim of creating innovative and integrated healthcare solutions for underserved populations in developing countries. Through Our commitment: The principles governing our institute, we are also an active member of the Pediatric Praziquantel Consortium, a partnership we initiated. Within this our community involvement consortium, we are working hand in hand with our partners on As in the other areas in which we support the community, we the development of a pediatric formulation of praziquantel for align our health activities with our Group Policy on Contribuchildren under six (p. 38). In a bid to achieve this objective, in tions to Society. (p. 110) In addition to this policy, our Access 2016 the Global Health Institute launched a Phase II study in to Health Charter also governs all health initiatives, covering Côte d'Ivoire. We expect the initial results of the study to be pharmaceutical product donations, counterfeit medicines, and available in 2018. research and development for neglected tropical diseases. We calculate the value of our pharmaceutical product donations Schistosomiasis: 150 million children treated according to the WHO Guidelines for Medicine Donations. We keep production capacities at a level sufficient for manufacturing 250 million praziquantel tablets a year. In response to the Fighting schistosomiasis needs of the World Health Organization, in 2017 we donated Worldwide, more than 200 million people suffer from schistosoapproximately 150 million tablets for distribution in 26 African miasis, a tropical parasitic infection that causes over 280,000 countries. This year, our donation program was expanded to deaths in Africa every year. In an effort to battle this disease, we include Egypt and Uganda. Since its launch, we have supplied developed the active ingredient praziquantel in the 1970s under almost 700 million tablets free of charge, enabling the a joint research partnership. This drug is the only active ingretreatment of 150 million patients, primarily school children. 111 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Community Countries that have received donations of praziquantel tablets Since 2007, we've donated nearly 700 million praziquantel tablets for distribution across 43 nations in Africa. African countries that started receiving tablet donations from us before 2017. African countries to which we donated tablets in 2017. Countries that have received no donated tablets to date. * Launch of our Praziquantel Donation Program. Spreading education and awareness improving sanitation and education, the foundation aims to make lasting behavioral change – a crucial step to elimiSince 2012, we've been donating comic booklets to African nating schistosomiasis. This project is set to reach approxschools in a bid to help educate children on schistosomiasis. imately 290 schools with over 260,000 students in Bench In easy-to-understand terms, these booklets explain how Maji, a region in southwestern Ethiopia. The goal is to extend people can protect themselves against this tropical disease. this model to other regions in Africa. Under our SchistosoIn 2017, the materials went to 12 African countries, seven miasis Education Project launched in 2017, we're providing of which for the first time. In cooperation with WHO, we the NALA Foundation with nearly € 300,000 over a period of provided schools with approximately 200,000 booklets in three years. five different languages. Central platform in the battle against schistosomiasis In addition to these efforts, we also supplied WHO with around 20,000 educational brochures and 2,000 posters on We realize that we’re not going to eliminate schistosomiasis female genital schistosomiasis, the first time we have with tablets alone. That is why, at the end of 2014, we provided information on this specific manifestation of the launched the Global Schistosomiasis Alliance (GSA) and disease. In endemic countries, this form of the infection is joined forces with international partners in a bid to rarely mentioned in medical curricula or text books, meaning address the remaining gaps in the fight against this infection. female genital schistosomiasis often goes undetected or is Its founding members include the Bill & Melinda Gates Founmisdiagnosed. These materials aim to educate physicians on dation, the Schistosomiasis Control Initiative (SCI), the the symptoms to make it easier to diagnose the condition. United States Agency for International Development (USAID), and World Vision International. Our Schistosomiasis Education Project Since 2016, we’ve been financially supporting NALA, a founIn 2017, the GSA expanded its role as a central platform in the dation that works in concert with local communities to fight against schistosomiasis, acquiring a series of international improve the water supply and sanitation while also NGOs as new members. As well as organizing several confereducating people about neglected tropical diseases ences, it took part in various projects aimed at driving local (NTDs). In 2017, the Ethiopian Federal Ministry of Health efforts to combat schistosomiasis. In Egypt, for instance, the GSA tasked the NALA Foundation with carrying out a national contributed its expertise to support the Ministry of Health in impletechnical assistance project to combat NTDs. Through menting its national strategy to eliminate the tropical disease. 112 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Community In addition to these efforts, the GSA garnered attention at Since 1998, the GPHF has supplied a total of 836 Minilabs the 2017 Neglected Tropical Diseases Summit in Geneva with to nearly 100 countries, 41 of which were provided in 2017 its #MakingSchistory campaign. Conducted to mark the the alone. Of these 41 test kits, our company donated six to tenth anniversary of our Praziquantel Donation Program, this the pharmaceutical regulatory agency in Sierra Leone. The campaign has helped raise awareness for the disease. Morefrequent reordering of materials confirms that the Minilabs over, the GSA also published a report entitled “The people are in high circulation. #MakingSchistory: The global fight against schistosomiasis. This work recognizes the outstanding successes of people Minilab training seminars dedicated to combating the tropical disease and explains how it can be defeated once and for all. In 2017, the GPHF and its partners held a total of ten seminars for Minilab users, mainly in Sub-Saharan Africa, which Fighting counterfeit medicines were attended by well over 100 people. During these seminars, participants learn how to correctly test medicines using According to a report published by the World Health Orgathe compact laboratory. While the number of Minilab seminization (WHO) in 2017, more than 10% of all medicines nars is increasing every year, the GPHF itself is called on in developing and emerging countries are counterfeit or for support less and less. This is a good sign: The Minilab is substandard, making them a major health risk. The Global gaining traction, and users are taking the initiative to share Pharma Health Fund (GPHF), a non-profit initiative funded by their knowledge with others. our company, is fighting counterfeit medicines with its GPHF Minilab®. Health projects worldwide The GPHF Minilab® is a portable, compact laboratory that We are dedicated to improving medical care around the fits into a tropics-resistant suitcase and can detect falsiworld. Every year, our Global Medical Education Department fied medicines quickly, easily and inexpensively. The GPHF sponsors an array of continuing education initiatives develops the Minilabs, supplies them at cost and provides for healthcare professionals. In doing so, we are helping training on how to use them. According to the aforemenbuild the capacities of nurses and physicians, increasing tioned WHO report, the Minilab is one of the most important their awareness of symptoms and familiarizing them with tools for detecting counterfeit, substandard and falsified advanced treatment methods, which ultimately benefits medicines. As part of a study published in this report, more patients. In 2017, we supported more than 70 different than 20,000 pharmaceutical samples were tested using the continuing education programs offered by 30 independent Minilab, with more than 1,000 of them identified as couneducational institutions in the medical sector with over terfeit. An international study conducted by the Difäm-EPN € 7 million. Via e-learning platforms and continuing educaMinilab Survey Group in 2017 also reaffirmed how the GPHF tion courses, more than 350,000 medical professionals took Minilab® has helped ensure access to safe medicines in advantage of the offerings of these institutions. developing countries. The Minilab is currently the only product of its kind. In 2017, we launched the Broaden Your Horizon program, which encourages our Biopharma employees to spend three The majority of Minilabs are deployed in countries in Africa months working at an NGO in a developing or emerging and Asia. These test kits are primarily utilized by national country. During their stay, they have the opportunity to health agencies, often in partnership with the labs of governcontribute to improving the quality of local healthcare, mental drug inspection centers or within multilateral health while also broadening their own horizons. Four of our initiatives led by various UN organizations, U.S. and German employees took part in an initial pilot project in India, where aid organizations, faith-based networks, or the incoming they contributed their expertise in fields such as laboratory goods inspection unit of faith-based healthcare facilities. management and data analysis. Expanding Minilab use Established in 2017, the Foundation sponsored by Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany also seeks to raise health awareIn 2017, the GPHF developed testing methods for five addiness (p. 47) and improve healthcare in lowand middletional active ingredients. As of early 2018, the Minilab can income countries. Consolidating many of our existing now test 90 active ingredients, ranging from antimalarprojects under one roof, its main aim is to bolster our access ials, antihistamines and analgesics, to antipyretics and to health efforts. antibiotics. We also support a wide variety of other projects, an overview of which can be found on our website. 113 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Community Education and culture Underpinned by a longstanding tradition, the promotion of In Darmstadt, we support teachers through continuing education and culture is a core element of our commitment education classes in their field of expertise and also to society. By making education and culture accessible, we provide educational concepts. In 2017, we once more hosted nurture characteristics that are essential to us as a high-tech a science conference attended by more than 200 teachers company, namely creativity, enthusiasm for new discoveries, from the region. In tandem to this, we offered three contincuriosity, and the courage to transcend boundaries. With this uing education courses on the digitalization of classroom in mind, we sponsor such initiatives at many of our sites, laboratory experiments. For our efforts, we were honored grant scholarships and facilitate learning in specific subjects. with the SchuleWirtschaft-Preis (School-Business Germany Award). In the German Federal State of Hesse, we were awarded first place in the “Business-School partnership for digital education” category. Our commitment: Principles for our community involvement In 2017, we initiated a pilot project to leverage the expeWhen it comes to our commitment to the community, we rience we’ve gained through long-standing school partneralign our educational and cultural activities to our Group ships in the Darmstadt area and apply it in other countries. Policy on Contributions to Society, which is detailed under Having already launched one project in India in 2017, Community involvement (p. 110). others are scheduled to follow in Chile, Kenya and Tanzania in 2018. These efforts focus on providing teachers with the tools to design exciting lessons that will spark their students’ Dedicated to education worldwide curiosity in science. We are partnering closely with education experts to develop the concepts for these lessons. Thanks We are committed to igniting a passion for science espeto their invaluable experience and knowledge of the cultural cially among young people, which is why we've been landscapes in the respective countries, we can adapt experisupporting initiatives such as the “Jugend forscht” competiments to local environments and introduce our technologies. tion for more than 30 years. Since 1996, we've been orgaAn experiment in Tanzania, for instance, will show how food nizing the state-level competition for the German Federal analyses are conducted using the example of local fruits. You State of Hesse and have also hosted the nationals twice. can read more about our international education efforts in the magazine section of this report. Laboratories at TU Darmstadt expanded We encourage young people to come to our Junior Labs and SPARK: Igniting a passion for science in the next explore their enthusiasm for conducting experiments. generation This initiative links classroom lessons with trending topics and modern methods of research. Since 2008, we've been As part of SPARK, our global volunteer program, employees partnering with the Technical University (TU) of Darmstadt from our Life Science business sector share their skills and to operate a junior laboratory for chemistry. In 2017, we experience with students in order to ignite a passion for upped our efforts by adding experiments in new subject science and inspire them to consider a STEM-related career. areas such as dyestuff synthesis and enzyme kinetics. Over SPARK activities include our Curiosity LabsTM program, the course of 2017, approximately 2,500 students conducted which educates students through exciting hands-on, interresearch here. Since 2016, we've also been running the active science lessons. Beyond this, we also offer them site “livfe BioLab”, where students can perform biology expertours and career discussions. In addition to providing all the iments under professional guidance. In 2017, more than materials pupils need for the practical lessons, we collab1,000 students took advantage of this laboratory. orate closely with education experts around the world to ensure that SPARK meets specific local requirements. In 2017, through this initiative, more than 2,500 of our Continuing education for teachers and expanding employees volunteered over 13,700 hours around the world school partnerships to provide exciting insights into the world of science and strengthen our communities. As part of our school booster program in Darmstadt and the surrounding area, in 2017 we provided approximately 70 schools with numerous science lesson materials. Around Curiosity Cube tours the United States 1,500 students visited our research labs, select manufacAs part of SPARK, in 2017 we launched the Curiosity CubeTM, turing plants and the classroom laboratory at our headquara retrofitted shipping container that has been transformed ters. into a solar-powered mobile science lab. The goal of this mobile lab is to bring hands-on science experiments and 114 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Community state-of-the-art technology in an innovative setting to spark field. This TeleScience platform will feature 11 educational curiosity in the next generation of scientists. In 2017, more videos and training sessions led by our Life Science than 38,000 students visited the mobile lab. Each one of employees, who share techniques and tips on a wide range of the nearly 23,000 experiments conducted was led by a Life topics such as sterile sampling and reducing cell culture contScience employee. amination. Under the auspices of this organization, we also donated laboratory equipment to nine universities in seven countries in a bid to accelerate scientific research. More than 30 employees volunteered their time to help select, decont~29,000 aminate, inventory, and pack items for donation. Sparking the curiosity of Chinese primary school children kilometers were covered by the Curiosity CubeTM throughout At the beginning of 2017, we launched the Green Crystal project the United States. It stopped at schools and city centers in in China by donating second-hand yet still fully functional tablets over 85 communities. to two elementary schools in Sichuan province. The aim of this project is to improve science education for primary school students. In September 2017, 17 of our employees in Shanghai Most importantly, the Curiosity CubeTM had a direct impact participated in this project, traveling to the schools, teaching on student achievement and cognition. Following a visit, lessons and supervising scientific experiments. In 2017, around surveyed teachers indicated that 82% of students used 400 children benefited from this initiative. terms and concepts learned at the Curiosity CubeTM in classroom discussions, while 95% of students increased their Music and literature as ambassadors understanding of life science terminology. Deutsche Philharmonie sponsored by Merck KGaA, Taiwan: Lab experiments in railway cars Darmstadt, Germany In May 2017, we took part in Taiwan Railways of Popular What began in 1966 as a company ensemble is now a profesScience, an event held in Taiwan in which a science train sional symphony orchestra. The Deutsche Philharmonie sponmade a four-day journey across the country. With it, 27 sored by Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany is an integral part of our employees traveled to 17 cities, teaching more than of cultural life in Darmstadt and regularly goes on international 3,000 students about the science behind everyday products concert tours. We also offer orchestra workshops where children and supervising experiments such as how to make liquid and adolescents can experience playing in a professional crystal display or cosmetics. The science train was developed orchestra for the first time. Through cushion concerts for children by professors of two Taiwanese universities in 2016 and is as young as four and youth concerts, we seek to inspire young sponsored by the Taiwan Ministry of Science and Technology. people and ignite a passion for classical music. Mobile research lab for environmental analysis In 2017, guest directors such as Joseph Bastian and Yoel Gamzou helped us celebrate the 50th anniversary of the In 2017, we once more lent support to the “Chemistry on Deutsche Philharmonie sponsored by Merck KGaA, the go” initiative of Tamkang University in Taiwan. Under this Darmstadt, Germany. Ben Palmer was appointed head initiative, Tamkang University has converted a truck into a conductor and gave his inaugural concert in the basilica of mobile research lab for environmental analysis to give Eberbach Abbey in Eltville am Rhein (Germany). Other guest students even in remote parts of Taiwan the opportunity to performers included the Klazz Brothers and the European perform scientific experiments. We've been supplying laboUnion Baroque Orchestra. ratory materials for the truck since 2014. In 2017, around 20 of our employees also taught classes to approximately 1,000 students. Beyond these efforts, in the course of 2018 ~21,000 we plan to donate a second, fully-equipped laboratory truck to Tamkang University in an effort to reach even more school children. Partnering with Seeding Labs people attended performances of the Deutsche Philharmonie In 2017, we sponsored a new online platform for Seeding sponsored by Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany in 2017. Labs, an organization that provides scientists in develAs part of its international tour, the symphony performed oping and emerging countries with lab equipment, concerts in Morocco, Austria, and the Czech Republic. training and opportunities to collaborate with experts in their 115 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Community Building social inclusion through music Worth € 20,000 and launched in 1964, the Johann Heinrich Merck Award of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany for In the vicinity of our site in Rio de Janeiro (Brazil), where Literary Criticism and Essay Writing went to journalist and many children and young people face social instability, we author Jens Bisky in 2017. According to the German support the School of Music and Citizenship. Since 2011, Academy for Language and Poetry, he was chosen for his around 3,700 children and adolescents have received music “brilliant style, cosmopolitan outlook and witty levelheadedlessons at this school, with approximately 1,100 in 2017 ness, which, given the acuity of his judgment, makes him alone. The dedication of this music school has produced a one of the most reliable voices in current discourse”. successful youth orchestra with approximately 40 talented young musicians. In Italy, we've been awarding the Premio Letterario Award of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany since 2003 in recognition Literary awards for bridge builders of authors who make science accessible to a broad audience. Worth € 10,000, the 2017 prize was presented to U.S. author Like music, literature is also an important ambassador Sam Kean for his essay “The Violinist's Thumb”. The jury between cultures. We therefore award five literary prizes decided on an honorable mention for Paolo Zellini, an Italian worldwide. The Johann Heinrich Merck Award for Literary mathematician, author and professor. Both have a special Criticism and Essay Writing in Germany of Merck KGaA, understanding of how to bridge the gap between literature Darmstadt, Germany and the Premio Letterario Award of and science. Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany in Italy are presented on an annual basis, while the Kakehashi Literature Prize In Italy, we also pledge resources to promoting the next of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany in Japan, the Tagore generation of literary genius. In addition to creative Award of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany in India, and the writing workshops, we host a youth writing competition. Translation Award of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany in The winners of La Scienza Narrata are chosen together with Russia are granted every two years. These prizes particularly the winners of the Premio Letterario Award of Merck KGaA, recognize authors who distinguish themselves as bridgeDarmstadt, Germany. builders between cultures, as well as between science and literature. 116 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Facts & Figures 118 Report profile 161 Sustainable Development Goals 120 Indicators 164 Non-financial report 148 Goals 173 GRI Content Index 159 Recognition and rankings 190 Global Compact CoP 117 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Report profile  Part of the non-financial report We have a long tradition of corporate responsibility reporting, with this being our ninth Corporate Responsibility (CR) Report. This started in 1993 as a series of environmental reports describing how we fulfill our responsibility to society, but then evolved in 2003 into a full CR Report that was released every two years. Since 2016, we've been publishing this report on an annual basis. With transparency as a key goal, we aim to inform our stakeholders of our activities and successes, as well as the challenges we face. Our 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report is the first time we've met the requirements for a combined separate non-financial report as defined in the CSR Directive Implementation Act that took effect in Germany in 2017. An index on the non-financial report (p. 164) provides an overview of the relevant content. This CR Report also documents the progress we’ve made in implementing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact (Communication on Progress (p. 190)) and meets the criteria of the German Sustainability Code (DNK). Our Statement of Compliance with the DNK is can be accessed via the DNK database. Reporting framework This CR report covers fiscal 2017 and pertains to our entire Group including our subsidiaries across 66 countries. Any deviations from this reporting framework are indicated on a case-by-case basis. Data collection and consolidation systems Since 2005, we’ve been using a Group-wide electronic data acquisition system to collect environmental and occupational health and safety data, which is input locally at our individual sites and approved following review. To maximize the quality of this data, we support the sites in optimizing their collection processes and their corresponding quality assurance measures. Moreover, our Group function Environment, Health, Safety, Security, Quality (EQ) conducts internal EHS audits that review both the processes and the data provided. We compile environmental performance indicators from all our production sites across the Group, as well as those warehouse and research sites that are relevant in terms of their environmental impact and employee count. The scope of consolidation therefore covers all Group sites that have relevant impacts on the environment. The data on employees and community outreach pertain to our entire Group. All employee master data is continually updated in an SAP database. We use community data management software to log data pertaining to our community involvement at subsidiary level. Some employee data is only disclosed for select sites or countries, which is accordingly indicated in the respective text passages. Determining report content We align the content of our CR Report with the internationally recognized guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the principles of completeness and materiality, as well as input from our stakeholders. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: 'Comprehensive' option. Moreover, we have taken into consideration the requirements of the capital market for assessing companies' sustainability performance. In 2016, we performed a comprehensive materiality assessment to determine the CR topics of relevance to our Group. In 2017, experts from the responsible business sectors reviewed these issues and validated them once again, taking into account current trends. Moreover, as stipulated by Section 289c (2) of the German Commercial Code (HGB), we checked the topics validated in 2017 for double materiality . We have derived the content of this CR report from the results of the materiality assessment, addressing all issues identified as material. Detailed information on the materiality assessment and the materiality matrix can be found under Materiality (p. 22). 118 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Our Executive Board has reviewed and approved this report. The content of the non-financial report has also been reviewed by the Supervisory Board in accordance with Section 111 (2) of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG). External audit KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has audited the annual financial statements and management report of our company for the fiscal year spanning January 1 to December 31, 2017 and issued an unqualified opinion. Furthermore, after undergoing a limited assurance audit, our company has received an independent audit certificate for the following criteria: Strategy & management Products Employees Environment Suppliers Community Facts & figures The additional content provided on the company's websites and external webpages indicated in this report is not part of the non-financial report or information assured by KPMG. Contact: We welcome your feedback and are happy to answer any questions. Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany Corporate Affairs Group Corporate Responsibility Maria Schaad Frankfurter Str. 250 64293 Darmstadt Germany Telephone: +49 6151 72-0 Fax: +49 6151 72-200 This CR Report was published in April 2017. Our next CR Report is scheduled for publication in April 2019. 119 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Economics Net sales, operating result (EBIT) and research and development costs, by business sector Performance 1 € million Healthcare Life Science Materials Group 2016 Net sales 6,855 5,658 2,511 15,024 Operating result (EBIT) 1,593 556 823 2,481 R&D costs 1,496 260 213 1,976 2017 Net sales 6,999 5,882 2,446 15,327 Operating result (EBIT) 1,447 834 689 2,525 R&D costs 1,632 241 225 2,140 1 As a non-operating segment, Corporate and Other is not shown here as a separate item, but rather under Segment Reporting in our 2017 Annual Report. 120 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Compliance  Part of the non-financial report Internal audits on corruption and Human Rights Charter 2017 thereof Merck KGaA, 2017 Darmstadt, 1 2 2014 2015 2016 The Group Germany Number of audits relating to corruption 36 49 55 50 13 % of audits relating to corruption 68 64 68 65 17 Number of audits relating to the workplace requirements of our Human Rights Charter 32 41 47 45 12 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016 2 Includes global audits which are conducted at the headquarters in Darmstadt and/or the management of the audited function is reporting into KGaA. In 2017, we audited 16% of all Group subsidiaries (status June 2017, excluding minority holdings), covering approximately 30% of all sales generated between the third quarter of 2016 and the second quarter of 2017. In 2017, during 45 of our audits conducted in 22 countries, we additionally reviewed workplace parameters as per our Human Rights Charter. No violations were identified. 121 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Reported compliance violations 2017 thereof Merck KGaA, 2017 Darmstadt, 1 2014 2015 2016 The Group Germany Total number of reported compliance violations Number of reported compliance incidents 26 33 36 39 1 Number of confirmed cases 11 8 12 14 1 confirmed cases by category Violation of the Human Rights Charter 1 0 2 0 0 Bribery and Corruption 2 0 2 1 0 Violation of the Pharmaceutical Guidelines 2 2 4 2 0 Violation of Data Privacy and Confidentiality Guidelines 0 1 0 2 1 Manipulation of Business Documents 0 0 2 1 0 Violation of cartel laws and fair competition rules 0 1 0 0 0 Infringements in the areas of finance, accounting and banking 0 0 0 0 0 Theft and fraudulent Actions against the Group 1 2 1 1 0 Other violations of Compliance Principles for the relations with Business Partners of the Group 0 0 1 2 0 Other violations of values, internal guidelines or legal requirements 5 2 0 5 0 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016 In 2017 there was a total of 14 confirmed compliance cases, 2 of which were already reported in 2016, but closed in 2017. 122 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Compliance training 2017 thereof Merck KGaA, 2017 Darmstadt, 1 2 2014 2015 2016 The Group Germany Total number of persons trained on 3 anti-corruption guidelines 7,519 20,404 29,764 17,044 2,326 Total number of employees trained on anti-corruption guidelines 5,496 17,378 25,889 13,345 1,450 % of employees trained on anti-corruption 14 43 51 25 14 by employee category Number of Role 2+ employees trained on anti-corruption 3,071 12,747 14,379 7,080 635 % of Role 2+ employees trained on anti-corruption 17 64 84 27 13 % of employees below Role 2 trained on anti-corruption 12 22 34 24 15 4 by region (%) Europe – – 54 18 14 North America – – 57 46 not applicable Asia-Pacific (APAC) – – 38 25 not applicable Latin America – – 52 19 not applicable Middle East and Africa (MEA) – – 66 29 not applicable 1 In Q1 – Q3 2014, Group Compliance performed a thorough analysis and review of its Compliance Training Program. No courses were scheduled for these quarters. 2 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016 3 Includes contractors, external supervised workers (e.g. temps) and contract partners working on-site who were trained on anti-corruption guidelines (2017: 3,699). 4 As of 2016, we are also reporting the training rate by region. No such data was tracked for the preceding years. In order to address the special responsibility held by management personnel, as well as by staff with HR responsibility, these employees are increasingly receiving training on anti-corruption guidelines. This applies to all employees rated Role 2+. Our compliance and anti-corruption principles are communicated to all our business partners, who undergo a Business Partner Risk Management (BPRM) process. Training increased in 2016 due to the initial integration of employees of Sigma-Aldrich, a company acquired at the end of 2015. 123 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Legal actions 2017 thereof Merck KGaA, 2017 Darmstadt, 1 2014 2015 2016 The Group Germany 2 Total number of legal actions pending or completed (for anticompetitive behavior, violations of anti-trust or violations of monopoly legislation) 2 2 2 3 2 pending 2 2 2 3 2 completed 0 0 0 0 0 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2015 2 As published in the annual reports, the herein listed total number of legal actions refers to the significant legal risks as per the company’s definition. The significance of legal risks is based on potential negative effects on projected financial objectives as well as on the probability of occurrence. For further information please see our annual reports: Annual Report 2014, pages 130-131 and pages 213-215, no. 48 Annual Report 2015, pages 128-129 and pages 212-213, no. 27 Annual Report 2016, pages 135-136 and pages 228-229, no. 26 Annual Report 2017, pages 148-150 and pages 252-254, no. 27 124 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Products  Part of the non-financial report 1 Customer privacy 2 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total number of substantiated complaints received from outside parties 0 0 0 0 Total number of complaints from regulatory bodies 1 0 0 0 Total number of identified leaks, thefts, or losses of customer data 0 0 1 0 1 This data only reflects incidents classified as significant. 2 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2017 125 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Employees  Part of the non-financial report Total number of employees 2017 thereof Merck KGaA, 2017 Darmstadt, 1 As of Dec. 31 2014 2015 2016 The Group Germany Total number of employees 39,639 49,613 50,414 52,941 10,677 Men 23,273 28,997 28,848 30,083 6,779 Women 16,366 20,616 21,566 22,858 3,898 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2015 126 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures 1 Number of employees by hierarchical level 2017 thereof Merck KGaA, 2017 Darmstadt, 2 2 2 As of Dec. 31 2014 2015 2016 The Group Germany Total employees 39,639 49,613 50,414 52,941 10,677 Senior management (Role 6+) 118 146 181 197 90 Middle management (Role 4 & 5) 1,973 2,211 2,685 2,927 1,037 Low management (Role 3) 6,109 6,622 8,139 8,904 2,451 Other employees (below Role 3) 31,439 40,634 39,409 40,913 7,099 % of women (total) 41 41 43 43 37 thereof in senior management (Role 6+) 20 21 25 30 16 thereof in middle management (Role 4 & 5) 539 611 805 917 319 thereof in low management (Role 3) 2,385 2,636 3,361 3,714 950 thereof other employees (below Role 3) 13,422 17,348 17,375 18,197 2,613 % of men (total) 59 59 57 57 63 thereof in senior management (Role 6+) 98 125 156 167 74 thereof in middle management (Role 4 & 5) 1,434 1,600 1,880 2,010 718 thereof in low management (Role 3) 3,724 3,986 4,778 5,190 1,501 thereof other employees (below Role 3) 18,017 23,286 22,034 22,716 4,486 by age group Up to 29 years old (%) 15 15 15 15 15 thereof in senior management (Role 6+) 0 0 0 0 0 thereof in middle management (Role 4 & 5) 6 5 7 3 3 thereof in low management (Role 3) 127 130 183 194 100 thereof other employees (below Role 3) 5,750 7,424 7,229 7,479 1,486 30 to 49 years old (%) 64 64 62 62 55 thereof in senior management (Role 6+) 64 68 76 72 33 thereof in middle management (Role 4 & 5) 1,264 1,407 1,670 1,782 648 thereof in low management (Role 3) 4,424 4,770 5,784 6,308 1,670 thereof other employees (below Role 3) 19,703 24,815 23,996 24,733 3,487 50 years or older (%) 21 21 23 23 30 thereof in senior management (Role 6+) 54 78 105 125 57 1 In 2017, we switched our job architecture from a Global Grading System to Roles. Figures have been retroactively adjusted for previous years. 2 From 2015 on, these figures include Sigma-Aldrich, however as of Dec. 31, 2017 the job grading system had not yet been implemented for employees of Sigma-Aldrich legal entities in Germany, or for employees of Allergopharma. These employees are included under “thereof other employees (Role 3 and below)”. 127 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures 1 Number of employees by hierarchical level 2017 thereof Merck KGaA, 2017 Darmstadt, 2 2 2 As of Dec. 31 2014 2015 2016 The Group Germany thereof in middle management (Role 4 & 5) 703 799 1,008 1,142 386 thereof in low management (Role 3) 1,558 1,722 2,172 2,402 681 thereof other employees (below Role 3) 5,986 8,395 8,184 8,701 2,126 1 In 2017, we switched our job architecture from a Global Grading System to Roles. Figures have been retroactively adjusted for previous years. 2 From 2015 on, these figures include Sigma-Aldrich, however as of Dec. 31, 2017 the job grading system had not yet been implemented for employees of Sigma-Aldrich legal entities in Germany, or for employees of Allergopharma. These employees are included under “thereof other employees (Role 3 and below)”. Average number of employees by functional area 1 2 2 2 Average number of employees 2014 2015 2016 2017 Group 38,930 41,511 50,439 52,053 Thereof women 16,110 17,180 21,136 22,353 Production 10,176 11,563 14,829 15,571 Thereof women 3,202 3,642 4,698 5,059 3 Logistics/ Supply Chain 2,207 2,581 3,955 3,729 Thereof women 774 913 1,459 1,442 3 Marketing and Sales/ Commercials 12,113 12,871 14,887 15,115 Thereof women 4,814 5,204 6,401 6,609 Administration 6,342 6,763 8,190 9,286 Thereof women 3,557 3,757 4,421 4,798 Research and Development 4,738 5,097 6,249 6,789 Thereof women 2,534 2,674 3,274 3,591 Infrastructure and Other 3,354 2,636 2,329 1,564 Thereof women 1,230 990 883 854 1 Average headcount (HC) 2014 is calculated based on the End HC of the last 5 quarters divided by 5. 2 The average employee headcount for 2015 through 2017 is calculated by adding up all employees at the end of each of the last 13 months, and dividing this total by 13. Employees of Sigma-Aldrich, a company acquired in November 2015, are only included in the employee headcount calculations as of November 2015. 3 In conjunction with the new job architecture implemented in 2017, some functional areas have been renamed and reorganized. Due to the new structure from 2017 on, it will only be possible to deliver a limited trend forecast in a year-onyear comparison. 128 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Number of employees by region 2017 thereof Merck KGaA, 2017 Darmstadt, 1 As of Dec. 31 2014 2015 2016 The Group Germany Total 39,639 49,613 50,414 52,941 10,677 Europe 20,537 23,429 24,438 25,980 10,677 women 8,893 10,316 10,884 11,627 3,898 women (%) 43 44 45 45 37 Number of employees with temporary contracts 906 1,079 1,031 1,279 513 % of employees with temporary contracts 4 5 4 5 5 North America 5,092 9,794 10,037 10,520 0 women 2,272 4,183 4,308 4,518 not applicable women (%) 45 43 43 43 not applicable Number of employees with temporary contracts 18 22 122 138 not applicable % of employees with temporary contracts 0.4 0.2 1 1 not applicable Asia-Pacific (APAC) 9,488 11,096 10,754 11,294 0 women 3,176 3,706 3,981 4,298 not applicable women (%) 33 33 37 38 not applicable Number of employees with temporary contracts 156 1,888 2,231 2,603 not applicable % of employees with temporary contracts 2 17 21 23 not applicable Latin America 3,883 4,352 4,140 4,050 0 women 1,745 1,986 1,910 1,896 not applicable women (%) 45 46 46 47 not applicable Number of employees with temporary contracts 28 43 40 40 not applicable % of employees with temporary contracts 1 1 1 1 not applicable Middle East and Africa (MEA) 639 942 1,045 1,097 0 women 280 425 483 519 not applicable women (%) 44 45 46 47 not applicable Number of employees with temporary contracts 111 127 153 172 not applicable % of employees with temporary contracts 17 13 15 16 not applicable 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2015 External contractors are currently not logged in our employee data system, nor do we currently have any plans to integrate them. 129 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Employees by business sector 1 As of Dec. 31 2014 2015 2016 2017 Healthcare employees 17,757 18,566 18,837 19,795 Thereof women 8,130 8,522 9,090 9,656 Thereof women (%) 46 46 48 49 Life Science employees 9,796 18,611 19,178 19,607 Thereof women 4,134 7,883 7,928 8,276 Thereof women (%) 42 42 41 42 Performance Materials employees 5,995 6,228 5,469 5,529 Thereof women 1,498 1,531 1,427 1,455 Thereof women (%) 25 25 26 26 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2015 Employees by contract type 1 As of Dec. 31 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total employees 39,639 49,613 50,414 52,941 Number of employees with permanent contracts 38,410 46,454 46,837 48,709 % of employees with permanent contracts 97 94 93 92 thereof women 15,826 19,034 19,741 20,741 thereof women (%) 41 41 42 43 Number of employees with temporary contracts 1,219 3,159 3,577 4,232 % of employees with temporary contracts 3 6 7 8 thereof women 536 1,563 1,744 2,117 thereof women (%) 44 49 49 50 full-time employees 37,573 47,292 48,056 50,498 % full-time 98 95 95 95 thereof women 14,497 18,557 19,457 20,677 thereof women (%) 39 39 40 41 part-time employees 2,066 2,321 2,358 2,443 % part-time 5 5 5 5 thereof women 1,869 2,059 2,109 2,181 thereof women (%) 90 89 89 89 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2015 130 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures New employees 2017 thereof Merck KGaA, 2017 Darmstadt, 1 2014 2015 2016 The Group Germany Total number of new employee hires 6,212 5,710 7,085 7,285 1,032 by age group Up to 29 years old 2,305 2,088 2,930 2,940 435 30 to 49 years old 3,361 3,252 3,736 3,848 543 50 or older 546 370 419 497 54 by gender Women 2,513 2,450 3,388 3,412 462 Men 3,689 3,260 3,697 3,873 570 by region Europe 2,312 2,119 2,689 3,058 1,032 North America 826 730 1,348 1,603 not applicable Asia-Pacific (APAC) 2,298 1,913 2,201 1,955 not applicable Latin America 619 780 636 497 not applicable Middle East and Africa (MEA) 157 168 211 172 not applicable 2 Rate of new employee hires (%) 16 14 14 14 10 3 by age group Up to 29 years old 37 37 41 40 42 30 to 49 years old 54 57 53 53 53 50 or older 9 6 6 7 5 3 by gender Women 41 43 48 47 45 Men 59 57 52 53 55 3 by region Europe 37 37 38 42 100 North America 13 13 19 22 not applicable Asia-Pacific (APAC) 37 33 31 27 not applicable Latin America 10 14 9 7 not applicable Middle East and Africa (MEA) 3 3 3 2 not applicable 1 These figures exclude the 8,975 Sigma-Aldrich employees, who are not classified as new hires because they joined our company as part of the Sigma-Aldrich acquisition. 2 Formula for calculating the rate of new employee hires: Total number of new employee hires divided by Number of employees at the end of the fiscal year. 3 Formula for calculating the rate of new employee hires by age/gender/region: New employee hires of the focus group divided by the total number of new employee hires. In consequence of the modified calculation method and the new composition of our regions effective January 1, 2015 corresponding figures for the preceding year have been retroactively adjusted. 131 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures 1 Staff turnover 2017 thereof Merck KGaA, 2017 Darmstadt, 2 3 3,4 3 3 2014 2015 2016 The Group Germany Total turnover rate 11.01 10.38 12.07 9.05 2.35 Turnover rate by gender Men 10.75 10.13 12.87 8.75 2.18 Women 11.38 10.73 10.96 9.46 2.43 Turnover rate by age group Up to 29 years old 18.71 17.49 19.20 13.66 3.51 30 to 49 years old 9.72 9.69 11.37 8.38 2.08 50 or older 9.49 8.08 9.19 7.87 2.22 Turnover rate by region Europe 7.05 6.22 6.23 6.22 2.35 North America 12.45 12.72 11.50 11.02 not applicable Asia-Pacific (APAC) 17.55 15.95 22.37 12.53 not applicable Latin America 13.67 15.29 18.85 13.74 not applicable Middle East and Africa (MEA) 13.62 12.00 10.80 11.22 not applicable Total number of leavers 4,364 4,168 6,087 4,710 244 by gender Men 2,502 2,386 3,771 2,596 162 Women 1,862 1,782 2,316 2,114 82 by age group Up to 29 years old 1,102 943 1,464 1,058 55 30 to 49 years old 2,474 2,505 3,589 2,713 120 50 or older 788 720 1,034 939 69 by region Europe 1,447 1,290 1,490 1,488 244 North America 634 638 1,132 1,143 not applicable Asia-Pacific (APAC) 1,665 1,540 2,543 1,387 not applicable Latin America 531 618 814 570 not applicable Middle East and Africa (MEA) 87 82 108 122 not applicable 1 The table contains unadjusted turnover rates. The rate excludes employees who depart due to parental leave or a longterm illness, as well as employees who are transitioning to the non-working phase of partial retirement. 2 Employee turnover for fiscal year 2014 is calculated as follows: Total number of leavers of the past 12 months multiplied by 100 divided by the employee headcount as of December 31. 3 Employee headcount for fiscal 2015, 2016 and 2017 is calculated as follows: Total number of leavers from the past 12 months divided by the average employee headcount multiplied by 100. 4 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016 132 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures 1 Work-related accidents 2017 thereof Merck KGaA, 2017 Darmstadt, 2 2014 2015 2016 The Group Germany Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR = workplace accidents resulting in missed days of work per one million manhours) 1.8 1.4 1.3 1.5 3.1 by region 3 Europe 2.9 2.6 2.2 2.4 3.1 North America 1.0 0.9 1.1 1.0 not applicable Asia-Pacific (APAC) 0.5 0.3 0.4 0.3 not applicable Latin America 1.3 0.7 0.4 1.3 not applicable Middle East and Africa (MEA) 0.9 0.5 1.6 0.0 not applicable Number of deaths 2 2 0 0 0 by region Europe 0 1 0 0 0 North America 0 1 0 0 0 Asia-Pacific (APAC) 1 0 0 0 0 Latin America 1 0 0 0 0 Middle East and Africa (MEA) 0 0 0 0 0 by gender Women 1 1 0 0 0 Men 1 1 0 0 0 1 Including supervised workers 2 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2015 3 Figure retroactively adjusted. Both our employees as well as contractors have been included in the calculation of these indicators. Through the LTIR, we record work-related accidents that involve at least one day of missed work. A work-related accident is an injury that results from the type of work, in the course of doing said work, and that has no internal cause. Work-related accidents are considered relevant if they occur on the premises, on business trips, during goods transport, as a result of external influences (e.g. natural disasters), or due to criminal acts involving personal injury. Commuting accidents and accidents during company sporting activities are not included. First-aid incidents are generally not included in the LTIR since these usually do not result in more than one day of missed work. By 2020, we intend to sustainably lower the LTIR to 1.5. The aim is to permanently stabilize or outperform this challenging number, which we achieved for the first time in 2015. We have defined the LTIR as a key indicator for the Group. Therefore, we do not publish any other indicators such as workplace accidents, lost days or days of absence. The LTIR is not broken down by gender as this differentiation is not relevant to our strategic planning. For Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany (about 20% of the employees of the Group), we only report work-related illnesses if these have been diagnosed and verified by a physician. In 2017 period, no cases of work-induced illness were verified. 133 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Employees who regularly receive a performance and development evaluation 2017 thereof Merck KGaA, 2017 Darmstadt, 1 2 3 2014 2015 2016 The Group Germany % of employees who receive a performance and development evaluation 79 88 97 -⁴ -⁴ by gender Women 84 90 97 -⁴ -⁴ Men 77 87 97 -⁴ -⁴ by employee category Senior management (Global Grade above 17) 97 100 100 -⁴ -⁴ Low and middle management (Global Grade 14–17) 96 100 100 -⁴ -⁴ Other employees (Global Grade below 14) 78 88 97 -⁴ -⁴ 1 The 2014 data is based on a reporting date of March 2, 2015. 2 The 2015 data is based on a reporting date of February 29, 2016. 3 From 2016 on, figures include Sigma-Aldrich, but as of Dec. 31 2017, the job grading system had not yet been implemented for employees of Sigma-Aldrich legal entities in Germany and of Allergopharma. 4 Figure will be available on Dec. 31, 2018. Regular feedback and employee performance evaluations are essential to fairly ranking individual performance and to helping all employees follow their own career path. Our globally uniform Performance and Talent Management Process requires annual feedback meetings and performance assessments for all employees rated Role 2 and up in the job grading system that was used in 2017 (corresponds to Global Grade 10 or higher in the job grading system that was used until the end of 2016). Apart from evaluating employee performance, this helps us to identify individual development opportunities. When it comes to applying this process, our individual subsidiaries can decide for themselves whether to include employees rated below Role 2 (corresponds to Global Grade 9 or lower in the job grading system that was used until the end of 2016). In Germany, all permanent employees have been participating in the Performance and Talent Management Process since 2013. In 2017, a total of 51,240 employees worldwide were involved in the process. The Performance and Talent Management Process is coordinated via our online platform HR4You. Internationality of employees 2017 thereof Merck KGaA, 2017 Darmstadt, 1 2 3 3 As of Dec. 31 2014 2015 2016 The Group Germany Number of nationalities 122 122 129 131 97 Number of nationalities in management positions (Role 4 or above) 67 64 70 65 41 % of non-Germans in management positions (Role 4 or above) 60 61 65 64 17 1 These figures do not include the employees of AZ Electronic Materials, a company that was acquired in July 2014. As of December 31, 2014, the job grading system had not yet been implemented there. 2 These figures do not include the employees of Sigma-Aldrich, a company that was acquired in November 2015. As of December 31, 2015, the job grading system had not yet been implemented there. 3 From 2016 on, figures include Sigma-Aldrich. However, as of Dec. 31 2017, the job grading system had not yet been implemented for employees of Sigma-Aldrich legal entities in Germany or for employees of Allergopharma. 134 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Employee age by region As of Dec. 31 Europe Middle East Number of North (including Asia-Pacific Latin and Africa employees Worldwide America Germany) Germany (APAC) America (MEA) 2016 Up to 29 years old 7,419 1,319 3,087 1,757 2,260 562 191 thereof women 3,331 548 1,470 695 922 312 79 30 to 49 years old 31,523 5,224 15,023 6,938 7,625 2,972 679 thereof women 13,849 2,327 6,985 2,780 2,817 1,405 315 50 or older 11,472 3,494 6,328 3,755 869 606 175 thereof women 4,386 1,433 2,429 1,333 242 193 89 Average age 41.3 44.3 42.4 42.9 36.7 39.9 39.3 Total employees 50,414 10,037 24,438 12,450 10,754 4,140 1,045 2017 Up to 29 years old 7,676 1,438 3,272 1,589 2,257 521 188 thereof women 3,512 608 1,585 634 945 294 80 30 to 49 years old 32,895 5,465 15,680 5,838 8,099 2,913 738 thereof women 14,540 2,423 7,287 2,195 3,074 1,405 351 50 or older 12,370 3,617 7,028 3,250 938 616 171 thereof women 4,806 1,487 2,755 1,069 279 197 88 Average age 41.4 44.1 42.5 42.6 36.9 40.3 39.4 Total employees 52,941 10,520 25,980 10,677 11,294 4,050 1,097 Age of youngest employee 1 As of Dec. 31 2014 2015 2016 2017 Age of youngest employee, excluding apprentices 17 17 17 18 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016 135 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Voluntary insurance benefits (voluntarily introduced and (co-) financed) 2017 thereof Merck KGaA, 2017 Darmstadt, 1 1 As of Dec. 31 2014 2015 2016 The Group Germany 2 3 % of employees with healthcare benefits – – 68 68 0 % of employees with Group accident 4 – – insurance 39 42 1 5 % of employees with life insurance – – 57 58 0 % of employees with disability insurance 6 – – (short-term and long-term) 32 35 0 1 Since 2016, we’ve been reporting voluntary insurance benefits that we offer our employees. No such data was tracked for the preceding years. 2 Any spend on voluntarily introduced and (co-) financed healthcare benefits for employees and possibly their dependents. Not taking into consideration any mandatory social security cover (Mostly covered by an insurance policy). 3 Figure retroactively adjusted. 4 Any spend on voluntarily introduced and (co-) financed accident insurance that pays a defined amount in case of death or disability caused by a work-related accident (not taking into consideration any mandatory social security cover, e.g. workman's compensation). 5 Any spend on voluntarily introduced and (co-) financed life insurance cover that pays a defined amount of money in case of natural death (not accidental). 6 Any spend on voluntarily introduced and (co-) financed insurance cover that disability pays for salary continuation in case of inability to work caused by an insured incident. All our employees are covered by either statutory or voluntary accident and health insurance. Employees of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany are covered by statutory insurance as stipulated by the regulations in force in Germany. We offer a company pension in numerous countries along with various programs for supplemental company pensions and survivor's benefits. The global benefits listed in the table above are designed to provide additional security to our workforce and their families and to improve their quality of life. Benefits represent voluntarily employer-initiated as well as employer-financed assistance to our workforce in addition to the regular compensation package. Our benefits offer meaningful choices, where possible, to support a diverse workforce and are sensitive to the needs and customs of the employees who use them, regardless of country, age, family status, interests, or values. Long-term pension obligations and post-employment benefits 1 € million 2014 2015 2016 2017 Present value of all defined benefit obligations as of Dec. 31 3,813 4,153 4,698 4,707 Pension expenses 157 210 226 304 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2015 Depending on the legal, economic and fiscal circumstances prevailing in each country, different retirement benefit systems are provided for the employees of the Group. Generally, these systems are based on the years of service and salaries of the employees. Pension obligations of the Group include both defined benefit and defined contribution plans and comprise both obligations from current pensions and accrued benefits for pensions payable in the future. In the Group, defined benefit plans are funded and unfunded (see our Annual Report 2017, Note on Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits). 136 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Flexible working hours in Germany 1 2 As of Dec. 31 2014 2015 2016 2017 % of employees utilizing the “mywork” working model 31 35 36 40 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016 2 Essentially reflects the figures of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany. In coordination with their teams and supervisors, employees taking advantage of the working model “mywork” can choose when and where they work. Parental leave in Germany 1 1 1 2 As of Dec. 31 2014 2015 2016 2017 Number of employees with a right to parental leave 331 317 359 353 thereof women (recorded via maternity leave in the respective year) 165 149 191 151 thereof men (recorded via special paternity leave in the respective year) 166 168 168 202 3 Number of employees who took parental leave 507 485 480 352 thereof women 349 301 303 150 thereof men 158 184 177 202 Number of employees on parental leave who worked part time during their leave 99 102 102 49 thereof women 94 99 95 47 thereof men 5 3 7 2 Number of employees who returned from parental leave 187 183 174 312 thereof women 83 51 62 143 thereof men 104 132 112 169 Return to work rate (%) 36.9 37.7 36.3 88.6 thereof women 23.8 16.9 20.5 95.3 thereof men 65.8 71.7 63.3 83.7 Number of employees still working for the Group one 4 year after their return from parental leave 137 184 190 – 4 thereof women 35 55 73 – 4 thereof men 102 129 117 – 4 Retention rate (%) 90.7 96.8 95.6 – 4 thereof women 58.3 98.2 93.8 – 4 thereof men 112.1 96.3 96.8 – 1 Figures only pertain to the Darmstadt and Gernsheim sites in Germany (which accounted for around 20 % of the employees of the Group in 2017). Figures are calculated on the basis of the data from one entire year, which also includes those employees who took parental leave during the calendar year, but who had not returned by Dec. 31. 2 Figures only pertain to Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany (which accounted for around 20 % of the employees of the Group in 2017). Figures are calculated on the basis of the data from one entire year, which also includes those employees who took parental leave during the calendar year, but who had not returned by Dec. 31. 3 Since parental leave can be taken for a period ranging from one month to three years, it is possible for employees to be recorded across a period of up to four calendar years. This explains why the number of employees on parental leave exceeds the number of employees who have a right to it. 4 Figure will be available on Dec. 31, 2018. 137 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures 1 Employees with disabilities (%) As of Dec. 31 2014 2015 2016 2017 1 Employees with disabilities 4.7 4.7 4.5 4.3 1 Only pertains to Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany (which accounted for around 20% of the employees of the Group in 2017, calculations based on the German Social Code IX SGB IX). Apprentices 1 2 3 3 As of Dec. 31 2014 2015 2016 2017 Number of apprentices 498 506 576 588 % of apprentices 5.4 5.3 4.6 4.4 1 Only pertains to Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany sites in Darmstadt, Gernsheim and Grafing, Germany (which accounted for roughly 24% of the employees of the Group in 2014). 2 Only pertains to Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany (roughly 19% of the total employee headcount of the Group in 2015). 3 Only pertains to sites in Germany (approximately 25% of the Group's total workforce in 2016 and 2017). Essentially reflects the figures of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany. 138 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Environment Spending on environmental protection, safety and health 1 € million 2014 2015 2016 2017 Spending 145 148 189 200 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016 These figures include both investments in as well as internal and external spending on waste and wastewater management, water, occupational safety, fire protection, noise reduction, air pollution prevention, decontamination, preservation of nature and the landscape, climate impact mitigation, and energy efficiency. We do not further break down our spending on environmental protection by type. 1 Total greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and 2 of the GHG Protocol) 2 metric kilotons 2006 2014 2015 2016 2017 3 Total CO2eq emissions 793 731 726 711 731 Thereof direct CO2eq emissions 379 390 393 387 374 indirect CO2eq emissions 414 341 333 324 357 Biogenic CO2 emissions 6 11 54 56 38 1 In line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, for all previous years (up to the 2006 baseline) the greenhouse gas emissions have been calculated based on the current corporate structure of the reporting year and retroactively adjusted for acquisitions (e.g. Sigma-Aldrich in 2015) or divestments of (parts of) companies, or for changes in emission factors (portfolioadjusted). 2 Baseline for our emission targets is 2006. 3 eq = equivalent Our response to the Carbon Disclosure Project contains a detailed description of our calculation methods. We have included the following gases in our calculation of direct and indirect CO 2eq emissions: Direct CO2 emissions: CO2, HFCs, PFCs; CH4/N2O negligible; SF6/NF3 not available. Indirect CO2 emissions: CO2. In 2017, we emitted 0.048 kg of CO2eq per euro of net sales. 139 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3 of the GHG Protocol) 1 1 1,2 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total gross other indirect emissions (metric 3 kilotons CO2eq ) 319 349 426 353 Fueland energy-related emissions, not included in Scope 1 or 2 (category 3) 97 95 127 118 Waste generated in operations (category 5) 96 123 127 68 4 Business travel air travel (category 6) 74 79 103 98 5 Business travel rail travel (category 6) 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 Business travel rental car travel (category 6) 1.2 1.1 0.6 0.6 Employee commuting (category 7) 51 51 68 68 6 6 6 Upstream leased assets (category 8) 0 0 0 0 7 7 7 Processing of sold products (category 10) 0 0 0 0 Downstream leased assets (category 13) 0 0 0 0 Franchises (category 14) 0 0 0 0 1 Because of the characteristics of the Scope 3 emissions data we do not correct these data subsequently. 2 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016 3 eq = equivalent 4 This figure covers roughly 80% 85% of the employees of the Group because the data for the employees of SigmaAldrich, acquired in November 2015, are only partially available. 5 German Railway 6 Already covered under Scope 1 and 2 emissions 7 The Group produces a huge variety of intermediate products for various purposes. Due to their many applications and our customer structure, the associated GHG emissions cannot be tracked in a reasonable fashion. No data is available for Scope 3 categories not listed above. Their relevance to the Group is assessed in the Scope 3 document. Biogenic emissions (Scope 3), if present, are not being recorded. Emissions of ozone-depleting substances metric tons 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total emissions of ozone-depleting substances 2.0 2.5 2.2 2.1 1 CFC-11eq 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 1 CFC-11eq is a unit of measure used to compare the potential of various substances to deplete the ozone. Reference figure 1 indicates the potential of CFC-11 to cause the depletion of the ozone layer. Substances included: R-12, R-22, R-141b, R-402a, R-409a, R-401a. Source for the emission factors: Montreal Protocol. Other air emissions 1 metric kilotons 2014 2015 2016 2017 Volatile organic compounds (VOC) 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 Nitrogen oxide 0.2 0.3 0.2 0.2 Sulfur dioxide 0.02 0.05 0.05 0.03 Dust 0.02 0.06 0.02 0.04 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016 140 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures The VOC, nitrogen oxide, sulfur dioxide, and dust emissions reported here are attributable to production activities as well as energy generation. These figures do not include emissions from vehicles. Emissions are determined partially based on measurements and partially based on calculations or estimates. Only some sites are required to measure individual parameters. Transport of finished goods, by means of transportation 1 1 2 2014 2015 2016 2017 % Truck 56 53 71 73 % Boat 38 41 18 15 % Airplane 6 6 11 12 1 The figures until 2015 pertain to goods shipped by our Darmstadt, Gernsheim and Hohenbrunn sites in Germany (excluding Sigma-Aldrich). 2 From 2016 on, the figures contain the volumes of the biggest global distribution centers of our Healthcare, Life Science and Performance Materials business sectors. These figures pertain to the total weight of transported products and indicate the primary means of transport. In shipping finished goods from our production sites to the local warehouses of our subsidiaries, we have been working to reduce the use of air shipping in favor of sea freight. This change aims to both reduce costs as well as lower transportrelated CO2 emissions. 141 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures 1 Energy consumption In GWh 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total energy consumption 2,162 2,260 2,241 2,270 Direct energy consumption 1,354 1,452 1,445 1,386 Natural gas 1,207 1,206 1,267 1,256 2 Liquid fossil fuels 120 111 37 34 Biomass and self-generated renewable energy 27 135 141 96 Indirect energy consumption 808 808 796 884 Electricity 711 712 701 740 Steam, heat, cold 97 96 95 144 Total energy sold 0.6 0.5 0.5 0.3 Electricity 0.6 0.5 0.5 0.3 Steam, heat, cold 0 0 0 0 In TJ 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total energy consumption 7,783 8,137 8,068 8,172 Direct energy consumption 4,874 5,228 5,202 4,990 Natural gas 4,345 4,342 4,561 4,522 2 Liquid fossil fuels 432 400 133 122 Biomass and self-generated renewable energy 97 486 508 346 Indirect energy consumption 2,909 2,909 2,866 3,182 Electricity 2,560 2,563 2,524 2,664 Steam, heat, cold 349 346 342 518 Total energy sold 2.2 1.8 1.8 1.1 Electricity 2.2 1.8 1.8 1.1 Steam, heat, cold 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 1 In line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, for all previous years (up to the 2006 baseline) the energy consumption has been calculated based on the current corporate structure of the reporting year and retroactively adjusted for acquisitions or divestments of (parts of) companies, or for changes in emission factors (portfolio-adjusted). 2 Light and heavy fuel oil, liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), diesel and gasoline At our sites in Billerica (MA, USA), Bedford (MA, USA), Molsheim (France), Tel Aviv (Israel), Rome (Italy), Guatemala City (Guatemala), Shizuoka-ken (Japan), and Shanghai (China), we use photovoltaics to produce power. We currently only record purchased secondary energy – this is primarily electricity and, to a lesser extent, heat/steam/cold. Details on the local energy mix, including the respective percentage of primary energy, renewable energy, etc. are not available. Data on local energy efficiency in electricity or heat generation are not available either. Our production sites are located in countries with a widely varying energy mix. Our Darmstadt and Gernsheim sites in Germany consume the most energy, representing 28% of our Group-wide total. At these sites, fossil energy (coal, gas, etc.) accounts for approx. 53.7%, nuclear energy approx. 14.3% and renewable energies approx. 32% of the energy mix. Renewable energies account for a higher share of electricity generation at production sites in Switzerland, with nuclear energy taking the lead in France. Based on an estimated global energy efficiency of 37% for the conversion and distribution of generated electricity, this results in a primary energy consumption of 2,000 GWh for 2017. Based on an estimated global energy efficiency of 85% for heat/steam/cold, this results in a primary energy consumption of 170 GWh for 2017. This yields a total primary energy consumption of 2,170 GWh for 2017. (The calculation is based on factors stated in the “Manual for energy management in practice Systematically reducing energy costs” published by DENA, 12/2012.) 142 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures In 2017, the Group’s energy intensity relative to net sales totaled 0.150 kWh/€. Water consumption 3 1 millions of m 2014 2015 2016 2017 2 2 Total water consumption 11.1 13.7 13.8 14.0 2 2 Surface water (rivers, lakes) 1.2 1.8 1.8 1.8 2 Groundwater 6.3 7.1 7.2 7.3 2 2 Drinking water (from local suppliers) 3.6 4.8 4.8 4.9 Rain water and other sources 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2015 2 Figure retroactively adjusted. These figures do not include the ground water that we use for safety measures at our Gernsheim site in Germany. Here, the water is fed back directly into natural circulation. Water reused 3 1 millions of m 2014 2015 2016 2017 Water reused 16.0 23.0 22.7 22.4 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2015 The increase in reused water in 2015 is attributable to the recirculating cooling system that went online at our facility in Darmstadt, Germany. This system provides recirculating cooling water to both our new co-generation unit as well as our new cold and compressed air generator. The recirculating cooling system largely accounts for the amount of reused water as it allows the water to be re-utilized multiple times. The volume of reused water is thus greater than the total volume of consumed water. Wastewater volume and quality 1 2014 2015 2016 2017 3 Total wastewater volume (millions of m ) 10.1 11.8 12.1 12.3 Chemical oxygen demand (metric tons of O3) 1,319 1,933 1,535 1,654 Phosphorous (metric tons) 10 10 12 8 2 2 Nitrogen (metric tons) 81 487 379 254 2 2 Zinc (kg) 410 491 448 351 Chromium (kg) 36 42 34 34 2 2 Copper (kg) 34 78 48 61 2 Nickel (kg) 128 127 124 138 Lead (kg) 55 54 56 63 Cadmium (kg) 10 13 11 12 Mercury (kg) 1 2 2 1 Arsenic (kg) 4 5 4 3 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2015 2 Figure retroactively adjusted. The wastewater volume includes indirect discharge into both public and Group-owned wastewater treatment plants, as well as direct discharge (such as rainwater and cooling water). The wastewater treatment plant at our Gernsheim, Germany site also treats wastewater from the neighboring municipality 143 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures of Biebesheim. The communal wastewater from Biebesheim is included in the wastewater volume as well as in the emissions stated in the table. Emissions are determined partially based on measurements and partially based on calculations or estimates. Only some sites are required to measure individual parameters. Hazardous and non-hazardous waste 1 metric kilotons 2014 2015 2016 2017 2 2 Total waste 228 320 252 252 3 2 Hazardous waste disposed 53 55 47 43 3 2 Non-hazardous waste disposed 55 35 38 34 4 2 Hazardous waste recycled 49 73 78 69 4 2 2 Non-hazardous waste recycled 71 157 89 106 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2015 2 Figure retroactively adjusted. 3 Disposed = incineration (without energy recovery) and landfill 4 Recycled = incineration (with energy recovery) and material recycling Exported/Imported hazardous waste 1 metric kilotons 2014 2015 2016 2017 2 Exported 9.6 5.1 4.6 4.9 3 Imported 0.003 0.010 0.010 0.005 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2015 2 Disposal within the EU and the United States. 3 As part of the return system for our cell tests, these kits are brought to our Gernsheim site in Germany for proper disposal. In 2017, less than 2% of hazardous waste was shipped internationally. Waste by disposal method 1 2014 2015 2016 2017 2 2 Total waste (metric kilotons) 228 320 252 252 2 Disposed waste (metric kilotons) 108 90 85 77 2 Landfilled waste (metric kilotons) 37 16 15 13 2 Incinerated waste (metric kilotons) 71 74 70 64 2 2 Recycled waste (metric kilotons) 120 230 167 175 2 2 Material recycling (metric kilotons) 93 198 135 145 2 Waste-to-energy (metric kilotons) 27 32 32 30 2 Recycling rate (%) 53 72 66 69 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2015 2 Figure retroactively adjusted. As in previous years, the total waste generated continues to be heavily influenced by the waste from construction and remodeling activities. Construction, excavation and demolition waste accounted for 37% of our waste in 2017. Around 74 metric kilotons of construction, excavation and demolition waste was recycled. 144 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Significant spills 1 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total number of significant spills 0 0 0 0 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2015 145 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Community Spending on community involvement 1,2 € million 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total spending 50.8 100.0 43.0 33.8 1 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016 ® 2 From 2016 on, we are separating spending on patient support programs such as our Erbitux China Patients Assistance Program from our community involvement figures. We calculate the value of pharmaceutical product donations according to the WHO Guidelines for Medicine Donations; for other product donations, we apply their fair value. 1 Community involvement spending by region Middle East North Asia-Pacific Latin and Africa Europe America (APAC) America (MEA) 2016 € million 10.1 2.3 4.4 1.1 25.1 % 24 5 10 3 58 2017 € million 8.7 2.9 3.2 0.5 18.5 % 26 9 9 1 55 1 This table presents the regions across the globe in which we support initiatives. For projects that benefit multiple regions, we have calculated the amount per region by dividing the project spending evenly per country. 1 Focus of our local community involvement 2,3,4 % 2014 2015 2016 2017 Health 33 33 35 38 Education and culture 38 33 36 43 Environment 10 7 5 4 Disaster relief 4 6 2 2 Other 15 21 22 13 1 Based on number of projects 2 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016 3 Since 2016, we have integrated our global projects into our community outreach figures, specifically the Global Pharma Health Fund, the Praziquantel Donation Program and the Deutsche Philharmonie sponsored by Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany. This change in approach was due to the increasingly international nature of our efforts. We are spearheading a rising number of global projects that account for a growing percentage of our project portfolio. To ensure maximal accuracy, we are therefore including all international initiatives in our figures as of 2016. ® 4 From 2016 on, we are separating spending on patient support programs such as our Erbitux China Patients Assistance Program from our charitable spending figures. 146 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures 1 Motivations for our community involvement 2,3,4 % 2014 2015 2016 2017 Charitable activities 9 3 4 9 Community investment 59 92 87 84 Commercial initiatives in the community 32 5 9 7 1 Based on total spending on all projects 2 Including Sigma-Aldrich as of 2016 3 Since 2016, we have been integrating our global projects into our community outreach figures, specifically the Global Pharma Health Fund, the Praziquantel Donation Program and the Deutsche Philharmonie sponsored by Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany. This change in approach was due to the increasingly international nature of our efforts. We are spearheading a rising number of global projects that account for a growing percentage of our project portfolio. To ensure maximal accuracy, we are therefore including all international initiatives in our figures as of 2016. ® 4 As of 2016, we are separating patient support programs such as our Erbitux China Patients Assistance Program from our charitable spending. We categorize the motivations for our activities based on the London Benchmarking Group model as well as the guidelines of the Bertelsmann Foundation for corporate social responsibility. Projects that primarily aim to make improvements within the community are classified as community investment. Initiatives that are predominantly aimed at company-relevant factors such as image or personnel recruitment are classified as commercial initiatives in the community. Charitable activities cover any other projects that benefit a charitable organization, but cannot be listed under either of the other two motivation categories due to missing data or their narrow scope. 147 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Goals  Part of the non-financial report Legend: New goal Goal achieved In progress Goal not achieved Products Access to health We aim to improve access to health for underserved populations in lowand middle-income countries. Goal: Monitor and assess the progress and effectiveness of our A2H programs. Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2017: Status: Develop quantitative and qualitative 2018 We developed indicators for the 2014, 2016 performance indicators for the 4 As: and 2017 CR Reports for each A of the “4As of Availability, Accessibility, Affordability, Access” framework. and Awareness. Goal: Affordability: Overcome inability to pay. Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2017: Status: Participate in at least one partnership End of 2018 In 2017, we entered into a partnership with with a public-sector partner in an effort the University of California San Diego, United to share our intellectual property and States to share compounds from our library expertise in infectious and neglected under the WIPO Re:Search open innovation tropical diseases. umbrella in order to identify potential cures for leishmaniasis, Chagas disease (American trypanosomiasis) and human African trypanosomiasis (HAT sleeping sickness). Establish a partnership to share intellecEnd of 2018 In April 2017, we entered into a partnership tual property with a non-commercial with the Drug for Neglected Diseases initiative organization. (DNDi), under which we are participating in the Drug Discovery Booster project for neglected tropical diseases. Goal: Awareness: Empower health workers, communities and people. Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2017: Status: Create an awareness initiative run End of 2017 In 2017, our Water for Health public-private jointly by our Healthcare and Life partnership was rolled out in Ghana. Through Science business sectors. this initiative, we are seeking to raise awareness of water quality and expand local water analysis capacities. Engage in a dialogue to jointly identify End of 2018 In 2017, we conducted an Access Dialogue on the key access challenges and opportuthe topics of innovation and intellectual propnities for our A2H strategy. erty, along with an Accessibility Platform dialogue on challenges in local supply chains. 148 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures We aim to improve global health for underserved populations in lowand middle-income countries, with a focus on combating infectious diseases. Goal: Availability: Address unmet needs through the research, development and optimization of health solutions. Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2017: Status: Develop a pediatric formulation of praziEnd of 2018 In 2015, we completed both the Phase I quantel for the treatment of schistosobioavailability study (South Africa) in healthy miasis in children under six. volunteers and the swill & split taste study Milestone: Entry into Phase III (Tanzania). Since 2016, we have been conducting a Phase II study in Côte d’Ivoire aimed at assessing the efficacy and safety of two different formulations for orodispersible tablets in schistosomiasis-infected children under the age of six. We expect initial results in the second quarter of 2018. Develop a new antimalarial. 2017 In March 2015, we obtained the rights to a Milestone: Entry into Phase I promising investigational antimalarial compound originating from a collaboration between the Medicines for Malaria Venture (MMV) and the University of Dundee (United Kingdom). The compound potentially offers a new mechanism of action for the treatment and prevention of malaria in young children. The project completed its preclinical phase in 2016, and the Phase I study was initiated in 2017. Develop a new antimalarial. End of 2018 The Phase I study for the investigational antiMilestone: Completion of Phase I malarial compound originating from a collaboration between MMV and the University of Dundee (United Kingdom) is expected to be completed by December 2018. Develop a new diagnostic kit to detect End of 2018 In 2017 we completed the preclinical phase and characterize the type of malaria having achieved promising results. We will parasite. start clinical trials in 2018. Milestone: Start of clinical trial Goal: Accessibility: Strengthen supply chains and provide localized health solutions Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2017: Status: Engage stakeholders in overcoming the End of 2018 We have launched the Accessibility Platform as challenges in creating an end-to-end a forum for dialogue. secure supply chain and supplying goods in developing countries. Host one to two meetings under the End of 2018 In 2017, one dialogue on the challenges of auspices of the Accessibility Platform. local supply chains was hosted under the banner of the Accessibility Platform. We also held a panel session in conjunction with the World Health Summit on “Supply Chain & Delivery Capabilities: Critical enablers to improving access to health,” co-hosted with platform members Roche and Novartis. Form a partnership to improve healthEnd of 2019 In 2017, we identified a variety of options for care at the point of care in developing developing this sort of partnership. countries. NTDeliver: Reach more than 1,000 End of 2018 In 2017, a pilot was run in Kenya and showed schools via a school-based deworming that the system works. The decision was taken campaign with praziquantel and Albento implement the school-based deworming dazole (GlaxoSmithKline) program in 2018. 149 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Chemical product safety Goal: Use precautionary principle to establish a globally aligned hazard and risk communication system for all our relevant chemical products in the supply chain Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2017: Status: Implement REACH: Register substances Mid-2018 By the end of 2017, we had registered 250 produced in quantities of 1-100 metric phase 3 substances for various subsidiaries of tons per year (phase 3 of REACH impleour company. mentation) and register non-phase-in substances. Implement the Global Product Strategy: End of 2020 Because we were heavily focused on Issue product safety summaries for all completing phase 3 REACH registrations on hazardous substances registered under time, the product safety summaries were not a REACH. priority in 2017. Projects for hazard communication: End of 2020 By the end of 2017, we had updated 65% of Update safety data sheets for nonthe safety data sheets for non-hazardous hazardous materials. materials within Performance Materials and 74% in Life Science. The integration of SigmaAldrich should be completed by the end of 2018, by which time we intend to have updated all safety data sheets. Harmonize safety data sheets to align End of 2020 Within Performance Materials, in 2017 we with a globally uniform standard. began drafting all safety data sheets Groupwide using a single system. Within Life Science, safety data sheets for all new product launches have been harmonized. Existing substances will be transitioned to the globally harmonized system by 2020. Counterfeit products Goal: Integrate safety into relevant business processes for our Healthcare and Life Science business sectors. Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2017: Status: Identify strategic and commercial data End of 2018 In 2017, we harmonized the processes for that require greater protection; minireporting incidents and conducting audits. For mize risks by modifying processes. our Biopharma business, we are looking into ways to further harmonize security features. Goal: Step up interdisciplinary collaboration within global security network. Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2017: Status: Expand organizational structures and Ongoing In 2017, we expanded our MACON network to certify employees who deal with product eight key countries: the United Kingdom, crime. Poland, Russia, Indonesia, Nigeria, South Africa, Egypt, and Tunisia. Network members hold discussions twice a month. Implement a Group-wide notification End of 2017 Our new Group-wide reporting system has system for counterfeit products. been rolled out. Thanks to greater transparency and better tracking, cases can now be investigated more efficiently or prevented altogether by identifying possible ties to other incidents. 150 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Goal: Educate employees and other target groups on the strategic relevance of counterfeit medicines. Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2017: Status: Host conferences and seminars; share Ongoing In 2017, all our Product Crime Officers took best practices and lessons learned part in a variety of training programs. They through international networks. regularly share best practices and lessons learned. Goal: Develop and implement security technology and solutions for supply chain authentication, identification, integrity, and security. Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2017: Status: Support regional activities to counter Ongoing We supported around 128 investigations product crime. across approximately 30 countries. We also participated in workshops and seminars with law enforcement in the United Kingdom, Italy, Mexico, Brazil, Nigeria, China, and the United States, and furthermore engaged German federal authorities in dialogue. Monitor the number of unreported cases Ongoing We are constantly scouring the Internet for of counterfeit medicines in select councriminal offenses involving our products, tries and step up internet searches to tapping into partner networks in high-risk track down trademark infringement and countries to do so. This enables us to raise the counterfeit products. clearance rate for product crime incidents. Our countermeasures are increasingly covering the darknet and social media. Among other steps, we launched our “Evaluating product crime in the darknet” initiative. Support regional activities in five highEnd of 2017 We appointed Product Crime Officers from 20 risk countries. countries to the global MACON network. An additional ten countries are slated to join in 2018 and are already undergoing preparations to do so. Half of these 30 countries are highrisk markets. Monitor counterfeit pharmaceuticals in Ongoing conventional distribution channels as well as online sales. Transport and warehouse safety Goal: Ensure warehouse and transport safety for our company and our suppliers. Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2017: Status: Integrate all freight forwarders into our End of 2017 As a member of the Logistics & Distributors audit process. User Group of SQAS, a service provided by the European Chemical Industry Council, Cefic, we receive additional audit reports of our logistics providers. In 2017 we developed criteria to evaluate these findings, which we subsequently make available to all internal stakeholders. Harmonize transport and warehouse End of 2022 By the end of 2017, we had straightened out safety master data through Group-wide 84% of all deviations in the transport and ERP systems. warehouse safety master data of identical products in our Life Science portfolio. 151 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Animal welfare We work to safeguard the welfare of animals used by our company, contract research organizations, suppliers, and other partners. Goal: Ensure consistently high quality across our animal facilities Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2017: Status: Inspect Life Science animal facilities in End of 2018 The feasibility study was conducted. Accreditapreparation for potential accreditation: tion of additional Life Science facilities is not Conduct a feasibility study and make a currently planned. decision about accreditation. Re-accredit relevant animal facilities. Ongoing Re-accreditations are conducted every three years. In 2017, one of our animal facilities was successfully re-accredited. Goal: Promote the 3Rs (Reduce, Refine, Replace) Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2017: Status: Develop a Group-wide 3R program. End of 2019 Our award program was approved by the Group Animal Welfare Council in November 2017; the prize will be presented for the first time in 2018. Goal: Ensure animal welfare in our supply chain Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2017: Status: Identify animal welfare risks in our End of 2017 We developed a strategy and processes to supply chain and develop a strategy for account for potential risks in our supply chain certifying suppliers. and certify suppliers. The certification process is supported by Interpharma’s cross-company audit concept. We also drafted a Standard on Vendor Qualification, which describes our criteria for evaluating the quality of our suppliers’ and partners’ animal welfare practices. This standard took effect in March 2018. Develop and implement an audit plan Ongoing for suppliers. Compliance Goal: Bring Compliance closer to the business Status: We’re working on a more integrated compliance approach, building on enhanced business accountability and ownership that are supported by a risk-based and business sector-oriented compliance framework. Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2017: Status: Quantum LEAP: Develop and introduce September We have redesigned the overall system landan automated, lean process and tool 2018 scape and developed processes which are now landscape to support transparency being implemented in pilot countries. reporting requirements and the streamlined processing of interactions with our partners in the Healthcare sector. Build on adapted compliance controls and enhanced business ownership and accountability. 152 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Business Partner Risk Management June 2018 We developed a new tool architecture based Process update: Design an updated and on key user input and launched the technical more automated tool with integrated implementation. risk assessment and controls. New Code of conduct of Merck KGaA, March 2018 A new Code of Conduct was rolled out in Darmstadt, Germany: The Code has a December 2017. strong relation to the company’s values, The corresponding e-learning script will be built on core principles to adhere to. developed and implemented by the end of Supported by a business specific roll-out March 2018. and e-learning. Self-monitoring as part of the CompliSeptember In 2017, we designed new functionalities and ance Risk Assessment process: Inte2018 launched the technical implementation. Selfgrate self-assessment of compliance assessment will be driven by business, and program implementation status in supported by Compliance. existing Compliance Risk Assessment. Employees Attractive employer Goal: Consistently fill at least two-thirds of leadership positions (Role 6+) with internal candidates Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2017: Status: Use the Talent Management Process to Ongoing In 2017, 84% of our vacant leadership posiidentify suitable employees with leadertions (Role 6+) were filled internally. ship potential and optimize the process to systematically advance them. Build a high-potential pool that reflects Ongoing We are continuously developing our highour demographic structure. potential pool, which is a reflection of the diversity within our company. Goal: Position our Group as an attractive employer for university graduates Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2017: Status: Participate in university fairs and orgaOngoing We are continuously positioning ourselves as nize in-house events for graduates; an attractive employer for university graduposition our company via employer ates via editorial articles on careerloft, through branding channels. event information on e-fellows.net and through trainee and employee films on YouTube. By the end of 2017, all 49 planned trainee slots and direct hires were filled through our employer branding and talent sourcing efforts. Goal: Increase the share of employees (Group-wide) with development plans to 70% by 2020 Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2017: Status: Conduct extensive internal communica2020 The percentage of employees with developtions and people development ment plans increased from 26% (2016) to campaigns, and optimize existing tools. 61% (2017). 153 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Diversity Goal: Our target for 2021 is to maintain a 30% representation of women in leadership roles (Role 4+) Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2017: Status: Deploy teams at departmental level to End of 2021 All business sectors have performed analyses develop goals and measures to move and identified focus areas for actions. women into positions in various units and hierarchies. Health and safety Goal: Reduce the lost time injury rate Group-wide (to 1.5 or less). Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2017: Status: Reinforce our safety culture to prevent End of 2020 In 2017, we achieved a Group-wide LTIR of behavior-related accidents/Roll out our 1.5. Through manager training, safety tours BeSafe! program at all newly acquired and train-the-trainer programs, we continued sites and monitor ongoing implementato sustain a high level of safety awareness in tion via appropriate performance indica2017 as well. We took these steps at tors. numerous sites – including ten newly acquired ones. Employee engagement Goal: Measure and improve employee engagement Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2017: Status: Implement a regularly occurring process Ongoing Action plans were implemented throughout the to measure employee engagement and organization based on 2016 results. Repeat take actions to improve it. survey conducted in November 2017 to check progress. Good leadership Goal: Ensure that people managers are enabled to motivate and develop their employees Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2017: Status: Have at least 50% of people managers End of 2018 As planned, all 400 of our top executives have rated Role 3+ take part in a managetaken part in our Global Leadership Program. ment program. Regarding our other management programs, 765 employees completed our Advanced Management program and 2,901 our Managerial Foundation program. 154 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Environment Environmental stewardship Goal: Incorporate all production sites into our Group ISO 14001 certificate for environmental management systems. Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2017: Status: At newly acquired production sites, Ongoing In 2017, 15 sites transferred their environintroduce environmental management mental management system to our Group systems in line with our Group ISO certificate. All sites pertinent to the Group 14001 certificate and certify them certificate have thus been transitioned to the accordingly. new version of ISO 14001:2015. Climate protection Goal: 20% reduction in our direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and 2) by 2020 (2006 baseline) Status: By the end of 2017, we had lowered our greenhouse gas emissions by roughly 8% relative to 2006 – despite operational growth. Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2017: Status: Systematically examine the energy End of 2020 We continued to systematically examine consumption at our individual production potential energy savings at our production sites facilities. In 2017, these analyses became part of our routine processes. Identify potential energy savings and End of 2020 In 2017, we implemented 36 Edison projects implement appropriate measures with a view to cutting CO2 emissions by 3,500 metric tons in the medium term. We thus failed to achieve our goal of saving up to 34,000 metric tons of CO2. Multiple projects had to be postponed until 2018. In 2018, we intend to initiate 30 new projects with potential savings of 4,600 metric tons of CO2. Reduce process-related emissions End of 2020 We have successfully completed an emissions reduction project for process-related emissions (launched in 2015). Through this project, we hope to cut greenhouse gas emissions by up to 28,000 metric tons per year. In 2017, the project saved approximately 10,000 metric tons of CO2. Technical issues have forced us to postpone another project (offering savings of roughly 23,000 metric tons of CO2) until 2018. We intend to roll out two further projects in 2018 that aim to reduce CO2 emissions by 24,000 metric tons. 155 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Waste and recycling Goal: Set a reduction target by the end of 2017 for the volume of waste generated by our company Status: goal achieved Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2017: Status: Implement a waste scoring model End of 2017 Using the Waste Score, we established a (Waste Score of Merck KGaA, DarmGroup-wide baseline for 2016 from which has stadt, Germany) to quantify our waste been used to set a new reduction target. reduction efforts and set a baseline. Goal: Reduce the environmental impact of our waste disposal (Waste Score of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany) by 5% by 2025 (baseline 2016) Status: The goal was adopted by the Executive Board, under the guidance of the CR Committee, in November 2017. We are now developing a course of action to achieve it. Water management Goal: Introduce a sustainable water management system at seven appropriate sites in water-stressed areas and reduce their water consumption by 10% by the end of 2020 (2014 baseline) Status: By the end of 2017, we had reduced our water use at relevant sites by around 9% relative to 2014. Going forward, we want to ensure a sustainable 10% reduction in water use. Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2017: Status: Create a water balance to make water April 2017 In 2017, the relevant sites developed their use transparent. own water balances, thus creating transparency regarding their water use. To help in their efforts, water meters were installed at individual sites and consumption was measured at various points within the facilities. Goal: Introduce a sustainable water management system at 24 production sites with high water use by 2020. Status: Using the CEFIC Water Matters flagship initiative self-assessment tool, our sites are implementing a water management system in three stages. While stage 1 (basic) has already been achieved, we expect to achieve stage 2 (progressed) by May 2018 and stage 3 (advanced) by May 2020. Based on water use in 2016, a further site (Sheboygan, WI, USA) was included in the target group in 2017. Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2017: Status: Meet the basic requirements set out in April 2017 Stage 1 of the self-assessment was largely the CEFIC flagship self-assessment tool concluded in 2017. (stage 1). These include water quantity and quality evaluations at the sites, as well as an environment analysis. One of the measures to be taken during stage 1, for instance, is the creation of water balances to make water use transparent. 156 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Meet the “progressed” requirements set May 2018 During stage 2 of the self-assessment, we will out in the CEFIC flagship self-assessessentially create transparency regarding the ment tool (stage 2). This involves water situation in the vicinity of our individual creating transparency regarding the sites. We will also start work on evaluating the situation in the vicinity of the respective influence our sites have on their surroundings. sites and beginning the evaluation of the sites’ influence on their environment. Suppliers Goal: Ensure that suppliers adhere to ethical, social, environmental, and compliance standards. Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2017: Status: Perform a qualitative analysis of the After analyzing 670 audit and assessment available assessment and audit findings, results, it became clear that 45 suppliers fell and define potential courses of action. short of the score we specified for a working relationship and for procurement activities, and/or returned more than five critical defects. Joint meetings were held to discuss risk minimization options based on the evaluation results from Procurement and Quality Assurance. Following implementation of the corrective actions, suppliers are either re-assessed or reaudited. Create a holistic approach to managing 2017 During the first half of 2017, Group Procuresustainability within global supply ment conducted a management workshop chains. and drafted a position statement on sustainability. As a result, four focus areas were defined and were further elaborated by the individuals responsible for sourcing within each business sector. Community Health Hand in hand with our partners, we aim to eliminate the tropical worm disease schistosomiasis worldwide. Goal: Eliminate schistosomiasis in African school children Status: Since the start of our donation program, more than 150 million patients have been treated, primarily school-aged children. Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2017: Status: Donate up to 250 million praziquantel Ongoing We keep production capacities at a level suffitablets annually to WHO for African cient for manufacturing 250 million prazischool children. quantel tablets a year. In response to the needs of WHO, in 2017 we donated approximately 150 million tablets for distribution in 26 African countries. Optimize the praziquantel formulation. End of 2019 In 2017, we coordinated with WHO to draft the design for the bio-equivalence study. It is currently under consideration by the Mexican Food and Drug Administration. The study is to be carried out in 2018. 157 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Develop a pediatric formulation of praziEnd of 2019 Since 2016, we’ve been conducting a Phase II quantel for children under the age of study in Côte d'Ivoire to test the efficacy and six. safety of two different formulations for orodispersible tablets in schistosomiasis-infected children under six. We expect to have initial results by the second quarter of 2018. At the same time, we are preparing the Phase III study. Initiate new partnerships to promote Ongoing Since 2017, we have been partnering with the behavioral change in African school chilNALA Foundation to raise awareness. dren. Together, we are supporting a national health project sponsored by the Ethiopian Federal Ministry of Health. Provide WHO with educational booklets Ongoing In 2017, we donated 200,000 educational to teach children about schistosomiasis booklets to WHO for distribution across 12 and ways to prevent it. African countries. Position the Global Schistosomiasis Ongoing In 2017, the GSA expanded its global collaboAlliance (GSA) as a partner platform for ration with schistosomiasis stakeholders. advocacy, implementation, research, Furthermore, several NGOs became members communication, and strategy developof the organization. ment. The GSA hosted multiple schistosomiasis research conferences with experts from across the globe and continued to work towards the elimination of the disease in Ethiopia, Cameroon, Uganda, and Egypt. Minilab Goal: Provide and further develop the GPHF Minilab® Through the GPHF Minilab®, we seek to fight counterfeit medicines in developing and emerging economies. Develop new test methods for five End of 2017 In 2017, the GPHF developed test methods for active ingredients and expand manuals five new active ingredients, meaning that a to describe the new testing methods. total of 90 test protocols are now available. The manuals have been updated accordingly. Conduct at least three training semiEnd of 2017 In 2017, the GPHF conducted three Minilab nars using the GPHF Minilab®; sell at training seminars with a total of around 50 least 35 Minilabs. participants. Seven additional seminars with well over 100 participants were conducted by GPHF partner organizations. The GPHF sold a total of 41 Minilabs at cost and supplied 49 additional material deliveries for Minilabs currently in use. Conduct at least two Minilab training End of 2018 seminars, sell at least 30 Minilabs and maintain rising demand for additional materials. Develop new test methods for ten active End of 2018 ingredients and revise ten existing methods. Update the Minilab manuals and consoliEnd of 2020 date all test methods into one single volume. 158 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Recognition and rankings The following overview presents a selection of major ratings and rankings. Information on additional ratings and accolades received by individual businesses or sites can be found in the respective chapter of our 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report, or on our company’s website. CR performance Access to Medicine Index In 2016, our company moved up to fourth place in the Access to Medicine Index (2014: sixth place). This index assesses 20 pharmaceutical companies with respect to their efforts to improve access to medicine in developing countries. It is published every two years by the Access to Medicine Foundation, an international non-profit organization. www.accesstomedicineindex.org CDP climate and water Since 2008, we’ve been reporting our climate impact mitigation activities to the CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project). In 2017, we scored a B in the CDP and are thus among the top 37% of healthcare companies. The CDP assesses the strategy used and the success achieved by companies in reducing their greenhouse gas emissions, as well as how they address the risks and consequences of climate change. In addition to these efforts, since 2016 we have also been reporting our water-related performance and processes to the CDP. In 2017, we received a B for our water management, thus moving up two places over the previous year. This good score was particularly attributable to our Water Protection standard, our strategic goals and the concrete steps we took to conserve water. The CDP evaluates performance in the areas of climate and water on a scale from A to D-, with A being the top score. www.cdp.net EcoVadis rating The independent rating agency EcoVadis assesses suppliers from 120 countries across the categories of Environment, Labor Practices, Fair Business Practices, and Sustainable Procurement. As a member of the Together for Sustainability initiative, we also undergo this assessment. In 2017 we were awarded the Gold recognition level and were thus among the top 1% of all participating companies. www.ecovadis.com Good Company Ranking In 2016 Kirchhoff Consult, a management consultancy, published its fifth Good Company Ranking. Among the 30 companies included in the DAX, we took tenth place. The ranking is published every two years. www.kirchhoff-consult.com oekom research Sustainability Rating In 2017, the sustainability ratings agency oekom research AG gave our company a Bon a scale of A+ (top grade) to D-. As in the previous year, we thus once more achieved oekem Prime Status (“good” to “very good”). www.oekom-research.com 159 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Vigeo Eiris Human Rights Study In 2016 Vigeo Eiris, a sustainability rating and research agency, analyzed the extent to which over 3,000 companies meet their social responsibility to respect human rights. Our company ranks among the top 30 companies and achieved 69 out of 100 points, a score which corresponds to the highest of the four levels. www.vigeo-eiris.com Sustainability indices Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Europe and Ethibel EXCELLENCE Investment Register In 2015 we were added to the ESI Excellence Europe, which includes the 200 top-rated European companies based on their corporate responsibility performance. We are also included in the Ethibel EXCELLENCE Investment Register. www.forumethibel.org Euronext Vigeo Eurozone 120 Index Since 2015, we have been included in the Euronext-Vigeo Eurozone 120, which comprises the 120 highest-ranking European companies in terms of their environmental, social and governance efforts. www.vigeo-eiris.com FTSE4GOOD Global Index Since 2008, we have been included in the FTSE4GOOD Global Index, a leading international sustainability index that annually measures the performance of companies in demonstrating strong environmental, social and ethical practices. www.ftse.com STOXX® Global ESG Leaders Index In 2017, our company was once again included in the STOXX Global ESG Leaders sustainability index, which assesses companies based on key environmental, social and governance criteria. www.stoxx.com CR awards Annual Report Competition (ARC) awards In October 2017, our 2016 CR Report was awarded eight international ARC accolades across various categories, in particular in Interactive Annual Report, Interior Design, and Design/Graphics. Established by MerComm, Inc. in 1987, the ARC awards were created to honor particularly harmonious concepts in the fields of design, picture composition and written text. www.mercommawards.com Econ Awards Presented by the German publisher Econ, the Econ Awards recognize outstanding concepts and practices in corporate communications. In November 2017, we won a Gold Econ Award for the digital version of our 2016 CR Report, with special mention made of its user-friendliness, information content and attractive presentation. We also received a Gold Econ Award for our curiosity campaign entitled #catchcurious, which was especially praised by the jury for linking scientific curiosity with our company values. www.econforum.de (German only) 160 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Sustainable Development Goals In 2015, the United Nations adopted the Sustainable Development Goals ( SDGs), which are aimed at all countries and organizations across the globe. We too are doing our bit to achieve these targets. Our efforts Under our Corporate Responsibility (CR) strategy (p. 9), we’re already working to solve key challenges through efforts in the spheres of health, environment, and culture & education. We especially support Good Health & Well-Being (SDG 3), Quality Education (SDG 4) and Affordable & Clean Energy (SDG 7). To achieve these goals, we build strategic partnerships (SDG 17) that allow us to work hand in hand with other companies, non-governmental organizations and governments. SDG 3: Good Health & Well-Being “Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages.” Across the globe, two billion people have no access to medicines. According to estimates, approximately 400 million people lack access to effective and affordable medical care, a situation we intend to rectify through our Access to Health strategy (p. 38). Recognizing that we can’t solve these challenges alone, we have joined forces with strong partners to work towards a solution. Examples of our activities: Eliminating schistosomiasis Efficient supply chains for better access to health (p. 44) Battle against neglected tropical diseases (p. 41) SDG 17: Partnerships for the goals (p. 19) 161 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures SDG 4: Quality education “Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all.” The sciences in particular play a key role in the development of pioneering solutions. A well-educated and well-trained workforce is also essential to our future as a science and technology company, which is why we are working to spark students' passion for science. To this end, we conduct a number of education projects (p. 114) across our sites worldwide, going to great lengths to provide underprivileged students with access to education. Examples of our activities: School sponsorship project in India Supporting education at our Darmstadt site and our facilities worldwide (p. 114) School funding and scholarships across our supply chain (p. 108) SDG 17: Partner in the GIZ capacity building program Afrika kommt! (p. 85) SDG 5: Gender equality “Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls.” Promoting diversity and equal opportunity (p. 77) Promoting women's health and economic participation in developing countries (p. 50) SDG 6: Clean water and sanitation “Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all.” Protecting water as a resource (p. 97) SDG 7: Affordable and clean energy “Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all.” Our materials create ultra-efficient solar cells that can be used in innovative applications. Moreover, our products help customers save energy. For instance, state-of-the-art liquid crystals and OLED technology from our Performance Materials business sector make displays more energy-efficient. You can find more information under Sustainable product design (p. 32). Examples of our activities: Integrating solar cells into architecture Energy-efficient products (p. 33) Investing in renewable energy (p. 92) SDG 8: Decent work and economic growth “Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all.” Respecting human rights (p. 17) Creating a safe work environment (p. 80) 162 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures SDG 12: Responsible consumption and production “Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns.” Design for Sustainability (p. 34) Preventing and recycling waste (p. 95) SDG 13: Climate action “Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts.” Edison, our climate impact mitigation program (p. 91) Educating employees about climate impact mitigation (p. 92) SDG 17: Partnerships for the goals “Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development.” Partnerships for quality healthcare (p. 19) Partnerships for discovering new compounds (p. 38) Active participation in the Alliance for Integrity (p. 16) Partner in the GIZ capacity building program Afrika kommt! (p. 85) 163 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Non-financial report  Part of the non-financial report Index for the combined separate integrated non-financial report Through our combined separate integrated non-financial report (hereinafter referred to as “non-financial report”), we fulfill the requirements arising from the CSR Directive Implementation Act. The separate non-financial report of the Group has been combined with the separate non-financial report of the parent undertaking, Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany, in accordance with Section 289b (3) sentence 2 in conjunction with Section 298 (2) of the German Commercial Code, and integrated into our Corporate Responsibility Report. The following index provides an overview of the contents of the non-financial report and contains links to the relevant passages in the CR report. External references within our CR Report are not part of the non-financial report. To provide the type of framework stipulated in Section 289b in conjunction with Section 315c (3) of the German Commercial Code, we have applied the standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (Option: Comprehensive) for this report. Description of business model We describe our business model, corporate structure, governance, and Group strategy under Company profile (p. 6). Strategic and organizational approach to sustainability Under Governance (p. 8), we present external guidelines and initiatives to which we’ve committed ourselves, along with Group-wide guidelines that are the cornerstone of our responsible governance. Our CR strategy (p. 9) sets out how we practice corporate responsibility, both in terms of strategy and at the organizational level. Material aspects and issues To determine the aspects and issues of relevance to the non-financial report, we conducted a materiality assessment (p. 22) that identified several issues that could not be assigned to any of the five aspects defined as minimum contents under Section 289c (2) of the German Commercial Code. Along with these five aspects, we have therefore decided to report on the following additional relevant issues: Aspect Issue Environmental matters Environmental stewardship Pharmaceutical and chemical residues in the environment (incl. abandoned hazardous waste) Plant & process safety Employee-related matters Attracting, recruiting and retaining employees Social matters Patient safety Counterfeit products Responsible marketing Data protection 164 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Aspect Issue Respect for human rights Bioethics (incl. genome editing) Clinical studies Anti-corruption and anti-bribery Compliance Interactions with health systems Chemical product safety Labeling of chemicals and other products Transport and warehouse safety Prices of medicines Innovation and R&D Digitalization Within our approach to comprehensive risk and opportunity management, we also identify current and potential risks and opportunities in the areas of environment, community and governance. This includes information on the gross risks in terms of potential damage and probability, as well as the residual net risks remaining after mitigation measures have been effected. We did not identify any net risks that fulfill the materiality criteria as set forth by Section 289c (3) no. 3 and 4 of the German Commercial Code. Additional risks are described in the Report on Risks and Opportunities in the combined management report. Aspect: Environmental matters Within our Group, environmental matters fall under environmental stewardship. In the following section, we report on the measures implemented to further environmental stewardship, enhance plant & process safety, and address pharmaceutical and chemical residues in the environment (incl. abandoned hazardous waste). Issue Specification Reference Environmental Concepts incl. Organizational structure of the Group function EQ (p. 87) stewardship due diligence Standards and standard operating procedures for environmental stewardship (p. processes 87) Assessing environmental impacts (p. 89) ISO 14001 Group certificate (p. 89) Stakeholder engagement and dialogue (p. 197) Goals: Environment (p. 155) Outcome of Updating standards and standard operating procedures in line with amended activities version of ISO 14001:2015 (p. 87) Sizable investments in environmental impact mitigation (p. 89) Auditing our sites and reporting violations (p. 89) Sites obtain ISO 14001 certification (p. 89) Goal progress: Environment (p. 155) Pharmaceutical Concepts incl. Provisions for environmental impact mitigation (p. 89) and chemical due diligence residues in the processes 165 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Issue Specification Reference environment (incl. abanAmount of provisions for environmental impact mitigation (p. 89) Outcome of doned activities Remediation of contamination at Gernsheim site (p. 89) hazardous waste) Plant & process Concepts incl. Organizational structure: Plant & process safety within EQ (p. 100) safety due diligence EHS standards and processes (p. 100) processes Tracking EHS performance indicators (p. 100) „Risk Management Process“ (p. 101) Employee training and sharing lessons learned (p. 101) Outcome of EHS Incident Rate (p. 100) activities Substance spills and environmental impacts (p. 101) Employee training (p. 101) Aspect: Employee-related matters Within our Group, employee-related matters fall under the purview of Human Resources (HR). Under this aspect, we report on concepts pertaining to attracting, recruiting and retaining employees. Issue Specification Reference Attracting, Concepts incl. Approach to attracting, recruiting and retaining employees (p. 73) recruiting and due diligence Organization of HR (p. 73) retaining processes employees People Development Policy and global standards (p. 73) Performance and Potential Management Process (p. 74) Performance-based pay (p. 74) Attracting qualified university graduates (p. 74) Vocational training (p. 75) Digitalization of work (p. 75) Employer brand (p. 76) Finding work-life balance (p. 76) Goals: Employees (p. 153) Diversity concept (p. 77) Organizational structure of diversity (p. 77) Industry-wide diversity initiatives (p. 77) Diversity awareness (p. 78) Networks to bolster diversity (p. 79) Taking action against discrimination (p. 79) Integrating international employees (p. 79) Addressing demographic change (p. 79) Organizational structure of health and safety (p. 80) Policies and bylaws (p. 80) OHSAS 18001 safety certification (p. 80) 166 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Issue Specification Reference BeSafe! safety culture initiative (p. 81) Workplace health management (p. 81) Structural organization for engagement and inclusion (p. 82) Employee engagement surveys (p. 82) Rewarding innovative ideas (p. 82) Innovation Center (p. 82) Keeping employees informed and encouraging dialogue (p. 83) Deepening employee engagement (p. 83) Competency model (p. 84) Management program for leaders (p. 85) University of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany (p. 85) Programs in growth markets (p. 85) Outcome of Participation in Performance and Potential Management Process and advanced activities training courses (p. 74) Gender pay equity (p. 74) Number of trainees at Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany (p. 74) Number of apprentices and hiring rate (p. 75) Leveraging digitalization (p. 75) Good standing in employer rankings (p. 76) Flexible working models, part-time work and parental leave (p. 76) Goal progress: Employees (p. 153) Indicators: Employees (p. 126) Increasing diversity awareness through “Different Perspectives” Diversity month (p. 78) Activities within networks to bolster diversity (p. 79) No suspected cases of discrimination (p. 79) Key figures on international employees (p. 79) Demographic change campaign (p. 79) Sites obtain OHSAS 18001 certification (p. 80) Reducing our accident rate (p. 80) Initiatives and awareness campaigns as part of BeSafe! 2017 (p. 81) Projects to promote the health of our workforce (p. 81) Improving working environment (p. 82) Participation in innovation initiatives (p. 82) Teams at the Innovation Center (p. 82) Biopharma Innovation Cup 2017 (p. 83) Availability of pro and EVA (p. 83) Participation in management program (p. 85) Participation in University courses of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany (p. 85) Participation in Growth Markets Management Program (p. 85) 167 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Aspect: Social matters Social matters encompasses our relationship with consumers. Under this heading, we report on concepts relating to patient safety, counterfeits, responsible marketing, and data security. Issue Specification Reference Patient safety Concepts incl. Approach to patient safety (p. 53) due diligence Pharmacovigilance (p. 53) processes Infrastructure for patient safety (p. 53) Patient safety guidelines (p. 53) Pharmacovigilance monitoring (p. 54) Product labeling (p. 54) Internal and external training (p. 54) Outcome of Inspecting and auditing our pharmacovigilance system (p. 54) activities Changing product labels (p. 54) Pharmacovigilance campaigns (p. 54) Counterfeit Concepts incl. Approach to anti-counterfeiting (p. 55) products due diligence Anti-counterfeiting organization (p. 55) processes Anti-counterfeiting guidelines and standards (p. 55) Monitoring and reporting systems (p. 56) Supporting customers and patients (p. 56) Industry-wide exchange (p. 57) Educating our employees and business partners (p. 57) Safety audits for contract manufacturers and distributors (p. 57) Goals: Products (p. 148) Outcome of Our own approach to supporting customers and patients (p. 56) activities Employee training (p. 57) Findings from safety audits (p. 57) Goal progress: Products (p. 148) Responsible Concepts incl. Infrastructure for responsible marketing (p. 59) marketing due diligence Code of conduct and industry-wide rules (p. 59) processses Reviewing marketing material (p. 60) Employee training (p. 60) Direct marketing only in certain countries (p. 60) Marketing chemicals (p. 60) Outcome of Addressing violations of standards and regulations (p. 60) activities Employee training participants (p. 60) Preventing chemical misuse (p. 60) 168 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Issue Specification Reference Data Privacy Concepts incl. Organization: Integrated into Compliance (p. 11) due diligence Policy for Data Protection and Personal Data Privacy (p. 11) processes Data privacy management system (p. 15) Outcome of Indicators: Protecting customer data (p. 125) activities Aspect: Respect for human rights Under Respect for human rights , we report on concepts related to bioethics (including genome editing) and clinical studies. Issue Specification Reference Bioethics Concepts incl. Organizational structure for addressing bioethical issues (p. 61) (including due diligence genome editing) processes Outcome of Discussions within the Bioethics Advisory Panel of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, activities Germany (MBAP) (p. 61) Genome Editing Technology Principle (p. 62) Stem Cells Principle (p. 62) Fertility Principle (p. 62) Guidelines and standard operation procedures for biosampling and biobanking (p. 62) Guidelines on off-label use (p. 62) Clinical studies Concepts incl. Fundamental requirements for clinical studies (p. 63) due diligence Organizational structure for clinical studies (p. 63) processes Clinical study guidelines and agreements (p. 63) Supervision of clinical studies (p. 64) Teaming up to get results (p. 65) Close dialogue with patients and advocacy groups (p. 65) Responsible data sharing and data publication (p. 65) Early Access Program (p. 66) Outcome of Findings from audits on contract research organizations (p. 65) activities EUPATI (p. 65) Marketing approval for Avelumab (p. 66) Position paper on the Early Access Program (p. 66) 169 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Aspect: Anti-corruption and anti-bribery matters Within our corporate structure, anti-corruption efforts fall under Compliance Management, so we report here on compliance and interactions with health systems. Issue Specification Reference Compliance Concepts incl. Structural organization: Group Compliance (p. 11) due diligence Compliance guidelines and standards (p. 11) processes Compliance audits (p. 14) Compliance training (p. 14) Compliance. Because We Care initiative (p. 14) SpeakUp Line (p. 14) Businss Partner Risk Management (p. 15) Alliance for Integrity (p. 15) Goals: Compliance (p. 152) Outcome of Compliance training participants (p. 14) activities SpeakUp Line for reported and confirmed cases of non-compliance (p. 14) Risk analysis and training of business partners (p. 15) Goal progress: Compliance (p. 152) Indicators: Compliance (p. 121) Interactions Concepts incl. Organizational structure for interactions with health systems (p. 70) with health due diligence Group-wide guidelines and industry-wide standards (p. 70) systems processes Transparent reporting (p. 70) Collaboration with patient advocacy groups (p. 71) Transparent promotion of research and education (p. 71) Outcome of Publication of an EFPIA transparency report (p. 70) activities Publication of a position paper on continuing medical education (p. 71) 170 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Other matters In the following section, we report on significant issues that are not covered in any of the five minimum aspects stipulated in section 289c (2) of the German Commercial Code: Issue Specification Reference Chemical Concepts incl. Organizational structure for product safety (p. 50) product safety due diligence Group-wide and industry-wide guidelines (p. 50) processes REACH registration (p. 50) Supporting our Global Product Strategy (p. 50) Assessing safety during product development (p. 51) Safe nanotechnology (p. 51) Standardized product safety information (p. 52) Goals: Products (p. 148) Outcome of Number and languages of safety data sheets (p. 52) activities ScIDeEx (p. 52) Goal progress: Products (p. 148) Labeling chemiConcepts incl. Organizational structure for product safety (p. 50) cals and other due diligence Statutory regulations and Group-wide guidelines (p. 50) products processes Standardized product safety information (p. 52) Goals: Products (p. 148) Outcome of Number and languages of safety data sheets (p. 52) activities ScIDeEx (p. 52) Goal progress: Products (p. 148) Transport & Concepts incl. Structural organization: EQ and dangerous goods manager (p. 57) warehouse due diligence Globally applicable standards (p. 57) safety processes Transport & warehouse safety audits (p. 58) Strengths and weaknesses profile (p. 58) Employee training and regular discussions (p. 59) Proper transport (p. 59) Transport vehicles (p. 59) Goals: Products (p. 148) Outcome of Number and results of audits (p. 58) activities No incidents or violations (p. 58) Employee training and internal best practice sharing events (p. 59) Goal progress: Products (p. 148) 171 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Issue Specification Reference Prices of mediConcepts incl. Structural pricing organization (p. 46) cines due diligence Medicine price guidelines and principles (p. 46) processes Data-based pricing (p. 46) Innovative contracting models (p. 46) Government tenders (p. 46) Second lower-price brands (p. 47) Patient Access Programs (p. 47) Outcome of Examples of innovative contracting models (p. 46) activities Examples of government tenders (p. 46) Examples of second lower-price brands (p. 47) Examples of Patient Access Programs (p. 47) Innovation and Concepts incl. Continuous innovation process (p. 29) R&D due diligence Structural organization of research and development (p. 29) processes Innovation Center (p. 30) Displaying Futures Award (p. 31) Fostering young talent: An investment in the future (p. 31) Outcome of Research & development spending (p. 29) activities Strategic partnerships (p. 29) Venture Fund of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany (p. 29) Projects in the Innovation Center (p. 30) 2017 Displaying Futures Award (p. 31) Examples of fostering talent (p. 31) Digitalization Concepts incl. Structural organization of research and development (p. 29) due diligence Four strategic focus areas (p. 29) processes Outcome of Examples from the strategic focus areas (p. 32) activities 172 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures General disclosures The CR Report 2017 has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: 'Comprehensive' option. The following GRI content index provides an overview of general disclosures, the GRI standards (Topic-specific Standards) and management approaches identified as relevant, as well as where the corresponding contents are described. GRI Content Index: General disclosures GRI Standards and Disclosure Number Comment Reference Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization Company profile (p. 6) 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and Company profile (p. 6) services Products & Industries 102-3 Location of headquarters Company profile (p. 6) 102-4 Location of operations Company profile (p. 6) List of shareholdings 102-5 Ownership and legal form Company profile (p. 6) 102-6 Markets served Company profile (p. 6) Macroeconomic and Sector-Specific Environment 102-7 Scale of the organization Company profile (p. 6) Indicators: employees (p. 126) Indicators: environment (p. 139) Net sales Capitalization Consolidated Balance Sheet 102-8 Information on employees and other Supervised workers such as Indicators: employees (p. 126) workers temps are not logged in our Attractive employer (p. 73) employee data system. 102-9 Supply chain Supply chain standards (p. 104) Mica supply chain (p. 106) Resource efficiency (p. 94) 102-10 Significant changes to the organization Company profile (p. 6) and its supply chain Supply chain standards (p. 104) Resource efficiency (p. 94) Fundamental Information about the Group 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Transport and warehouse safety (p. 57) Health and safety (p. 80) Environmental stewardship (p. 87) Climate protection (p. 90) Plant and process safety (p. 100) Chemical product safety (p. 50) 102-12 External initiatives Governance (p. 8) Compliance (p. 11) Human rights (p. 17) 102-13 Membership of associations Stakeholder dialogue (p. 19) Environmental stewardship (p. 87) 173 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Letter from the CEO (p. 3) 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities CR strategy (p. 9) Materiality analysis (p. 22) Goals (p. 148) Report on Risks and Opportunities Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and Diversity (p. 77) norms of behavior Good leadership (p. 84) Governance (p. 8) Human rights (p. 17) Compliance (p. 11) Bioethics (p. 61) Clinical studies (p. 63) Animal welfare (p. 67) 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns Compliance (p. 11) about ethics Diversity (p. 77) Mica supply chain (p. 106) Bioethics (p. 61) Clinical studies (p. 63) Animal welfare (p. 67) Governance 102-18 Governance structure CR strategy (p. 9) Management Statement on Corporate Governance 102-19 Delegating authority CR strategy (p. 9) Procedures of the corporate bodies 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for CR strategy (p. 9) economic, environmental, and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, CR strategy (p. 9) environmental, and social topics Stakeholder dialogue (p. 19) Employee engagement (p. 82) Materiality analysis (p. 22) 102-22 Composition of the highest governance Management body and its committees Statement on Corporate Governance The Executive Board The Supervisory Board Objectives of the Supervisory Board with respect to its composition 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Management Statement on Corporate Governance 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest Diversity (p. 77) governance body The Executive Board Statement on Corporate Governance Diversity policy Objectives of the Supervisory Board with respect to its composition 102-25 Conflicts of interest Compliance (p. 11) Information on corporate governance practices 102-26 Role of highest governance body in CR strategy (p. 9) setting purpose, values, and strategy Values and compliance Report of the Supervisory Board 174 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest goverCR strategy (p. 9) nance body The Executive Board Statement on Corporate Governance 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance Company profile (p. 6) body’s performance Board of Partners The Supervisory Board Statement on Corporate Governance 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, CR strategy (p. 9) environmental, and social impacts Compliance (p. 11) Materiality analysis (p. 22) Report profile (p. 118) Report on Risks and Opportunities Statement on Corporate Governance 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management CR strategy (p. 9) processes Report profile (p. 118) Report on Risks and Opportunities Report of the Supervisory Board 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, CR strategy (p. 9) and social topics Report profile (p. 118) Report on Risks and Opportunities Report of the Supervisory Board 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in Report profile (p. 118) sustainability reporting 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Compliance (p. 11) Values and compliance 102-34 Nature and total number of critical Compliance (p. 11) concerns Values and compliance 102-35 Remuneration policies Compensation report 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Compensation report 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remunerAttractive employer (p. 73) ation Compensation report 175 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio Competitive salaries and additional benefits not only increase our attractiveness as an employer; they also motivate our people and build loyalty to the company. The compensation we offer is based on market analyses in the relevant field and the value of the respective position, as well as the employee's skill set and performance. Our Global Rewards Policy defines the framework for compensation and benefits across the entire Group. As far as possible, we strive to offer all our employees comparable compensation structures. Furthermore, we monitor compliance with minimum standards. We do not consider the information required under GRI 102-38 and GRI 102-39 to be relevant to assessing the fairness of our compensation structures. 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total Competitive salaries and addicompensation ratio tional benefits not only increase our attractiveness as an employer; they also motivate our people and build loyalty to the company. The compensation we offer is based on market analyses in the relevant field and the value of the respective position, as well as the employee's skill set and performance. Our Global Rewards Policy defines the framework for compensation and benefits across the entire Group. As far as possible, we strive to offer all our employees comparable compensation structures. Furthermore, we monitor compliance with minimum standards. We do not consider the information required under GRI 102-38 and GRI 102-39 to be relevant to assessing the fairness of our compensation structures. Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder dialogue (p. 19) Materiality analysis (p. 22) 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Employee engagement (p. 82) 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholder dialogue (p. 19) Materiality analysis (p. 22) 176 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder dialogue (p. 19) Materiality analysis (p. 22) 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholder dialogue (p. 19) Materiality analysis (p. 22) Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated Report profile (p. 118) financial statements Company profile (p. 6) 102-46 Defining report content and topic Report profile (p. 118) Boundaries Materiality analysis (p. 22) 102-47 List of material topics Materiality analysis (p. 22) 102-48 Restatements of information Report profile (p. 118) 102-49 Changes in reporting Report profile (p. 118) Materiality analysis (p. 22) 102-50 Reporting period Report profile (p. 118) 102-51 Date of most recent report Report profile (p. 118) 102-52 Reporting cycle Report profile (p. 118) 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding Report profile (p. 118) the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with GRI content index (p. 173) the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index GRI content index (p. 173) 102-56 External assurance GRI content index (p. 173) Report profile (p. 118) 177 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Economic Standards GRI Content Index: Economic Standards GRI Standards and Disclosure Number Comment Reference GRI 201: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Employee engagement (p. 82) its Boundary Materiality analysis (p. 22) Statement on Corporate Governance 103-2 The management approach and its Economic performance components Pension schemes 103-3 Evaluation of the management Report on Risks and Opportunities approach 201-1 Direct economic value generated and Indicators: community (p. 146) distributed Consolidated Income Statement Consolidated Cash Flow Statement Information by business sector /country and region Personnel expenses 201-2 Financial implications and other risks We report in detail on various Climate protection (p. 90) and opportunities due to climate aspects of climate change as Water management (p. 97) change part of our participation in the Global Compact CoP (p. 190) CDP (formerly known as the Report on Risks and Opportunities Carbon Disclosure Project). 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and Indicators: employees (p. 126) other retirement plans Pension schemes 201-4 Financial assistance received from Accounting: Property, plant and equipgovernment ment Property, plant and equipment Research and development costs GRI 202: MARKET PRESENCE 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Good leadership (p. 84) its Boundary Diversity (p. 77) Employee engagement (p. 82) 103-2 The management approach and its Materiality analysis (p. 22) components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 178 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by This indicator is not relevant Attractive employer (p. 73) gender compared to local minimum to us, which is why we do not wage collect data on the ratio of the standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage. Our Global Rewards Policy applies to all our subsidiaries worldwide and guarantees a systematic compensation structure. Both base pay and short-term variable compensation are oriented to the median base pay of the relevant reference market. Our pay brackets are reviewed on an annual basis and reflect market conditions. It goes without saying that we always adhere to local minimum wage levels. 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired We encourage both local Diversity (p. 77) from the local community hiring and international Good leadership (p. 84) appointments across all levels of the company. The percentage of local managers is not recorded as it is not relevant to our strategic personnel planning. GRI 204: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Supply chain standards (p. 104) its Boundary Mica supply chain (p. 106) Materiality analysis (p. 22) 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 204-1 Proportion of spending on local Supply chain standards (p. 104) suppliers GRI 205: ANTI-CORRUPTION 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Compliance (p. 11) its Boundary Interactions with health systems (p. 70) Materiality analysis (p. 22) 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to Compliance (p. 11) corruption Indicators: compliance (p. 121) Values and compliance Report on Risks and Opportunities 205-2 Communication and training about Governance (p. 8) anti-corruption policies and procedures Compliance (p. 11) Indicators: compliance (p. 121) 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and As applicable, we report on Compliance (p. 11) actions taken risks from litigation and legal Indicators: compliance (p. 121) proceedings in our Report on Report on Risks and Opportunities Risks and Opportunities. 179 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures GRI 206: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Compliance (p. 11) its Boundary Materiality analysis (p. 22) 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive Indicators: compliance (p. 121) behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices Additional material topics TECHNOLOGY (Innovation and R&D, Digitalization) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Innovation and digitalization (p. 29) its Boundary Materiality analysis (p. 22) 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach DATA SECURITY 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Compliance (p. 11) its Boundary Materiality analysis (p. 22) 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 180 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Environmental Standards GRI Content Index: Environmental Standards GRI Standards and Disclosure Number Comment Reference GRI 301: MATERIALS 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and In all our endeavors, we Resource efficiency (p. 94) its Boundary attempt to efficiently utilize Packaging (p. 36) materials and recycle as much Reuse and recycling (p. 37) 103-2 The management approach and its as possible. Where feasible, Materiality analysis (p. 22) components we use recycled materials (in 103-3 Evaluation of the management packaging, for instance). approach Overall, material consumption is not a major concern for us. There are few opportunities to use recycled material in our production processes because our business model puts us at the start of the value chain. We therefore do not collect such data at the Group-level. Individual data and measures are reported under the respective chapters. 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume See GRI 103: 301 Resource efficiency (p. 94) Sustainable product design (p. 32) Packaging (p. 36) 301-2 Recycled input materials used See GRI 103: 301 Packaging (p. 36) Reuse and recycling (p. 37) Resource efficiency (p. 94) Sustainable product design (p. 32) Waste and recycling (p. 95) 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packOwing to the multitude of Packaging (p. 36) aging materials products we supply and the Reuse and recycling (p. 37) minimal comparability of our various initiatives, we do not collect quantitative data at the Group level. The individual measures taken by our various businesses are reported in the respective chapters. GRI 302: ENERGY 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Climate protection (p. 90) its Boundary Sustainable product design (p. 32) Materiality analysis (p. 22) 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 302-1 Energy consumption within the organiClimate protection (p. 90) zation Indicators: environment (p. 139) 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the Climate protection (p. 90) organization 302-3 Energy intensity Climate protection (p. 90) Indicators: environment (p. 139) 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Climate protection (p. 90) Indicators: environment (p. 139) 181 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of Sustainable product design (p. 32) products and services Resource efficiency (p. 94) GRI 303: WATER 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Water management (p. 97) its Boundary Materiality analysis (p. 22) 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Water management (p. 97) Indicators: environment (p. 139) 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by Water management (p. 97) withdrawal of water 303-3 Water recycled and reused Water management (p. 97) Indicators: environment (p. 139) GRI 305: EMISSIONS 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Climate protection (p. 90) its Boundary Materiality analysis (p. 22) 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Climate protection (p. 90) Indicators: environment (p. 139) 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emisClimate protection (p. 90) sions Indicators: environment (p. 139) 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emisClimate protection (p. 90) sions Indicators: environment (p. 139) 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Indicators: environment (p. 139) 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Climate protection (p. 90) Indicators: environment (p. 139) Sustainable product design (p. 32) Packaging (p. 36) 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting This disclosure is not material Indicators: environment (p. 139) substances (ODS) to Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany. 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides This disclosure is not material Indicators: environment (p. 139) (SOX), and other significant air emisto Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, sions Germany. GRI 306: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Water management (p. 97) its Boundary Waste and recycling (p. 95) Materiality analysis (p. 22) 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destiWater management (p. 97) nation Indicators: environment (p. 139) 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Waste and recycling (p. 95) Reuse and recycling (p. 37) Indicators: environment (p. 139) 306-3 Significant spills Plant and process safety (p. 100) Indicators: environment (p. 139) 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Indicators: environment (p. 139) 182 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures 306-5 Water bodies affected by water Water management (p. 97) discharges and/or runoff GRI 307: ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Environmental stewardship (p. 87) its Boundary Materiality analysis (p. 22) 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental Environmental stewardship (p. 87) laws and regulations GRI 308: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Supply chain standards (p. 104) its Boundary Materiality analysis (p. 22) Mica supply chain (p. 106) 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using Supply chain standards (p. 104) environmental criteria Mica supply chain (p. 106) 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the Supply chain standards (p. 104) supply chain and actions taken Mica supply chain (p. 106) 183 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Social Standards GRI Content Index: Social Standards GRI Standards and Disclosure Number Comment Reference GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Attractive employer (p. 73) its Boundary Diversity (p. 77) Health and safety (p. 80) 103-2 The management approach and its Materiality analysis (p. 22) components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 401-1 New employee hires and employee Indicators: employees (p. 126) turnover 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time At Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Indicators: employees (p. 126) employees that are not provided to Germany (20% of the Attractive employer (p. 73) temporary or part-time employees company's total workforce), part-time employees receive the same job benefits as fulltime workers. Employees with temporary contracts, however, are not entitled to all company benefits, such as a company pension. 401-3 Parental leave Attractive employer (p. 73) Indicators: employees (p. 126) GRI 402: LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Attractive employer (p. 73) its Boundary Health and safety (p. 80) Employee engagement (p. 82) 103-2 The management approach and its Materiality analysis (p. 22) components 1033 Evaluation of the management approach 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding The regulations on periods of operational changes notice vary worldwide. We apply the rules that are in force locally. There is no need for us to track periods of notice at Group level. GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Health and safety (p. 80) its Boundary Materiality analysis (p. 22) 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 184 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint Occupational health and Health and safety (p. 80) management–worker health and safety safety committees are committees required by law in Germany. All employees of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany are therefore represented by such committees, which operate at the site level. These employees account for around 20% of our total workforce. The majority of facilities outside Germany also have health and safety committees to represent their employees. Each individual site is responsible for arranging and maintaining such committees. 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, We have identified the lost Health and safety (p. 80) occupational diseases, lost days, and time injury rate (LTIR) as a Indicators: employees (p. 126) absenteeism, and number of workkey performance indicator for related fatalities our company. 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high Health and safety (p. 80) risk of diseases related to their occupaIndicators: employees (p. 126) tion 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in Health and safety issues are Health and safety (p. 80) formal agreements with trade unions governed Group-wide by our EHS Policy. The organizational implementation of the policy is the responsibility of our individual sites and is subject to local laws and regulations. Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany, which accounts for approximately 20% of our total workforce, has bylaws on occupational health and safety in place. GRI 404: TRAINING AND EDUCATION 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Attractive employer (p. 73) its Boundary Diversity (p. 77) Good leadership (p. 84) 103-2 The management approach and its Materiality analysis (p. 22) components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 404-1 Average hours of training per year per We do not keep track of the Compliance (p. 11) employee average hours our employees Patient safety (p. 53) spend on vocational training Chemical product safety (p. 50) and continuing education Counterfeit products (p. 55) because this indicator does Animal welfare (p. 67) not have any bearing on the Attractive employer (p. 73) quality or success of our Diversity (p. 77) efforts. Health and safety (p. 80) Good leadership (p. 84) Plant and process safety (p. 100) Transport and warehouse safety (p. 57) Responsible marketing (p. 59) 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills Attractive employer (p. 73) and transition assistance programs Diversity (p. 77) Good leadership (p. 84) 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving Attractive employer (p. 73) regular performance and career develIndicators: employees (p. 126) opment reviews 185 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Diversity (p. 77) its Boundary Attractive employer (p. 73) Materiality analysis (p. 22) 103-2 The management approach and its Objectives of the Supervisory Board with components respect to its composition 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and Since there is no globally Diversity (p. 77) employees uniform definition of the term Indicators: employees (p. 126) “minority”, we do not record The Executive Board this sort of data. Moreover, The Supervisory Board many countries in which we Objectives of the Supervisory Board with operate have strict data respect to its composition privacy regulations governing the recording of personal employee data. 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration The salaries we offer are Attractive employer (p. 73) of women to men predicated on the respective job description and are based on our Global Job Catalog, which has fixed salary bands that are identical for men and women. Variable salary components that fall under performance-based compensation are paid on the basis of whether mutually agreed targets have been achieved. A performance management system governs this process. GRI 406: NON-DISCRIMINATION 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Diversity (p. 77) its Boundary Materiality analysis (p. 22) 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and correcDiversity (p. 77) tive actions taken GRI 407: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Supply chain standards (p. 104) its Boundary Mica supply chain (p. 106) Attractive employer (p. 73) 103-2 The management approach and its Human rights (p. 17) components Compliance (p. 11) 103-3 Evaluation of the management Materiality analysis (p. 22) approach 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the Supply chain standards (p. 104) right to freedom of association and Mica supply chain (p. 106) collective bargaining may be at risk Attractive employer (p. 73) 186 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures GRI 408: CHILD LABOR 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Supply chain standards (p. 104) its Boundary Mica supply chain (p. 106) Attractive employer (p. 73) 103-2 The management approach and its Human rights (p. 17) components Compliance (p. 11) 103-3 Evaluation of the management Materiality analysis (p. 22) approach 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant Supply chain standards (p. 104) risk for incidents of child labor Mica supply chain (p. 106) Attractive employer (p. 73) Indicators: employees (p. 126) GRI 409: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Supply chain standards (p. 104) its Boundary Mica supply chain (p. 106) Attractive employer (p. 73) 103-2 The management approach and its Human rights (p. 17) components Compliance (p. 11) 103-3 Evaluation of the management Materiality analysis (p. 22) approach 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant Supply chain standards (p. 104) risk for incidents of forced or compulMica supply chain (p. 106) sory labor Attractive employer (p. 73) Human rights (p. 17) GRI 412: HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Human rights (p. 17) its Boundary Compliance (p. 11) Materiality analysis (p. 22) 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 412-1 Operations that have been subject to Human rights (p. 17) human rights reviews or impact assessments 412-2 Employee training on human rights Human rights (p. 17) policies or procedures 412-3 Significant investment agreements and Human rights (p. 17) contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening GRI 414: SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Supply chain standards (p. 104) its Boundary Mica supply chain (p. 106) Materiality analysis (p. 22) 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 414-1 New suppliers that were screened Supply chain standards (p. 104) using social criteria Mica supply chain (p. 106) 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply Supply chain standards (p. 104) chain and actions taken Mica supply chain (p. 106) GRI 415: PUBLIC POLICY 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Stakeholder dialogue (p. 19) its Boundary Materiality analysis (p. 22) 103-2 The management approach and its components 187 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 415-1 Political contributions Stakeholder dialogue (p. 19) GRI 416: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Patient safety (p. 53) its Boundary Chemical product safety (p. 50) Sustainable product design (p. 32) 103-2 The management approach and its Plant and process safety (p. 100) components Materiality analysis (p. 22) 103-3 Evaluation of the management Report on Risks and Opportunities approach 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety Patient safety (p. 53) impacts of product and service cateChemical product safety (p. 50) gories Sustainable product design (p. 32) Plant and process safety (p. 100) 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance As applicable, we report on Report on Risks and Opportunities concerning the health and safety risks from litigation and legal impacts of products and services proceedings in our Report on Risks and Opportunities. GRI 417: MARKETING AND LABELING 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Patient safety (p. 53) its Boundary Chemical product safety (p. 50) Responsible marketing (p. 59) 103-2 The management approach and its Interactions with health systems (p. 70) components Materiality analysis (p. 22) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 417-1 Requirements for product and service Within our businesses, Patient safety (p. 53) information and labeling product labels are both imporChemical product safety (p. 50) tant and mandatory. All pharmaceuticals and chemicals are subject to reporting and notification requirements that we fulfill. The individual requirements are reported in the respective chapters. 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance Patient safety (p. 53) concerning product and service inforChemical product safety (p. 50) mation and labeling Report on Risks and Opportunities 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance As applicable, we report on Responsible marketing (p. 59) concerning marketing communications risks from litigation and legal Report on Risks and Opportunities proceedings in our Report on Risks and Opportunities. GRI 418: CUSTOMER PRIVACY 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Clinical studies (p. 63) its Boundary Compliance (p. 11) Materiality analysis (p. 22) 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning Indicators: products (p. 125) breaches of customer privacy and Clinical studies (p. 63) losses of customer data Compliance (p. 11) GRI 419: SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Compliance (p. 11) its Boundary Materiality analysis (p. 22) Report on Risks and Opportunities 103-2 The management approach and its components 188 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulaAs applicable, we report on Indicators: compliance (p. 121) tions in the social and economic area risks from litigation and legal Report on Risks and Opportunities proceedings in our Report on Risks and Opportunities. Additional material topics ETHICAL CONDUCT (Bioethics, Clinical studies, Animal welfare) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Bioethics (p. 61) its Boundary Clinical studies (p. 63) Animal welfare (p. 67) 103-2 The management approach and its Materiality analysis (p. 22) components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach HEALTH FOR EVERYONE (Access to health, Prices of medicines, Medicals to combat rare and neglected diseases, Health awareness) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Access to health (p. 38) its Boundary Prices of medicines (p. 46) Infectious diseases (p. 41) 103-2 The management approach and its Health awareness (p. 47) components Materiality analysis (p. 22) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach COUNTERFEIT PRODUCTS 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Counterfeit products (p. 55) its Boundary Materiality analysis (p. 22) 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Community involvement (p. 110) its Boundary Health (p. 111) Education and culture (p. 114) 103-2 The management approach and its Materiality analysis (p. 22) components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 189 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Global Compact CoP 2017 Communication on progress in implementing the ten principles of the Global Compact We have been a UN Global Compact participant since 2005. As a signatory of the initiative, we have committed ourselves to ten principles based on key UN conventions regarding human rights, labor standards, environmental protection, and anticorruption. At the same time, the UN Global Compact calls on its signatories to actively engage in propagating the principles within their own sphere of influence. The following table summarizes the key measures we took in 2017 to support and implement the principles of the Global Compact. Link: www.unglobalcompact.org UNGC principles: Key measures in 2017 Relevant GRI Reference: disclosures: Human rights Principle 1: Updated our Code of Conduct, entitled 410-1, 411-1, Compliance (p. 11) Businesses should support “What guides us” 103-2: 412, Human rights (p. 17) and respect the protection 412-2, 413-1, Health (p. 111) of internationally Analyzed the results of our human rights 413-2 proclaimed human rights. self-assessment Launched an electronic confirmation course on our Human Rights Charter for certain groups and leaders Donated 150 million praziquantel tablets to the World Health Organization to treat schistosomiasis, a donation that included Egypt and Uganda for the first time. Principle 2: Analyzed the results of our human rights 412-3, 414-1, Human rights (p. 17) Businesses should make self-assessment 414-2 Compliance (p. 11) sure that they are not Supply chain stancomplicit in human rights Launched an electronic confirmation course dards (p. 104) abuses. on our Human Rights Charter for certain groups and leaders Conducted internal and external audits, assessments and inspections of suppliers with regard to corporate responsibility, and collected self-reported information. 190 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Labor standards Principle 3: Analyzed the results of our human rights 102-41, 402-1, Human rights (p. 17) Businesses should uphold self-assessment 407-1 Compliance (p. 11) the freedom of association Employee engageand the effective recogniConducted internal audits on workplace ment tion of the rights to collecaspects of our Human Rights Charter (p. 82)Supply chain tive bargaining. standards (p. 104) Conducted internal and external audits, assessments and inspections of suppliers with regard to corporate responsibility, and collected self-reported information. Principle 4: Conducted internal audits on workplace 409-1 Human rights (p. 17) Businesses should support aspects of our Human Rights Charter Compliance (p. 11) the elimination of all forms (p. 82)Supply chain of forced and compulsory Analyzed the results of our human rights standards (p. 104) labor. self-assessment Published the UK Modern Slavery Statement, which was adopted by our Executive Board, on our website Conducted internal and external audits, assessments and inspections of suppliers with regard to corporate responsibility, and collected self-reported information. Principle 5: Analyzed the results of our human rights 408-1 Human rights (p. 17) Businesses should support self-assessment Compliance (p. 11) the effective abolition of Supply chain stanchild labor. Conducted internal audits on workplace dards aspects of our Human Rights Charter (p. 104)Mica supply chain (p. 106) Participated in the kick-off conference of the Responsible Mica Initiative in Delhi: jointly announced a five-year action plan for a responsible mica supply chain The Indian organization IGEP performed monthly inspections on mica mines and mica processors Conducted internal and external audits, assessments and inspections of suppliers with regard to corporate responsibility, and collected self-reported information. Principle 6: Conducted internal audits on workplace 102-8, 202-1, Human rights (p. 17) Businesses should support aspects of our Human Rights Charter 202-2, 401-1, Compliance (p. 11) the elimination of discrimi401-3, 404-1, Diversity (p. 77) nation in respect of employIdentified focus areas to achieve our 2021 404-3, 405-1, ment and occupation. target of maintaining a 30% representation 405-2, 406-1 of women in leadership roles (role 4+) Expanded internal diversity initiatives. 191 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Environmental stewardship Principle 7: Recertified environmental management 201-2, 301-1, Environmental stewBusinesses should support a systems to updated version of ISO 14001 302-1, 303-1, ardship (p. 87) precautionary approach to 305-1, 305-2, Climate protection (p. (Group certificate for 83 sites) environmental challenges. 305-3, 305-6, 90) Annually reduced CO2 emissions (reduction 305-7 Resource efficiency target by 2020: 20% versus 2006 baseline) (p. 94) Water management Implemented more than 300 climate impact (p. 97) mitigation projects since 2012 Waste and recycling (p. 95) Analyzed and assessed our water managePlant and process ment practices with the goal of implesafety (p. 100) menting a sustainable water management Sustainable product system at sites with high consumption design (p. 32)Packaging (p. levels by 2020 36) Implemented measures to ensure product Patient safety (p. 53) safety (e.g. REACH, GHS, Global Product Chemical product safety (p. 50) Strategy) as well as plant and process Transport and waresafety (e.g. Risk Management Process) house safety (p. 57) Had internal and external EHS audits performed Introduced the Waste Scoring System of our company with the goal of reducing the environmental impact of our waste by 5% by 2025. Principle 8: Systematically examined potential energy 301 – 308 Climate protection (p. Businesses should undersavings at our production facilities 90) take initiatives to promote Water management greater environmental Reduced maximum CO2 emissions for new (p. 97) responsibility. company vehicles as of January 1, 2017 Waste and recycling (p. 95) Offered employees sustainable mobility Plant and process options such as Jobtickets and rental bicysafety (p. 100) cles Chemical product safety (p. 50) Labeled products to provide information on Patient safety (p. 53) their use and disposal. Transport and warehouse safety (p. 57) Principle 9: Developed sustainable products such as 302-4, 302-5, Sustainable product Businesses should liquid crystal technologies, raw materials for 305-5 design (p. 32) encourage the development Packaging (p. 36) natural cosmetics and green alternatives to and diffusion of environReuse and recycling mentally friendly technolochemicals (p. 37) gies. Developed a new, sustainable packaging Performance Materials strategy Used and took back eco-friendlier reusable packaging Updated a recycling program for our Life Science customers. 192 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Facts & Figures Anti-corruption Prinzip 10: Redesigned our Business Partner Risk 102-16, Compliance (p. 11) Businesses should work Management process 102-17, 205-1, Interactions with against corruption in all its 205-2, 205-3, health systems (p. forms, including extortion Performed internal corruption audits 415-1 70) and bribery. Strategically reorganized our Group function Compliance Trained employees on anti-corruption Provided global SpeakUp Line for employees to report corruption anonymously Published annual EFPIA transparency report Updated our anti-corruption guideline, for instance regarding rules for gifts and invitations. 193 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Glossary Glossary 3R principle Design thinking The international guiding principle for all animal testing. The An approach to developing new ideas. Design thinking uses number of laboratory animals used as well as the stress the designer’s sensibility and methods to match people’s placed on them before, during and after testing are to be needs with what is technologically feasible and what a viable kept to an absolute minimum by using methods to replace business strategy can convert into customer value and animal experiments (replacement), reduce the required market opportunity. number of tests and animals (reduction), and improve the test methods (refinement). Disease burden Biodiversity The impact of a health problem, often measured in terms of quality-adjusted life years or disability-adjusted life years, The diversity of ecosystems, habitats and landscapes on both of which quantify the number of years lost due to earth, the diversity of the species, and the genetic diversity disease. within a biological species or population. Dual-use products Biosimilars Goods that are normally used for civilian purposes, but that Officially approved subsequent versions of innovator may also have military applications. biopharmaceutical products made by a different company after the original product's patent or exclusivity expires. Due diligence Based on guidance from the EMA (European Medicines A risk analysis exercised with particular care that is done in Agency), biosimilars must demonstrate comparability, or preparation for a business transaction. biosimilarity, to an existing approved product. Chromatography EHS Environment, Health and Safety describes environmental A technique used to separate mixtures. management, health protection and occupational safety CLP throughout the company. The European CLP regulation (Classification, Labelling and End-user declaration Packaging of Substances and Mixtures) is based on the A binding customer statement regarding the intended use of Globally Harmonized System (GHS) of Classification and a product. Labelling of Chemicals. CO2eq Endemic countries Countries in which a certain disease, in many cases an Short for CO2 equivalents, this indicates how much a speciinfectious disease, occurs. fied quantity of a specific greenhouse gas has contributed to the greenhouse effect and uses the global warming potential Essential medicines of carbon dioxide as a reference. Defined by the World Health Organization as “those drugs Compliance that satisfy the health care needs of the majority of the population”. Adherence to laws and regulations as well as to voluntary codices that are internal to Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Exposure assessment Germany. Compliance is a component of diligent corporate governance. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency defines exposure assessment as the determination or estimation (qualitative CRISPR/Cas or quantitative) of the magnitude, frequency, duration, and route of exposure between an agent and an organism. This A biomolecular method for targeting, cutting and editing the analysis forms part of the chemical safety assessment DNA of an organism (genome editing). Experts think this process. technique has great potential for curing diseases or generating plants and animals with new traits. 194 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Glossary FDA including the medical, pharmaceutical and pharmaceutical chemistry industries. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration is the U.S. government agency responsible for protecting and advancing Hackathon public health, especially as concerns food and drugs. Portmanteau from the words hacking and marathon. A First-line treatment hackathon is an event attended by people from different professional backgrounds. Teams are given a few hours or A therapy regimen that is generally accepted by the medical days to develop innovative solutions and ideas for preestablishment for the initial treatment of a given disease. If defined issues or challenges. the first-line treatment is not adequately successful, a second-line treatment may be administered. HazCom 2012 Global Grade A U.S. OSHA (Occupational Safety and Health Administration) standard pertaining to the safe handling of chemicals Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany uses a market-oriented in the workplace, with an emphasis on occupational safety system to rate positions within the company. Until the end and environmental protection. This standard requires manuof 2016, all positions within the company were assigned a facturers and distributors to provide information on the Global Grade. In 2017, we replaced this system so that each hazards posed by a product as well as ways to minimize position is now assigned a role. risks. Global Product Strategy ICH An initiative of the International Council of Chemical AssociThe aim of the International Council for Harmonisation of ations (ICCA) through which participating companies of the Technical Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for Human Use chemical industry make a commitment to comprehensive (ICH) is to promote uniform assessment criteria for product product responsibility. registration in Europe, the United States and Japan. The ICH makes recommendations toward achieving greater harmoGlobally Harmonized System of Classification and nization in the interpretation and application of technical Labelling of Chemicals (GHS) guidelines and requirements for pharmaceutical product registration. An international standard system to classify chemicals that covers labeling as well as safety data sheets. In vitro Good clinical practice (GCP) Procedures involving components of an organism that have been isolated from their usual biological surroundings (e.g. An international quality standard that enforces tight guidetest tube experiments). lines on ethical aspects of clinical studies. In vivo Good distribution practice (GDP) Latin for “within the living”, this term describes processes An EU guideline that regulates the proper distribution of that take place within a living organism. medicinal products for human use. Investigational drug Good manufacturing practice (GMP) A pharmaceutical form of an active ingredient or placebo Good manufacturing practices (GMP) is a system for being tested or used as a reference in a clinical trial, ensuring that products are consistently manufactured and including approved as well as unapproved products when controlled according to quality standards. These guidelines used or assembled (formulated or packaged) in a way are used in the production of medicines, pharmaceutical different from the approved form, when used for an unapactive ingredients and cosmetics, as well as foodstuffs and proved indication, or when used to gain further information feed. about an approved use. Greenhouse gases ISO 14001 Gases in the atmosphere that contribute to global warming. This international environmental management standard sets They can be either naturally occurring or caused by humans globally recognized requirements for an environmental (such as CO2 emissions caused by burning fossil fuels). management system. GxP ISO 50001 The general term for good (anything …) practice quality This international standard defines globally recognized guidelines and regulations that are used in many fields, requirements for energy management systems. 195 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Glossary ISO 9001 OLED This international standard defines globally recognized Organic light-emitting diodes are a new technology for requirements for a quality management system. displays and lighting. Least developed countries (LDC) Onchocerciasis Countries that, according to the United Nations, exhibit the A chronic parasitic infection caused by nematodes that lowest indicators of socioeconomic development. occurs in the tropical regions of Africa and South America. In approximately 10% of those infected, the disease leads Liquid Crystals (LC) to blindness, which is why onchocerciasis is also referred to as river blindness. Liquid crystals are a hybrid of a crystalline and liquid state. In general, molecules are perfectly arranged only when in a Orodispersible tablet solid crystal state, in contrast to the liquid state, when they move around chaotically. However, liquid crystals are a A tablet that dissolves in the mouth within 30 seconds and hybrid of the two states: Although they are liquid, they does not have to be taken with water. The active ingredient exhibit a certain crystalline arrangement. Their rod-shaped is absorbed through the mucous membrane in the mouth molecules align themselves like a shoal of fish. In addition, and also partly through the lining of the stomach. they respond to the electromagnetic waves of light like tiny antennae. Therefore, such swarms of molecules can either Patent pool allow specially prepared “polarized” light to pass through, or A consortium of at least two competing companies that they can block it. This takes place in the pixels of liquid allows partners to share the use of patents relating to a crystal displays – as it does similarly in liquid crystal particular technology. windows, which can provide shade against sunlight. Liver-stage malaria Patient support program Any organized system providing services, direct patient or Certain forms of the malaria parasite (P. vivax and P. ovale) patient-caregiver interactions that are intended and can remain dormant after they have infected the liver cells. designed to educate patients about certain diseases, help In this stage, they persist for many weeks and even years patients with access to and/or the management of until they relapse into a new disease cycle. Currently, no prescribed medication and/or disease outcomes, or provide treatment of this dormant form is possible. healthcare professionals with support for their patients. LTIR Pharmacovigilance The lost time injury rate measures the number of accidents The continual, systematic monitoring of a drug's safety. resulting in missed days of work (one or more days) per one million man-hours. Phase I study Mutagen Phase I clinical trials test a new biomedical intervention in a small group of people (e.g. 20-80) for the first time to evalA substance that changes the DNA of an organism. uate safety (for instance to determine a safe dosage range Neglected tropical disease (NTD) and to identify side effects). Diseases that occur primarily in developing countries. NTDs Source: http://www.who.int/ictrp/glossary/en/ include schistosomiasis, intestinal worms, trachoma, lymphatic filariasis, and onchocerciasis. This group of Phase II study diseases is called neglected because, despite the large Phase II clinical trials study the biomedical or behavioral number of people affected, they have historically received intervention in a larger group of people (several hundred) to less attention and research funding than other diseases. determine efficacy and to further evaluate its safety. Nucleases Source: http://www.who.int/ictrp/glossary/en/ Nucleases are a group of enzymes whose primary function is to partially or fully degrade nucleic acids. Phase III study OHSAS Phase III studies investigate the efficacy of the biomedical or behavioral intervention in large groups of human subjects The Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (from several hundred to several thousand) by comparing (OSHAS) is an international occupational health and safety the intervention to other standard or experimental intervenmanagement system. tions as well as to monitor adverse effects, and to collect 196 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Glossary information that will allow the intervention to be used Scope 3 safely. Scope 3 includes other indirect greenhouse gas emissions, Source: http://www.who.int/ictrp/glossary/en/ such as the extraction and production of purchased materials, transport-related activities, waste disposal, and Prediabetes employee travel. A condition regarded as indicative that a person is at risk of Security progressing to Type 2 diabetes. This term stands for all necessary measures and governance Product safety summary activities to detect, analyze, handle, and mitigate securityand crime-based threats to the company. This helps to Intended to provide a general overview of the chemical protect employees as well as the tangible and intangible substance and its use. It cannot take the place of a safety assets of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany. data sheet. Stakeholder PS-VA People or organizations that have a legitimate interest in a Abbreviation for polymer-stabilized vertical alignment: A company, entitling them to make justified demands. Stakepolymer layer pre-aligns the molecules inside the display in holders include people such as employees, business parta certain direction. In the black state, the liquid crystals are ners, neighbors in the vicinity of our sites, and not exactly vertical, but slightly tilted, allowing them to shareholders. switch more quickly. The light transmittance of the display is significantly higher, thus reducing the backlighting, one of STEM the most costly components to produce. Science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. Public-private partnership (PPP) Stem cells A collaboration between public sector (government) organizations, private companies and/or not-for-profit organizaUndifferentiated cells with the potential to develop into tions. many different cell types that carry out different functions. REACH Sugar cane bagasse A European Union chemical regulation (EC No. 1907/2006) A fibrous waste product of sugar refining, which is left when that took effect on June 1, 2007. REACH stands for Regissugarcane stalks are crushed to extract their juice. tration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals. Sunshine Act Reproductive health The Sunshine Provisions of the U.S. Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act aim to create more transparent relationThis term covers various areas such as pregnancy, sexually ships between manufacturers of drugs, medical devices and transmitted diseases, contraception, and infertility. medical aids on the one hand, and doctors and teaching hospitals on the other. Role Traces Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany uses a market-oriented system to rate positions within the company. To facilitate Substances dissolved in water that are present only in consistency across the organization, each position is minute amounts. Also referred to as micropollutants, these assigned a specific role, with an overarching job architecture are synthetic substances present in concentrations ranging classifying each role as one of 11 levels, 15 functions and an from one nanogram to one microgram per liter of water. array of career types (Core Operations, Services & Support Groups; Experts; Managers; Project Managers). TRIPS Schistosomiasis The Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights is an international legal agreement between A parasitic disease spread in warm lakes and ponds by all the member nations of the World Trade Organization. snails that serve as intermediate hosts. TRIPS seeks to ensure that the measures and procedures for enforcing intellectual property rights do not become a barrier to lawful trade. 197 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Imprint Publication contributors Published on April 27, 2018 by Concept and implementation of HTML, PDF & Print: Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany, Corporate Responnexxar GmbH, Vienna – Online annual reports and online sibility sustainability reports Frankfurter Strasse 250, 64293 Darmstadt, Germany Text and consulting: Tel.: +49 (0) 6151-72 0 Stakeholder Reporting GmbH Fax: +49 (0) 6151-72 5577 www.stakeholder-reporting.com Website: www.emdgroup.com Photos and graphics: Nick Wolff, Philippe Schiller, Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Contact for questions regarding this report: Germany Maria Schaad, Corporate Responsibility 198
